Actress Chacha Eke’s teeming fans have accused her hubby of emotionally abusing her after he denied allegations of physically abusing her. On Tuesday, the popular film star announced the crash of her nine-year-old marriage for the second time in two years, noting the need to stay alive rather than leave as a corpse propels her to terminate her marriage which has long been overdue. “Many have died pretending all is well whilst wishing, hoping and praying for a better tomorrow. I don’t want to “die” or go inexplicably “missing”. I sincerely and publicly apologise for living a lie these past years. True to random speculations, there has been trouble in my ‘perceived paradise’. “For the second time in two years, I am here again on social media boldly declaring that I am done with my marriage. My long overdue/relentless stance on this is of course no news to Austin Faani, the doctors and my parents”, her statement reads in part. Hours later, the estranged hubby took to the photo and video sharing app to deny ever physically abusing his wife or any other woman for that matter because he wasn’t a violent person and eschews violence. “I am not a violent person. Personally I detest violence in any form. I have never raised my hand on any woman in my life, including my wife. “Everyone close to this case knows the absolute truth and it is not in my place to divulge it. The one person who started the talk will in due time continue to talk. Let light lead,” he wrote in the post,” he wrote. However, the actress’ fans and well-wishers heading to the comment section of Faani’s post argued he may not have abused her physically but certainly emotionally and verbally. Describing him as a narcissist, they blamed him for her unstable mental state, alleging it’s a result of the incessant emotional and verbal abuse he subjects her to. peters.miracle said: “She never said you hit her, stop running kitikiti. You have emotionally killed her.” luchitricia10 wrote: “Emotional Abuse is worse than physical Abuse…it can cause mental illness.”   Inmate graduates with 2nd Class Upper from Open University     Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties   nellylove_ebor stated: “Who don go through emotional abuse go understand say who them beat better pass.” stitches24_signatures said: “Come here.. wetin u do to our chacha… Come here n talk b4 we call thunder.” hadassah_12 stated: “Mr. Debunk.. We see you. What’s next?! Bipolar narrative?? Fear God o.” osikaniama said: “Emotional and verbal abuse is worst.” itz_spunkydiva1wrote: “Emotional abuse is still a form of abuse.” princess_amyjenny stated: “U have abused her emotionally..see her looking so stressed Nd frustrated…” st.kweenie said: “You think abuse is only by raising hands… See this gaslighter.” laroyale237 wrote: “Abuse comes in many forms. Violence is not the only deadly form of abuse.” chi_mikie stated: “The truth is there are some attitudes stronger than beating bcos that one kills the spirit. Marriage no be child’s play oo. Love and light.” amaraediline said: “If you have raised your hand on her, then why is she saying she is done with marriage abi you’re abusing her verbally that made her go into depression because most of you men are so good at that.” esther__opara wrote: “NARCISSIST spotted, always acting like a victim.” chinyereoffobuzo stated: “Is not when u raise ur hand on ur wife that makes u a violent man, emotional abuse is worse than beating a woman. So if u are that type of man it mean u are nothing but a nincoompop and she needs to leave for good.”