Lagosians leave the city centre to the suburbs and the Lekki/Ajah axis,which has become the toast of the rich. On that axis, a new addition, Silver Pacific Homes, has joined the list of top-notch homes. It has opened Felicity Resort and Residence to provide unique recreational facility where over-worked or stressed members of the public would take time out to holiday, relax, retreat and recharge. OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE reports  In the quest to sustain its leadership position in the recreational sector, Silver Pacific Homes has upped its game by opening Felicity Resort and Residence. Within three years, Silver Pacific Homes has developed 14 exclusive residential estates. Its Managing Director, Samuel Ikoje, said he understood the near-crisis experience of many people and decided to provide a unique recreational facility where over-worked or stressed holidaymakers can relax, retreat and recharge with family and friends. He said: “Felicity was borne out of the need to create a unique environment for people to have a good vacation and well-deserved rest. In a city like Lagos everybody is worked; because there is hustling and bustling. People tend to break down because they don’t have that proper rest. Even when they are at home, they don’t have that proper rest. “Some people, who can afford it just travel to a secluded area, may be out of the country, to relax and recharge. Felicity is now providing that environment for people to unwind. Right from the exterior, the lush gardens, the lakesides and the trees all around welcomes you to the invigorating ambience of Felicity Resort and Residence.” The N200 million resort comprises nine clusters. The first set of clusters comprise nine hamlets and each of the clusters has a lake. “If you are living in a cluster, you may not necessarily go to another cluster to experience a lake view. Every building has a lake view in every cluster. There are 18 buildings in one of the villages, with another having just 15 buildings. It isn’t at all crowded; and you know your neighbours. Each enclave is made up of one-bedroom and two-bedroom bungalows that are planted on an 80 square metre space. If you want a bigger room you can go for the one-room; but if you are looking for more rooms, there is the two-bedroom unit, too. But the space area remains the same – 80 square meters,” Ikoje said. “Then, there is another cluster called Laksa. It comprises maisonettes and duplexes. A maisonette could be a living room, a room, toilet, dining and kitchen downstairs and one room upstairs. It could also be a two-bedroom apartment with full decking. But the buildings are of the same size. We have the cluster called Royal, that is real top notch. It can be a two-bedroom or three-bedroom; however, you want it. The Royal is very limited, for those who have a family. It’s indeed very different from any other building in the entire development. We have other clusters like the Cedar, Faire View, and The Orchid. All the buildings are a place you can come to relax, away from home or your country home or village home. They are furnished luxuriously. When you come in there, you feel the ambience, even from the exterior, the lush gardens, the lakesides and the trees all around just calm your nerves.” On the unique features of the hospitality resort, he said it included serene environment with lots of greenery, top-notch, all-round security and tranquility. “These are things that we embedded into Felicity Resort from its making; because we need to provide such an environment that is serene, tranquil and also safe for people to relax, and enjoy their vacation,” he stated.   LAWMA boss urges Lagos residents to bag waste     Osinbajo urges architects to paticipate in govt programmes     Lagos partners public on Building Code domestication   He said the resort was fast turning out to be residential as some initial visitors to the resort preferred to remain. He said they were replicating residences in the resort to accommodate, especially  first-time home owners and millennias  to afford them the opportunity to build a healthy life style and family. Ikoje added: “For those who already have a home but want to buy into the scheme, as their vacation home, this is also a very good opportunity. They are the people we are primarily targeting. And if you have not been to Felicity Resort, you may never have experienced an ideal place where nature speaks to you and calms your nerves.” Giving a glimpse into the aesthetic features of the resort, Ikoje said: “We have borrowed a leaf from a lot of places around the world. We found out that a lot of people like to go to Seychelles, Maldives, and Dubai because those places parade lots of aquatic splendour. So, we decided to build all of that into Felicity Resort; for instance, 45 per cent  of the resort is covered by artificial lakes. “Also, every building in Felicity Resort comes with a swimming pool. It is by default; the homes come with a well-manicured garden and a solar power plant. The environment we have created here is an eco-friendly a place where people will be free from all pollution and carbon monoxide emissions. We have natural hills covered by lush vegetation which is also not in any way disturbed or distorted. It’s a place where one can just walk up, relax and behold the view entire view of Felicity Resort. There is cable car to convey people up the hill; by choice, people can just climb up the hill if they wish to exercise themselves,’’ he added. On the location of Felicity Resort, he responded that it is located at Odo Agboju, just after Epe Toll Gate, on Epe/Ijebu-Ode Road. “We have chosen that place to give you a hamlet ambience that is devoid of the hustle and bustle of town. “The location boasts of a very unique topography. It has hills, flatlands and some form of natural ponds where you can fish. As the saying goes, fishing is a therapy. All of these features make Felicity Resort very unique, he enthused.” The Felicity Resort boss said the aquatic splendour is indeed one of the things that excites the taste bud of visitors to the resort. On the lakes in the resort he responded that there are massive artificial lakes criss-crossing the entire length and breadth of the Resort.  ”The lakes are created artificially, not deep lakes; but shallow so that a two- or three-year-old kid can play in, and not drown. We are careful about that because the place is hilly and some portions are flat. If you are to dig to get water you are going to dig deeper. Hence, we decided that creating artificial lakes is the best option; more or less like massive big swimming pool that are not deep at all”. On those who may need a deeper pool,  he said the Resort have one in each compound. According to him the lakes and the pools are just divided by walking lawns. You can get out of your pool and walk into one of the artificial lakes because each of the clusters has its own he added.