The decisive presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will begin on Monday at the Eagle Square, Abuja. Delegates across States have started arriving in Abuja to partake in the process. From the delegates tally released by APC, while Southwest, which has seven aspirants boasts of 411 delegates, South/South has 359 delegates. There are 894 (336 plus 558) delegates from Northeast and Northwest respectively. Twenty-three (23) aspirants were screened by the John Odigie-Oyegun-led screening committee. They are expected to jostle for votes. Those screened were APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President Ahmad Lawan; Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi; former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs Godswill Akpabio; Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello and former Speaker House of Representatives Oladimeji Bankole.   Osinbajo not involved in accident, says Presidency     APC Primaries: Tinubu tipped to win     Workers to NASS: We want ‘alerts’ not talk   Others are: President/ Founder of Belemaoil and Belema Aid Foundation Tein Jack-Rich; Former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation Ogbonnaya Onu; Cross River Governor Ben Ayade; Former Minsiter of Information Ikeobasi Mokelu; Former Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi; Former Minister of State for Education Emeka Nwajiuba and Ebonyi Governor David Umahi. Also screened were: Former Zamfara Governor Ahmed Yerima; Former Ogun Governor Ibikunle Amosun; only female aspirant. Uju Kennedy; former CPC Vice Presidential candidate Pastor Tunde Bakare; Nicholas Felix; former Senate President Ken Nnamani; Deputy Senate Leader Ajayi Borroffice and Jigawa Governor Mohammed Abubakar-Badaru. President Muhammadu Buhari had expressed confidence in the chances of APC in the 2023 general elections. Buhari, at a dinner meeting, asked Governors under the APC to accord him the privilege of choosing his successor among the party’s long list of presidential aspirants. He spoke of the need to provide effective and strong leadership for the party to stay in power at all levels beyond his administration. Nigerians are watching with keen interest what would be the outcome of the primary.