Former Super Eagles forward Jonathan Akpoborie has been an outspoken critic of how the football has been run in the country over the years. Now the 53-year-old is seeking endorsement to become the first ex-international to preside over the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). In a conversation with  OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA, Akpoborie spoke on his plans should he  be so elected to lead  the NFF. Akpoborie, a member of the Golden Eaglets that won the maiden FIFA U-17 World Cup in China in 1985, started his professional career with Julius Berger in Lagos before jetting out to Brooklyn College, New York in 1987. A move to FC Saarbrücken in German Bundesliga 2 in 1990 put him into Clement Westerhof’s radar for new players to join the national team  and in 1992 was selected to understudy the eternal Rashidi Yekini at the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) hosted by Senegal, a decision Akpoborie admitted  turned the tide of his burgeoning career. He would go on to play 13 times for Nigeria, scoring four goals since his first senior cap in the third-place match against Cameroon, which the Super  Eagles won 2-1 courtesy of goals from Yekini and Friday Ekpo. The race to the Sunday Dankaro House has heated up over the last few months after Pinnick’s declaration with ex-internationals and Akpoborie’s former teammates in the national team, Benedict Akwuegbu and Peterside Idah also throwing their hats into the ring. Another forerunner for the position is Christian Emeruwa, a certified sports safety and security professional and current head of safety and security department in the Confederation of African Football (CAF). Akpoborie believed that the state of football in the country is at its lowest ever, with the league in shambles and the national  team’s failure to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. “When people ask me this question (why do I want the NFF job), I become really surprised,” Akpoborie started. “Because the state of our football is at its lowest since I was born. “Our league is disorganized and the quality is so bad. Some might say we must not speak so bad about our own, but we cannot make amends if we don’t point out the obvious truth. ” The NFF is in a terrible state and I want to make a change. I believe I am in the best position to bring about the change. “I’ll bring integrity, sanity and  discipline into the NFF,” he added. Pressed  about his plans for the local leagues, the former Hansa Rostock hit man admitted there is no guarantee that he can fixed the league alone , adding his experience playing the game both in Nigeria and at the highest level in the world would spur him to revamp the local leagues. He offered: “First of all, it’s not a guarantee that I can fix the league, but I have enough experience, not only playing in the Nigerian league, but also from playing at the highest level of football in Europe.  You don’t buy that kind of experience with money, you earn it. “Again just because I played does not guarantee me to succeed, but the chances to succeed are very high. Just as some people are talented to be coaches after retirement, I have talent in doing this.” He, however, revealed that if his bid to lead football in Nigeria were to be successful, his main priority would be developing the game from the grassroots upwards. He stated  that the major problem with football development is organisation, using the contrasting fortunes between Nigeria and Brazil in terms of football development as a good example.   All roads leads to Minna for 2022 Polo Fiesta     MacDonald moves from pitch to pulpit     Super Eagles goal king race Legends tip Osimhen to break…   He accused the previous football administrators in the country for not investing well in the development of the sport over the years which is why there are challenges sustaining growth. He added that the challenges football faces, especially those in the age-grade teams spurns out from a lack of developmental policies and misappropriation of funds. “These questions are almost the same (when asked about his plans for grassroots development). I tell you what. Some few years back I went to Brazil just to see how they have improved in developing players.   “You know the difference between them and us? They have organization.  In talents, they are not far off from us. Our grassroots football is vibrant and full of talents, but unfortunately we have not taken the opportunity to organize and give them the quality of coaches that will develop their game.” He continued: “It is the responsibility of the NFF to present that platform for the developing kids, just like a kid in Germany. I promise you, in my time this platform will be priority.” “Our youth teams are supposed to be the bedrock of our football, but since I left Nigeria in 1988, the NFF, has never attempted to organize the development of players nor football. I might remind you that we get paid to do this by FIFA every year, where that money has gone to? My guess is as good as yours.” Akpoborie has said in the past that despite the abundance of youth academies scattered across the country, many players would not make the type of successes his generation had in the past, stating there is a dearth of quality coaches in the youth and grassroots level, a disadvantage he would rectify if elected as NFF president. “There are so many different ways to set a program that will suit Nigeria in the development of our young players,” he continued. “This will be one of the biggest projects, because if we can’t produce well trained players in Nigeria, then our job will be rubbish. “During our time in Lagos for example, there were very good established and big locally organized competitions both at primary and secondary school levels. “Some of the best players got the opportunities to even travel out and play international organized competitions outside Nigeria. Indirectly these things were developing our players at a very young age and preparing them for the big ones. “Unfortunately, the football association has neglected this very important part of the game. We also need to help our coaches at home to bring a platform, whereby all of them will learn from the best from Europe. Then we can identify the coaches that are for the senior level and those that are good for the youths,” he noted. Akpoborie has complained over the years that despite the abundance of youth academies scattered across the country, many players would not achieve the type of successes his generation had in the past. He believes this is because there is a dearth of quality coaches in the youth and grassroots level, a disadvantage he would rectify if elected as NFF president. “There are so many different ways to set a program that will suit Nigeria in the development of our young players,”  he admitted. “This will be one of the biggest projects, because if we can’t produce well trained players in Nigeria, then our job, will be rubbish. “During our time in Lagos for example, there were very good established and big locally organized competitions both at primary and secondary school levels. “Some of the best players got the opportunities to even travel out and play international organized competitions outside Nigeria. Indirectly these things were developing our players at a very young age and preparing them for the big ones. “Unfortunately, the football association has neglected this very important part of the game. We also need to help our coaches at home to bring a platform, whereby all of them will learn from the best from Europe. Then we can identify the coaches that are for the senior level and those that are good for the youths.”