The Nigerian Conservation Foundation  (NCF), Chevron Nigeria and First City Monument Bank (FCMB) have called for   a safe environment and sustainability and protection of the earth. They made the spoke at  the celebration of the World Environment Day (WED) in  Lekki Conservation Centre, Lagos. The theme for the celebration was “Only one earth”. NCF Director-General, Dr Muhtari Aminu-Kano, said the theme meant that there is only one planet for human beings. Represented by Dr. Joseph Onoja, Director, Technical Services, NCF,  Aminu-Kano said the earth was already  has problems because of rising temperatures and loss of biodiversity. According to him, the environment will always take care of itself, adding that humans should protect the earth. He said the theme was used 50 years ago in Stockholm and still remained germane. He urged Nigerians to desist from activities that could destroy the earth. He added that nature has provided so much for humans to live a healthy and comfortable life; as such we should do everything possible to protect it.   Fed Govt to eliminate multiple taxes in transport sector     Lagos urged on inclusive, transparent budgeting     Minister seeks synergy among WTO members   Corporate Services Relationship  Manager, FCMB,Mr Omoniyi Iyanda, said the bank believes in  environmental protection. Iyanda said NCF had been a worthy partner in the advocacy for environmental sustainability. “We believe that it’s what we give to the earth that we get from it. It is for this reason that FCMB takes care of its operating environment and host environment where we work,” Iyanda said. Various schools were invited to the programme and made presentations re- echoing the global theme of the day. Pupils of The Cherub School spoke on behalf of the Earth, with the slogan “Save me from this calamity by going eco-friendly”. They said that human activities were destroying the earth. Also, the Genesis School had the message, “Save the World, Save your Life, If you destroy the Earth, you destroy yourself”. The students of the school also called for reduction in the use of single-use plastic. They made a case for the use of energy saving bulbs and waste management. In the same vein, the representatives of God of Seed Montessori School wondered if man could survive without nature. They enjoined everyone to act fast and now, to save the earth. Mubarak School urged Nigerians to stop bush burning and killing of trees in the name of hunting and eating bush meat. They also canvassed safe mining activities and the abolishment of bush burning. The schools with best performances received various categories of awards. Treasure Court College took first position while God of Seed Montessori and Deo Potential School were second and third receptively.