The curtain falls today on this series. Menstral health is an important subject for women and men alike. On the lighter side, did it not facilitate the coming of all men to the earth and do we not marvel that the flood could have washed us out of existence? On a serious note, do men not bother about the menstral lives of their wives, daughters and sisters and , sometimes, even their mothers? Often, I see the seriousness with which sons follow their mothers in their person or in spirit from one doctor’s clinic to another over matters of the reproductive system , to which menstral health belongs. As stated earlier, the curtain falls today on this series, beginning with uterine fibroids, an epidemic of which is sweeping through Nigeria. UTERINE FIBROIDS There is probably more talk in Nigeria today of uterine fibroids than there is of breast cancer. Many women fear surgery not only because of fear of a regrowth but more because of reports of death in the theatre. Scammers have a field day innundating the uterine fibroid market with all sort of herbal preparations they say can cure uterine fibroid in a matter of days. Many researchers believe there are no fewer than about 20 possible causes of uterine fibroid. These include a heavy uterine microbial load, deoxygenation, venous insufficiency, free radicals, antioxidant deficiency, second chakra problems, obsessive emotional longing for “the fruit of the womb” which subconsciously implants in the uterus, hormonal imbalance etc. I find interesting the hypothesis of Edgar Caycee and Dr Max Gerson. Caycee said there is no proper nerve connection with the uterus from the spinal cord, because of subluxations in the nerve root. He recommended camphorated castor oil massages on the fibroid site using a heating pad to drive home the healing essence. Camphorated castor oil can be made by mixing castor oil and camphor oil or by grinding camphor to fine powder and adding to castor oil till the mixture forms a greasy paste. Caycee also suggested chiropactic manipulations to realign misaligned spinal bones.  I suggest you check THE GERSON THERAPY online to understand it better than it can be presented here. It is about the use of fruit and vegetable juices or about eating potassium rich foods to restore potassium balance in the cell and , through doing this, prevent or reverse benign growths such as uterine fibroids and malignant growths such as cancers. You would also learn about the use of organic coffee enemas to clean up the liver, strengthen it to break down excess estrogens and adding fiber to the diet to safely export these estrogen fractions out of the body through the stool. Failure to do this may cause reabsorbtion in the colon of broken down estrogens and their recongregation in the system to ferment estrogenation, a possible cause of uterine fibroids. some other time, I would mention how unripe plantain may be grated with the peel and cooked like plantain porridge. The peel is richer than the  fruit in all nutrients. But women throw it away and goats pick them up. This meal is a rich source of potassium. Dr GERSON used potassium rich foods to heal many terminal cancers. I have witnessed uterine fibroid regress on diets of banana, avocado pear, water melon and other potassium rich foods. I began to pay attention to plantain peel about twenty years ago when I was a pig farmer. One woman approached me one day while I was collecting plantain peel waste from a road side roast plantain seller for my pigs. She asked me if I was a herbalist. I asked her why she asked the question. She said a herbalist taught her to use plantain peel to treat and cure her uterine fibroid. How was she doing it?, I asked. She said she would chop it to pieces and roast in an earthen-ware pot untill she obtained a powder from the chops. I did not follow up this lead until I learned that a popular black soap in Nigeria was made largely from Plaintain peels because the peel was a high source of potassium. When I studied the Plaintain, i found that the peel, especially the green peel of the unripe plantain was a richer source of potassium and other nutritional factors than the peel inside it. Thus, I thought to myself, the goat’s and pigs were wiser than human beings who threw the peel away. From then on, I grated the unripe plantain and the peel and cooked them as Plaintain-peel porridge. I found it gives me more energy than many other meals and that one Plaintain peel meal, the first meal of the day at mid-day, may banish hunger from me till the next day. That was how I began to sail towards one major meal a day. POTASSIUM     22 June 2022… onpassive register closing…one…     Five reasons to drink enough water     World Menstruation Day…a bow for the circle (2)   The potassium hypothesis is believable on many counts. But I will mention only two . For I have heard of many women who claim that their pelvic scan results showed encouraging shrinkages of uterine fibroids when they withdraw acid forming foods such as bread, milk, egg and cow meat from their diet and ate more stuff like banana, Avocado pear and melons, all of which are high in potassium. To these women and their kindred folks, and perhaps to everyone in every health seeking community, I would like to break the good news that major Odia is back in town with MATOL, one of the world’s richest potassium source proprietary blend of herbs…almost 30 years after its disappearance from the Alternative Medicine Health Market in Lagos. I remember my high school chemistry formula for remembering the ranking of substances in the ELECTROCHEMICAL SERIES. It is… POPULAR SCIENTIST CAN MAKE A ZOO IN THE LOW HUMID. The p in “popular”stands for potassium. The s in “scientist”is for sodium.The  C in CAN stands for CALCIUM while the M in MAKE is for magnesum. Aluminum, zinc, iron, Tin and Hydrogen fall along in that order. Potassium and sodium, the highest two  in the series are the prime electrolytes in our bodies. They are called electrolytes because they are conductors of electricity. The adult human body comprises about 100 trillion cells. In the spaces around these cells is a fluid called the INTESTITIAL FLUID. Potassium is the chief salt or electrolytes inside the cell. Sodium is the chief salt or electrolytes in the instital fluid. Sodium always tries to get into the cell while potassium always pushes it out of the cell as an unwanted guest. The inward and outward pushing creates an an electrical circuit and “in” and “out” movement of substances. Nutrients and oxygen get into the cell while wastes and poisons get out of the cell for excretion into the blood stream and, from there, into the appropriate eliminative organs. The push-push actions is known as the SODIUM-POTASSIUM pump which is powered by the SODIUM BATTERY. If the right amount of potassium is inside the cells and the right amount of sodium is inside the interstitial fluid, The SODIUM BATTERY  is very active. Imagine the active battery in a motor vehicle and the flat battery in another vehicle. The active battery gives the vehicle a “kick-and-go”potential, while the flat battery goes its own vehicle a “cold” or “flat” engine which requires several turns of the ignition key to roll the engine. The picture should be clearer now why some of us may not have “kick-and-go”bodies when we wake up in the morning from even a long night sleep. Do we have enough potassium in the cells of our muscles? Has sodium not invaded the cells without enough potassium arsenal to force it out? Is the SODIUM-POTASSIUM pump not weak and the SODIUM-BATTERY not weak? Isn’t this why some people have to wear “PACEMAKER”batteries in their hearts to keep them going where Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10)and ubiquinol, the cellular Energizers, would have done the job without side effects. From Dr Max Gerson (see THE GERSON THERAPY ONLINE), we learn that when potassium defficicency in a cell and causes sodium influx into it,  this makes the cells to change its lifestyle and texture. The lifestyle change means it becomes fermentative rather than being oxidative. In oxidative life, the cell uses oxygen for its living processes . In fermentative life, it uses some  other substance. The reason is not far fatched. Potassium is what extracts oxygen from the blood plasma for use in the cell. The difficiency of potassium in the cell means oxygen defficicency. And since the cells does not wish to die, it adopts a Fermentative lifestyle which may be injurious to other cells. For the Fermentative lifestyle may convert it to a TUMOUR. A tumour is a GROWTH. There are two major types of tumours or growths, BENIGN or MALIGNANT. Benign tumour is a friendly tumour which may not kill on its oven unless it grows out of hand. A maligant tumour is a cancerous growth, which, on its own, kills at the end of the day. Uterine fibroids are benign or friendly tumours. But they may not nevertheless, be treated with kidgloves. For there have been reports of post menopausal women whose uterine fibroids failed to disappear after their estrogen levels were known to have depleted. One such women had her uterus so filled up with fibroids which bled everyday that she almost couldn’t walk from her bedroom to the sitting room until the uterus was surgically removed! Such a presentation belies medical hypothesis that some growths in men and women are hormone driven. In prostate cancer, for example, doctors advise that the testes be removed to prevent the tumour from growing. But as many challenged men who succumb to this advice have discovered, the cancer markers may plumet for a while, but they soon resonate with and in high pitches, suggesting that something else other than hormones may be driving these growths as well. That is what has led to the ideas which postulate other possible causes, about 20 of them, of uterine fibroids, all of which this column cannot address today: Accordingly, whenever I have had to speak on this subject, I suggest that women alkalize and oxygenate their bodies through their diet, eat potassium rich foods, rid their bodies of pathogen loads, improve blood circulation to their reproductive system, take herbs which support menstral system and uterus, and balance their emotions. Uterine fibroids are twisted uterine muscle fibers. They remind me of smooth steel, which is easier to saw than twisted steel. But nature offers several clues to how they may be overcome. As children, my generation enjoyed eating cooked or roasted silkworms. The silkworm lives in a cocoon which is hard to break. If we could not cut it through with knives and matchettes, we used the axe. But the silkworm does not need any of these laborious means to crack the cocoon when it is mature and ready to live in the outside world. It makes a secretion which easily dissolves a passage out of this cage. Scientists replicated this secretion and believes it dissolves the uterine muscles. One alternative medicine marketing network in Nigeria sells this formula as NS FIBRIN. It couples it with another product called fibro clear and, lately, with a newcomer formula called fibroid away.   ENDOMETRIOSIS How do endometrial cells get out of the uterus? Some specialists speak of worms dragging them along from the hollow chamber through the tubes and out into the various cavities. Surgery has not proven very successful in preventing or curbing the pain and excessive menstrual season bleeding it causes. The impact may be minimised with the use of phytoestrogens which replace the harsh human estrogens , and anti inflamatory food medicines such as Curcumin 2000x, fish oil, pelvic massage with camphorated castor oil driven in with hot water bottle where heating pads are not available. SMELLY MENSTRATION It can be very embarrassing to a woman with high hopes on a date if she pulls up and down and her partner freezes and pulls away. Many challenged women have Unsuccessfully trodden several paths in search for help and freedom. I have seen many women whose odour gives away their secret that their period is on. In the 1990s, I sold a Nigerian herbal soap which helped many women. It was produced by two pharmacists. The father of one, a native doctor, owned the intellectual property rights. He came from a village named APA, near Badagry and his name was OGUN. I am sorry for calling APA a village, although that is what is still is. In the pre colonial days, it was the headquarters of a region which included Badagry,now the chief town. Badagry merely gained visibility over APA because it was the slave trade port. All.of that is another story. The soap from pharmacist OGUN, was called AWEDA (d.d.m in Yoruba). It promised complete  cleansing for skin disease and body odour. I kept cutting in the boot of my car which I gave any woman I met anywhere who was smelling out. I also gave out my telephone number for a call if she found it helpful. The calls kept coming. Along with this soap came a cream from an electronic engineer whose wife had to be moved to a side ward in a hospital following offensive v*ginal odour she was exuding after child birth. When all hospital Medications deployed against the odour appeared unhelpful, her husband went to his village and came back with a preparation which did the job. I had the priviledge of giving this preparation  a trade name, PURE VIRGIN, when, in collaboration  with a retired pilot, engineer Tusin packaged it in a tube. It was an instant hit in the market. But there were women who disliked it because it made them so tight, perhaps more than virgins, that they found friction painful. Tusin passed soon after, and  the product disappeared in the market. Ordinarily, menstration should not smell So strong for the odour  to be picked  by other people. For it Should be no more than unfertilized egg and uterine lining being shed with some germs. Sometimes the smell of iron and bacteria may occur. Good menstral hygiene should take care of this. When the odour becomes very strong, infections may be at play. When this is the case, pelvic pain and v*ginal discharge may be the acompaniments. Some women express fishy odour. This may be sign of vaginosis, caused by bacteria. It may have nothing to do with the menstral flow but with an overgrowth of unfriendly bacteria in the v*gina. Normally, the v*gina is meant to be acidic to keep there germs at Bay. But, sometimes, frequent s3xual intercourse, even with the same partner, may over infuse the organ with too much alkalinity from sperm that these unfriendly bacteria are able to raise their heads in the new pH environment. This situation may also come with pain during urination. Whichever is  the germ that is causing the odour, bacteria, candida, viruses, parasites etc, I have discovered GOLDEN SEAL ROOT able to handle many, if not all, of them. It is taken as tea for seven days and suspended for another Seven or 14 days. This is because it is so powerful it may dry out the muscous membrane lining of the body. Then, in powder form and mixed with egg white, or with Propolis cream, it may  be delivered deep into the v*gina and the paste left there overnight. Mango seed extract, which Indian women use as spemicide before s3x as a valuable contraceptive because it kills on rushing sperm, can also do the job. After the bacteria or offending pathogens have been smoked out, friendly bacteria should be introduced. This is because, in the clearance of unfriendly bacteria, friendly bacteria are also eliminated, and it is necessary to regrow the of population of friendly bacteria so that unfriendly bacteria do not storm back. One of the newest V*ginal care proprietary products currently making the waves in Lagos is SHINEWAY feminine moisturizing gel. Made from six substances, it is said to hold the promise, sterilising, fast acting and “relief” for itching, apart from moisturizing, soothing and eliminating odour. It should appeal to women who in addition to the smell are challenged also, by the Big V D…V*ginal Dryness.