Actor Abimbola Kazeem aka Jigan BabaOja has bared his ‘disability’ to the world as he marks his ruby jubilee. Celebrating his birth on Thursday, Jigan encouraged persons living with one form of ‘disability’ or the other to be inspired by his post. According to him whatever condition they have shouldn’t spell their end because, there are boundless feats they can achieve regardless. Sharing a photo spotting only his undergarments, the movie star wrote: “This is what I have lived with for 40th years of my life! I’m using this post to inspire everyone living with disability that this is never the end of our journey, there is a lot you can achieve no matter who you are! Happy 40th birthday to me! Get inspired life is beautiful.” Many celebrities, including colleagues as well as fans have taken to the comment section to felicitate with Jigan on climbing the fourth floor of life. Daniel Amokachi said: “HBD STAR WISHING U MANY MORE JOYFUL YEARS AHEAD @jiganbabaoja.” Femi Branch wrote: “Happy Birthday Jigan, surely, your best is yet to come. Keep inspiring aburo.” Zlatan Ibile stated: “Happy birthday baba OJA.” Saheed Osupa said: “You’ve my best wishes on this occasion of your birthday. Shine on to the world, troublesome Jigan.”   Protests rock APC Secretariat over alleged plans to…     Ekiti 2022: INEC begins distribution of sensitive materials     Embrace digital transformation, expert charges directors   Tana Adelana wrote: “Happy birthday dear.” Ikechukwu stated: “Happy birthday bro. More power to you and more blessings.” Teddy A said: “You go still collect wotorwotor.. Happy birthday Eyan!” Kolawole Ajeyemi wrote: “Happy birthday bro.” fashthekingg stated: “Happy birthday my motivation.” sexypapas said: “Your mouth too sweet. More years in good health and happiness baba oja….” olayemi_akinlotan wrote: “Happy birthday and many happy returns of the day to you..” awofalaabiola stated: “Happy birthday! Spread the sentence ‘“Ability in disability “ I have learned to live with it.” tunde_apala said: “Happy birthday sir I wish you more good life.” ademola_ridwanullahi wrote: “Happy birthday sir. God bless you more.”