President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday urged European countries to look to Africa for the solution to the resources supply challenges currently facing the global economy. He spoke at a Political and Business Leaders Forum jointly organised by the Spanish Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Trade, and the Confederation of Employers (CEOE), in Madrid, the Spanish capital. The President, who is in Spain on a three-day state visit, told the forum that by reaching out to African countries, especially Nigeria, which is the largest economy on the continent, Europe would be solving both its current and future economic challenges and both continents would be improving their mutual economies. According to him, Nigeria, which had hitherto been focused by foreign economic partners for petroleum resources, is also rich in many other sectors like agriculture, healthcare, light manufacturing and a host of other, even as it has a larger consumer market. “For quite a number of decades, Spain has been one of Nigeria’s most important trading partners. It is, for example, a major importer of Nigerian crude oil. Nigeria’s exports to Spain stood at $4.8b in 2020 whilst Spain’s exports to Nigeria increased from $97.2 million in 1995 to $517million in 2020. A lot more can be done to increase the volume of trade and today presents a good opportunity to explore how this can be achieved. “It is currently a challenging time for the global economy. But I have always held the strong conviction that there is no crisis without an accompanying opportunity and solution. Increased collaboration with African nations could well be what Europe needs to mitigate both current and potential future supply-chain challenges and improve both our economic opportunities.” “Historically, the focus has been on Nigeria’s oil sector but Nigeria is home to a wide range of other sectors that hold very great potentials.” “We are the largest economy in Africa and our well over 200 million-strong consumer market is home to a range of attractive opportunities in sectors such as agriculture, healthcare, light manufacturing, infrastructure development and technology. “Nigeria has a number of other notable mineral resources including coal, gold, bitumen, iron ore and uranium. However, our current focus is on adding value to our natural resources prior to exportation. “Since the inception of our Administration in 2015, we have concentrated on moving beyond the historical dependence on crude oil for government revenue and foreign exchange inflows.   ‘Citizens must reject brazen corruption’     Supporters’ group to APC: don’t bungle ‘golden chance’     How Nwaoboshi was returned unopposed   “We have successfully driven its diversification and put the economy on the path of sustainable and inclusive growth through an open, rules based and market-oriented way of doing business,” he said. Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, said the Nigerian government would be ready to support businesses that are willing to enter the Nigerian market to invest, noting that the country fertile for investments in various sectors, including security, infrastructure, tech and science. “Nigeria is also home to a multitude of investment opportunities in, but not limited to, the following sectors: security, infrastructure, the green economy and technology. Nigeria is at the beginning of a tech boom with growing interest in our fin-tech and ag-tech spaces. “This is an area I can see a lot of scope for collaboration with Spanish firms. Agriculture and food production are other big areas and I am glad that a major Spanish company is already very active in Nigeria in this space. “Nigeria is open for business and the Federal Government is ready to partner with and support Spanish businesses wishing to enter our market. “We have begun exploratory talks with the European Union on an Investment Facilitation Agreement, and we are open to direct agreements and partnerships with Spain. “I am impressed by the amount of business leaders in attendance today and I hope that the match-making element of this forum is successful and strong strategic alliances are formed”, he said. The Nigerian Ambassador to Spain, Ademola Seriki, expressed the hope that both countries would be exploring business opportunities in multiple areas, as a result of the engagement provided by the forum. Spanish Minister of State for Trade, Xiana Mendez Bertolo, said Nigeria had become Spain’s strategic trade partner in the last five years, adding that Spain is Nigeria’s second largest foreign trade destination. The event, which received participants from both Nigerian and Spanish business and political circles, also had the Ministers of Communication and Digital Economy, Professor Isa Pantami; Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Sports and Youth Development, Sunday Dare; Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; as well as that of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, in attendance.