Sensational Liberian RnB singer Lourell Andymark George aka Stunna is set to embark on a three-month tour of the United States of America from July. The singer and his management said he would use the tour to popularise Liberian brand of music in America, adding that America needs a bit of fresh breath and Liberian flavour. Stunna, who was born in Monrovia, Liberia has distinguished himself as an artist of immense talent with multi-dimensional possibilities. He started his career with Swag District recording music in his late teens when he released his professional debut song “Zoko Love” featuring his former label mate, A Raw. The prolific singer, in an interview with FrontPage-Africa, said he would be making the tour with three members of his Afrique Entertainment Group (AEG). He said they would depart Liberia to the US in July.   Erigga asks about ‘Yahoo’ rulers’ penalty over EFCC’s…     Pretty Mike under fire for mocking Christianity     Debate over Tiwa Savage, Tems as Afrobeat queen heats up   He said the tour is being tagged ‘Daddy is coming”, adding that he will be touring Fargo, Minnesota, Miami, Arizona, Rhode Island, Washington DC, Atlanta and Iowa.   “This tour is being sponsored by my promoters and fans based in America and it will be a great opportunity to push Liberian music outside of Liberia and as well connect with my fans and family in America,” he noted. He called on all Liberians in America to turn out in their numbers to support Liberian music to the fullest. “My primary goal while in America is to meet and interact with my fans and family and perform as they have always wanted me to perform live and I’m fully set and ready to do just that,” he added. The RnB hit-maker is a leading member of CEO Pumpaye Afrique Entertainment Group (AEG), a record label that has been doing extremely well in branding and shifting the perspective of Liberian music to an international level. Stunna has been one of Liberia’s trending musicians with several accolades such as: RnB Artist of the Year 2018 (Tunes Liberia), MLMA Afropop Artist of the year 2020, and MLMA Video of the year 2021 and has released several hit songs such as ‘baby o’, Mr. Right’, and ‘For Life’.