Former Minister of Niger Delta and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Godsday Orubebe, needs no introduction. The actions which made his name — ‘Orubebe’ popular, is still very fresh in the memories of Nigerians. He is in the news again. Recall that on March 31, 2015, Orubebe who became popular, acting as a polling agent for the PDP, made attempts at disrupting the proceedings of the 2015 presidential election collation. Orubebe dramatically seized the microphone for minutes insisting that the former INEC chairman, Attahiru Jega, was biased against the PDP and should suspend the announcement of the result. During the week, Orubebe resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in protest against the emergence of the party’s presidential candidate from the north. The 63-year-old politician communicated his intention in a letter addressed to the National Chairman of the party, Iyorchia Ayu. Orubebe is evidently displeased with the party’s leadership for throwing open the presidential ticket and for failing to pick Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike as a vice-presidential candidate. According to pundits, the exit of Orubebe from PDP could be a signal toward the beginning of total withdrawal of support for the party by the majority of the party’s stakeholders in the southern part of Nigeria, and this could hinder the party’s chances at the 2023 presidential election.   Tonto Dikeh heads to Government House     Ike Ekweremadu: Lawmaker on wrong side of the law     Two policemen killed in operation, three others   Orubebe in his resignation letter, noted that the opposition party was not ready to regain power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023, and expressed displeasure that the party jettisoned zoning by allowing a northerner to emerge as presidential candidate for the 2023 election. However, he affirmed his commitment to protecting the sanctity of Nigeria and working towards her progress and development. The letter read in part, “I write to formally inform you of my resignation from the PDP. This I have communicated to the Chairman of Burutu Ward 3, Burutu Local Government Area, Delta State, effective June 20, 2022. “Consequently, I am by this letter intimating you of my total withdrawal from all activities at the ward, local, state, and national levels of the PDP.” He added: “The present situation in the party does not inspire confidence that the party is ready to regain power in 2023. Against the mood of the nation and in complete disregard for the provisions of the party’s constitution, the party, threw the zoning of the Presidency open, which created a situation that led to the emergence of a Northerner as the party’s presidential candidate, thus making the two topmost positions in the party, after your emergence as the National Chairman, to be occupied by Northerners, contrary to Section 7.3 of the party’s constitution.” Amid the resignation brouhaha, Orubebe had met with Wike behind closed-door. Recall that both men served together in the cabinet of former President Goodluck Jonathan before Wike resigned to contest the 2015 governorship election on the platform of the PDP. Orubebe was appointed Minister of Niger Delta in April 2010 when Jonathan announced his new cabinet. Although he is yet to disclose his next move, many observers are keenly watching his steps.