The General Overseer of Omega Power Ministry (OPM) Apostle Chibuzor Gift Chinyere has directed his members to get their Permanent Voters Card (PVC). He warned that those without PVCs won’t collect prayer assignments. Chibuzor also stated that church traders without PVCs won’t be allowed to sell in the market. While many hailed the cleric for his stance and for encouraging people to get their PVCs, some others faulted the cleric’s position. On his verified Facebook page, he said: “From today, you can not collect prayer assignments without showing your PVC. “All traders in OPM Divine market will not be permitted to sell in the market if he or she does not have PVC. Remember! everyone selling in OPM Divine market doesn’t pay for shop. “Apostle Chibuzor gave all the shops free of charge and 90 percent of more than 120 traders there were given money by Apostle Chibuzor to start the business. “In OPM, for more than 11 years, the welfare office of OPM has been attending to people with different needs every week for 12 years now. But, from now on, before you come for any form of assistance to the OPM Welfare Department, you must come with your PVC.   JUST IN: Gunmen abduct Anglican Bishop, wife, driver in Oyo     A Pan-Nigerian ticket     ‘PDP prayed against Tinubu as APC presidential…   “Without PVCs, security will not give you tag. All students on scholarship in Nigeria must present their PVCs in 7 day to revalidate their scholarship. Without your PVC, your next school fees will not be paid by OPM. “Those on overseas, your parents and guardians must present there PVC to Welfare Department for revalidation of your scholarship before 7 days. “All parent that their children attend OPM free schools have 7 days to get their PVC to revalidate their children’s admission in OPM free schools. “Everyone coming to OPM Free Specialist Hospitals, before you register, you must present your PVC and that of your husband. Without your PVC, you will not be registered and old patients have 7 days to present there PVC. “A 7 days notice is hereby, given to all those residing at the 18 OPM free estates to get their PVC or, relocate out of the free estate. “All the repentant Armed robbers, kidnappers, cultists etc, undergoing rehabilitation at the OPM rehabilitation centers also have 7 days to get their PVC or have their rehabilitation suspended and you will be evicted out. “All the repentant sex workers undergoing rehabilitation have 7 days to get their PVC or you will be evicted from the rehabilitation centers. “I’m trying to get the church lawyers on phone to find out what the law says about staff working for OPM, so we don’t go against the law. “For now, I can only penalize those benefiting from OPM free programmes, not OPM staff. By the grace of God, this time, our country must work.”