Democracy is the government of the people, by the people and for the people. This is the widely accepted definition of democracy globally. In it is the will of the people. Any form or type of leadership short or devoid of democracy is now detested and vehemently rejected by any well-meaning individuals, societies and nations at large. In fact, in Nigeria, it is a happy story from 1999 to date that democracy, the darling of the world, has steadily trudged on. This has been so from 1999 to date, despite some formidable odds. Nigeria is no longer the pariah nation that it used to be in the comity of nations, hitherto, sequel to recurrent military incursions into democracy, ousting democratically-elected, and or civilian administrations. It is indeed the darling of all across the globe. Consequently, Nigeria is happily on the trajectory of executing another civilian to civilian administration next year. This is indeed a heartwarming development for all patriotic citizens and real lovers of democracy. The various political parties have been engrossed in myriad internal party processes and activities, the All Progressives Congress (APC), inclusive. These activities are also being successfully conducted, in line with the constitution of the nation, the Electoral Act and the constitutions of the parties. In Sokoto State, the APC has peacefully and successfully conducted its primaries for various elective positions, resulting in the emergence of its candidates for the state House of Assembly, the National Assembly and the governorship election. For instance, Alhaji Nasiru Shehu Bodinga, a patriotic, youthful, tested and trusted gentleman as the party’s flag bearer for the Bodinga/Dange-Shuni/Tureta Federal Constituency seat at the House of Representatives. This is indeed a good omen for the constituency, Sokoto State and Nigeria in general. If elected, the candidate is a man whose penchant for hard work, piety, patriotism, diligence, accountability and commitment is unparalleled. If elected, the constituency, Sokoto State and Nigeria at large will be the better for it, owing to the antecedents of the flag bearer, whose second name is “Mr Hard Work.” It is noteworthy here that, In Islam, good leaders are good followers, humble, piety, truthful and simple and they realise that success only comes from Allah, the Almighty. There is a system of leadership in Islam, so the leaders are to be obeyed, and they call to the truth. “And we made them leaders, guiding by our command; and we inspired them to do good works, and to observe the prayer, and to give out charity. They were devoted servants to us.” [Qur’an, 21:73] From the above verse of the Qur’an, it can be concluded that it is Allah Almighty who appoints the leader. It is not selected by anyone, given in a will, nor established by the committee. The role of the leader in Islam is also summarised, to guide and establish the Islamic society. The main aspects of leadership are knowledge and power as mentioned in the Qur’an. Also, Rear Admiral Grace Murray Hopper states that “you manage things; you lead people”. Similarly, Warren Bennis believes that leadership is the capacity to translate vision into reality; while General Montgomery states that leadership is the capacity and the will to rally men and women to a common purpose and the character which inspires confidence. In the view of Austrian-American management consultant, educator, and author, Peter Drucker, “leadership is lifting a person’s vision to high sights, the raising of a person’s performance to a higher standard, the building of a personality beyond its normal limitations.   How far can Kwankwaso’s NNPP go?     LIVE UPDATES: APC presidential primary     APC won’t get 25 per cent votes in states, claims…   The above leadership quotes are just to corroborate the fact that Alhaji Nasiru Shehu Bodinga just perfectly fits into the responsibility thrust upon him by the Almighty Allah and the constituents. “Indeed, I felt happy and elated after emerging as the candidate  I must be grateful to the Almighty Allah, the leaders, delegates and supporters of the APC in my constituency, the state and at the national level,” he said after his emergence as the APC candidate. Bodinga was born on February 11, 1980 at Kauran-Miyo town, Bodinga Local Government, Sokoto State. He attended Kauran-Miyo Primary, JSS Bodinga and Sani Dingyadi Unity Secondary School, Farfaru, Sokoto. He also attended the prestigious Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. After graduating, with flying colours, Bodinga went into business, where he has carved a niche for himself by writing his name in gold.  He is a man of many parts; a man of the people and a business tycoon. He was at a time, the vice-chairman of the Sokoto State Traders’ Association, as well as the former state chairman of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN). He is also the incumbent Sokoto State Chairman of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC). The candidate is now wholly immersed in politics and business. He recently unveiled his five-point agenda for the constituency.  During the event, he said: “I’m disturbed about the under-development in my constituency. This was caused by a lack of quality representation by the current lawmaker in the House of Representatives who has been there since 2019. So, if elected, I intend to implement a five-point agenda to reverse the ugly trend.” He said the agenda includes enhancing trade and commerce, boosting security, education, women and youths’ empowerment and agriculture. On trade and commerce, the candidate, who was also the vice-chairman of Sokoto State Traders’ Association, promised to assist small and medium scale businessmen with grants and capital. He added: “Many of our people want to venture into various businesses, but for lack of adequate capital. If elected, I will broaden the scope of my assistance to traders to capture as many as possible. With this plan many people will be employed, this will reduce poverty and unemployment, as well as prevent the attendant consequences.” If elected, Bodinga said he will accord top priority to women and youths’ empowerment to curb youths’ restiveness. ”An idle mind is the devil’s workshop and the menace of unemployment, especially among the youths can exacerbate the prevailing security challenges, he added. The candidate decried the recurrence of kidnapping, banditry, cattle rustling and other sundry crimes in the area. His words: “The security challenges have been worrying me and I will partner with the various security agencies to address the situation,” he said. In agriculture, Shehu said that he plans to assist farmers with assorted fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides, implements and improved seed varieties for enhanced yield. ”A lot of people want to venture into farming, but they lack the capital to do so, hence I will be assisting such people to become successful farmers. ”This gesture will boost food production, ensure food security, and bolster the socioeconomic development of the state,” the candidate said. In education, Shehu promised to establish an educational foundation to assist indigent students with bursaries to enable them to acquire education at all levels. From the above, it can be conveniently and happily deduced that the people in the Bodinga/ Dange-Shuni/ Tureta, Sokoto State and indeed, Nigeria, will never have it so good as when Alhaji Nasiru Shehu Bodinga, Pan-Nigerian, bridge builder, peacemaker, renowned security expert, a successful businessman, a philanthropist par excellence and above all, a pious and humble, is finally elected at the general polls, which will “in sha Allahu”, come to pass.