Minister of Women Affairs Minister and Social Development Pauline Tallen; activist lawyer Femi Falana, and Wife of the Lagos State Governor Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, will deliver speeches at the 2022 National Conference and Summit of the Standup for Women Society (SWS). Also expected to deliver papers are co-convener of #BringBackOurGirls, Mrs. Aisha Yusuf and Prof. Adeparusi Yemisi. The National President Standup for Women Society, Mrs. Deborah Ijadele-Adetona, stated this at a news conference to herald the conference in Lagos. It is themed ‘Women in Leadership: Balancing Societal Obligation with Marital and Parental Responsibilities’, and will hold from tomorrow till Friday at the Pelican International Hotel in Lekki, Lagos. According to Ijadele-Adetona, having women in leadership position should become the norm and not an exception.   Navy takes waste disposable campaigns to littoral…     Ekiti APC Elders’ Forum congratulate Tinubu     Osun, ICPC launch anti-corruption club in 68 schools   “Our objective, among others, is to encourage women’s active participation in leadership and decision-making process. We are also established to promote women’s entrepreneurship as a catalyst for advancing women’s economic empowerment. “Our initiatives had brought increase in women entrepreneur’s access to finance and digital technologies. If we strengthen women’s capabilities and their access to resources, the prospect of leadership roles will be within reach for many more women in our Nation Nigeria. “Our achievements in the last four years dwell on the growth and development of women in schools, correctional centres, homes and the society at large. “Both skilled and unskilled women are benefitting from the benevolence of our various states chapters. We have been actively seeking and involved in advocacy for women rights at the state and federal levels through presentation of papers and peaceful walks and protests separately and collectively with other women non-governmental organisations,” she added.