Mrs Evelyn Joshua, widow of the late founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) Prophet TB Joshua, has revealed that she fought like every other woman for her husband’s love and attention. She spoke at the one year anniversary celebration of the late prophet’s passing at the church’s auditorium in Ikotun, Lagos. Speaking on the challenges of being wife to such a personality, she said she once walked into his office resolutely one Sunday and told the late prophet “Look, you will not attend to anyone today but me.” Subsequently, she said they began to dialogue and it was Mama Akinola, one of the two oldest female members of the church, who saved the day. “Her motherly advice kept me from the part of error,” she recalled. She singled out another woman, Mrs Felicia Olowofeyeku, whom she said always responded to her grievances with the line: “‘Are there not more important things than this?’ “In truth, when I look back, there were indeed more important things than those things.” She stated she met Prophet Joshua a vegetarian, which constituted a major challenge to her. “I told him, but all these things you don’t eat, I eat them. Today, by the grace of God, I am a vegetarian.   NDLEA intercepts large drug consignments, arrests 11     JUST IN: Makinde’s Deputy decamps to APC     Villagers flee Katsina communities over bandit attacks   “With him, I learnt tolerance, perseverance, understanding and forgiveness. All those things have helped to shape my Christian life,” she added. She also revealed that she was the first Sunday School teacher of the church. Apart from the Museum that was to be unveiled later at the event, Mrs Joshua stated that one of the church’s next biggest project will be to complete its prayer mountain in Arigidi in Ondo State. She said that was one of the late prophet’s biggest dreams. Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwoolu, represented by his Special Assistant on Christian Affairs, Rev Bukola Adeleke congratulated Mrs Joshua for preserving the memory of her husband and especially on the commissioning of the museum. “The real essence of life is not in the material wealth we amass but in the impact we make on people,” he told her Ondo Deputy Governor, Lucky Ayedatiwa, who represented Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, said: “Prophet TB Joshua came, he lived and died but he lives on because all that he did, the works, the signs and imprints are all there for all to see. Know this for sure, the work of God can never die.” He promised Mrs Joshua Ondo State government’s support whenever she needs it. Cross River Deputy Speaker Joseph Bassey said: “As long as God lives, Synagogue Church of All Nations will not die.” He promised to come to the church to give testimony after the election.