For all this, Marcelo triumphed at Real Madrid in his more than 15 seasons with white from the tactical level, reports AS Marca Marcelo Viera wrote his last chapter as a Real Madrid player, achieving the Fourteenth UEFA Champions League in the club’s history. The Brazilian leaves what has been his home for more than 15 years , with a total of 25 titles to his name, and being the player with the most trophies won at the white club. Although his role within the squad in recent seasons has not been the same as before, his absence will be noticeable , since few players in the current squad, and especially his “theoretical” replacement, Ferland Mendy, lack the magic in the feet that the Brazilian possesses . From his beginnings in the white club, Marcelo, through his socio-affective structure, showed a brilliant associative capacity with the players around him , and especially with the end of his sector. The constellation that he created with Cristiano Ronaldo was brilliant . The good understanding between the two on the field of play, managed to multiply the individual performance of both, and in turn, the collective.   Ronaldo: ‘I don’t follow records, records…     Boxers battle for N1m at GOtv Boxing Night 25     Super Eagles who shone in Europe   The Brazilian has always understood the importance of respecting the area of action of the closest players around him, directing his movements towards other sectors within the field, thus managing to generate advantageous situations for his teammates and even for himself. In addition, thanks to his associative capacity previously mentioned, Marcelo has been a key piece in the white team’s delivery of the ball . Not only because of his skill in relating to his teammates, but also because of his individual quality thanks to his coordinative structure, which allowed him to successfully solve situations of intense pressure from rival teams. This technical ability of the Brazilian has not only been shown at the beginning of the game, but also in the moments of construction and even at the end. We all remember the brilliant individual action that he performed in the final in Lisbon against Atlético de Madrid, managing to score the third goal of the final with a shot from medium distance. Once the structures that have stood out the most in the player during his time at the white club have been highlighted, we are going to delve into the most common tactical behaviours of the footballer.