After about 75 days in captivity, terrorists who attacked the Abuja-Kaduna AK9 train, killed nine passengers and abducted about 65 others, have released 11 of the remaining 62 abductees. The terrorists attacked the train with over 300 passengers on board on March 28 around Katari and Rijana axis of Kaduna State. The media consultant of Sheikh Ahmed Gumi, Malam Tukur Mamu, disclosed this on Saturday. He said the 11 abductees were freed after intense negotiations between the Federal Government and the terrorists. According to him, the 11 victims released include: Jessy John, Amina Ba’aba Mohammed (Gamba), Rashida Yusuf Busari, Hannah Ajewole and Amina Jibril. Others are Najib Mohammed Daiharu, Gaius Gambo, Hassan Aliyu, Peace A. Boy and Danjuma Sa’idu.   One killed, others injured as APC, SDP supporters clash in…     Gunmen kidnap, kill APGA leader in Anambra     Ondo cancels democracy day celebration   He said they have been flown on the orders of President Muhammadu Buhari to Abuja for medical evaluation and treatment before the decision to reunite them with their grieving families. According to him, some retired Army Generals and a renowned professor also assisted toward the release of the passengers. Mamu, who also quoted an insider source said, the male victims were released on health grounds as part of the request made by the negotiating team while the women among the vulnerable are part of the agreement reached with the abductors. According Mamu: “It was expected initially that all the abducted women will be released in the first batch while negotiations for the release of the remaining victims will continue but according to another source that was privy to Saturday’s engagement with the abductors, they decided to cut down the number of women they initially agreed to release because of FG’s demand to include those with life threatening injuries/illnesses among the ones they released. “The abductors have initially insisted that the only condition they will accept to start negotiating the release of their victims is when government release their teenage children unconditionally but Mamu insisted that no government will accept such bargain as they must also show signs of good will and make acceptable compromises too by way of releasing some of the victims.”