Some months ago this space hosted a piece titled ‘How to be a bootlicker in Nigerian politics’. This is an update for a political era like this. It will help those working with political office candidates to excel. The first thing you need to know if you are working with a candidate for the 2023 election cycle is that principles are nothing. Your boss’s happiness supersedes every other thing. Be ready to tell lies and praise-sing. If your man is running for president, address him as “my President”. If he is running for governor, address him as “my governor”. If he is running for a seat in the National Assembly, this is the time to start addressing him as either “ my Honourable or my Senator”. And if he is running for a seat in the House of Assembly, kindly address him as “my honourable”. In fact, if he is a running mate to a presidential candidate, give him or her the honour of being appropriately address as my “ VP”. You score a major point with every adoration you heap on your man or woman. Also know that loyalty is 100 per cent and disagreeing with your principal’s point of view on issues amounts to disloyalty. Even when you know he is not going to win the election, please keep it to yourself. Rather tell him he is the best thing to have happened to Nigeria. Tell him he is better than Ghana jollof or Nigerian jollof or any kind of jollof ever made. It is also very important for you to know that your principal’s enemies are your enemies. You must inherit them. Give them a bloody nose. There is no limitation to the inherited enemies. A familial relationship means nothing here. If your father opposes your principal, oppose your father, if your mother speaks ill of your principal, chastise her, and if your wife despises your principal, divorce her. You must see no evil, hear no evil and say no evil as far as your boss is concerned. If you don’t get this, forget about it. You must also celebrate his achievements like they are personal to you. Mourn his failures as though they are yours. Follow his steps as though they are the oxygen that supplies you with life. You must always remember and act as though recruiting you was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Always remember that.   A mother and her daughter     Omatseye, Akpan and 2023     For a time like this   This is  a time to realise that political candidates are gods, small gods with big egos— egos that must be fanned and air-conditioned by sycophancy.  Tell him his agbada is powerful. Praise his pair of shoes. Hail his cap. Don’t forget to commend his strides, real or imagined. If you are the type who feels candidates with big houses, plenty of cars and other luxuries of life are wasteful, you must perish this though and never express it. Praise his taste. Admire his choices. Respect his positions. If the candidate is the type who likes small girls, those fine girls who like to flaunt flesh, then you have to know where and how to source them. There is, however, a caveat: When you supply him babes, never let it be known to his wife that you play this important role. Remember madam’s words can be law. So, balance the pendulum. You must take note of the fact that an average political candidate likes listening to his own voice, so be ready to listen to him talk and talk and talk without interrupting him. Part of you will like to be tired. Kill that part. Kill it dead like that insecticide advert said. And when he asks for your opinion, give an opinion akin to the one he has expressed on the issue. It is no time to be sanctimonious and blabbing about some nonsense principle. You have no principle other than that of your principal. This will also help you: Always mention to him what a privilege it is being with him. Tell him that being with him is like going through training you were never offered in the university. In fact, liken what you have learnt from him to what you would have learnt at a business school or an executive MBA. Know this next step and know peace: There are times your principal will get angry, abuse you, call you names and remind you how useless you are, this is not a time to say anything other than sorry sir. You must not make the mistake of complaining in the presence of fellow aides. One of them or more than one of them will tell him to increase their ratings with him. Even when you do not complain, a fellow aide can lie against you to improve their rating. You worsen your case when you now give them a tool to finish you. Your ranting can be recorded and played back to him. It is a dog-eat-dog setting. Your phone must be reachable at all times. It is a sin punishable by sack if you cannot be reached when the candidate needs you.