A cleric, Apostle Babatunde Odele has thrown his weight behind the aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) when the latter’s second term ends by May 29 next year. Odele, who is the Minister-In-Charge of Salem Evangelical Church of Christ (Model Parish), Lagos, said he does not see anything wrong in the idea of Tinubu picking a fellow Muslim as his running mate. The cleric who is popularly known as Pawpaw disagreed with the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that indicated earlier that it is against the so-called Muslim-Muslim ticket, which has become a controversial issue since the emergence of Tinubu as the APC presidential flag bearer. He said what is most important is qualitative service. The cleric, who is a former chairman of Mushin Local Government, also condemned many church founders for elevating materialism above spirituality. He said some of the attacks on churches were due to the flagrant display of wealth by religious leaders who are supposed to be moderate in both their private and public lives. On a Muslim-Muslim ticket, Odele said it was unfortunate that Nigerian politicians often play up such sentiments whenever an election is around the corner. He said he supports whoever emerges, provided such a person can add his electoral value to the ticket. He said nobody gets power, if not given by God.   ‘Southeast must tap into Tinubu presidency’     ‘There is hope for Nigeria’     APC support group promises Tinubu 50 million votes   He added: “I also believe that you cannot become a leader except God has ordained you. So, I do not care about religion, but qualitative and impactful leadership that affects the common man on the street.” Odele said though Tinubu is a Muslim, he would get his support and those of the majority of his members when voting comes. He said: “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a Muslim, is our choice and we are not ashamed to say that to anybody. As a church, we are solidly behind his aspiration to become the next president of this country. He added: “Yes, he is a Muslim but he has footprints all over Nigeria. He has helped and lifted many people. He does not discriminate on the basis of religion. When I was serving, he did not discriminate against me because I am a Christian; he gave me overwhelming support. “I do not support CAN’s opposition to the Muslim-Muslim ticket because I do not see anything wrong in that in as much as the candidates can deliver qualitative service. My idea of leadership is good leadership and not religion. We should desist from emphasizing religion. “I prefer Tinubu to others because I know him and what he can do if elected as the next president of Nigeria come February next year. Asiwaju is a leader with human feelings. This, he vividly demonstrated when he was the governor of Lagos and even till date. “Bola Tinubu is a man of the nation and he connects with all across regions and religions. I urge Nigerians to support Bola Ahmed Tinubu as he has what it takes to change the trajectory of the country.” Odele urged Tinubu to take the issue of security very seriously. “I advise him to make peace and security as one of his cardinal projects. He must ensure that killings and kidnappings are stopped.” He also tasked him to pursue a united nation and avoid anything capable of causing violence in the land.