The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) is driving a campaign to promote agricultural innovation, good farm practices and address rural poverty, DANIEL ESSIET writes. Agriculture  plays a vital role not only in the West African subregion, but also in Europe, Asia and North America. Agriculture accounts for exports to Europe and Asia. Yet, despite its record of success, agriculture is underperforming. As such, effort must be made to  unlock its vast potential. In recognition of its importance, Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has been at the forefront of a comprehensive agriculture development plan to increase and transform the region into a strategic player in food production, increase exports and reduce rural poverty. However, the challenges to success are many. Economies in the region have swelled, but agriculture has not kept pace. For ECOWAS, the region offers great farming opportunities thanks to its soil, climate and geographical location. To address this, in 2020, the Speaker of ECOWAS Parliament, Sidie Tunis, urged his colleagues and members of Parliament to pressurise their home governments to increase budgetary allocation to agriculture. He said poor funding of agriculture, particularly amid the effects of COVID-19 pandemic, would lead to severe food shortages and hunger in the ECOWAS region.   Institute seeks govt partnership to tackle environmental…     PTAD complaints and solutions     10 pension rights, privileges to know as private sector…   Addressing reporters in Guinea Bissau at the delocalised meeting to discuss agriculture, food security and COVID-19, the speaker said the region was witnessing shortfall in supply of food. He stressed that the legislature was working hard to ensure that all the decisions taken in the ECOWAS, especially on agriculture and food security are implemented in the national assemblies of member countries. Last year, the community said the region required about $43.5million to achieve uniform self-sufficiency in rice production in the region by 2025. According to the community, total domestic production in the region covers only 60 per cent of the population and with the three per cent consumption growth rate yearly. To achieve self-sufficiency in rice production in West Africa, the ECOWAS Commission and partners had announced a new Regional Action Plan to implement its rice policy, commonly known as the “Rice Offensive.” The goal set by the “Regional Rice Offensive” of ECOWAS member states was to produce 24 million tonnes of milled rice, projected to be consumed in the region, by 2025. ECOWAS Commissioner of Agriculture, Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Sekou Sangare, said in Abuja, that the Economic Community of West Africa Agricultural Policy (ECOWAP) donor roundtable would follow to mobilise required resources to implement the action plan. According to him, producing enough rice to feed the region would require concerted effort and an effectively coordinated synergy of actions from rice stakeholders in the region, to achieve the desired outcome. To improve reporting of development along the rice value chain in the member countries the Community has established ECOWAS Rice Observatory (ERO) to catalyse the development of the West African rice sector. Delivering the fourth Grace Foundation Day Lecture entitled: “Can Nigeria achieve food security in 2023?” at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, last month, Executive Secretary, ECOWAS ERO, Dr Boladale Adebowale, warned that about 19.4 million Nigerians will face food crisis, and nutrition insecurity by August. The crisis, according to Adebowale, was being fuelled by the fact that crop production was not meeting population growth, while the nation’s agricultural sector was threatened by insecurity, adverse weather conditions, and climate change.