A viral video of some Muslim clerics praying at the housewarming pre-party of cross dresser Bobrisky has elicited mixed reactions from social media users. The cross-dresser, cladded in white attire with silver designs and a silver head gear to match, was seated on a chair in the middle with the clerics seated round on the tiled floor to offer prayers. The video has stirred heated reactions from social media users who noted the clerics have relegated for God’s doctrines for monetary gains, particularly hitting the Yoruba clerics. @Tee_Classiquem1 tweeted: “Religion leaders are forfeiting the words of God for the sake of money, how can Alfas and Chief Imam that a whole community is looking upto be attending Bobrisky house warming party? Is this not like endorsing cross dressing under Islam, this is so embarrassing to watch.” @Bakrshah1 said: “Islam expressly forbids men who imitate women and vice versa. This is a non debatable position. Should they pray for him? Yes! But not when he is dressed up as a woman. This Alfas are just about their pockets these days.” @PoojaMedia wrote: “Oga o. He dressed as a lady & Alfas dey pray for him. Money sha.”   Burna boy, security aides runined my vacation, says Lady…     My ‘stupid’ comment on Wizkid-assisted song misunderstood     Late Alaafin’s wives show off new houses   @holardamolar stated: “Bobrisky do house opening, like 7 Alfas sit down ground dey pray while he sat elegantly on a chair. Once again, Religion extremism is for the poor @OGBENI_BAMBAM asked: “See Hungry Alfas, how Could Any Man of God Associate himself with this Kind of Person?” @maestro_harcom tweeted: “So those Alfas that went to pray at Bobrisky’s housewarming didn’t see anything wrong in what he’s doing cos he’s rich? It’s not haram right? Ani olobuku ni gbogbo yin se.” @Iam_mayorkush said: “Alfas in a cross dresser’s house which Islam strongly frowns against hmmm. No matter the religion Christianity inclusive, just have money. They’ll bend the rules for you EVERY DAMN TIME.” @bio_jibril wrote: “What an embarrassment. This is the reason Hausas don’t take Yoruba Muslims serious. How can Alfas gather themselves to pray for Bobrisky a known cross dresser which is against Islamic injunction? An open Lesbian for that matter. He’s from Muslim family but Islam has left him long.” @_deronke stated: “I still can’t wrap my head around why Alfas(Hustlers) will gather round to pray for Bob. Awon Osinwin started with Audhubillah. God Abeg o!” @Gifted_Kabi asked: “Religion leaders are forfeiting the words of God for the sake of money. How can Alfas and Chief Imam that a whole community is looking up to attend Bobrisky house warming party? Is this not like endorsing cross-dressing under Islam?”