The Nigeria Women’s Cricket Team, Female Yellow-Green lost for the first time in the ongoing 8th Kwibuka Women’s T20 Tournament yesterday  to Uganda by 9 wickets, to cut their statistics to three wins in four matches and second on the overall table. “We have learnt from the wins and also from our loss today to Uganda. This I believe gives us more things to work on as we prepare for other matches, ” Nigeria’s coach Leke Oyede noted’ Oyede said the players have been very welcoming of instructions and they are the real winners. “I am very proud of them. They have made my work and my assistant’s Theophilus work a lot easier” he added. Nigeria’s campaign at the Kwibuka T20 tournament has been impressive with convincing wins against Brazil, Germany and Botswana to top the table before yesterday’s loss to Uganda. Today is a rest day and hostilities will resume tomorrow  as Nigeria faceoff against  Kenya at the Gahanga Stadium where they incidentally  beat Germany on Friday. “I will not make promises. I know we would have gotten enough rest and analysed our chances against them before the time,” Said Coach, Oyede.   PSG, Pochettino part ways     Obafemi leads Ireland to first Nations League win     200 golfers for IGCC Lady Captain tournament   The President of the Federation Uyi Akpata also said that he believes the team needs a visible show of support now than ever at this time. “We have seen them improve tremendously from the last outing at the NCF Women’s T20 Invitational in Lagos and I believe the least they deserve is our support.” In other matches played yesterday, host Rwanda got their second win of the tournament by beating Germany having lost to Uganda and Kenya, earlier in the tournament. Their first win was against Brazil. They will be looking to better their chances at the trophy tomorrow  when they take on Tanzania Women at the IPRC Pitch. Tanzania on the other side has only played three matches and won all (Botswana, Uganda, and Kenya), to top the table ahead of Nigeria. Nigeria will take on Tanzania on Wednesday and will finish off the round-robin stage with a tie against their perennial rival and hosts Rwanda on Thursday at the IPRC Oval. Akpata added “ “It doesn’t really matter much how it turns out, we are very pleased with the development of the players. It is a very good thing to have beaten two big teams that are ranked over us by the International Cricket Council. But then, given what we have seen so far, I am confident the girls still have some surprises up their sleeves and we will give them all the support they need.”