TuneCore, an independent digital music distributor for self-releasing artists, has announced the company’s plans to fuel constant music creation using its new Unlimited Release Pricing Plans. The announcement was made by Andreea Gleeson, Chief Executive Officer, TuneCore.   Dadaboy Ehiz succeeds DJ Cuppy as host of Africa Now Radio     Jaajo releases Extended Play     Hydro explains reason for rebranding   Commented Gleeson, “We’ve spent a year speaking directly to artists and labels about how we can make our service better for them. What emerged is: that artists want to be able to test their new music for free before distributing to all services and they want to release the music they are creating instantly, regularly, and seamlessly with one annual subscription enabling unlimited music distribution. TuneCore’s new program gives self-releasing artists at any stage of their careers the freedom to choose the plan that works best for them while maintaining the high quality of service TuneCore is known for. With TuneCore Unlimited, artists pay less and earn more.” “We pride ourselves as a brand that supports independent artists. We ensure this by closing the gaps that get in the way of their success. With our new unlimited pricing, every artist, irrespective of their career stage or wallet-size, can find a plan that works for them. There’s also a plan for independent labels and managers with multiple artists. With the ever-changing eco-system, I am confident that this new pricing will help new and established artists get their music heard and grow their fan bases worldwide,” Chioma Onuchukwu, Head of TuneCore West and East Africa. TuneCore artist, Bella Alubo, commented, “Tunecore just seemed like the easiest way to put out music by myself. At the height of the pandemic I considered several distributors to release my Popstar EP but stuck to Tunecore because it’s easy, pricing per release rather than membership, transparency, control …it’s very DIY while still giving the best customer service with quick replies & resolutions!”