Oyo Deputy Governor Rauf Olaniyan has described the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the needed fillip needed by the party to build on the gains of the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration. Olaniyan, while congratulating the former Lagos Governor, said the free, fair and transparent convention was indication of the readiness of the APC-led government to ensure peaceful 2023 general elections. He noted the emergence of Tinubu points to his wide acceptability and long term commitment to the progressive folds, which is worthy of emulation. He added the lesson for all to learn was that Tinubu wanted the ticket, worked hard for it and it was given to him by God. Olaniyan commended the APC Progressive Governors especially, those from the Northern States for the resolve at ensuring peace and unity of the nation by insisting that power must shift to the South.   UK promises £1million support to NDLEA     APC Ghana wants Tinubu to pick female running mate     AEDC, EFCC resolve differences   The Oyo Deputy Governor, who defected from the ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State to APC, further saluted the courage of other presidential aspirants who stepped down for Tinubu despite their efforts, vision and years of hard work to make their dreams come true. Describing them as true compatriots, he said those who contested till the end must also be commended for their efforts at deepening the country’s democracy. Adding that all party leaders, members and all stakeholders must see the outcome of the convention as victory for all, the Igboho-born civil engineer expressed confidence in Tinubu to mend all factions and blocs to a formidable front ahead of the 2023 general elections, adding that Asiwaju’s emergence is already bringing back those who felt aggrieved with the party across the country. He also saluted President Muhammadu Buhari, the party National leadership for showing leadership and providing the needed courage for the peaceful conduct of the primary. Olaniyan said: ”I am happy with the victory of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. His emergence energizes my belief in hard work and tenacity. He wanted it and worked for it. That many notable aspirants stepped down for him showed that he is loved. His emergence will, in no small ways, assist our party in the next elections. I congratulate him. ”I also like to congratulate those who contested against him. They have done well. We should all salute them, especially Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He is another equally qualified and sellable aspirant but only one person will get the ticket. He has done well by contesting. He has helped deepened democracy. All of us should unite for victory. “I congratulate us all. We are poised for victory in the next general elections and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s emergence as our party’s candidate has helped strengthened that.”