Anthony Joshua will exact his revenge on Oleksandr Usyk “within six rounds” of their high-stakes rematch, according to  AJ’s promoter Eddie Hearn. The Watford warrior was turned over by the slick southpaw in their Tottenham tussle last September and lost his grip on the WBA, WBO and IBF heavyweight titles. AJ has vowed not to try to outbox the Ukrainian second time around and get “back to basics” for their summer showdown, which promoter Hearn doesn’t see going past the halfway point. During an Instagram Live, The Matchroom Boxing chief said: ““I’m telling you now, AJ KOs Usyk within six rounds.” Joshua has appointed renowned trainer Robert Garcia – who has trained 14 world champions – as his new head coach for the potentially do-or-die rematch. And Hearn believes the addition of Garcia, as well as the change of approach, will see AJ become a three-time heavyweight champion. He said: “I rate Usyk but I believe in Anthony Joshua and I believe he’s going to put it right in the rematch, I really do.”   French Open : Nadal hints about  retirement     Manchester United confirm Lingard’s departure     Paul Pogba to leave Manchester United on free transfer   Joshua and Usyk’s second dance was slated to take place in Saudi Arabia on July 23 but has been pushed back to August due to minor broadcasting issues. Hearn said: “We are close to announcing AJ’s next fight “If you watched my Kugan Cassius interview yesterday you would have seen there was a slight delay, but news very soon.” It’s understood Usyk vs Joshua II is currently being targeted for early August and will take place in a purpose-built arena with air conditioning to negate the searing Saudi heat. Hearn told iFL TV: “When you question about will there be a delay? “If there is, you’re talking about two weeks and it’s for no other reason than time and making sure we can promote the fight in the right way. “The fight is happening, the fight is agreed in terms of where it will take place and both sides have agreed, both sides have agreed the deal, and both sides have agreed everything. “It’s just probably taken 10 days longer than we wanted it to and without putting a date all I can tell you is we are finalising the final bits of paperwork, and everything is agreed. So, standby.”