In the last one year, the Nigeria Customs Service (NSC) Western Marine Command (WMC) has seized about N2 billion worth of marijuana on the nation’s territorial waters and handed the prohibited items to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) in Lagos. Last week, the Command handed over loads of cannabis sativa worth N186 million seized from smugglers on the Southwestern waterways and creeks. WMC Area Comptroller Abubakar Alhaji Umar handed over 32 sacks of the prohibited and dangerous substance to the Marine Commander of NDLEA Isaac Uzah, at the NCS Marine office at Coconut, Apapa, Lagos. Umar said the handover was to further strengthen the synergy between the NCS and the agency to boost national security. It could be described as a dried flower and leaves from Indian Hemp plant. Its names are Astra turf, ganja, dope, grass, hemp, texas tea, and weeds. Marijuana leaves are green, brown or gray. Its consumption varies. While some chew its leaves, or smoke it, others cook its leaves in stew or soup. Yet, there are others who soak it in water and drink. No matter its use, it is dangerous to health. Although science has proved that marijuana may help reduce symptoms of certain medical conditions, it certainly has many harmful effects depending on how often it is used. There is evidence that regular use of marijuana increases the risk of heart, lung and mental health problems. Less is known about the health issues that might be caused by casual or frequent marijuana use. Marijuana is a natural product that doesn’t have to be tested in a laboratory. Science has proved that marijuana plants contain more than 400 chemicals, including about 60 that can interact with the body’s nervous system. Smokers of the substance might inhale more than 2000 chemicals. Many of those chemicals are similar to the one in cigarette smoke. Marijuana can also be contaminated with mold, insecticides or other chemicals and health effects of many of these chemicals are not known. Smoking marijuana is, therefore, injurious to health in many ways Effects of marijuana include rapid heartbeat, anxiety, lack of physical co-ordination often followed by depression and sleeplessness, while some users suffer panic attack. Scientific studies had also proved that the active ingredients in cannabis THC (Tetra Hydro Cannabbiro) remains in the body longer than expected. Marijuana smokers could suffer up to between 50 per cent and 70 per cent more of cancer substances than tobacco smokers. One major research reported that a single cannabis dose could cause as much damage to lungs as up to regular cigarettes. It has also been proved scientifically that long time cannabis smokers often suffer from bronchitis and inflammation of the respirating track. The drug can easily affect physical health and cause brain abnormalities. This is also backed up by earlier research on the long-term effect of its uses, which indicates changes in the brain similar to those caused by abuse of other major drugs. Several studies have shown a connection between continued usage and problems which change the structure of sperm cells, deforming them. Even, a smaller amount of marijuana can cause temporal sterility in men, and can also upset woman menstrual circle. In a nutshell, the effects of using marijuana could include a happy, relaxed, or “high” feeling; slower reactions; dizziness trouble thinking, learning and remembering; confusing; anxiety; panic or paranoia; fast heart rate, increased blood pressure, less interest in normal activities; hunger; dry mouth; red eyes; psychosis, which is seeing or hearing things that are not real. These effects last about three hours after marijuana is smoked or inhalled. When the substance is eaten, the effects take longer and may last about 10 hours in the system. Long-term marijuana use can, in some cases, lead to addiction, which means a person can’t control or stop marijuana use even though it interferes with daily life. According to findings, about nine per cent of people who use marijuana between 13 and 25 will become addicted. And half of the people who use marijuana daily become addicted. Marijuana users make up 17 per cent of the people that enter publicity funded rehabilitation programs. Coming down to Nigeria, addiction suffered through marijuana consumption by youths had led to serious social implication on the mental and physical development of our young adults. Drug abuse, among our youths, including smoking of marijuana had brought untold hardship on our social system. This development had led to escalation of social vices among our youths such as school drop outs, cultism, prostitution, armed robbery, kidnapping, mental derailment, political thuggery e t c, which had culminated in the complete misuse of youths, and by implication affecting social and economic stability of youths. A case on our hands is the Boko Haram menace, which has been drawing its membership from a pool of uneducated and unemployed youths or school drop outs or products of drug abuse from system. There is a saying that idle hands is the devil workshop meaning that youths who become idle through drug abuse and social derailment are available hands for evil perpetration A maritime analyst, Mr Segun Ovunsanu said: “In 2020, the command seized over 10 tonnes of cannabis sativa (marijuana) valued at over N1billion. And in the first quarter of last year, the Western Marine Command also intercepted Cannabis sativa with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N694, 575, 000.” The WMC, Ogunsanu said, “handed the banned substance to the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA).We are not surprised that here we are and the command is showcasing another feat of arrest of marijuana by its officers and men. I am proud of the dedication and vigilance of our Customs Service that prevented this illegal contraband from hitting the streets of our communities, mostly, now that the 2023 general elections are  approaching “Coming down to Nigeria, addiction suffered through marijuana consumption by the youths had led to serious social implication on the mental and physical development of our young adults. Drug abuse among our youths, including smoking of marijuana had brought untold hardship on our social system,” Ogunsanu said. Also, a senior official of the command who craved anonymity said: “Last year, our operatives of the Coastal and Harbour Patrol (Bar-Beach), on credible intelligence along the Ibeche Beach on the high sea, arrested two wooden boats laden with sacks suspected to contain marijuana (HS Code 0602.90 of Common External Tariff (CET). “This is with six suspects, as empowered by Customs and Excise Management Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, as amended. “The goods with the suspects were brought to WMC. Upon physical counting, it was found to be 147 sacks of marijuana with an average of 45kg per sack, giving an estimated total of 6,615kg with a DPV of N694, 575, 000.’’   A prelate’s portentous prognosis     Igbo spelling bee     Unutilised constituency projects littering the Okeho…   The senior official said WMC had a collaboration with the NDLEA, adding that NCS handed over the marijuana and the suspects to NDLEA in the interest of national security. He said the United Nation Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) headed by Siji Song had on March 16, last year, in fulfillment of its promise of installing Teleconferencing CISCO WEBEX equipment, handed over the equipment to the command. He said the equipment was aiding the operations of the command and assist security agencies in fighting piracy in the maritime industry. “Making society free of drugs abuse is a collective one; therefore, all hands should be on deck to achieve the aim. You can imagine the havoc the marijuana of this magnitude could have wreaked on our society if this seizure has not been made,’’ he said. He warned unscrupulous elements to desist from smuggling and look for a legitimate means of livelihood. “No amount of distraction will deter us from enforcing the Federal Government’s fiscal policies; we will remain resolute no matter whose ox is gored. “I urge the NDLEA to invite us during the destruction of this marijuana and a copy of certificate of destruction issued to the NCS for record-keeping,” he said. Findings revealed that the cannabis intercepted was the type cultivated in  Ghana, which it was gathered, is more potent than the one grown in the country. He said the seizure saved Nigeria and its image. “We want the media to help to sensitise the public on the dangers of what we are trying to stop in our society,” the officer urged. Addressing reporters at Western Marine Command last week, Umar said the Duty Paid Value (DPV) of the items seized at Oko-Aja beach was NN168 million. Umar said the NCS was happy to hand over the 1, 437 kg of marijuana to the NDLEA. His words: “Since my assumption of duty in this Command, I have together with my officers/men ensured that no stone is left unturned at achieving my mandate and that of the Command, in nipping the activities of smugglers in the bud along the Southwestern Waterways and creeks, which is the jurisdiction of the Command. ”On Wednesday, March 30, 2022 at about 0330hours, the operatives of the Command while on credible intelligence intercepted a wooden boat at Oko-Aja Beach containing sacks suspected to be cannabis sativa. “The goods were brought to the WMC; upon physical examination and counting, it was found to be 32 sacks i.e 2,520 pieces of Cannabis Sativa weighing a total of 1,437Kg. This is a case of absolute prohibition and contravenes Section 24(b) of CEMA Cap C452004 as amended.’’ Responding, the NDLEA chief, Uzah commended the Customs for supporting them in stopping the influx of drugs into the country.  Receiving the illicit drugs, Uzah blamed the spike in crime on youths’ indulgence in drugs, urging patriotic Nigerians to assist the agency in intelligence gathering. He expressed worry over the high number of cannabis seized by the command and said:”the seizure is very important because almost every family is affected. We are happy over the attempt by Customs to make the country free from the hazard of drugs and abuse. “I shouldn’t be worried alone; everyone should because it is not a good thing at all because of  the insecurity. Uzah advised Lagosians to pass information about illicit drugs to the NDLEA when they sight cannabis smugglers or smokers to secure the state and the country. The Federal Government prohibits the production, sale, and possession of marijuana (cannabis) by classifying it as one of the prohibited items. Despite the prohibition of marijuana, the country has one of the highest use rates, with many in the villages and urban centres reporting that they had consumed it at some point through their closeness to its smokers. Investigation has shown that almost 36 million Americans used marijuana in 2016, and the marijuana market is valued at $56.1 billion. Intelligence gathering from the grassroots members, especially professionals and grassroots men and women, becomes essential as the country goes to election. Information collection from the grassroots and dissemination to the Police and other security agencies throughout the country is imperative for law-abiding citizens. Although DSS and Police are mandated by the constitution to gather information for crime prevention and detection, but, unfortunately, these agencies do not have enough grassroots link to achieve much and the financial requirement is much for the government to fund. But the leaders of every community have the means through the grassroots to assist security agencies in combating crime with wider help from tradesmen, artisans and reporters. It is, therefore, imperative that all hands must be on deck to confront the menace of drug abuse and its effect on our social system. There are government agencies and institutions which can be mobilised into partnership to address the situation. In Nigeria, institutions like the NDLEA and NAFDAC along with other government law enforcement agencies are being wooed to align with the people to embark on aggressive enlightenment to correct the abnormality. There are government regulatory bodies such as the police, Customs, immigration, border security officials along the waterways, seaports, and land borders to monitor illegal movement of such harmful drugs in and out of our country. Time has come for all hands to be on deck to fight the battle of marijuana stoppage through our various agencies and communities across the country. Customs seeks assistance Umar has urged Nigerians to help the service take a stand against the criminals smuggling marijuana and other dangerous drugs “by reporting their suspicious activity to us and the law enforcement agents.”