Guess who is back in town, and circulating in business circles about 20 years after his wife was electrocuted in a Lagos flat while trying to save one of their children from electrocution? He is Major Ordia (rtd) aka Mr. Matol! Before Major Ordia literally fled Nigeria for a sanctuary in Canada with other members of his grief-striken family. Matol had become a household name in Nigeria and the nutritional or food supplements market nicknamed him “Mr. Matol”. This Canadian product was one of the “inner caucus” food supplements in my plant medicine chest in those days for several (reasons), especially its high potassium content. The hypothesis of Dr. Max Gerson that a low tissue potassium content may cause tumours, especially cancers, to form and to grow was making the rounds at high velocity. Dr. Gerson, a German, had successfully treated many degenerate and terminal cancers using organic coffee enemas and fruit and vegetable juices with high potassium yields. A few clinical reports had also associated Matol intake with rising immune system output of Natural Killer Cells. These are mobile cells of the immune defence systems which, as military police contains and arrests irreverent soldier and the mobile police fixes misbehaving regular policemen, are mandated by mother nature to destroy malignant and dangerous cells Canadian researcher Jurag experimented with 18 herb combinations and permutations until he arrived at a consistency which he named Matol and thought was most helpful for improving many health derangements. According to a 2012 post in www.pr web.com, :” Matol KM is essentially a herbal/potassium supplement. However, reports from customers say the formula can improve well being, eliminate toxins, balance the body’s acid-base levels, and supplement potassium and magnesium, two important minerals which are supplied in a colloidal form for easy absorbtion”. Major Ordia sold Matol in Nigeria under this health banners and more until the electrocution of his wife forced him out of the country. Last week, he recalled: “It was on a wet  Saturday  when we woke up to discover that the whole place was wet from the leaking roof at our 3-bedroom bungalow at Matol Jesus House at Number 3, Ugo Nwoke Close,  Off Adisa Sowemimo Bus Stop, Ojo Igbede Road near Alaba  Electronics International  Markets, Ojo Local  Government Area, Lagos State, Nigeria.” Saturday the 21/06/2003 “My dearest wife Princess Mercy Idugiemwanye Amen- Ordia (nee Eweka) just 42 years old and we are both blessed with three very happy handsome boys, Osaheni 14, Idukpaye 10 and Karl Eseosa 4! “We had invited  two roof maintenance workers all the way from Benin City, Edo State, Osarieme and his friend Imariabe, who had begun to work on the roof on the fateful day! “All our workers came to work and would work half day and close at 13:30 hours because it was a Saturday; Monday to Friday working hours – 07:30 to 17:00! While the carpenters were still working on the roof and the rains still dropping, my wife was at the kitchen preparing our evening meals for the whole house at about 18:30 evening when tragedy struck as soon as NEPA light was switched on in our Ndigbo Community and you could hear a chorus “UP NEPA” pounding our ears in ecstatic joy and jubilation! “I instructed my sister-in-law Blessing Osakpamwan Eweka to visit the generator house and fuel the generator and start the generator and I then switched on the change over from generator to electricity and Osaheni  my 14 years old son told me to change to the phase where light was much more full and brighter and  that was it! “He then went to switch on the giant standing Electric Fan and marched on a live wire and instantly got shocked and shouted and I dashed to him and grabbed him so tightly and I got so shocked but quickly stopped breathing myself and electric shock had no effect on my body while I placed my right finger in his mouth, in between his teeth and shouted give  me Matol, give me Matol, open the bottle and while he had almost bitten my right finger in his mouth we poured 30ml of Matol in his mouth and he sneezed and opened his eyes and started shouting life spiritual affirmation in his spirit soul and body and he responded with his eyes now fully awake, and I now dashed to repeat what the Holy Spirit inspired me to do for my son on my wife but i only held her lifeless body with Matol all over her body and rushed to two hospitals at Okokomaiko opposite LASU Gate where she was pronounced dead at 23:00 that  Saturday, the 21st of June, 2003.” Major Ordia bounced back into Matol business in Canada through the help of an American peaditrician who later became his wife and whose father, a businessman, gave him the financial muscle for an African vide exclusive affiliate marketing licence. The herbal content of Matol remains unchanged, although the product has been renamed… The ingredients include Chamomile, Sarsaparilla, Ddandelion, Hore Hound, Licorice, Senega, Passion Flower, Thyme, Gentian, Saw Palmetto, Alfalfa, Angelica, Celery seed and Cascara Sagrada. Some of the health benefits of these herbs are summarised in Andrew  Chevallier’s “Herbal First Aid, a guide for home use”. This was one of the earliest books in my alternative medicine library in the 1990s. I recommend it for every home library. In the book, the author describes the herbs as follows… “Tea, tincture, compress, poultice, cream, essential oil, allergies, asthma, children’s ailments, colic, constipation, teething, diarrhoea, hay fever, hiccup, indigestion acidity and vomitting, itchiness, period pains, poor sleep, sore breast, sore eyes, shock, stomach aches and pains, sunburn, wind. “Chamomile is extremely useful in many digestive ailments. e.g acid indigestion, while it’s simple relaxing properties make it helpful in shock, tension and anxiety”. He prescribed it for “bedwetting, irritability and overtiredness”. It also works, he says, for nightmares and night terrors apart from encouraging a ” sound night sleep”. The list is incomplete without “itchy and allergic skin conditions, including eczema”. This is a great diuretic herb which comes with a lot of potassium. Alternative medicine practitioners prescribe it because, unlike diuretic drugs which send potassium out of the body through the urine, dandelion exports excess water without disturbing the SODIUM-POTASSIUM balance. By depleting the body’s potassium levels, diuretic drugs may worsen hypertension which they are meant to address, cause nerve problems, weaken the muscles and the heart (a bundle of muscles) and cause elevation of sodium levels at the cellular level. As Dr. Max Gerson and his disciples would argue (pls check GERSON THERAPY online), this may be the source of tumours (benign as in uterine fibroids, or malignant as in breast, colon or prostate cancer). The assumption is based on the hypothesis that potassium helps in the extraction of oxygen in the blood plasma into the cell, and that potassium deficiency causes sodium influx into the cell, an aftermath of which is that, unable to obtain enough oxygen for its oxidative processes, the cell plunges into fermentative (non oxygen using) lifestyle for its survival.   2022 World menstruation day…a bow for the cycle (3)     22 June 2022… onpassive register closing…one…     Five reasons to drink enough water   Of Dandelion, Andrew Chevalier says in his herbal first aid: “Acne, allergies, constipation – adult and children – hangovers, hay fever, water retention, warts”. Chevallier says dandelion also “supports and cleanses the liver” to eliminate waste products. This makes it an “ideal herb for toxic conditions such as hangover”. When I think of this herb, I cannot help remembering other herbs such as feverfew, valerian root and skullcap. They are nerve relaxants and also often indicated for headaches and especially migraines. Passion Flower appeals to Chevallier for “anxiety and tension , asthma, ear ache, headache, migraine, period pains, PMT (Pre menstrual tension), poor sleep in children and adults, shock, tooth ache”. It passes as well as a “mild sedative”, helpful in “many types of aches and pains”. Chevallier says Passion flower mixes well with valerian in “overactivity”, which means that children beset with Attention Deficit and hyperactivity (ADDH) may benefit from it. “Together”, he says, ” these two herbs are good for shock and that shaky feeling after an accident.” Anyone who is familiar with garlic and thyme proprietary formulas should easily guess that this is a respiratory herb in the mould of Japanese Knot Weed which, in Nigeria, now presents in the proprietary blend restore lyfe, a combination of this herb, grape seed extract (GSE), antioxidants and phenolic compounds. Chevallier says it overpowers “asthma, athlete’s foot, back pain, bronchitis, catarrh and sinuses, children’s infections, colds and flus, coughs, hay fever, joint pain, muscle aches, sore throat, thrush, warts”. I need to add that Chevalier does not limit his references to these herbs as they appear in a bottle of MATOL. His references have universal appeal. For these applications may be in teas, tinctures, fluid extracts, creams and lotions. Thus, in respect of thyme, he would suggest for example: “use thyme tea for all kinds of infections of the air passages, from the ear to the lungs. It has a strong antiseptic and calming effect, making it valuable in ear ache, sinusitis, chest infections and the likes. In these ailments, thyme combines well with garlic and echinacea. Use this combination also for thrush and other fungal problems. Thyme syrup is a pleasant remedy for children’s cough or simply sweeten thyme tea with honey. Burn thyme oil over an essential oil burner to cleanse a room and speed the recovery of a patient, especially in chesty conditions. Inhale thyme tea or a few drops of thyme oil in a basin of hot water for relief of catarrh and sinusitis”. As I said earlier, the healing power of thyme outside the bottle of MATOL is present, also, in that bottle. These are berries which made health waves in the 1980 onwards to the end of the century as a conqueror of Benign prostate Hyperplasia (BPH). I believe this was largely because of generous amounts of zinc and essential fatty acids (EFAs) in these berries. It would appear we men in particular have forgotten about saw palmetto because we now obtain Zinc and the EFAs in larger proprietary blend doses than are present in the Saw Palmetto berry. Many men are deficient in zinc nowadays from many factors. Yet zinc is seriously important for the health of the prostate gland. It also has about 200 or more other uses in the body, including good vision. While many studies have linked good vision to vitamin A sufficiency, and suggested that vitamin A deficiency may cause night blindness, a condition of poor vision in the dark, it has also been suggested that, no matter how much vitamin A may be present in the eye it may have poor value for good vision in a zinc-deficiency status. In other words, zinc is required for the use of vitamin A in the eye! In the prostate gland which is the largest store of zinc in the body, this mineral, well known for its support for fertility, immune function and good hair, skin, nail and cause of taste and smell , works wonders. In the prostate gland, it checks the overactivity of a substance called 5-Alpha reductase. When zinc is not enough in the gland, 5-Alpha reductase activity may encourage overconversion of the male hormone testosterone to dyhydro testosterone (DHT) which, like a fertilizer, may overstimulate growth and overgrowth of prostatic tissue, leading to BPH and urinary difficulties. Zinc deficiency may arise from dietary deficiencies, ejaculations in sexual over exposure, acidity and other metabolic demands. This is why it is good news that Matol offers zinc supplies as a dietary supplement to those men whose diets are zinc deficient for their needs or facing health challenges in which zinc deficiency is a culprit. The herbal first aid has no entry on this Chinese herb, also called dang gui. Thus, Frank J Lipp fills the gap. He says of Angelica in his herbalism: “Dang gui (Angelica sinensis) is used in Chinese medicine to harmonise chi energy, increase coronary circulation and reduce arterial blood pressure. It also has anti inflammatory, pain-reducing and tranquilising effects on the cerebral nerves, and is used in treating irregular or difficult menstruation, PMS, menopausal symptoms and post-partum debility.” From www.rxlist.com, we learn of this plant: “The root, seeds and fruits are used to make medicine. Angelica is used for heartburn, intestinal gas, loss of appetite, arthritis, circulation problems, runny nose, nervousness, plague and trouble sleeping. Some women use Angelica to start their menstrual period. Angelica is also used to increase urine production, increase sex drive, stimulate the secretion and production of phlegm and kill germs. People apply Angelica directly to the skin for nerve pain, joint pain and skin disorders.” This herb is well known for its friendliness with the digestive system as well as for its alkalising and anti-inflammatory properties and antioxidants. Low in sodium and high in potassium, it is also a rich source of vitamin c, beta carotene and flavonoids. It’s antioxidants protect the digestive tract from oxidative damage. This should make it useful in the treatment of colon cancer and occult blood. The anti-inflammatory properties recommend celery not only for arthritis but colitis, which is the inflammation of the colon, a condition which sometimes degenerates into the excretion of mucus. Vitamin A present in celery is good for the mucus membrane lining, as it is a promoter of the healing process. Vitamin K, also present in this herb, helps to stop internal bleeding by supporting the production of blood platelets which seal broken tissue. When constipation is naughty, this herb often helps. It contains a chemical substance known as anthraquinone which slows absorbtion of water in the intestine and increases intestinal fluid load. This creates such intestinal pressure, which, in the colon, stimulates contractions of the muscles and brings about voiding. Cascara belongs to the class of herbal laxatives such as aloe vera and Senna, which I once overdosed on and it gave me intestinal gas. The pains were so intense I had to see a doctor. I was booked by a young one for appendix surgery. But, upon a review of my case, a senior doctor let me home with medications for gas and pain. Ever since, I do not touch Senna. The name of this plant is not an everyday word on the lips of Nigerian health care givers. Yet, it is a wonderful relief for cough and bronchitis which are common ailments in this country. It also helps heartburn, indigestion and sluggish stomach by improving saliva and gastric juice flow. It is good as well for curbing phlegm, stimulating appetite and for tackling menstrual complaints. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are with medicinal materials for a wide range of health challenges in a bottle called MATOL. This column wishes Princess Mercy a joyful existence wherever she is, and is happy for Major Ordia has again found his feet and is moving on. His story imprints afresh on my mind a lesson about the law of thought. Whatever we think exists in a visible form to the clairvoyant. Since last year, I have been thinking of Matol. I have been receiving health enquires which I believe Matol may help to relieve. I suggest always that they find someone in Canada who may help them obtain it. I knew Mrs. Omolara Bello was returning from London. But her arrival caught me unaware. Cordelia Dike, my next bet, has overstayed on her visit home and was due back in New York. While I was waiting for her, my telephone rang and a voice I no longer recognised spoke. “Waow, waow” I kept screaming. He told his story. Matol is back. A whole container of it as a first stock. Welcome back home major;welcome Matol.