The Ondo State government and the Catholic Diocese of Ondo have given conflicting figures about the number of persons that were killed in last Sunday’s attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Owo Local Government Area. Several persons were killed in the attack while many others were injured. Bishop of Ondo Diocese, Most Reverend Jude Arogundade, had said 38 bodies were in the morgue while efforts were on to locate the families of those who did not take their relatives to the hospital. But Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu confirmed the death of 22 persons in the attack. The governor said 80 persons were affected in the attack. He said 52 survivors were put on admission at the FMC in Owo, St. Louis Hospital, Owo, and the Owo General Hospital, as well as some other private hospitals.   Attack has vindicated me, says Sunday Igboho     16m Nigerians supporting me, says Gov Bello     LIVE UPDATES: APC presidential primary   In a statewide broadcast to the people, Akeredolu said the attack was an attempt to test the will of the people of Ondo State and those of the Southwest. The governor vowed to commit every available resource to hunt down the perpetrators and make them pay for the crime. He thanked individuals who donated to support the victims, saying he had directed that an account be open for anybody who wishes to support the victims. “The most unfortunate part is the lives of innocent children cut down in their prime and severely injured persons by the mindless attackers. “At Owo, the anger was palpable. The tension was at an abrasive level, just as the urge for reprisals was high. Without doubt too, the ripple impact of this heinous act as well as the understandably angry reaction across the state could not have been different. “In this regard, I thank the former governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, and the entire Peo0ples Democratic Party (PDP) family. To all others too numerous to mention, your show of love, encouragement and goodwill are not taken for granted. You have displayed compassion and demonstrated an appreciable level of brotherliness. “In the same vein, I commend the medical teams of the Federal Medical Centre, Owo; the St. Louis Hospital, Owo; the General Hospital, Owo; and some private hospitals who showed love and participated in stabilising the victims in the various hospitals.”