Ekiti Governor-elect Biodun Oyebanji has said his victory in last Saturday’s governorship signals the beginning of a new dawn for the State. Oyebanji of the All Progressive Congress emerged the winner after polling 187,057 votes to defeat his close contender Engr. Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party(SDP) who polled 82, 209 scores. Speaking with journalists on Sunday in his Hilltop Ikogosi-Ekiti’s country home, the Governor-elect promised to build on the giant legacies of his predecessors who had contributed immensely to the development of the State. He assured Ekiti people he wouldn’t betray the trust bestowed on him, saying his government would run a people-oriented administration that would make life abundant for citizenries irrespective of their religious, ethnic and political inclination. Oyebanji said he was prepared to serve and would hit the ground running from first day of assumption of office in his irrevocable resolve to launch Ekiti on surest path of greatness and economic prosperity. He said: “It’s a new day for us in Ekiti, and I must start by thanking the Almighty God who has sovereignty over the world. Yesterday, the Ekiti Kete spoke, and their collective voice was heard. It was indeed unequivocal and unprecedented – history making in many ways. “Ekiti Kete, we are grateful for privilege you have given to us to bear your sacred mandate at this crucial time in history, we recognise that on October 16, 2022 when by the grace of God we would be inaugurated into office, we are expected to immediately start to build on the legacies of those who came before us, and honourably govern our state in trust for the generations coming after us. “It is a duty we campaigned for, and have accept with all responsibility. In keeping with our covenant with you, we will work together with You, to keep ekiti working. “In the coming days and weeks, our great party and Governor Fayemi’s government would be working towards finishing well and strong, and completing key legacy projects. We are immensely proud of the legacy our mentor and leader would be leaving behind and thank him for his labour of love and sacrifice for the homeland.   UPDATED: Three killed as terrorists attack two churches,…     Ekiti guber: PDP candidate, Kolawole congratulates Oyebanji     NDLEA seizes illicit substances in six states   “In the course of time, we would set-up a transition committee and ensure a seamless transition, and demonstrate our preparedness and clarity of vision with the effectiveness and efficiency with which we will hit the ground running on assumption of office. “In the meantime, we would continue our consultations to seck more input into our blueprint for the state, and would in the coming days open formal channels through which you can send suggestions to us. We want to continue to listen to you and engage with you, so that as we have promised, together with you, we will keep Ekiti working.” While applauding the electorate for their peaceful conduct during and after the governorship poll, Oyebanji lauded the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for superintending over a credible, fair and fair exercise. The Governor-elect called on Kolawole, Oni and other contenders for the exalted position to join hands with him and work together towards making Ekiti a better place for the people. Oyebanji expressed readiness to work with everyone by reaching out to all the contestants, underscoring the need for synchronized collaboration to achieve the dreams of those who fought for the creation of Ekiti. “I must thank all other aspirants and their respective parties for the dignified way they carried out their campaigns, and for contributing to credibility of the electoral process. “I will be seeking audience with you all in the coming days, to benefit from your wealth of ideas on how to develop our dear state- to complement our vision and blueprint for the accelerated growth and development of Ekiti state. You have all performed creditably and earned places of honour in the history of our state”, he added. He appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari, APC National Chairman, Adamu Abdullahi, its presidential candidate in 2023, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other leaders of the party for their immense supports towards his success at the poll. “I thank our leaders: our dear president H.E. Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR: the national chairman of our great party the APC: Senator Abdullahi Adamu; as well as our presidential candidate for the 2023 general election, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for this well-deserved victory for our party you supported us to achieve, and which hopefully signals what to expect in Osun State next month and the general elections next year. I thank all members of the National Working Committee of our party; I thank the Progressives Governors Forum, and the Chairman of the Ekiti Gubernatorial Campaign Council, H.E. Governor Ariku Hagudu of Kebbi State, as well as all members of the council, for graciously supporting us to achieve this crucial victory. “I thank our leaders, H.E. Otunba Niyi Adebayo, CON, Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade, and Investment, and former Governor of Ekiti State, H.E. Dr. Kayode Fayemi, CON, Governor of Ekiti State, and H.E. Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, Deputy Goveror of Ekiti State, for their leadership, and for laying a foundation for us to build upon. I also thank H.F. Frclu Bisi Fayemi, First Lady of Ekiti State for your immense contributions to the success we have collectively achieved,” he added.