The Nigerian Exchange Regulation (NGX Reg), a self regulatory organisation (SRO) in the main stock market, plans to issue new guidelines to ensure quoted companies comply with international best practices on climate friendliness and sustainability. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange Regulation (NGX Reg), Ms Tinuade Awe, said the SRO has started the process of issuing a dedicated set of guidelines for listed companies on global best practice in climate disclosure in line with the recommendations of the Task Force for Climate Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) framework. The new regulatory framework will also take into consideration the action plan on how stock exchanges can integrate the TCFD recommendations issued by the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative (SSEI) in 2021. “We plan to publish our zero draft in a few months after which we will initiate a public consultation for feedback,” Awe said.   Stock Exchange suspends Multiverse over share reconstruction     ‘Investors need accurate data to succeed in capital…     ‘FMDQ Group remains committed to environment’   She urged critical stakeholders to prioritise implementing initiatives that positively benefit the environment and combat climate change. She noted that given Nigeria’s ambitious climate goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 47 per cent by 2030, the NGX Regulation is committed to fostering the adoption of sustainable business practices and disclosure amongst companies listed on Nigerian Exchange (NGX). Awe spoke during the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN) Stakeholder Engagement Session on Mainstreaming Nigeria’s Collaborative Action on Climate Related Risks and Disclosures. The event was organised in collaboration with Growing Businesses Foundation (GBF), Afrikairos Foundation and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation. She highlighted the increasing global trend in climate related disclosure and regulations, and encouraged companies to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into their business operations, activities and reporting processes as a critical step to ensuring that they are positioned to align with the rapidly evolving regulations and guidance on sustainability and climate disclosure.