Another incident of airport security breach occurred penultimate week when a mangled human corpse was found on Runway 18R of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) in Lagos. The discovery necessitated a temporary shutdown of the runway, which serves international flights and domestic flights at night, to clear off the human remains. During the shutdown that lasted some two and half hours, international flights were prevented from landing or taking off from the international terminal. Reports said airport operations staff found the remains of a man around the cargo area. The identity of the man could not be ascertained  and there were suspicions he may have been knocked down by the wingspan or undercarriage of an aircraft taking off or landing on the runway. Other sources speculated he could be a stowaway, but it was generally agreed it was premature to draw any conclusion ahead of investigation by relevant authorities. A team of officials of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the Nigeria Police evacuated the corpse from the runway while the temporary shutdown lasted. Security operatives drawn from the police, Department of State Service (DSS) and Aviation Security (AVSEC) were said to be investigating the man’s identity and how he got into the highly restricted area of the airport. Airport authorities confirmed that the human remains were discovered during routine runway inspection by FAAN personnel. The agency’s acting General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Mrs. Faithful Hope-Ivbaze, said security agencies were seeking information that would reveal the identity of the dead man found on Runway 18R/36L penultimate Thursday, 19th May. She explained in a statement that a motorised cleaner employed to carry out “derruberization and sweeping of the runway” discovered the remains at about 0106hours, and escalated the situation to relevant departments. “As a result, between 0110 and 0343hours, the runway was temporarily closed to allow for immediate evacuation of the remains. Flight operations resumed at 0343 hours. Investigations are ongoing, and a report will be issued accordingly,” the statement added.   Haemorrhage!      Expensive bread     MPR and the economy   Aviation security experts berated the security lapse that allowed for repeated encroachment on restricted areas of the Lagos airport by intruders. Since no organisation operating at the airport reported any of their personnel missing, it was likely the dead man was an intruder, not airport worker. In any event, it shouldn’t be difficult to identify a worker if he was wearing his agency’s uniform and On-Duty-Card as required. So, the security puzzle was how an intruder got into the airport’s restricted area. And it wasn’t that the incident was a one-off thing. Late in December, last year, an accident was averted at the airside of the Murtala Muhammed Airport in Lagos when a speeding vehicle had near-collision with a Dana Air plane taxiing to take off on Runway 18L. That incident occurred barely one week after a landing Max Air jet almost rammed into a malfunctioning car being tested on  Runway 18L. In December 2019, there was pandemonium when an unidentified man sneaked into the airside of the airport and climbed onto a moving Air Peace plane. The man was arrested by security operatives who were alerted by the pilot of a private jet coming behind the Air Peace plane. Some six months earlier, a man later identified to be Nigerien found his way into the Lagos airport and climbed onto a Port Harcourt-bound Azman Airlines plane. The police said he could neither speak nor understand English Language, and were probing how he gained access to the restricted airport area. We made the point before, and it bears restating that porosity of airport facilities compromises the safety of public aviation regarding which Nigeria has been quite lucky in recent years. No effort should be spared to ensure airtight airport security, to keep air travellers safe. There is routine inspection of runways, but it is doubtful there is as well routine surveillance, which is the proactive dimension. Besides, lessons from investigations of past incidents must be factored in to proactively prevent further breaches.