Funding, which is one of the key challenges that hinder participation of women in the oil and gas industry activities may have been put to rest as the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) partners NEXIM Bank to establish a $40 million Women in Energy Fund. This is in addition to the $300million Nigerian Content Intervention Fund (NCI Fund) which also provided a long term, single digit interest rate funding. The Executive Secretary of NCDMB, Simbi Wabote disclosed this during the Nigerian Women in Oil and Gas Conference 2022 in Lagos with the theme: Leveraging Opportunities for Women in the Oil and Gas Industry. Wabote revealed that the Oil and Gas Industrial Parks in Bayelsa and Cross River states were getting ready for completion and would begin operation next year. The industrial parks according to him, had been developed as a low-cost manufacturing hub for equipment, component parts, spare parts, chemicals, consumables and other products. He, therefore, encouraged women owned businesses with workable proposals to look out for the adverts in the newspapers and apply for allocation of plots to set up manufacturing outfits, adding that they would be given special consideration as part of commitment of the board to mainstream women into the oil and gas industry. The Executive Secretary appreciated the Ministry of Petroleum Resources for recognising the board’s efforts to lead the womenfolk into the mainstream of the Nigerian oil and gas industry through the award given to the board as the “Best Gender Support Agency in the Energy Space” at the fifth Nigerian International Energy Summit early this year in Abuja. He promised to keep the flag flying in the board’s effort to empower the women in the oil and gas industry. “To all the female we promise to continuously leverage on your numbers to start a movement in the oil and gas industry. We cannot afford to leave behind half of our populace. ‘’We will leverage on your advocacy skills to influence policy direction, leverage on your intellect to deepen Nigerian Content, and leverage on your intuition to make the right judgement call when it matters most.   EKEDC pledges improved service delivery     NERC to begin phase 1 of NMMP in August     As production deferment attracts huge loss   ‘’Our female staff will continue to work in a safe and secure environment where we break down all bias”, the executive secretary stated. He noted that the role of women was very vital in the oil and gas industry. NCDMB has therefore seen the need to leverage on these qualities to attract, involve, engage, and empower the females in the oil and gas industry. Wabote noted that the efforts aimed at repositioning women as formidable players in key areas including the oil and gas industry was already yielding positive result, adding that this fact is underscored by the International Labour Organisation’s (ILO) 2020 survey which placed Nigeria in the second position among countries where a woman may likely be one’s boss. He commended all the various socio-political interventions and cultural adjustments that made it possible such that the female colleagues, our mothers, our wives, our daughters are treated with respect they deserve in the society. He noted that one of the unique skill sets of our womenfolk was advocacy. Whether in the selection of school for enrolment or in the next destination for family holidays, they possess the tact and the convincing power to secure alignment of purpose. One of the initiatives put in place by the Honorable Minister of State for Petroleum Resources in line with the Decade of Gas declaration is the National Gas Expansion Program (NGEP) with three (3) key elements namely Domestic LPG Expansion, Autogas, and Power Generation. He said the Domestic LPG Expansion and the Autogas elements of the program required four intervention focus areas namely availability, affordability, accessibility, and acceptability. While the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and its agencies have been working on various programs to make the LPG products available, accessible, and affordable, I submit that our women are best placed to be at the fore-front of LPG acceptability. He noted that there was huge role for our women to eliminate hinderances to adoption resulting from dangerous perception of LPG cooking gas.