An agent provocateur is defined as a person employed to induce others to break the law so that they can be convicted. Such a person(s) can precipitate an action which triggers a chain of reactions, which could have dire consequences for a group of people. He or she could be a member of a group in which the action and reaction takes place or he could belong to a competing interest group, who does the action to prompt the opponent group to react. There are clearly such agent provocateurs at work trying to precipitate wars in Nigeria, in the past few years. Without argument, they lurk in large numbers in the northern part of the country, as ISWAP, Boko Haram, terrorists, kidnappers, cattle rustlers and the like. While these variant agents of war and destruction may not have a common agenda, they are likely hoping to gain from the anarchy they want to foist on the country. The kidnappers, cattle rustlers and similar groups may be interested merely in the immediate gain from their criminal activities. Some pundits however argue that the potpourri of these incendiary elements form part of a common group with the agenda to foist a Fulani Islamic hegemony on the rest of the country. Indeed, some commentaries even claim that there are agent provocateur in government and the military, and that is why the war on terror in Nigeria is protracted. Again, they argue that while some of these military agents want immediate financial gains, some fight for the agenda to destabilise and occupy the Nigerian space. In fairness to President Muhammadu Buhari’s regime, the Boko Haram which is the major agent provocateur in the north-eastern part of the country has been substantially contained. While there are occasional attacks on innocent civilians, the criminals are no longer foisting their flags across local governments like before, to show their presence. The ISWAP which for many Nigerians are one and the same with Boko Haram, are also no longer laying claims to regular successful atrocities to show their presence, as was common in the not too distant past. But two recent incidents in the southern part of the country have precipitated a rash of arguments that the highly volatile criminal elements which hitherto operate in the northern part of the country have relocated to the southern part of the country to continue the agenda to destabilise, occupy and Islamize the rest of the country. There is also the lingering attacks in the southeast part of the country, which has left the governments and citizens debating over who, why, and what agenda. The first incident was the kidnap of the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence, Samuel Uche Kalu, (and two other church ministers) who upon his release gave a startling revelation about the kidnappers’ operation. Shockingly within days, the second incident confirmed the alleged boast of the kidnappers when St Francis Catholic Church Owo, was attacked. According to some reports, the revered prelate revealed that his abductors are of Fulani stock, who had boasted that they are embedded in the forests of the southwest of Nigeria, fully armed, and ready to take action once the command is given.   Undelegated delegates     Rich sound of music     Nation without statesmen   They also reportedly boasted that the huge ransom of N100 million extorted from the Methodist prelate would be used to buy more arms which they would use to overrun the southeast region. The most worrisome allegation was that the Nigerian soldiers, manning the check points near the incident area, who are of the same stock as the kidnappers, may actually be complicit in the criminal activities of the kidnappers. Since his bombshell of accusations against the Nigerian Army, no believable counter narrative has been given by the army, except the terse statement that the army would invite the prelate for debriefing. The prelate also claimed that from his interactions with his abductors, it was those who masquerade as herdsmen that are also operate the kidnappers. They use the cow as a decoy to deceive people that they are into a legitimate business, but the cows are also used to cause obstruction and slow down the cars on highways, so they can pounce on their victims. Barely a week after the revelation by the prelate that the ‘pretentious army of occupation’ claimed they are across the forests in the southwest, they actually struck at the St. Francis Catholic Church Owo, is a most gruesome manner. The attackers who reportedly used grenades and very sophisticated assault rifles left about 40 worshippers dead, and several of them injured. They chose to attack the town and state of the most outspoken governor of the southwest region, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN. The revered Nobel Laureate Professor Wole Soyinka, talked about ‘the who, the why, the where, and the what’ message the attackers passed to the people of southwest. As far as he is concerned, the action is not a mere criminal incidence, but intended to put the region on notice. He on behalf of the region acknowledged the receipt of the dastardly message, and promises an adequate response accordingly. It is also intriguing that the purported message was passed on the cusp of the historic All Progressive Congress presidential primary, which the Lion of Bourdillon, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu won resoundingly. The third denominator which has lost traction in the public consciousness is the issue of unknown gunmen in the southeast. While some state governments in the region and of course the federal government and its agencies blame IPOB and its affiliates for the atrocities going on in the region, the IPOB group denies any complicity in the abominable murders of Igbos and non-Igbos in the region. They claim that it is those working to foist Fulani hegemony on the rest of the country that are the unknown gunmen. So, it is legitimate to ask whether the recent kidnap and the revealing interview by the Prelate of the Methodist Church, Nigeria and the confirmatory incidence of the bombing of St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, in the Southwest, show a confounding connection to the heinous crimes ascribed to unknown gunmen in the southeast. Or could these be three disparate agent provocateurs seeking to precipitate the destruction of our dear country? If we still have national security agencies which are altruistic, and which have the interest of the survival of Nigeria at heart, then their jobs are cut out for them. Of course, if they fail to connect the missing dots in the puzzle, by arresting those who kidnapped His Eminence, those who bombed parishioners of St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, and the ubiquitous unknown gunmen who kill and maim at will in the southeast, the swirl of conspiracy theories could overwhelm the entire country.