Sterling Bank Plc has partnered the Community Pot to launch a pilot project in Lagos to feed 500 malnourished children across Nigeria. Speaking at the launch of the project with the theme: Adopt a child to recovery, Mrs. Olapeju Ibekwe, Chief Executive Officer, Sterling One Foundation, said the bank is passionate about children and their health. She said the bank was excited to be a part of the project and would support the  project to feed 200 children for about three months by providing them with a baby feed known as Toddler Protein. The feed is manufactured by Whole Eats Foundation for feeding kids. Also, Mrs. Kemi Jeje, convener and initiator of the Community Pot project, said the programme was meant to make impact as at least one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN) is in alignment with the purpose of the project. “According to statistics, 420,000 children die yearly in Nigeria as a result of malnutrition and until one sees one of them, it is just a number one is hearing,” Jeje said.   ‘MSMEs need more conducive environment to thrive’     Exploring rainforests for economic sustainability     NCF partners Chevron, FCMB on earth protection   She said about 2.5 million children were deemed to be malnourished and that the project would try to reach as many of these children as possible. She described Community Pot as a social impact project that is not-for-profit. “It is what we want to do to add value to the community,” Jeje said. The feed, Toddler Protein, was introduced to nursing mothers at the event by Mrs. Mofolusade Sonaike, the Founder/Chief Executive Officer, Mumpreneur Women Support Initiative while Mrs. Temitope Akinyemi, Chief Executive Officer of Marvel Natural Products, described the project as phenomenal. Mrs. Precious Ogbo, a nurse with the Primary Healthcare Centre in Opebi, Lagos, spoke on the benefit of breast feeding children at an early age in life before giving them solid food. She remarked that nursing mothers who could not afford infant formula should add Soya milk to pap drink for their babies so that they could eat healthily. The event, which was also graced by Mrs. Omolara Sholaja, who represented the Director of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), was attended by several nursing mothers and their children as well as other stakeholders.