What is the fate of the PDP ahead of next year’s general elections? Initially, given the socio-economic and security problems in the forms of the impunity of banditry and Boko Haram attacks, rising inflation, ASUU strike leading to the shutdown of our universities for more than six months now, energy crises, high cost of living generally, the dearth of good road transportation in some major cities of the country, I had thought that the PDP has a fighting chance to win the presidency come 2023. But, it is bizarre to notice that there is a deadly internecine war or the internal strife tearing it from within and this has taken its toll on the party’s ability to win come 2023. So, I don’t think the PDP can rise from its self-afflicted malady to win the presidential election in 2023. As Governor Wike was coasting to victory on the party’s presidential primary, it appeared that a gang-up was hatched to deny him victory, or so he alleged. Gov. Wike who was recommended as the first choice for the party’s vice-presidential ticket was again undermined. If the above issues are not properly handled, the PDP should kiss its hope of winning the presidency goodbye. What’s your position on the recent presidential primary that produced Atiku Abubakar as the PDP flagbearer? It is a mess; democracy died in Nigeria at the conventions of the PDP and the APC in 2022. Its carcasses are going to trickle down to the general elections in 2023 which have already begun with Ekiti State because there is no difference between delegates and voters in this context of the debasement of democratic ideals. When you add Boko Haram and banditry ravaging the north, unknown gunmen in the east, obscene corruption and the incapability of the law enforcement agencies and judiciary to rise to the occasion, I doubt if the next general elections will take place. I foresee a postponement and an interim government put in place. But, this will not happen, if the above concerns are urgently addressed. With this situation, you cannot be talking about Atiku or the PDP; we should rather be talking about Nigeria. There seems to be disquiet in the ranks of your party as a result of a conflict of interests. What is the way forward? Until justice is done to assuage the various interests, the disquiet will be a time bomb waiting to explode at the slightest trigger. The way forward is what is good for the goose is good for the gander. Power rotation is a solemn agreement enshrined in the PDP constitution and practised since 1999. It seems the power of the ‘godfather’- Chief James Ibori – has waned, particularly given the emergence of Sheriff Oboriwhori as your party’s governorship candidate against his wish. What’s your take? It is true that when two elephants fight, it is the grass that suffers. In this particular context of Delta State politics, you make reference to it, it is wrong and unfair to make Ibori the scapegoat. The ‘polarising factor’ is not unidimensional as you may want to paint it; it is pervasive and multidimensional. There are other polarizing factors in the Delta State PDP at the wards, local governments and the state level, just because they have been beaten down, oppressed, intimidated, harassed, threatened and hypnotized, I suspect, doesn’t mean that all is well. Take, for instance, my good self, a former Speaker, National Assembly member, a scholar/philosopher, and particularly, a national convener, who with Chief James Ibori, our leader, Prof. Oyovbaire, Ifeanyi Okowa, Senator James Manager, Senator Nwaoboshi, Mrs Nkem Okuofu, the late Chief Humphrey Iweriebo, to mention a few, were the foundation members of the PDP. From PTI Warri, we retired to Palm Grove Hotel, where we set up the first PDP State Executive Committee and Senator Manager and Nwaoboshi emerged as its Chairman and Secretary, respectively. Today in the PDP at the ward, local governments, Ndokwa/Ukwuani Federal Constituency and Delta North senatorial district, I am not consulted when major party decisions are taken at these levels. You now can see that if the aggrieved at these levels across the state have what it takes to remove the chains of oppression around their necks, it will then be obvious that Chief Ibori is just one of the factors and not the only factor. The primary has come and gone and he has emerged the winner, if there is no challenge, he becomes the candidate of the party to fly its flag, the legal challenges notwithstanding. Recently, your party nominated Chief Monday Onyeme as running mate to Oboriwhori. Why not you? As I pointed out in the preceding paragraph,his selection was first done at Ndokwa/Federal Constituency level by a few stakeholders – 11 of them who then recommended him to the party. I was not part of the process and wasn’t even aware. Therefore, I will not be able to say why I was not tipped for the position. This buttresses my point that such an important decision took place, not only that I was not part of the process, I wasn’t even aware. Now, of the 14 persons involved when credentials/ qualifications are put side by side with theirs, I am not sure I will not measure up as a leader of the Ndokwa nation. They excluded the founding fathers of the party; the critical stakeholders were undermined for self aggrandisement. Is it that the governor is not comfortable with you or something? From the grapevine and from certain observed phenomena, it is possible. Are you aggrieved? Not at all! Frustrated and disappointed that a party I helped build in 1999 as a national convener, served meritoriously for 12 years, became its state assembly speaker, a former member of the National Assembly and at present PDP state caucus member, could treat me with such ignominy; further proof of many Iboris at the wards, local governments and the state levels. What is your view of the alleged borrowing spree of the Okowa’s administration, the latest being purportedly for palm plantation? In fact, as a former lawmaker, without the details of what such loans are for, the indebtedness of the state creditors and its ability to pay, I cannot give you an answer.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…     PDP suspends Borno Chair for alleged anti-party activities   Will Chief Onyeme’s emergence as running mate to Oboriwhori assuage the feelings of marginalisation by the Ndokwa people? Only time will tell. Does Governor Okowa still enjoy your loyalty and solidarity? Of course, yes as a party man; I am still a member of the party and the governor is the leader of the party; he still enjoys my unflinching loyalty and solidarity. Wike attributed his failure to clinch the presidential ticket to regional betrayal by his fellow governors. Do you agree with him? It appears so because his counterparts in the South and friends in the North, particularly Governor Aminu Tambuwal whom he funded and supported at the Port Harcourt convention in 2018, asked his supporters in 2022 to vote for Atiku. How else does one define a traitor? Prior to the Abuja convention, were you privy to any accord among southern governors? I know and read about the South-South Accord that was entered in Asaba and that of the entire southern governors at Lagos where Govs. Okowa and Akeredolu presided and we heard it was unanimously agreed that the presidency should be zoned to the south. Did your governor’s emergence as running mate to Atiku come as surprise to you? No! I know he is capable of pulling such a feat. In your view, would you say your governor betrayed Wike? I cannot answer this question because I don’t know their relationship, including their political bond. Do you see your party, the PDP winning the Delta governorship election next year? Of course, yes. That has been the story from 1999 to date for obvious reasons. Until the opposition parties put their arts together, structurally, organisationally and financing, the PDP will continue to marry them for a penny. The PDP’s godfather seems losing grip of his hold on the party, what does this portent for your organisation in 2023? Who is the PDP godfather? I understand it to mean the one that is in a position to dictate who gets what and who doesn’t and at the moment Gov. Okowa is the man the cap fits. So far, he is doing well since everything he wants, he gets, he is the godfather of the PDP. What is happening to the bill to establish a Federal University of Agriculture and Technology in Aboh? First, my good self, Ndokwa East people, particularly the Aboh Kingdom, and Ndokwa nation will not stop appreciating, among others, the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege and Sen. Peter Nwaoboshi for being the brain behind and the leading lights for getting the bill on the Federal University of Agriculture and Technology, Aboh, passed in the National Assembly. Having said so, my expectation is that they will finish the act by getting the president to sign the bill into law but hopefully, that will be achieved.