The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has nominated its vice presidential candidate for the 2023 general elections. He is Abdullahi Muhammed Koli. A former Anambra Chief Judge Prof Peter Umeadi emerged the party’s presidential candidate. A statement by Peter Umeadi Campaign Organisation on Sunday made available to our correspondent in Awka, Anambra State, said Koli was a frontline labour inion activist and social crusader who led many struggles for the welfare of Nigerian workers as chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Bauch State from 1999 to 2002. The statement reads partly: ” Ahead of the June 17th deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for submission of party candidates to the INEC online portal, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2023 general election, Prof Peter Umeadi has nominated Comrade Abdullahi Muhammed Koli as his vice presidential candidate( running mate) “A release by Peter Umeadi Campaign Organisation says Comrade Muhammed Koli is a frontline labour Union activist and social crusader who has led many struggles for the welfare of Nigerian workers in his capacity as Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress NLC, in Bauch State from 1999 to 2002.” Umeadi, a Prof of laws at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka,(Enugu campus), had promised to leverage his background as a legal practitioner to reposition the country where the rule of law would prevail, noting that Nigerians deserved a better country.   APC, SDP clash: Tension in Ekiti over likely reprisal attack     Owo massacre: Osun churches beef up security     Police arrest three hunters for alleged kidnapping…   He said,:“I am stepping out with the triple banner of rule of law, separation of powers and due process.We are entitled to a country better run than we have now. “We need to change the way we think so we can change the way we do things. Our triple banner should form the substructure for a new Nigeria which an APGA government at the centre under my watch would bring about. “Uppermost in my mind is how to reconcile with ourselves across the length and breadth of our dear country. In a new political culture, I undertake to galvanize the old, young, rich, poor, literate or not from different religious persuasions and from all six geo-political zones to deliver a new Nigeria where justice would reign for all citizens equally irrespective of tribe or status. On the thematic focus of his government if elected, Umeadi said, “I will work assiduously for sound education, affordable health care, food on the table, security of life and property and ability to achieve life ambitions in a setting presenting a level playing field and pre-determined standards. “I pledge also to remove my personal interest in its entirety from the picture in the course of my official duties if elected. We expect to usher in patriotism, collective reconstruction of our economy, upliftment of all segments of our society, promoting probity, accountability and dedication in our public and private lives.”