The Founder of Household of God Church, Reverend Chris Okotie has said he wants to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari as “interim President”. Okotie said was the right person to right the wrongs in the country. He spoke at his 66th birthday on Sunday in his church. “I want to appeal to all presidential candidates to withdraw from the race and allow me to come in as the interim President. All the presidential candidates should support me to succeed President Buhari as the interim President. “We must also rise above tribe and religion because there is an imbalance in the country and we are not practising federalism instead, what we are practising is a presidential system of government. Since 1999, things have been declining because the presidential system of government we are practising has failed us.   Burna boy, security aides runined my vacation, says Lady…     Petrol scarcity bites harder in Abuja     Two kidnapped, one bandit killed in Zamfara   “We must get rid of the National and State Assemblies because maintaining each member cost the country billions of naira. Some of the standing committees at both assemblies are not useful to the country, they are only representing themselves, not the populace. “For the best of the country, both assemblies should be scrapped and the money for maintaining them should be used for something else. What we have in Nigeria today is the government of the party, by the party and for the party. “Ministers and the Commissioners should also be expunged because Nigeria’s democracy has been hijacked by the elite for their interest and they are deceiving the downtrodden who don’t know anything. And the most important of all is our constitution. It should be changed to a people-oriented constitution, not the military one we have now. After the change, we can then restructure the country for the better.” On his plans for the country after becoming the interim President, Okotie said: “If I am made the interim president, our government will be a transparent one and we will redirect the steps of the youth who are into internet fraudsters and turned them to better persons in the society and empower them. “And we should also embrace the concept of aboriginal democracy, that is a government from the people, for the people and with the people. This is distinct from the current experience of political parties which is the government of the party, the party and for the party. “My government will be that of National Reconciliation and Reconstruction. The interim government shall address aberrations and anomalies in the polity. I want to implore all Nigerians to join hands in the conversations that would enable a transition to an interim government at the end of President Buhari’s administration”.