Trending Lagos businesswoman, Lara Olukotun aka Larrit, has explained why she is for at loggerheads with actress Mercy Aigbe which culminated into a public fight. Hours after videos of the duo engaging in a public fight, Mercy Aigbe took to her insta stories to explain she has been enduring all forms of bullying and names calling from the businesswoman, who she noted was once an acquaintance till she suddenly became an enemy. The actress claimed she lost her calm and decided to defend for herself verbally after all efforts by people around to broker peace and make Larrit cease her verbal onslaught were frustrated. Which eventually resulted in the public fight. Reacting, Lara stressed she became irritated over Mercy’s continuous attempt to rubbish and dare her new husband’s first wife, Funsho Adeoti. According to her, that was the point she started having issues with Mercy Aigbe coupled with the fact that the film star also entertained interviews just to show off another woman’s husband, calling herself “Aya d owner” thereby, disrespecting the first wife even more. Olukotun, referring to Aigbe as a double-faced personality, noted she plays the victim in public and shows her real ‘devilish’ self behind closed doors. She further dared Mercy Aigbe to try lying against her in any interview just to achieve damage control or run her mouth indiscriminately.   How fraudsters made me lose three big endorsements, by…     All that jazz about fuji music, by Godson Ukaegbu     Reactions over Mercy Aigbe’s fight with businesswoman   Larrit started: “Morning to everyone. When u have nothing to cover up for, there will be no reason to run around to give explanation, or frame up lies to cover up, to seek public pity. “The only thing that will provoke & trigger me is if u Mercy Aigbe lie on me to do damage control & run ur mouth anyhow on ur useless interview ohhhhhh…… “Am trying my best to ignore not to come & start narrating how 2 adults fought, both actively committed d same aggressive behaviour & both were wrong but one was caught on camera, & d other didn’t & d u got d real me b4 dey took u out… …… “Do ur useless ejoor ofo interview in peace with no lies to cover up ohh, d disgusting part of ur life Mercy Aigbe is this useless 2face abosi life, always acting like a victim to d public & showing ur devilish part behind close door. “Anyone can buy ur drama, that not my business but don’t play with me ohh … U know this ur ejooor wewe oshi interview is what brought ur marriage drama to d public that made individuals to give different opinion. The businesswoman continued: “And for the record & clarification, u marrying some1’s husband is not my problem nor my headache..Ur audacity to disrespect & show off & display different indirect signal. Men might not understand women “ete & abosi, indisguise”, but all women know & we know ourselves in “pepper dem game”. “You kept on daring d other woman on what can she do & callyn ur self “aya d owner”. The husband that belongs to another woman that has 4kids for d same man u married is what I stood against & if that is my crime to have offended some pple, I say it here publicly am not sorry.”