The Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar Aliyu, yesterday said the lowest electricity generation was 2,661.82 Mega Watts (MW) because of the partial shutdown of the Oben Gas Plant to address the repair of critical gas processing equipment. According to the Nigerian Electricity System Operator (SO) of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) System Performance of 3rd June 2022, peak generation was 3,450.60Mw. The report added that total energy generated was 3,105Mw while total energy sent out was 3,059Mw. Meanwhile, Aliyu, in a press statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Mallam Isa Sanusi said: “We wish to notify the general public that the current dip in electricity generation is a result of the partial shutdown of the Oben Gas Plant to address the repair of critical gas processing equipment.” The incident, he said, unfortunately, occurred at a time when other power plants on other gas sources are undergoing planned maintenance and capacity testing.   Noah’s Ark wins award     ECOWAS: Any decision of Mali, Burkina Faso, Guinea must…     In the matter of presidential pendulum   The minister, however, noted that Seplat Energy Plc has mobilized equipment, material, and personnel to the site with a view to expediting the restoration of normal gas supply to the affected power plants. He assured the public that the repair work would be concluded this weekend and normalcy will be restored. “While pleading with electricity consumers with the current state of supply, we wish to assure the general public that efforts are being made for a sustained improvement of supply across the country,” he said. Consequently, energy allocation to the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC)  was reduced from 650Mw to 228.65Mw, representing a 64.8% decrease. Its management which disclosed this in a public notice assured its customers of distributing the allocation equitably. The public notice reads in part: “We are aware that the instability of electricity supply has persisted. This is still due to the reduced load allocation to our franchise area. “AEDC’s allocation is currently 228.63Mw which is significantly lower than the average allocation of 650Mw during the optimal generation period.”