The Muslim Congress (TMC) has lauded the verdict of the Supreme Court approving the use of Hijab in schools in Lagos State. The judgment, the congress said, ends a long-drawn legal battle over the constitutionality of the head-covering clothing for female Muslim students. The Supreme Court upheld the appellate court’s judgement that set aside the decision of the High Court in Lagos, banning female Muslim students from wearing the Hijab. TMC’s Amir Alhaji AbdulWasiu Bangbala in a statement described the judgment as a landmark on discrimination at public spaces and a boost for religious freedom.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Oyo students to represent Nigeria in Switzerland after…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…   Bangbala said: “The judgment guarantees religious freedom to extend to workplaces where discriminatory policies are often used in subjugating citizens who choose to uphold their religious beliefs. The government must see this development as part of the effort to create a truly inclusive society where religion and culture are not just respected but also protected. Authorities in public institutions, organizations and business owners must do more to accommodate the diverse background of their workforce. The right of Muslims students and workers to worship must be respected especially the observance of the Friday (Jumat) prayers at its appointed time. For all intents and purposes, this court verdict should impact how our diversity is accounted for.” The Muslim congress urged Lagos state government to ensure full compliance by school authorities. According to him, the teachers who take pleasure in harassing hijab-wearing students must be prosecuted to serve as deterrent to others. He said: “TMC congratulates the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN), Lagos State Area Unit, the Nigerian Muslim community for their courage and determination and the parents for their stoical attitude to face the struggle, for without the unwavering collective resolve to take the long walk, this victory might have just be a mirage. “We commend the tenacity of the legal team led by the late Alhaji Gani Adetola-Kazeem, who filed the brief of argument few weeks before his death. History will forever be kind to the late legal icon for this great feat. We pray Allah overlook his failings, have mercy on him and grant him the best of place in Paradise. We salute the bravery and astuteness of the legal team and also acknowledge the contributions of all who played a part in achieving this glorious triumph…It has indeed been a long road to justice.”