A coalition of aggrieved aspirants of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in the last party primaries in Yobe State have threatened to seek legal redress if it fails to address their concerns. Spokesman of the group, Hon. Musa Yusuf, alleged the group has exhausted all internal mechanisms of resolving the crisis that emerged during the primary elections but “those appeals have fallen on deaf ears of the party chairman and his executives in the State”. Yusuf claimed elections were not conducted in two Federal Constituencies in the State and five House of Assembly, stressing “we cannot sit and fold our arms and allow the mandate of the people slip away from their hands”. “It would surprise you to note that all the areas where elections were not conducted are because the government imposed their candidates against the wishes of the popular candidates of the people. He added: “Our resolve as a group is to seek legal redress as law abiding citizens. We cannot resolve to violence. Rather, we have maintained a firm control on our supporters not to resort to violence. We are heading to the court to ventilate our grievances. “We believe that if the party cannot listen to us, the judiciary which is the hope of the common man will. We are fighting this course not because of our selfish interest but because of the thrust that the people have in us”. 1. Potiskum Central State Assembly Constituency Yobe State. Barr Mohammed Khalil Vs Hon Ahmed Adamu. 2. Fika/Ngalda State Assembly Constituency, Yobe State.   Pastor to members: no PVCs, no assistance, scholarship     JUST IN: Gunmen abduct Anglican Bishop, wife, driver in Oyo     Owo killings: Oyo govt declares 3-day of mourning   Hon Yakubu Suleiman Vs Hon Musa A Yusuf. 3. Bade/Jakusko Federal Constituency Yobe State. Hon Zakari Yau Galadima Vs Hon Sani Ahmed Kaitafi. 4. Nangere/Potiskum Federal Constituency Yobe State. Hon Fatsuma Talba Vs Hon Mohammed Adamu. 5. Fika/Fune Federal Constituency Yobe State. Aliyu Mohammed SK Vs Hon Barr Idriss Abubakar Yarima Ajeje. 6. Goya/Ngeji State Assembly Constituency Yobe State. Hon Ishaku Sani Audu vs Hon Abdulmumini Hussaini. 7. Nangere State Assembly Constituency Yobe. Hon Saminu Musa Lawan Vs Hon Abdulhamid Degubi. He called on the Gov. Mai Mala Buni and the National Working Committee(NWC) of the APC to intervene in the matter before its too late.