About 50 persons have been reportedly abducted by gunmen in an attack on vehicles on Sokoto-Gusau Road. The commuters were returning from a wedding in Tambuwal, Sokoto State, on Saturday evening when the assailants attacked them. The gunmen attacked a coaster bus and one other vehicle conveying the wedding guests as well as two private vehicles. Lawal Ja’o, a passenger who escaped from the assailants, said the attack occurred around Dogon Awo in Tureta council of Sokoto State. “We started hearing the sound of gunshots before the first vehicle was hit,” he said, adding that over 50 people were whisked away. “We kept hearing the voices and screams of our colleagues and friends but there was nothing we could do. After we heard the arrival of security men, we came out of the bush and identified ourselves,” Premium Times quoted Ja’o as saying. Another passenger, Jabiru Shehu, said, “We met four empty vehicles with some belongings including a phone and some travelling bags. We were there when some policemen from Tureta arrived at the scene. “From what I heard, there were more than 50 people with the bandits because we were there also when some of the travellers who ran into the bush returned to the main road.”   S’Court Justices deplore poor service conditions     States to share World Bank’s $750m facility     Southwest governors draw battle plan against terrorists   Police spokesman in Sokoto Sanusi Abubakar said the Command was yet to receive information on the incident, but added that contacts would be made with the local division in the area to confirm the development. Four farmers including three males and a female, residing at Elegbeka community near Ifon in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State, have been reportedly abducted. The farmers were said to have been abducted in the early hours of Saturday. They were reportedly going to the Akoko area of the state when they were seized and taken away by gunmen. Sources said the abductors have contacted families of the victims and demanded N4m naira for each of them. The sources said there was exchange of gunfire between local hunters and some herders at Idogun. The hunters were joined by their counterparts from Idoani, Ipesi and Ifira A traditional ruler, who preferred to speak anonymously, said the Owo terror attack has renewed calls for stakeholders to urgently find a solution to  insecurity in Yoruba land. He said all hands must be on deck not only to win the battle but win the war against insecurity. Ondo police spokesperson Fumilayo Odunlami said she was yet to be briefed on the incident.