June 12, 1993 Voter Victory’ recreating in 2022. The political power of the voters on June 12, 1993, including millions of youth, though annulled by Babangida must be recreated in 2022 in the coming months to allow a correction in the politics of today. There are several million youths who have grown and are now 18-22years old in the 2019-22 political season. We must vocally encourage them all to get their ‘Permanent Voters Card, PVC: PASSPORT TO POLITICAL FREEDOM OF CHOICE’. The deadline for PVC is June ending so it is necessary to motivate and irritate all our non-PVC carrying ‘bored’ qualified members of society to immediately get registered and be counted in the coming election. It is easy to bribe or cheat when the electorate is small but those coming out are few. It is impossible to bribe or manipulate or cheat enough of a population of 40 or 80 million active voters. The one thing dishonest politicians, the majority, hate is an unpredictable, bribe-resistant, majority of voters, active and willing to shun ‘stomach infrastructure’, one day bribe lunch, or even intimidation and violence and instead vote for good governance. Can we recreate the 1993 election when we had millions of youths patiently waiting in queues, both bored but reading books while waiting? Of course not; this 2022 election the youth will be standing patiently in the voting queues dancing to their cell phones. The reverberations of the unfathomably murderous Owo massacre will be strong and widespread. Time was when a religious house was ‘hallowed ground’, a place of sanctuary in times of need and conflict and with relative immunity from the murderous madness of terrorism and the associated bloody acts of persecution against those, particularly innocent women and children, sheltering or worshipping within its walls and under its roof. A church is not a castle requiring bombs and grenades. In a church or indeed a mosque or synagogue, bombs are targeted specifically at flesh and blood. The time of such places being recognised and treated as sanctuaries appears to be long gone in ‘The Terrorist Handbook’ as these sacred sanctuaries are now fully in the focus of vicious conscienceless terrorists with an increasingly destructive trail cutting through them. Owo is sadly, just the latest. So, we must move to the defence of such places and the congregation therein. Who should protect those in such religious domains? Should the unarmed congregation somehow protect themselves or should it be the government’s armed police and armed forces or paramilitary forces or private people with sticks or Dane guns? Yes, the congregation can pray against an attack which is effective, but once an attack is underway, there should be some mechanism triggered that will bring evasive actions, weaponry and resistance to meet the onslaught on its own terms, gun for gun, bullet for bullet, bomb for bomb.   N100m Lost? Delegate job; Crushing Okada epidemic     Corrupted ‘Richest Poor Country’ or ‘Poorest Rich Country’     ASUU 10 : Govt. nil; 50-year Klepto-currency-mania epidemic   There are those who believe the carnage would have been more in places like Owo, and there have been many, many Owos before this one, if the congregation had been armed or defended by armed guards of the security forces. Just how many more dead could there have possibly been in Owo? No one wants to die, including terrorists. So, some preventive measures and active resistance are necessary to curb, cut off or distract this inhuman appetite of the terrorist monster for murdering anything and anyone but especially infants, children and women. Should we be trained to block escape routes around such places as soon as we hear gunfire or a disturbance? Will a trapped terrorist group kill more people trying to escape down unplanned road exits than along the planned retreat route? Should we all just lie down and be executed? What can we do? Searching boots and bonnets and the contents of vehicles may help; being security conscious when your terrorist opponent is harbouring an AK47 sounds difficult and a tall order. Meanwhile we should pray with at least one eye open to unusual visitors and movement of other worshippers and one ear open to unusual sounds and messages. A stop and search is very effective especially when the stoppers and searchers are also armed and dangerous. May God protect us, but we must be empowered to protect ourselves. You dare not forget to remember March 28 and the murderous Abuja-Kaduna train kidnapping where many were murdered on the train and many kidnapped? This weekend, 11 more were released out of 61. A victim has given birth. It is now three months later. 61-11=50+1 baby.  What is the delay in releasing the others? Can the well qualified ‘Sheik&Dr&RetiredCapt&ChiefNegotiator’ Gumi tell us in public or private how much money was involved in releasing 11. Surely the politicians who collectively raised over N4b for mere presidential and other political post aspiration forms, now they have been relieved of the burden of their political aspirations, can chip something in from the profits they may have made by being paid, if at all, huge ‘Stepping Down, Stepping Aside or Withdrawal Fees’ rumoured to be the alleged whole point of the exercise for some of them. If that is not possible, surely they can form a ‘Past Political Aspirants Association’ with a senior section for ‘Past Presidential Aspirants Section’ whose first project should be ‘Free Train Victims Fund’ to raise funds to free the remaining victims through Gumi’s experienced advice for which we should be grateful, perhaps.