The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has assured Nigerians that the ongoing continuous voter registration (CVR) would not end on June 30, 2022 as earlier announced. INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu disclosed this on Saturday during the Youth Vote Count Mega Concert 2.0 organised by the commission in partnership with Yiaga Africa and funded by the European Union at the old parade ground, Abuja. Yakubu, who was silent on the duration of the extension, said the commission would decide on the timeframe and communicate the outcome to Nigerians. He said: “The second thing is you want to know when will this registration end? Is it going to end on the 30th of June in the next five days? On behalf of INEC, let me assure you, e no go end for 30th June for as long as we have you people trying to register to obtain your Permanent Voter Card (PVC), we will continue to register you and we will continue to make sure that you get your PVC.” The INEC chairman said 14, 000 Nigeians were registered in five days at the venue of the concert. Mahmood assured that the commission would deploy more machines to register Nigerians. He said: “In the place (Old Parade Ground, Abuja), in the last five days – from Monday to Friday; we have registered over 14, 000 Nigeians in this place alone. In this place, we have 50 voter registration machines. “Two weeks ago, we deployed more machines to the states; more machines left yesterday (Friday) and more are leaving today (Saturday). By Monday there will be more machines to register Nigerians. “We will not stop the registration until we are satisfied that those who wish to register are given the opportunity to do so.” Mahmood also said the Permanent Voter Card would be ready for collection from October ahead of next year’s general election. He urged Nigerians to ensure that they use the PVC to vote during elections. Mahmood said: “When will your PVC be ready for collection? I want to assure you that the PVCs will be ready for collection latest October this year long before the election. All of you will have your PVCs. “I want to thank you for making the PVC the most popular Identification Card in Nigeria today. Nothing beats the PVC but when you collect your PVC, don’t use it for other things.   I have no third term agenda – Buhari     Abducted former Ekiti Chief Pharmacist freed after N4.5m…     Kaduna youths demand Deputy Gov slot   “The PVCs are for elections not opening of bank accounts. Please use your PVC for elections.” While responding to chants of No rigging from the crowd, the INEC chairman said: “For those of you who registered on the INEC Result Viewing Portal, you were seeing the results from the polling units on election day in Ekiti state. “The Ekiti governorship election was good. Osun is going to be better and 2023 general elections will be the best. “Your votes will count. But for those who have not yet registered, kindly do so to vote. We promise you your votes will count.” Ambassador of the European Union to Nigeria and to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Ms Samuela Isopi, urged Nigerians not to sell their vote. Isopi said the EU would stand by Nigerians to make Nigeria’s democracy stronger. She said: “This is the start of a great change. We can feel the energy. Nigerians are mobilising and the feeling is that this time they are ready to be the driver of change. You have the power to drive positive change. Get your PVC and use it. “Your votes will count and make a difference. Don’t give up your power. Don’t sell your votes because if you sell your votes you sell your future. “Go out and challenge your leaders and stand for your values. This is the way to build democracy, to have better governance and a better Nigeria. “The EU will stand by you and all Nigerians to make Nigeria’s democracy stronger.” The show, which kicked off on Monday, June 20 ended on Saturday, with the Mega Music Concert featuring several celebrities. Some of the celebrities that turned up for the concert included Innocent Idibia (2Baba); Zlatan; Omawunmi; MI; Falz; Real Warri Pikin; Teni; Broda Shaggi among others.