The leading multinational computer and phone hardware company, ASUS, has introduced a device that has been tagged to be the world’s most powerful gaming tablet, ROG Flow Z13. The company continues to reinforce its drive for innovation and the commitment to creating an effortless and joyful digital life for everyone. The ASUS ROG Flow Z13 is a convertible tablet powered by Windows 11 and runs on a 12th Gen Intel Core i9 processor, with 16GB of RAM and 1TB of storage space, among other impressive specifications. The ROG Flow Z13 is powered by NVIDIA RTX 3080 graphics card. Users can even hook up to the ASUS ROG XG Mobile external GPU for even more frames.  Impressive Design and Display  The Flow Z13 is exceptionally portable, with a unique design. It is built into a 13-inch CNC chassis, measures just 12mm thin and weighs just 1.1kg. On the front of the device, users can choose between either a 4K panel offering a refresh rate of 60Hz or a Full HD panel offering a refresh rate of 120Hz. The panel also offers an aspect ratio of 16:10, and a peak brightness of 500 Nits. In addition, the panel supports Dolby Vision, Adaptive-Sync, and is Pantone certified. Users can pair it to the optional XG Mobile and then connect it to extra monitors, ethernet networking, or other USB accessories. The muscle of the XG Mobile can also be leveraged for intense loads such as video or 3D rendering. Convertibility The Flow Z13 can be used as a regular tablet to scroll the web, watch movies, or play mobile games on the touch screen. It can also be used as a productivity tool when in clamshell mode, using the kickstand and the keyboard case. Users can even create the ultimate gaming rig for the latest AAA games by connecting it to an external monitor, mouse, and any other peripherals such as an Xbox controller. The ASUS ROG Z13 is light to carry around and does not take up too much desk space when in use. It is a device that can be used for both work and play conveniently. It offers ultra-portability without sacrificing any laptop features that are important to users.   The Gree Coolman Initiative: GREE Nigeria boosts industry…     Hook.ng – Best site to sell gift cards Online to naira…     THE DIABETES DRUG THAT SAVED ME FROM CUTTING MY LEG   Connectivity There are a host of I/O ports on this device, including one USB Type-A port and a USB Type-C with Thunderbolt 4. There is also a MicroSD card slot hidden under the kickstand, giving the side chassis sleeker look and being extra protective of the MicroSD card. In addition, if the Flow Z13 is connected to an XG Mobile, you get additional ports such as DisplayPort, HDMI, and ethernet. The Flow Z13 also comes with two cameras. The front camera can be used for video chats with friends and family, while the rear-facing 8-megapixel camera can be used for photography and videography. The Z13 also supports the latest Wi-Fi 6E standard, which ensures lower latency and better network connections, even on a crowded Wi-Fi connection.  Battery Life The ROG Flow Z13 is powered by a 56Wh battery, which is sufficient for a 13-inch tablet with this kind of hardware and cooling. The device automatically switches the screen to 60 Hz on battery mode. The Flow 13 ships with a mid-sized 100W USB-C charger. It’s a standard dual-piece design with two long cables and plugs in via USB-C, in either of the two ports on the left edge. mode. Audio The Flow Z13 is equipped with Dual Smart Amp speakers with Hi-Res Audio and Dolby Atmos support. For voice communications, a 3-mic array and AI Noise Cancelation keep communications clear, even in noisy environments. The two Smart Amp speakers on both sides of the screen ensure the audio level and quality is top-notch. ASUS includes a free one-month subscription to Xbox Game Pass, offering unlimited access to over 100 high-quality PC games on Windows 11. This can be accessed at purchase. As with any ROG device, users can also get access to the ROG Armoury Crate, which unifies system and lighting controls to put essential settings at their fingertips in a single utility. Scenario Profiles that automatically adjust the launch of favourite gaming titles can easily be defined and customized on the ASUS ROG Flow Z13 This device is unique, powerful and can serve all the same purpose as a computer, only that it is in a compact 13-inch tablet form.