FIFA and the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 LLC (Q22) yesterday  announced that the media accreditation process for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022  is now open for media and non-rights holders with  deadline for submitting accreditation requests  fixed for  15 August 2022. Access to the media accreditation form requires a unique control key. FIFA’s member associations have received a quota of written press and photographer accreditations for distribution to their national media organisations and representatives. Once a media representative has received a control key from your member association or media organisation, they will be able to apply for accreditation via the FIFA Media Hub . Non-rights holders (NRHs) are radio and television companies without broadcasting rights for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022. NRHs will be able to apply for media accreditation without a control key. It should be stressed that the number of NRH accreditations will be very limited and that there will be no access to stadiums on matchdays.   Applause as Dare hosts victorious Golden Eaglets     Morocco 2022: NFF confirms Falode as Chef de Mission     Oregon 2022: World Athletics defend Nigeria’s expulsion from…   FIFA TV will be directly responsible for the accreditation of Media Rights Licensees (rights-holding television and radio stations). The FIFA Broadcaster Servicing team is in regular contact with the Media Rights Licensees and will inform them directly about the accreditation procedure and other accreditation-related matters. The FIFA World Cup 2022 will be the most compact edition of the tournament since the inaugural edition in 1930. With four matches a day during the group stage for the first time, all the action will be concentrated in and around Doha, with no internal flights needed and the possibility to book one single accommodation for the entire tournament. For the benefit and comfort of accredited journalists, FIFA and Q22 will make the best of this unique set-up and offer centralised, state-of-the-art infrastructure and services to accredited media. The Main Media Centre (MMC) will be co-located with the International Broadcasting Centre at the DECC and serve as a transportation hub to Team Base Camps on the day before the matches and to the eight astonishing stadiums – the closest being Education City Stadium, only four kilometres from the MMC, and the furthest, Al Bayt Stadium, 45 kilometres away.