After seeing collapsing facilities at the Tin-Can Island Port in Lagos, former Senator Gbemisola Saraki, Minister of State for Transportation, let fly a lament, which a newspaper picturesquely dubbed “bemoaning”. At the Tin-Can Island  Container Terminal (TICT), the minister lamented: “Let’s be frank.  It’s a bit sad that TCIT terminal has taken it upon themselves to find a solution to collapsing portions of their port terminals.  Palliatives won’t work anymore,” she declared. “We need to find a long-term solution to this problem.” The Five Star Logistics Terminal, another facility inside the port complex, very much suffers the fate of TICT.  From the minister’s comments, it would appear to suffer a five-star collapse, rather than a five-star expansion or growth. TICT and Five Star Logistics Terminal — both are overarching metaphors for progressive non-reinvestments and non-expansion (put in layman’s language: neglect), even when the country grossed millions in revenue from the port, year in, year out, since the Tin-Can Island Port opened in 1977. Put another way: if you fail to plan, you plan to fail.  If Tin-Can Port facilities are decaying and collapsing, it’s simply because there seemed not enough robust and systematic plans for facility expansion and maintenance at that complex. Still, that may well be a tad two sweeping.  It’s probably safer to assume there was indeed such a plan but that such plans were utterly jettisoned, as the years rolled by. Either is not good enough.   Checking Lagos hoodlums     Unending fuel conundrum      Right step   Unfortunately, that would appear the ugly story of Nigerian public sector investments — even down to ones as minute as public restrooms.  A public pay restroom opens; and yet, some five, six years down the line, its key facilities: urinals, flush toilets, water systems, etc, pack up.  Then you ask yourself: whatever happened to the tolls paid by the public that use the facilities?  Corruption?  Zero routine maintenance? That is what has happened to Tin-Can Island Port, though on a much humongous scale.  That itself is an historic irony, for Tin-Can, when it opened for business, was touted as a grand moderniser: with an installed capacity to handle ships of 30, 000 tonnes, a daily delivery of 4, 000 metric tonnes in grains, and an integrated RO-RO (roll on-roll off) discharge facility. Indeed, Tin-Can was destined to teach its Apapa mother port a trick or two in nimble port service delivery.  But now, all that seems gone with the winds! Still, the minister was right on one score: there is a limit to palliatives, especially with the goose that lays the golden egg, which really is the port’s economic status — and other ports generally — in the maritime sector.  Anything short of targeted, specific and deliberate re-investments won’t cut it at all!  That is why the minister’s pledge to go for a holistic solution to the Tin-Can decay is welcome; and should be encouraged. Even then, that should come with a radical change in business and maintenance mind-set.  The reason is simple logic: if the Tin-Can Port was built to a certain cargo capacity in 1977, and business volume has more than quadrupled that capacity in 2022, and there has been no expansion, decay and collapse are a logical result. But that is even focusing on the end result.  To achieve productive and more satisfying results, process-thinking must drive that holistic process.  For instance, even if Tin-Can were refurbished, and its facilities much expanded, it would still end up in decay, if timely, periodic re-investment, in maintenance and expansion, were not carried out — as routine. In other words, the slovenly public sector attitude to re-investment and routine maintenance must give way to a more business-like ethos, where private sector investors are better equipped.  Which is why it’s a thing to cheer that newer ports in Lagos — Lekki Deep Port and Badagry — now being developed are embracing these private sector ethos the more.  That is the sane path to asset maximisation. But even with the best of change in investment behaviour, Nigeria still needs to add, to the mix, better overall port utilisation.  That ports in Lagos are being choked while those in Calabar, Onitsha, Warri, etc are idle don’t show much of wise management.  If Nigeria must get maximum returns from its billion-Naira port investments, the port managers must get the mix right.