Terrorists have shot one of the remaining 50 kidnapped victims of the Abuja-Kaduna AK-9 train, identified as Mohammed Al’Amin. The negotiator, Malam Tukur Mamu, had raised the alarm about the deteriorating health conditions of the victims. He said some have suffered from snake bites. According to Mamu, publisher of Desert Herald tabloid, the shooting occurred on Monday during “friendly exchanges of fire at the forest between the abductors that are guarding the victims and preventing them from possible escape”. The bandits had threatened to stop feeding their victims and start executing them within a week but there were pacified. Mamu said though the shooting could have been accidental, “it could also be intentional from them for the purpose of sending a message”. He added: “Killing of their victims is something we know they can do. They have threatened to do that before.” He said the said Federal Government must take full responsibility if it did not act fast. “There has been communication constantly but government is yet to take a decision. “I know what is in this crisis and that is why I keep emphasising that President Muhammadu Buhari must be prepared to take painful decisions, painful compromises if they are really committed to securing these innocent victims alive. “With what we have succeeded in doing, the windows and opportunity we opened, the government has the power to bring this to an end within three to four days. “I assure them we can do it with their support and cooperation, and if it didn’t happen, as long as the government does the needful, I will agree and accept to take full responsibility. “Cases of emergency such as this do not require unnecessary bureaucracy. I can confirm to you that the said passenger has been shot.” Mamu said he considered withdrawing from the negotiations for personal reasons, but pleas from family members of the victims, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi and government officials made him reconsider. He said he pleaded with the abductors on Tuesday to free the shot victim so he can be treated in view of his critical condition, but the terrorists insisted they would not entertain any demand except the government met theirs. Mamu urged the government to, in the alternative, deal with the abductors directly for a resolution. The publisher fears for the hostages’ survival unless urgent steps are taken.   Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties     Police kill two gunmen in Anambra   The victims’ families intensified their plea to the government to secure their release without further delay. Two family members, who spoke on behalf of others during a visit to the House of Representatives yesterday, pleaded with the lawmakers to urgently intervene. They were received by Bamidele Salam Manu Soro Masur, who represented 11 lawmakers that have been pushing for the release of the captives. The wife of one of the kidnapped victims, Matilda Kabir, said it was shocking that one of the victims was shot. “We are here to plead with the House of Representatives. The news we are getting is not favourable. “We are here to beg them to help us. It is not funny again. The news we got this morning is that one person was shot. We don’t know who is next. “My husband is there. We don’t know if it would be any other person. Nigerians should help. My husband is in captivity. “They have been suffering. Imagine sleeping and standing there for 94 days. Please help us,” she said. Aminu Lawal Uthman said the news of one of the captives being shot was “terrible”. “We are here to meet the right people to do the right thing to put more pressure on the Federal Government and security agencies to do more. Every second is very important,” he said. Salam said it was horrifying to have children, the sick people and the elderly were being held in such a hostile environment. He said they initiated contact with two persons directly involved with the negotiations on Tuesday. “We were talking to the government. We are also in talks with the negotiators, and we are very hopeful, that by the grace of God we would be able to get something tangible within the shortest possible time. “I must also add that the Speaker met with family members some weeks ago and he is on the matter. “We are briefing him again on this matter to ensure he takes further steps to make government hasten to secure the release of the people.” Masur said they would intensify the push in appropriate quarters to ensure the captives are freed. ”We have heard and will continue to put pressure to get them free. We in the House will not stop. We share in their sorrow and pain. “It is our commitment not to leave any stone unturned in our effort to ensure the victims are released unhurt. “We will meet with the Speaker, the Chief of Defence Staff and other security agencies. We call on the Executive to do the needful. “Security of lives and property is the primary responsibility of government. We have multiple efforts on the table,” he said.