Doublespeak. That is what Kaduna Electric passed on to its customers as a piece of advice when, on the one hand, it told them not to pay for free meters or for their installation, and on the other asked those who could not wait for free meters to apply for meters under the Meter Asset Provider Scheme (MAPS), which comes at a cost. The company’s Head of Energy Metering, Aliyu Mohammed Gana, in a statement penultimate weekend, “urged customers and the general public not to pay a kobo for meters under the National Mass Metering Progrmamme (NMMP), saying that meters under the scheme are free. “Therefore any installer or staff requesting for payment  from customers should be reported to the company”,  he said. Good talk. But that is where the good talk ends. Gana’s proviso that those who could not be patient for the free meters should take advantage of the equally ongoing Meter Asset Provider Scheme (MAPS). The cost under this arrangement is however to be amortised as customers are to be refunded through electricity units whenever they vend. This is where the problem lies. NMMP and MAPS ought not to run simultaneously to avoid the deliberate confusion that has trailed particularly the distribution of the so-called free meters. That the free meters are coming in phases compounds the confusion and corruption that have dogged the implementation of the NMMP. Yes, the government might mean well by coming up with the idea of free meters, especially as the electricity distribution companies complained of inadequate funds to run their operations. This in itself is a misnomer because provision of meters should be the responsibility of the DisCos. It is an essential tool for their operations as it is the best way to make electricity consumers pay for the exact power they consume. So, the Federal Government came to the rescue of the DisCos with NMMP at least to reduce, if not eliminate, the problems associated with rule-of-the-thumb billing otherwise known as crazy billing that the DisCos inherited. Under that ancient regime, consumers were receiving all kinds of outrageous bills, even if they were not supplied electricity for months. Apparently, the DisCos were comfortable with this arrangement which afforded them the opportunity to reap where they did not sow. Naturally, the incentive to work towards improving power supply is somewhat eroded. Why do DisCos have to be imaginative to improve their productivity if the opportunity for free funds through crazy billing is there?   No to outlawry     Ban on bush meat     Owo tragedy   This is where an apparently good intention by government to close the metering gap and reduce drastically the cases of estimated billing has become a source of abuse and corrupt enrichment for some people in the DisCos, necessitating the doublespeak by Gana. But no one should go with the impression that this situation is peculiar to Kaduna Electric. It is the practice among all the DisCos. Indeed, the fact is that with some of the distribution companies, getting meter under either arrangement is not an easy task, because the DisCos have never demonstrated that they are in a hurry to meter their consumers because of the free money they make in the absence of the meters. Moreover, since the free meters come in phases, it is easy for the DisCos to claim that they have exhausted the free ones, thereby compelling consumers to pay for the ones under MAPS. Right now, there are several consumers that have applied for meters even under the MAPS that are yet to be supplied. This is despite all manner of promos claiming that  the meters would be installed after a certain period. Those promos are in most cases honoured in the breach. There won’t be feedback from the DisCos months after registering for meters, even as several people have paid for meters that are yet to be delivered, months after. We envisaged the current hiccups in the arrangement right from the time the government made its intention to introduce free meters known because we understand the socio-cultural milieu in which we operate. We knew the simultaneous running of NMMP and MAPS was prone to abuse because several other good intentions of the government have ended up badly at the level of implementation. The government comes up with programmes and projects that it hands over to public servants for implementation, without asking for progress report. This is probably the situation with the DisCos and prepaid meters. We therefore urge the sector’s regulatory agency, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to focus on this essential aspect of the power sector mix. The commission has to redouble efforts with regard to monitoring of the distribution companies. With the level of corruption in issuing of meters, the DisCos would have sacked several of their personnel involved in the process if they are genuinely desirous of punishing those of them who unduly problematise the process. The NERC could do some sting operations in this regard to expose the stench in the system. NERC owes electricity consumers the responsibility of saving them from the DisCos’ disingenuous way of frustrating the NMMP. It is not the business of consumers to buy meters for their operations or pay for the repair of transformers as is the case in some places. Nothing that is not the business of electricity consumers should be foisted on them.