An unspecified numbers of travellers have been abducted on Damaturu-Maiduguri Expressway. A source said Boko Haram, working in concert with ISWAP, attacked travellers at Goni Matari village between Mainok and Jakana in Borno State. Goni Matari village is one of the red spots on the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway where many attacks have occurred. A driver told our correspondent that the terrorists set ablaze six heavy-duty trucks, including two petroleum tankers. “We came across the attack on our way to Damaturu from Maiduguri. It was around past nine and the road was blocked. We later got report that Boko Haram was attacking ahead of us in Goni Matari near Jakana. “From what we heard, they took some travellers away but I cannot say the exact number of people they kidnapped. We are praying that God should bring an end to this problem,” the driver said. Another traveller, who was on appointment with a consultant at the Yobe State University Teaching hospital, was also trapped on the road due to the attack. The traveller said he saw six trailers in flames including two petrol tankers.   Customs seizes N755m cars, consumables in Niger     Police give N64m to deceased operatives’ families     EFCC arrests 19 suspected Yahoo boys in Kogi   The attack took place in the early hours of yesterday at about 9.00am. The road was temporarily closed as troops of Operation Handin Kai arrived at the scene. There was no official statement at press time but it was learnt that the terrorists were chased away with airstrikes and ground offensive by troops. Hajia Laure Mai-Kunu, the aged mother of the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for Kano Central senatorial district, Abdulsalam Abdulkarim Zaura, was yesterday kidnapped by gunmen. She was abducted at her home in the early hours of yesterday before the Muslims’ call to prayer, it was learnt. Police spokesman Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, confirmed the incident to The Nation. He said the Commissioner of Police has ordered a manhunt for the abductors and the rescue of the woman. Appealing for calm, he assured the aged woman would be rescued unhurt. “The Command has since mobilised its personnel with a view to rescuing the victim and arresting the culprits,” Kiyawa said, adding that he will update The Nation after investigations. Chairman of Ungogo Local Government, Engr. Abdullahi Garba Ramat, also confirmed the incident to newsmen.