I dreamt I saw an eye In your hands Glittering, wet and sickening Like a dull onyx set in a crown of thorns I did not know you were dead When you dropped it in my lap … — Kwesi Brew, “The Executioner’s Dream” No, no, no one died — not by the hand of an executioner; not by any other. Rather, it was eye restoration by a quad of angel-surgeons, on a short procedure to remove a stubborn cataract that for too long had held that eye captive. Did the eye glitter in their hand?  Was it wet too?  Was it sparkling or sickening — like the one the Executioner saw in his dream?  Honestly, you couldn’t say! Your head was bottled up in a surgical muffle, leaving open only the cataract-blocked eye.  You felt only a scratch on the eye, suggesting the lightest of surgical touches. Then, you saw the most enchanting wave of stars, thousands and thousands of them, in blue family colours, cool and gentle, like some galaxy, in some starry paradise.  As the procedure lasted, the richer the galaxy, and the sweeter the colours. Any pains?  Hardly.  The light sedation took a good care of that.  But you were all nerves, though calm — laying there all helpless; at the mercy of God and the skilled hands of the surgeons; and praying furiously! There, you suddenly remembered that cynical quip: “Danger averted, God forgotten!”  How futile and foolish!  How could you even forget God, any time, in prosperity or in adversity, since He held all the aces over all creatures? What if something went wrong?  What if there were some complications, which threw the surgeons at the end of their wit and skill?  What if the eye was never the same again?  What if … Then, the sing-song voices of Dr. Omolola Okunade and her surgeon peers, exchanging banters and helpful clinical ideas, wafted across to you at the other side of numb consciousness.  That cooled your nerves. “Are you okay?  Are you comfy?” came the calm yet bright voices. “Yes, ma’am”, you returned. All of them were women, save the surgical assistant, who had earlier thrown rib-cracking riffs at your gaunt psyche, as you waited, all anxiety, with some five other patients at the theatre’s dressing room and waiting wing. Still, the procedure couldn’t have gone off to a more worrying start.  The old lady that just got off the surgery bed suddenly declared she couldn’t see — not with the left eye just operated upon (which was patched up, anyway) but with the right, untouched by the surgeon’s scalpel. “How come?” The doctors wondered aloud, “we didn’t touch the other eye?”  Even then, there was no panic, just some nonplussed wonder.  That got you, the next patient, asking; and your nerves jangling: would I have the same complaints after? You later got to know the eye was okay; that nothing was amiss, save patients’ post-surgery theatrics, which the surgeons were used to.  As that reassuring piece of news drifted to you, you felt relief and bolstered confidence. The journey to the Victoria Island eye theatre of Skipper Eye-Q, an Indo-Nigerian chain of eye hospitals, boasting 42 eye hospitals in India and Nigeria; and tucking 14 years of eye care under its belt, dated back to no less than five years.   Fanatics or lunatics?     Before South East self-destroys     Election-eve games   Driving on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway on a travel jaunt, Ripples blinked and felt some light clouds floating on the left eye.  That cloudy see-saw would continue as the cataract grew, and well-nigh “captured” the eye. An earlier attempt at surgery, at the Guinness Eye Centre of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), was aborted: no thanks to a high sugar level, which called for a radical change of diet. But as the surgery got delayed, so did the anxiety mount.  Meanwhile, for the eye, no respite, as you flogged it in routine daily labour: acute research, writing and never-ending deadlines, and even more endless glare at the computer screen! You could bank on public sector doctors, more so at teaching hospitals like LUTH.  The cost too was not unreasonable. But not so the indifferent, condescending medics; and their rude support staff — not to mention the market-like crowds on consultation days! But can you on private hospitals — on delicate procedures as the eye?  How much can you trust these folks, in an ultra-delicate procedure: a precise operation that left almost a zero margin of error?  If you could, can you pay the huge service cost? The anxiety to commit, even after sound referrals!  Then, the fearful fire to burn your pocket! In its Facebook promotional pitch, Skipper Eye-Q claimed that in all of its facilities, patients got the quality treatment they would in the United States, or in the United Kingdom, India or any other part of the globe.  It not only boasted the latest technology in eye care, it had also, under its wings, world-class surgeons. If the taste of the pudding were in the eating, the hospital was all that and more — if you had the cash! From its Ilupeju tributary where Ripples linked up after referral from Hillcrest Hospital, one of The Nation  official clinics, to its Victoria Island head hospital and theatre, Skipper Eye Q was the epitome exceeding care: pre- and post-surgery; and certainly during the procedure itself. Sure, the cost was stiff!  Not many could afford the N400, 000 to N900, 000 bracket, minus pre-surgery tests (to reconfirm the eye’s vitality, aside from testing for Glaucoma) to ensure cataract was the only problem.  For those tests, add another N55, 000.  The stiff cost of an eye! But it’s as they say: if education is expensive, try ignorance!  If value is costly, try quackery!  The hefty cost of an eye! This imperative for value in critical surgeries again makes the urgent case for mainstreaming health insurance.  With vibrant health insurance, much of the cost would be absorbed: from the low-end to the premium surgical and general healthcare market; and much more could afford critical value at far cheaper costs. For now, Ripples is all thanks for the doughty institutional support by The Nation.  From Victor Ifijeh, managing director and editor-in-chief, to about everyone, the support was awesome!  Thank you folks. The Editorial Board?  My peers in there were something else!  Sam Omatseye’s call came just as Ripples was being prepped for surgery!  You know how awesome that felt? Then, Mrs Omatseye, goodly woman!  She was prayer advocate-in-chief on her prayer-warrior WhatsApp platform!  All this from a woman I’d met only twice!  Thanks all so much madam. God bless you and yours! My colleagues on the Editorial Board, can I ever thank you enough — your sweet yet unobtrusive inquiries, love-wrapped care and wishes, telephone calls, heal-soon text messages?  Thanks guys! For readers, fulsome apologies for missing in action for two long weeks!  That’s pretty much eternity in Nigeria, where events tumble out at a crazy pace!  Thanks too for your texts and good wishes. Now, where did we leave off?  It’s time to play catch-up!