The air cargo market continues to lose altitude in the face of  economic slowdown and supply chain dislocations. Whether swiftly changing conditions enable airlines’ cargo business to swing it back to positive territory this summer, remains uncertain. Air freight volumes tumbled seven per cent last May, replicating April’s slide, as the Ukraine war, large-scale COVID-19 lockdowns in China, soaring inflation and high interest rates slowed global output and consumption, according to figures released by Clive Data Services. Demand for air cargo service was also  lower in May 2019, before the pandemic, the air intelligence arm of freight rate benchmarking and analytics, firm Xeneta, reported. Meanwhile, available capacity increased four per cent from the year prior but still remains at a 12 per cent deficit compared to 2019. The change in supply and demand resulted in substantially lower aircraft utilisation, as the average load factor dropped nine points to 60 percent. The reduced competition for shipping space led to lower rates, although they still remain quite elevated relative to historical norms. Rates in May were still 16 per cent greater than last year and 134 per cent above 2019, but about 10 points less than in April.   Over $600b lost to floods, storms     MSMEs need tax deferrals, finance to grow, says DBN     How to curb yearly $89b loss to illicit financial flows, by…   Some of the biggest changes were in the North Atlantic market, where passenger airlines have rapidly reintroduced passenger services for the summer season in response to fewer travel restrictions and strong bookings. The large number of wide-body aircraft that can carry people and cargo has added a large amount of capacity in a short period. May capacity was 82 per cent higher than last year, up from 44 per cent  in March. In the past weeks, load factors in the Europe-North America trade lane plunged to 64 percent  from 82 percent  in March. May’s dynamic load factor — the amount of cubic capacity filled by cargo — was also 22 points lower than a year ago, compared to March when the decline was only seven  points. In the last week of May, rates from Europe to North America actually had negative year-over-year growth for the first time in two years, Clive Data Services said. High fuel costs passed through to customers are one reason analysts say rates haven’t fallen more. “The Atlantic market is interesting to follow to see how rates shift in the coming months, as it might be how other markets will develop when the capacity of passenger flights returns to its former level and beyond,” said Niall van de Wouw, Clive’s founder and now chief airfreight officer at Xeneta.