Chelsea legend and former Super Eagles captain John Mikel Obi is set to create an opportunity to stardom for young and talented Nigerian athletes. Mikel who started out as an academy player in Jos, Plateau State and rose to the highest level; leading the Nigeria football team to both the World Cup and Olympic Games said he is keen to create a pathway for others to succeed through sports the same way he did. The 35-year-old who is one of the only three Nigerians to have lifted the prestigious UEFA Champions League trophy is ready to use his new Back2Base programme to uplift hundreds of other young talented Nigerians The former midfielder fondly referred to as The Catalyst is also willing to put to use his global connections to help the talented young Nigerians not just in football but also in basketball and tennis.   India 2022: Senegalese officials arrive for Flamingos,…     We enjoy working with Peseiro, says Yusuf     French Open : Nadal hints about  retirement   The maiden edition of the Back2Base programme holds between June 9th and 11th  at the University of Lagos, Sports Centre, Yaba. “Opportunities don’t happen, you create them. Someone created an opportunity for me and It’s been a dream of mine to do the same for young, talented Nigerian athletes, ”  said Mikel who was appointed by the Federal Government as one of its Youth Ambassadors in 2011. “I would like to announce the first edition of my Back2Base program which will give aspiring professional athletes the opportunity to showcase their talents in sports like Football, Basketball and Tennis.” Mikel who is well-known for his philanthropic gestures,  has  also promised  to reward the outstanding youngsters with cash gifts. He said: “A monetary price will be awarded to the most promising athletes across the three sports. They will also be hosted to an exclusive dinner with me where a mentorship session will be held.” The three-day event will also afford young kids a rare privilege to see and have photo opportunities with Mikel’s Champions League medals.