Abia State Governor of Abia State Okezie Ikpeazu has directed herders and those living inside bushes and forests around Umunneochi Local Government Area of the state to quit with immediate effect. The directive followed the outcome of the meeting the governor had with stakeholders of the local government over the incessant kidnapping and killing of residents by suspected gunmen. Ikpeazu also directed the Commissioner of Police (CP) in the State, Janet Agbede, to join hands with youths in the local government to provide immediate security on the Ihube-Isuochi Road stretch from Ngodo through Lomara Junction all the Way to Ihube. The governor told the council chair, Ifeanyi Madu, to open the road from Ihube through Lomara Junction to Ngodo Isuochi. A statement by nformation Commissioner Eze Chikamnayo reads: “The Commissioner of Police, Abia State has been mandated to draw up logistic requirements for mounting six additional check points at strategic locations across Umunneochi Local Government Area.   Eagles to give 100  percent against Leone Stars , says Aribo     Power must shift to south, Akeredolu insists     NYSC boss seeks Gowon’s support for scheme’s trust…   “Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu hereby directs that all settlers, herders and individuals residing inside the forests around Umunneochi LGA to vacate such locations with immediate effect. “Government can no longer guarantee the safety of any person or group found to be residing in the forests around Umunneochi LGA. “All cows and herders around Umunneochi LGA are hereby restricted strictly to the Cattle Market located at Umuchieze until a final decision is reached concerning the menace in the Cattle Market. “The leadership of the youths of Umunneochi LGA, vigilante groups, hunters and the Hausa community will continue to meet with the governor until an amicable solution is found to the incessant cases of Insecurity in the area. “His Excellency, Governor Okezie Victor Ikpeazu urges all parties to show restraint and circumspection in their utterances and actions in order to maintain the peace and promote peaceful coexistence of all law abiding citizens.”