If you have ever met Hon. Adetoke Benson-Awoyinka, one thing is archetypal about her personality. She does not give in to mediocrity and never settles for less all her life. She loves to raise the bar high and her taste is top-notch more reason all she achieved all her life comes with resounding success. She is no run-of-the-mill with her background as a seasoned technocrat and legal practitioner with years of experience and practice in Insurance Law including Underwriting policies, Risk and Claims Management, Litigation, Probate and Land matters before delving into the murky waters of politics. Just like the fabled Kahrites the greek goddess of grace, beauty, adornment, joy and mirth, the law graduate from the Lagos State University LASU is pure-hearted. Despite being a lawyer and technical consultant; Head of Corporate Strategy and Policy implementation at Dvyn Inc. in the United States, she never forgot her roots in advocating for better governance. She returned to Nigeria to form a team that crafted the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) whose main aim was for the development of Western Nigeria.   Another laurel for Akinwale Abidakun     Olori Afolabi’s giant strides     Wife, parishioners celebrate one year after TB…   On her return, it didn’t take long for her leadership skills and ability to think outside the box to be noticed. In 2019, she was appointed Special Adviser on Housing to the Governor of Lagos. After over three years in charge, the housing ministry has witnessed massive revitalization, coordination and regularization. With lofty ideas, she ensured proper regulatory measures within the real estate development sector in Lagos State. She also ensured strict compliance and adequate punishment for defaulters. As of today, the housing sector has witnessed a massive boom which is giving birth to the urbanisation of Lagos to meet the mega city status and also meet the housing deficit according to the teeming demand. On June 12, the soft-spoken woman celebrated her 55th birthday with not much fanfare. Although she was celebrated by well-wishers to the high heavens with plenty of phone calls, newspaper advertorials, text messages, text messages and social media posts. Unlike last year, when she threw a big soiree in Lagos, she chose to celebrate on a very low profile with her immediate family and few friends.