JIBRIN:  I am Jibrin from Kogi State. I am a state pensioner on federal share pay roll. Following my complaint to The Nation that I was not paid my December 2021 pension, I wish to inform the newspaper that I have been paid. But I am yet to be paid my gratuity since my retirement in 2010. I am imploring the newspaper to request PTAD to do the needful on my gratuity. I wish the entire staff of PTAD well. May God continue to guide and protect them in piloting the affairs of the organisation. OKUNOLA: Dear Omobola, some former staff members of the defunct NITEL and I were verified since January 20I8, but we are yet to be paid. On April 5, last year, when you interviewed the Secretary of PTAD, she said we would be paid by June. I let you know that we are yet to be paid. Kindly save me and others from this ugly situation through your good office. MICHAEL: Dear Omobola, I am a federal pensioner with PTAD. Is it possible for me to be paid off once and for all without waiting for monthly pension again? The reason is that I am contemplating relocating abroad for good. I wait for your kind reply. ADESIYAN: Good day, I am Adesiyan, one of federal pensioners in Osun State. Do you have any information about the non-payment of our pension allowances for January and the balance of our arrears for last year? Thanks and God bless you. GEORGE: I am a pensioner with federal share. I have been logging into the website www.ptad.gov.ng for the “I AM ALIVE” pilot scheme, but the computer keeps telling me that I am not selected. Please verify and let me know. PTAD might have sent the text message to me in error. Meanwhile, I am yet to see the reaction of my last enquiry in The Nation. BAYI: My name is Bayi, from Plateau State. I retired in April 1999 from FBN Plc. They started paying me pension in May 2011. Since then, my pension arrears haven’t been paid. Verification was done in 2017. And we were told to wait for payment, but nothing till date. I also haven’t received my arrears for 11 months, but I saw the first one  – seven months for minimum wage.   ‘Pension fund assets rise by N1.53 trillion in one year’     Micro Pension Plan: Hope for informal sector workers     Pension complaints and solutions   Also, a man Paul M, said his pension from August 1997 to July 2018, has not been paid; one Gyet Dangana Mwanti, pension arrears for six years has not paid. There is one Yuwana Gokop who is not on your payroll since February 2010 till date, Ditto Mohmmed Usman. While PTAD says it has paid N70 billion to pensioners, many pensioners and NOKs from Plateau State have not been settled. OBUBA: I am Obuba from Abia State. l retired on SGL l6 from the Federal Government and Abia State government. My complaint is on the non- payment of gratuity since August 2008 ABDULKAREEM: My name is Abdulkareem. I am a federal pensioner from Lokoja, Kogi State. I have not received my December 2021 monthly pension. Kindly let me know if I am omitted from the bank schedule or is it just a delay? Thanks you. ADELOLA: I am Adelola, an Osun State pensioner that have federal share. I have not received my February 2022 monthly payment. My gratuity, too, has not been paid since 2000. Kindly help me. MEDU: I am Medu. I retired in 2006 under the old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension arrears of January and March 2015 were omitted. After my complaint, I did what I was told to do. I went to PTAD up to five times, but to my surprise, each time I went, they would tell me ‘no funds’ yet to pay. My complaints were published several times in The Nation. Please intervene. Help me to recover my arrears, including my gratuity and omission of three months arrears as contained in my verification with PAPD. I have also not been paid minimum wage arrears as contained in my complaints form submitted on July 5, 2021 to PTAD office. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore Jibrin, Okunola, Michael, Adesiyan, George, Bayi, Obuba, Abdulkareem, Adelola and Medu should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PTAD.