Condemnations have continued to pour in over Sunday’s massacre of innocent worshippers at St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, described the attack as a shameful, cowardly, mindless act of terrorism. He said: “I condemn, in the strongest terms, the attack on innocent people inside St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, which led to the gruesome killing of many, including women and children. “The mindless act, committed in a church, where many gathered to seek spiritual solace and worship God, has tilted the scale in our nation’s war against terror. Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde described the attack, as barbaric and condemnable. Makinde called on security agencies to bring the perpetrators of the heinous crime to book. He said: “My deepest condolences to my brother, His Excellency, Rotimi Akeredolu, the people of Owo, families of the victims and Ondo State, on the dastardly attack on worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo.   Owo Church Attack: Police recover unexploded bombs     Owo Church Attack: Tinubu, NGF donate N125m to victims     Owo Church Attack: Ooni, Sultan, Olubadan express anger   Similarly, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State condemned the massacre by men suspected to be Fulani herdsmen. In a condolence message to his Ondo State counterpart, Rotimi Akeredolu, he said the gruesome murder is condemnable by any right thinking member of the society. He urged the security operatives to spread their dragnets to all nooks and crannies in order to apprehend the perpetrators and bring them to justice. Ortom stated: “This is one incident that the federal government must not allow to be swept under the carpet. This has reached a dangerous level that cannot be taken lightly. That is why all Nigerians must rise up against these murderous Jihadists and ensure that they are fished out and brought to justice to end their menace against Nigeria. Enough is enough.” The Northern Governors Forum said it is infuriated over the attack on worshippers at the St. Francis Catholic Church Owo, Ondo State which left many dead and others injured. Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Plateau State Simon Bako Lalong said the Forum totally condemned the unprovoked attack on the Church and its worshippers which is a clear attempt by criminals to instigate religious hatred and inflame passions among Nigerians. While commiserating with the survivors, families of victims, the Catholic Church and the Christian body in Nigeria, Lalong said the Northern Governors want security agencies to do all that is possible to apprehend those behind the sacrilege, their sponsors and collaborators.