To commemorate the International Day Against Drug Abuse, stakeholders in the security sector on Monday joined forces to educate secondary school pupils in Lagos on the negative impacts of narcotics, other illicit substances. The stakeholders, who converged on the Ikeja Grammar School Hall, Bolade, Oshodi, for a seminar organised by the Crime Reporters Association of Nigeria (C4AN),  noted that the issue had become a national emergency that required all hands on deck to contain. The Commander, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Lagos State Command, Ayinde Aileru, said  hard drugs posed serious threat to the nation, urging young people to resist all pressures that could lead them to taking illicit substances. Alleru who was represented by Assistant Commandant, Asset and Financial Investigations, Oke Semai, urged parents to watch out for some signs in their children, with a view to detecting whether they were into drugs. “Some of the signs are withdrawal from friends, bloodshot eyes, poor performance at school, changes in physical appearance, sudden wearing of perfume, licking sweets among others,” he said. CRAN President,  Olalekan Olabulo, said the wave of drug addiction has tipped the nation into a boiling conundrum as the youths, especially students and pupils, abused substances everywhere daily. “Most of them ingest substances such as cough syrups, Marijuana and off-the-counter drugs like rophynol, tramadol, diazepam and lexotan, which are controlled drugs that should only be sold after a doctor’s prescription. “The consequence has led to the prevailing cases of banditry, kidnapping, unwanted pregnancies, burglary, broken homes and an upsurge in crime.The crises have become worse, exacerbating into economic, social and physiological, which if unchecked, portends grave danger to the society at large,” he said. Commissioner of Police (CP) Lagos Command, Abiodun Alabi, who was represented by the command’s spokesman, SP Benjamin Hundeyin, said: “Taking drugs can get you mad, distabilise your future. Students should shun crimes, remain focused so that you will not end in prison.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     2023 election: IGP approves retreat for senior police…   “Don’t try to engage in drugs, do not fall for peer pressure, when you start engaging in drugs, it will truncate your future and you will become a nonetity. “When a minor or teenager commits a grievous offence, he or she will be jailed in the juvenile prison except when it is a minor offence,” Alabi counselled An official of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Taiwo Adeboyega, said that human traffickers take drugs to sexually abuse their victims. Sometimes, drugs are added to victims’ drinks to make them do what they do not want to do. Some packaged drugs in their belongings and move them from one location or  country to another,” he said. Dr Isaac Olatunde of Global Initiative on Substance Abuse, a Non- government Organization (NGO), said that taking hard drugs can affect the central nervous system and brain. “When taking drugs, it affects your reasoning faculty and sense of judgement. Be determine to make your future bright, do not be involved in drug so that your tommorow can be great,” he said. Founder, Action Now Against Drug Abuse, Mrs Yewande Iwoha, said so many destinies have been derailed by drugs, urging the pupils not to join them. Rather than indulge, she said they should get involved in sports, paintings and other vocations that can fetch them money. “Do not be tempted to taste it because if you do, you will get deeper and even become addicted to it,” she warned. The Nation reports that over 180 pupils drawn from nine schools in the Ikeja, Oshodi and Mushin districts participated in the seminar with some of them making vital revelations the enforcement agencies vowed to follow up on.