National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Abdullahi Adamu has told the National Campaign Council for the Osun State governorship election to ensure victory. He told the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led the 86-man campaign council that the National Working Committee (NWC) will not accept anything short of victory. Adamu spoke yesterday while inaugurating the council in Abuja. He said: “Just about a week ago, we faced the challenge that was posed by the governorship election of Ekiti State, but with God’s grace, we scaled with flying colours. The next hurdle we have is to confront with all vigour is the Osun State governorship election. We must be prepared to face the election eyeball to eyeball. There is no sparing for any reason whatsoever. We are going there to win by the grace of God. “I urge you to go there and do whatever is doable within the laws of Nigeria and our electoral laws to win. My tolerance level and this NWC level for failure is zero. Nobody should come back to us crying, failure is not our own by the grace of God. Whatever it takes within the laws of the land, I said go for it and win the election.   Lagos inaugurates floating clinic for riverine communities     Oyebanji, Afuye get Certificates of Return     Osun monarchs: Oyetola deserves re-election   “We are winning the battle of the states, but the real war to be won is the presidential election in 2023. And I do hope that we will not spare efforts to ensure that we come back victorious.” Co-Chairman of the campaign team Governor Umar Ganduje of Kano State maintained that for victory, the party must ensure reconciliation among all the political stakeholders before the election. “Reconciliation is necessary so that we will believe in each other. We agreed that all stakeholders in Osun State will come together and constitute one single force to win this important election. “I am happy the secretary of our great party is from Osun State, and I think he is very useful to this election…” Ganduje also urged stakeholders in the state to add value to their preparedness and ensure victory in all the 30 local government areas.