Comparison  of Victor Osimhen and late legendary striker  Rashidi Yekini is inevitable after the Napoli striker struck four times against Sao Tome and Principe in a 2023 AFCON qualifier in Agadir on Monday  but can he surpass  the Super Eagles’ all-time scoring  record  of his illustrious predecessor? MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN  reports.   By accounting  for four goals in the Super Eagles 10-0  record thrashing  of  Sao Tome and Principe in their  2013  AFCON Group A Matchday Two  qualifier on Monday, comparison  between Napoli striker Victor Osimhen and late striker  Rashidi Yekini, Nigeria’s  all-time top scorer, is inevitable. Incidentally  ,Yekini was  the last player to have  scored four goals  in national team colours in Nigeria’s  7-1  victory against Burkina Faso  at the National Stadium in Lagos on  27th July 1991. Osimhen’s four goal haul at  Grand Stade de Agadir in  Morocco took his tally  to 15 goals  in just 23 international caps for Nigeria   as compared to  Yekini’s record 37 goals  in 62  international caps- from  a period  spanning almost two decades  between 1983 and 1998. Incidentally, Osimhen who  made his breakthrough  with the Golden  Eaglets in 2015 , only got his first international cap under former German  coach Gernot Rohr  after he came on as a second half substitute for captain Ahmed Musa in the 3-0 thrashing of Togo in a friendly match at the Stade Municipal de Saint Leu La Foret in Paris on  1st   June 2017. But in just five years between June 2017 and June 2022, the 23-year-old  former Lille striker  has given himself an average of  almost two goals per game  fuelling suggestions that  he has the ammo to eclipse his late striking precursor Yekini who was  the first Nigerian to be crowned the African Footballer of the Year in his heyday. Like Yekini, Osimhen  already has a huge reputation in his fledging career after he broke the long-standing record of nine goals in a single tournament  jointly held by Frenchman Florent Sinama Pongolle and Ivorian Souleymane Coulibaly as his 10 goals  led Nigeria to win a record fifth FIFA  U-17 World Cup  at Chile 2015. He was deservedly voted the 2015 Best African Youth Player of the Year. “ It will be good  that the  new generation of players surpass  the record set by the older generation,” coach Emmanuel Amuneke who succeeded  Yekini as the African Footballer of the Year in 1994, told NationSport.“But we can’t  forget what the older generation did in the past  and as you know, all players have their own eras even at that  Yekini  will always remain special. “ Players like Yekini  always come in a generation and we can recall all that he did in terms of his goal scoring record both at the club and national team levels. “ But with a progressive mind such as mine, I’m really happy with the progress being made by the likes of Victor Osimhen and wherever Yekini is (may his gentle soul rest in peace), I know he would be happy with what Osimhen is doing today. “We can only wish Osimhen the best in his career both at national team level and at club level too, “added the former Barcelona winger. Nevertheless Garba Lawal, the midfield Trojan who earned 57 international caps with the Super Eagles, has called for caution , saying it’s presumptuous  to start comparing  Osimhen  with Yekini who made the continent his oysters in his lifetime. Now a member of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Technical Department, Lawal , a  soccer gold medallist  with the all-conquering  national Under-23 team to the Atlanta 1996 Olympics,  weighed in on the matter. “Osimhen is a good striker with good physique and all that,” Garba, who featured in four  African Cup of Nations between  2000 and 2006, told NationSport. “ He  is very young  and he has a lot of future with the Super Eagles; but I think it is too early to compare him with Rashidi  Yekini ( may his  soul rest in peace). “You make me  remember my mentor, the all -time goal scorer for the Super Eagles;  all hail  the gangling striker,” Garba noted matter-of-factly. As the  saying goes, ‘soldiers come and go  but the barracks remain’  as such,   the revolving doors  of national teams from  Nigeria to Netherlands (Holland) and from Brazil to Belgium  had seen  generations of players  of different eras. For years, outstanding comparisons  in international football include  that  of  legendary Brazilian Pele (Edson Arantes do Nascimento) and  his Argentine counterpart  Diego Maradona  and lately there has been a huge debate about who is  better between Argentine Lionel Messi and Portuguese  Cristiano Ronaldo. “Long before it was ‘Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo?’ The debate over which player is the greatest of all time was dominated by Pele and Diego Maradona,” noted   football news outlet , Goal.com. “Pele’s exploits for Brazil and Santos earned him the nickname O Rei, or ‘The King’, as he helped the Selecao light up the football world from the late 1950s into the early 1970s. “The South American pair (Pele and Maradona)  did not play in the same era, like Ronaldo and Messi, with Maradona taking up the mantle in the 1980s into the 1990s, but that didn’t stop the comparisons.” Still this week, former Holland manager Marco van Basten stirred the hornet’s nest by rating Messi over Ronaldo even as he said that ‘anyone that thinks Cristiano Ronaldo is better than Lionel Messi knows nothing about football’. “Cristiano is a great player, but those who say he is better than Messi know nothing about football, or they are saying it in bad faith,” the 57-year-old told Corriere dello Sport. “Messi is one of a kind; impossible to imitate and impossible to repeat. A player like him comes along every 50 or 100 years. As a kid, he fell into the football genius pot.” Meanwhile, Osimhen  is gradually fulfilling the potentials  he showed as a teenage sensation  at the national under-17 level  where  he remarkably scored  four goals in a single tournament  at the 2015 CAF U-17  Africa Cup of Nations in Niger   en route to  Chile 2015 where he broke  the FIFA U-17  World Cup scoring record. With his impressive performances for the Golden Eaglets’ class of 2015, Osimhen is one of the best strikers in the Golden Eaglets’ all-time record as his 51 goals in 79  (including 48 local friendlies; 15 international friendlies; 9  AFCON U-17 matches  and 7  FIFA U-17 World Cup matches) averaged  64 per cent. This coming slightly behind that of Kelechi Iheanacho and Success Isaac who respectively scored 35 goals in 49 matches (71 percent ) and 33 goals in 49 matches (67 per cent ) for the FIFA U-17 World Cup UAE 2013-winning team blooded by coach  Manu Garba. “Whenever I score a goal I feel great and happy,” Osimhen, a great admirer of three-time African Footballer of the Year, Ivorian Didier Drogba, said in a file interview with this writer. “But when I scored the goals and the team doesn’t win, it makes me feel bad because goals are always important when they win games.” Yet Yekini, the scorer of Nigeria’s historic  first FIFA World Cup goal at the USA’94, is regarded  as Nigeria’s own Messi for his incomparable stature  with any  other Nigerian strikers. In an interview with NationSport,   erstwhile Sport Editor of Tribune, Ade Somefun who was a close confidant of the late Shooting Stars  of Ibadan  striker, said   time may  well  be on the side of Osimhen to break  Yekini’s  long-held  scoring  record with the national , he insisted that his bosom friend  was indeed an enigma. “Osimhen to me,  is a faster or should l say quicker player on the ball, sharp and a good header,” the vastly experienced journalist  and administrator told NationSport.“ Yekini  was a deadly striker, who had a knack for goals and knew how  to position himself properly for crosses and passers from his mates to hit the back of the net. “ He was never a fanciful player but business-like on the field of play. It would be hard to get another person in the mould of Rashidi Yekini, a super legend.”   SWAN seeks rancour-free election     Deepening local content through partnership     INEC distributes sensitive materials   He continued: “During his time , Yekini hit the ball very well since he packed power in his shots. “He hardly dribbles but had a way of going past opposing defenders. He was a strong player. He believed in hitting the ball hard and seeing it end at the back of the net. “My humble answer (to whether  Osimhen can break  Yekini’s scoring record) is this: time will tell. But he has the ability and the purpose to go all the way but he (Osimhen)  has to keep his head, work harder and keep it going. “Age is on his side,  so he still has years ahead of him to keep improving and in order to reach  his desired goals,” Somefun noted. Comparing both strikers though, Coach Manu Garba who won Nigeria’s fourth FIFA U-17 World Cup title in 2013 ,equally noted  that age and time is on the side of  Osimhen to break  the 37-goal record  set by Yekini. “Late Rashidi  Yekini was more prolific but Osimhen is more aggressive and hungrier in nature,” the 56-year-old  Garba who has a  First Degree in History, told NationSport. “But I think he (Osimhen)  will surpass the goal scoring record of the legendary Rashidi  Yekini because apart from the ability to convert chances, he is disciplined and has great desire to excel in his career.” Besides his innate qualities,  the duo of  Jonathan Akpoborie and Mutiu Adepoju who  played along with the late  Yekini in the 1990s reckoned that all other things being equal,  Osimhen  is in good position  to  surpass the scoring record set by their teammate. “Of cause, he (Osimhen) is very comfortable with the national team already and they have loads of games to play these days, so it’s just a matter of time (before he surpass the feat of Yekini,” the former Hansa Rostock striker who scored four goals in 13 international appearances for the Super Eagles noted. Ditto two FIFA World Cup veteran, Adepoju, quipped: “I think so (that Osimhen will break Yekini’s scoring record with the national team), because he’s still young and he has lots of years and matches ahead of him to be played. “If he continues like this, it’s just a matter of time (before he breaks the record,” added Adepoju who  earned 48  international caps  with six goals under his belt  including the opener in the 3-2 defeat of Spain at the France 1998 FIFA World Cup. Speaking in the same vein, Patrick Pascal, the Super Eagles’ team coordinator and chairman Bauchi Football Association said Osimhen is good to go as far a breaking  the national team’s standing goal record. “ Osimhen is young and with the way he is going, there is every chance that he would break  Yekini’s record,” noted the former Shooting Stars’ utility player.“ I believe he (Osimhen)  will set new record ultimately.” But despite praises from far and wide following his four goals heroics against  Sao Tome & Principe, the Napoli striker  admitted that  that was no basis for comparison  with his illustrious predecessor. “No matter who surpasses his record, Yekini will still be the best striker of the Super Eagles,” he noted with an air of finality.   NIGERIA’S  ALL-TIME TOP SCORERS   1          Rasheed Yekini             1983-1998         62                     37 2          Segun Odegbami          1976-1981         47                     22 3          Yakubu Ayegbeni          2000-2012         58                     21 4          Ikechukwu Uche            2007-2014         46                     19 5          Obafemi Martins            2004-2013        42                      18 6          Sunday Oyarekhua        1971-1976         34                     17 7          Samson Siasia              1984-1998         49                     17 8          Odion Ighalo                 2015-Till Date    37                     16 9          Ahmed Musa                 2010-Till Date    107                   16 10         Victor Osimhen             2017-Till Date    23                     15