South Africa’s Thembi Kgatlana believed this is the time that Banyana Banyana can dethrone Nigeria. The South African senior women’s team is currently in camp preparing for the upcoming TotalEnergies Women’s Africa Cup of Nations taking place in Morocco from 2-23 July. Out of the five Women’s AFCON finals that Banyana have played, three were against Nigeria, the Super Falcons went to win all of them. However in the recent years Desiree Ellis’ side have been fighting back and have beaten the Falcons twice between 2018 and 2021. The rivals have been pitted against each other in this year’s edition of the competition, alongside debutants Burundi and Botswana in Group C. The Atlético Madrid star, believed  they have what it takes do end Nigeria’s domination. Kgatlana was the stand out player in the last edition held in Ghana, walking away as the player of the tournament and top goal scorer having netted five matches in the competition.   Dstv, GOtv to air Paris Diamond League     Sadio Mane off to join Bayern Munich in £35m deal     Pundits give Peseiro pass mark on new-look Eagles   “I think for a number of years Banyana hadn’t exported a lot of players overseas and that has given Nigeria and other teams the upper hand because they were able to export players,” she told CAFOnline.com. “But then things are starting to look good and exciting for Banyana because we have a number of overseas based players that means they are training every day, physically and mentally, at a high level. Thembi Kgatlana of South Africa celebrates goal during the 2022 WAFCON Qualifier match between South Africa and Algeria on the 18 February 2022 “And we have the Hollywoodbets (Super League) that is on season, that means the coaches will not have a problem getting the players to be fit than playing a tournament and some players are offseason. “I think for a number of years Banyana have struggled because they were not able to export players but things are looking positive now,” she explained. Bragging right of being the best team on the continent are not the only thing on offer for this year’s edition. The top semi finalists will also qualify for the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup.