The police on Sunday said grammy-award winner Domini Ogulu aka Burna Boy would be invited for questioning over the shooting incident that occurred at Cubana Nightclub in Victoria Island. Policemen attached to the singer on Wednesday opened fire in the club following disagreement with other clubbers. It was alleged that an argument ensued between Burna Boy and a man whose wife he allegedly made indecent advances to. Already, all five policemen have been arrested and detained on the instruction of the Inspector-General (IG) Alkali Usman.  Confirming to The Nation that Burna Boy would be invited for questioning, Force Police Public Relations Officer (FPPRO), CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, said his name featured prominently on the shooting incident. He said the IG had directed Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Abiodun Alabi to investigate thoroughly and apprehend all culpable, adding that police would also investigate why the singer had five operatives with him at the time.   Kidnappers abduct four farmers in Ondo     IGP directs CP to investigate Lagos club shooting     Akpabio, Ekpoudom fight over Akwa Ibom APC senatorial ticket   Adejobi who issued a statement confirming the arrest of the policemen, said: “The police personnel alleged and identified in the shooting incident at Club Cubana in Victoria Island, Lagos on Wednesday, June 8, have been taken into custody and are being investigated for their involvement in the incident. “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Usman Alkali Baba, who describes the circumstances surrounding the incident as unbelievable, has condemned in the strongest terms, the unfortunate incident. “Consequently, the IGP has directed the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Abiodun Alabi, to carry out a thorough investigation into the matter and forward his report as urgent as possible for further action.”  In a post on microblogging site, Twitter, a user, Olisa Osega said: “Burna Boy made disrespectful advances at someone’s wife at the club. The man tried protecting his wife and got shot by his men and Burna was there laughing and giggling. He sings about human and social justice but does otherwise on the street. Burna really needs to fix up.” Another Twitter user @Theflowolf, whose friends were shot, confirmed the altercation was as a result of a woman. Narrating what transpired, he said he had invited his friends who came in from England and the United States of America (USA) to club only for bullets flying around to hit them.  He said: “My Guys came to Nigeria from England and USA respectively for a wedding. I invited them out to club Cubana. A petty altercation with Burna Boy’s people arose (because of woman). “The next thing bullets started flying. One got scraped in the head by a bullet and the other one got shot in the leg. “When we rushed him to the Naval Medic Center they said they had no blood and he needed three pints of O+ blood. They said none of us can donate because we had been drinking from the club and then my friend started to shake on the hospital bed like he was losing his life “Two Good samaritan soldiers then offered to give a pint of blood each which was then used to stabilise him. The doctor said the iphone in his pocket which the bullet went through slowed down the bullet making it less fatal, the iphone saved his life.”