No fewer than 10 persons have died in two separate incidents in Bayelsa State in the last 72 hours Yet-to-be-identified gunmen killed Chief Francis Kolibo, the traditional ruler of Ikarama community and Mr Oburu Samuel, Chairman of the Community Development Committee (CDC) of the community in Yenagoa Local Government Area. Community sources claimed the monarch and the CDC chairman were initially abducted on Sunday but by Monday, news filtered into the community that they had been killed. It was learnt the murder of Kolibo and Samuel was not unconnected with chieftaincy tussle in the community. It was also learnt the monarch allegedly stood against illegal oil bunkering in the area, a development that was said to have pitted him against some powerful persons in the area. Spokesman for Bayelsa State Police Command, Asinim Butswat, a Superintendent of Police, confirmed the murder of the two community leaders. Butswat said: “Chief Francis Kolibo and Oburu Samuel were killed by suspected gunmen at Ikarama community, Yenagoa LGA.   BREAKING: UK Police detain Ekweremadu, wife     BREAKING: Suspected Owo terror killers arrested     JUST IN: Abducted Plateau monarch regains freedom   “The circumstances surrounding the incidents are still sketchy. Investigation has commenced.” In another incident, no fewer than eight persons were feared dead in another boat accident at Oyoma, near Oporoma, the headquarters of the Southern Ijaw Local Government Area. The tragedy reportedly involved two boats as one rammed into the other apparently due to bad weather and poor visibility. The accident occurred barely five days after a similar accident, which claimed six lives, happened between Otuan and Ayama waterways of the same Southern Ijaw LGA. Among the deceased six were a female member of the National Youth Service Corps; a mother and her two toddlers; a pregnant woman and a 70-year-old man. The corpses of the NYSC member and the septuagenarian as well as two others had been recovered while two bodies had not been found yet. Bayelsa chairman of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Ipigansi Ogoniba, who confirmed latest accident, said that it involved a local boat and a speedboat. He said: “Yes, we have been there (at the scene of accident). It occurred at Oyoma near Oporoma and eight people died. One of the boats, the local boat, stopped and the other one rammed into it.” Bayelsa Police spokesman Asinim Butswat, also confirmed the Wednesday incident, saying that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area confirmed the tragedy.