Last Saturday will remain a date to remember by public servants in Anambra State, particularly, those in the teaching profession, following frustrations and disappointments that characterised teachers’ online recruitment. Anambra State Governor Chukwuma Soludo was forced on Tuesday to cancel the recruitment examination. His action followed the ordeal of the prospective candidates. The governor also ordered a repeat of the test. Soludo had earlier announced plans by his administration to recruit more teachers to fill up gaps in the education system. The government, through the state’s Ministry of Education, had called for application for recruitment of teachers into the school system. About 40,000 applied for 5,000 vacancies that the state had concluded plan to fill.  About 31,000 candidates were picked for the test. A public announcement on the recruitment reads: “The ministry received 40,000 plus applications. The ministry listed about 31,800 qualified applicants after reviews. Applicants who are too old for civil service, graduates without NYSC discharged certificate or exemption letter and most non-Anambrarians were disqualified. “Against the proposed 5,000 qualified applicants to be shortlisted for CBT exam, the governor directed that the over 31,000 listed applicants should be given equal chance to participate in a preliminary online exam, before shortlisting the successful applicants for second CBT exam. “The preliminary exam will be online and holds on Saturday 4/6/2022 at your comfort zone/home/place and with your device – smart phone, laptop or cyber cafe.The applicants to get ready for the exam by 10:30am on Saturday. “The exam will start off at 11am  on Saturday and will last for one hour (11am to 12noon). “The applicants will receive their login password an hour before the exam time and log in at 10:55am to get set for the exam. Your exam result/score will pop up on your device once you submit. “No second chance, if you miss the exam. “There will be second selection CBT exam for the applicants that will scale through the first preliminary Google online exam successfully. To be announced when due.” Applicants were cautioned not to give money to any person for securing appointment, as it’s not possible and it is also a crime. The statement added that appointment would be on merit. But, prospective teachers had looked forward to the approved date for the exercise with high expectations.   Regrettably, expectations of many of the candidates were, however, dashed owing to logistics challenges ranging from malfunctioning of the website to poor network of the various service providers. While most of the candidates lamented their inability to successfully log in to take the examination due to website malfunctioning, others decried poor network. The examination was scheduled to begin around 10am, but at about 1pm, networks from the service providers were down such that many could not access Google. Even those who were able to log in, the website crashed in less than 30 minutes. Some candidates, who spoke to The Nation, expressed frustrations over the process. Some described the exercise as a scam. They wondered why the government would resort to online recruitment in a clime that is still grappling with internet connectivity, insisting that the arrangement was ill-timed. One of them, Elvis Odebatu, said he regretted applying for the exercise, saying money and time spent trying to sit for the examination were a waste. “We were 30 minutes into the exam when the site went off, thereby causing disruption in the process. We tried as many times as possible without any positive answer as the website kept on throwing us off any time we tried to log in,” he added. Another candidate, Ikechukwu Ibe, said he did not expect such level of exploitation from Soludo-led administration.   Some cyber cafe shops in the state reportedly took advantage of the situation to swindle innocent applicants, frustrated and desperate to partake in the exercise. Some charged as high as N3,500 each with a guarantee of stable network signals, yet the situation prevailed. Some candidates at one of the cafe shops in Awka, who tried to seek assistance from the attendants, expressed frustrations over the situation. They said they spent about N1,000 each to ensure they sat for the exam, but all to no avail. A candidate, who preferred anonymity, said: “Nobody wrote the exam in Onitsha. So, many candidates who came for the exam at the premises of Post Office, Onitsha could not be accommodated. They were directed to Modebe Secondary School where they were asked to pay N3,500 each and write down their names. “At the secondary school, the computers could not log in. Even when people tried to use their phones to log in, it still did not work. Those who collected money from the applicants continued to work on their computers, still there was no response. “People began to question why the commissioner didn’t organise the exams in batches instead of directing thousands of the applicants to visit one site at the same time. So, nobody wrote the test and they left in frustration.   Commissioner for Education, Prof. Ngozi Udeh, denied the allegation that most candidates could not take the exams. She said about 5,600 candidates wrote the computer-based test successfully.   ‘What Nigerian pupils should expect from Queen’s…     Mind Builders scholars on how pupils can get scholarships     Education needs holistic reforms, says NLC chair   She also refuted reports alleging creation of centres for the recruitment test. She insisted that applicants were told to write the test from the comfort of their homes, using their phones and personal computers for the exercise. According to her, the exercise was free. She said: “Maybe the server was bad, I don’t know. But, we have about 5,600 and some fractions of candidates who wrote and submitted their answers. So, because we have complaints, we will report back to the governor and get directives on what to do next. “I have not slept for three days because of this exercise. Shortly after the exam, I received over 3,000 calls on this matter. I don’t know what they meant that the site crashed. “Over 6,000 applicants submitted their papers successfully, and that is what I’m going to report to the governor and not what you are telling me that they complained about.”   Meanwhile, the state governor apologised over technical hitches that characterised the recruitment test. He said, however, that it was uncharitable for anyone to refer to the online test as “Soludo 419’’ as was being tagged in some quarters. Soludo thereafter cancelled the exercise, ordering a repeat. The cancellation may not be unconnected with the technical hitches that marred the exercise. But in a statement on Tuesday, Soludo said the repeat of the exercise was to ensure all eligible candidates were carried along. His Chief Press Secretary, Christian Aburime, in a statement, said: “In line with his objective of ensuring transparency and fairness to all, Anambra State Governor has directed a repeat of the online recruitment exam for teachers in Anambra State. “Governor Soludo has, therefore, graciously directed the Commissioner for Education, Prof. Ngozi Chuma-Udeh to conduct a repeat of the exercise to make up for the shortfall in the Saturday 4th of June preliminary Teacher’s Recruitment Examination. “He has further directed that all expenses for the test be covered by the government.” Aburime said against the proposed 5,000 qualified applicants to be shortlisted for CBT exam, the governor had directed that all the over 31,000 listed applicants should be given equal chance to participate in a preliminary online exam, before shortlisting the successful applicants for second CBT exam. He said the mix-ups arose from the online examinations website crashing. He stated that it was not intended as many had insinuated. “It is in a bid to make up and ensure that all eligible candidates are carried along that the governor has approved a repeat of the exercise. “He assures Ndi-Anambra that their interest will be protected at all time by his administration,” the statement added. The prospective candidates interviewed by The Nation hoped that the repeat test would not face another hitches.   Surprisingly, the teachers engaged by the Parents Teachers Association (PTA) during the administration of former Governor Willie Obiano took  their protest to the State House of Assembly on Tuesday over their sack. They said they were recently converted to permanent staff in Anambra State’s schools, but got sacked by Governor Chukwuma Soludo without any genuine reason. The protesters barricaded the entrance of the state House of Assembly in Awka, as they displayed placards with various inscriptions. Some of the placards read: “Give us back our job”, “Why terminate our appointments after seven months of work without pay?”, “We met the criteria, we were duly employed, please reinstate us” and “Governor Soludo reconsider your stance”. Others read: “Assembly, please intervene and help save our jobs”, among others. Addressing reporters at the Assembly complex in Awka, the spokesperson of the protesters, Mr. Uche Eze, appealed to Soludo to reconsider his position on the termination of newly converted PTA teachers. He also called on the legislature to prevail on the executive to reinstate their jobs. “We are teachers engaged by the PTA to address the acute shortage of teachers in the state’s primary and secondary schools.  Some of us have worked for over 10 years before the last administration decided to hold a recruitment and conversion exercise to make us permanent staff. “About 1,000 of us were shortlisted and we got our appointment letters in November 2021, to resume fully. But, for over seven months, we have not been paid and we have just been told that our appointments have been terminated. “We were asked to go and re-apply in the ongoing online teachers’ recruitment. This is not fair, we were not paid off and we are stranded because they are sending us back to the labour market after we were duly employed.” Addressing the protesters, the Speaker of the Assembly, Mr. Uche Okafor, promised that he would discuss the matter with the governor. “We have heard your complaints and appeals. As your representatives in the Assembly, we are your ears and mouthpiece. So, whatever affects you, affects us. “I want to assure you that we will speak for you by taking this matter to the governor and discuss it, so that you get what is duly yours,” the Speaker assured the sacked teachers.