The suspended priest in the Catholic Diocese of Gboko who left the ecclesiastical temple, Hyacinth Alia, will be flying the flag of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as its gubernatorial candidate in Benue State. His victory at the party’s primary election reverberated like a bolt of thunder. Alia wrestled divinely and spiritually perhaps to get the mandate from other gladiators in the party including Terlumun Paul Ikya; a university don, Prof. Terhemba Shija; Chief Steven Lawani; Dr. Sam Ode; Dr. John Tor Tsuwa; Senator Barnabas Gemade; Barr. Herman Iorwase Hembe; Mark Tersoo Hanmation; Engr Nick Wende and a former minister of Justice, Chief Mike Kaase Aondoakaa. As activities intensify for the 2023 general elections, Alia’s emergence as the APC gubernatorial candidate sends a signal that Benue is one of the states to watch in the 2023 election. To observers, Alia is a first timer and has no political structure, but he shockingly made giant steps and has been identified as “Yes Father.” He has wormed his ways into the heart of many. He had previously said that his divine mission is to wake the state from coma and alleviate the sufferings of people. “After preaching the gospel on the pulpit for 32 years, I decided to extend it to governance” he said. It will be recalled that Alia was suspended from celebrating public Eucharistic mass by the Catholic Bishop of Gboko Diocese, William Avenya, due to his participation in partisan politics.   Survivors recall horror scenes at Port Harcourt church…     SOKAPU distributes relief materials to IDPs from…     FG to establish anti-trafficking squads in 110 unity schools   Bishop Avenya announced his suspension from public ministry “after series of admonitions” to him. Avenya noted in the letter that “the Mother Church does not allow her clerics to get involved in partisan politics on their own.” Reacting, Alia described his suspension as a normal practice by the Church. He also noted that the sacrifice of his suspension was a worthy cause because his mission is to save the soul of the people as well as the state and deliver it from imminent collapse. Regardless of the church’s position, Alia forged ahead and won 12 out of the 23 local government areas of the state with a total of 464,391 votes. He defeated his rivals, Mathias Byuan, who won in one local government and a former Minister of State for Niger Delta, Sam Ode, who won in five LGAs. Armed with his seven-point agenda for the development of Benue, Alia said his mission was to ensure that the government continued to prioritize the needs of residents and the people of the state. Alia will face Titus Uba, the Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly who also emerged as the flagbearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the state’s governorship election. Born on May 14, 1966, Alia attended St. Francis Primary school, Gboko, from where he proceeded to St. James Minor Seminary, Makurdi and then St. Augustine Major Seminary, Jos. He also went to Fordham University, USA for a Master of Arts Degree in Religious Education (Psychology and Counseling). He also schooled in Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, USA for another Masters and Doctorate Degree in Biomedical Ethics.