Deep structural reforms guided by evidences are urgently needed to lift millions of Nigerians out of poverty, says a New World Bank Report. Sluggish growth, low human capital, labour market weaknesses, and exposure to shocks are holding Nigeria’s poverty reduction back, says the report entitled “A Better Future for All Nigerians: Nigeria Poverty Assessment 2022”. The report represents the culmination of the World Bank’s engagement on poverty and inequality-relevant data and analytics in Nigeria in the past two years. According to the report, which brings together the latest evidence on the profile and drivers of poverty in the country, as many as four in 10 Nigerians live below the national poverty line. Taking advantage of the high level of poverty, realtors are deploying some marketing strategies, including  offering  foodstuff  such as rice, beans, semovita, cow, ram, chicken, vegetable oil, among others, to  woo buyers they see as premium customers to purchase land. The competition is intense among property sellers as they struggle to outdo one another with enticing packages. Commenting on the raging battle for survival in the sector, on the sideline of a real estate event in Lagos, the Managing Director,  Family Homes LTD, a sub-Saharan African housing fund focused on affordable homes for low-income bracket, Femi Adewole,  noted that this was expected and healthy  as developers employ innovative methods to increase market share and boost more sales. The competition, according to him, is severe among developers in major cities, especially Lagos and Abuja where the offering foodstuff and other essentials to attract customers and boost their sales orginated. He said: “We are competing with each other on brand ambassadors and influencers from Nollywood. The sing song among the developers seems to be “my brand influencer is hotter than yours. Currently, it’s not unusual now to see these influencers on billboards on busy highways and public places. They also came up with offering cows, goats, chickens, vegetable oil etc, almost to a ridiculous level, in addition to mouth-watering discounts such as buy two plots of land and get one free,” he added. Responding to the trend of brand ambassadors and gifting of foodstuff, President, Nigeria Institute of Town Planners (NITP), Toyin Ayinde, said  the face of  real estate had  hugely changed almost to a ridiculous level recently. Personally, he  said he  can never be swayed by such gimmicks which apparently may appeal to others as the developers have not relented on the advertisement. “Usually during festive seasons the prices of staple foods hit the roof with people looking for a way out. Dangling a piece of land and promising rice, chicken, groundnut oil, pepper and tomato, among others, which customarily add to the  colour of the celebration may be enough temptation and enticement for people who are easily swayed. No doubt it is working, especially for those who build for  the low to middle income bracket,” says Ubong Isaac, a realtor. Though it is predominantly designed to attract those in  the low to middle income segment, Isaac mentioned a particular developer that operates in the high-end market in Ikoyi and Victoria lsland in Lagos who once promised the latest Mercedes range to prospective buyers of his luxury apartments.   Why Lagos prefers voluntary compliance with planning permit     Lagos commissioner makes case for livable environment     Experts seek sustainable environment   A former National Secretary of Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Offiong Samuel Ukpong, said developers were taking advantage of the vulnerability of Nigerians. Ukpong observed  that  Nigerians  were always  ready to get something from nothing most of the time. “Unfortunatelty, some people are easily enticed, the new trend is just a marketing gimmick. Some get duped in the process because the give-aways are built into the cost of the property and there is nothing free about it as far as I know. Though some of these people may actually be in need of a land to buy but, most times, they are blinded by greed and other considerations.” The danger, according to him, is that people may unwittingly buy sub- standard products because of their vulnerability. For the Immediate Lagos Chairman of NIESV Dotun Bamigbola, the trend is an elevated form of marketing. He said: “I must say that the success story on the part of buyers varies and may not be as catchy as the upfront gifts or incentives they have already obtained. Most of the land sold in these packages are not titled at all or are just in the process. Allocation may take more time than necessary. In some cases, the developers don’t deliver as promised or takes longer time to deliver. Then buyers would find out that the food items given can’t compensate for the stress,” he added. Asked if this can be controlled by the government.  He said there may be little in terms of regulation that could be done for now on this. For the Chief Executive, Revolutionplus, a Lagos-based real estate firm, Bamidele Onalaja, the trend is a marketing gimmick to get and retain customers and a way of encouraging prospective home owners. The Nation learnt that many real estate firms engage in the trend, especially during Sallah and Christmas. Speaking on the fad, Onalaja, whose firm commenced operations eight years ago, with housing projects across Lagos, Ogun, Oyo and Abuja,  said the marketing trend was to encourage people to acquire homes. From investigations many real estate firms use this marketing strategy to sell their homes and land.  Some buyers spoken to who received gifts from their realtors said the gifts come in handy during festive seasons. A buyer who claimed anonymity said the gifts he received from his real estate company went a long way to sustain his family. Most buyers lauded the initiative while some said they would not be enticed with gifts of foodstuff to buy a house or piece of land as they believe the cost of the gifts are built into the price of the property for sale. But it seems the trend has come to stay in the sector.