By May 29, 2023, barring any unscripted cataclysm, a new president would be sitting in Muhammadu Buhari’s chair in Aso Rock. It would be just two weeks short of thirty years from the day Nigerians participated in the now historic June 12, 1993 polls won by the late M.K.O. Abiola. At that election, voters turned conventional wisdom on its head and slew one major sacred cow. In electing Abiola, they acceded to the cry for power shift to the South which the late business mogul’s candidacy represented. But that triumph was achieved on a supposedly taboo Muslim-Muslim electoral slate. Already, we are seeing portents that this won’t be your typical election cycle. One by one political conventions which we thought were settled are being casually sacrificed on the altar of expediency. The key calculation for parties and individuals is winning and not necessarily passing the test of political correctness. So, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) assumed that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) which has a Northern incumbent, was likely to choose a Southern candidate. Its best bet was therefore to defy zoning and present another Northerner, hoping regional sentiment would sway things its way. Very few would have predicted that in the current environment when some think a Muslim-Muslim ticket is such a dreadful prospect, that anyone could conceive of a Northerner succeeding a president from a region who would have served eight years in office. To confirm that we’re in unusual times, the ruling party also actively flirted with presenting another Northerner to succeed Buhari right up to the opening day of its convention. Who can forget national chairman, Abdullahi Adamu’s, dramatic announcement to the National Working Committee (NWC) that Senate President Ahmad Lawan was its consensus candidate! But for the heroic intervention of Northern governors, the two leading parties would now have candidates from the same zone as the incumbent. The justification for that outcome would have been the desire to win. In the same spirit, it is easy to predict that APC which wants to retain the presidency would equally take steps that many would have baulked at in a normal election season. That means, for instance, that in picking a running mate for its presidential flagbearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, it would look to the Northwest or Northeast. It would probably choose a serving governor to counter the PDP. But most significantly, that person would be a Muslim – reprising the old Abiola-Babagana Kingibe slate. Predictably, there have been howls of protests from the usual suspects. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and others have jumped into the argument threatening any party that offers the Muslim-Muslim ticket with dire consequences. The danger in making such threats is that you trigger the equally excitable on the other side of the fence to go down the same path. We have seen in the recent past that this sort of activism by religious leaders doesn’t always end well. In the 2014/2015 election cycle, many clerics openly and aggressively canvassed support of their congregations for the candidacy of former President Goodluck Jonathan. It didn’t matter that Yemi Osinbajo who was Buhari’s running mate was a senior pastor in the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG). His aspiration was scorned by many leaders of the Pentecostal persuasion. So, what was the reason for backing one and rejecting the other? What was the Christian agenda in the aspiration of the two men? Unfortunately, for these religious organisations, politicians don’t think like clerics. Zoning, for instance, is done on the basis of region, not faith. It has worked a charm thus far because winning candidates and their running mates have come from the dominant religion in their zone. Things are suddenly complicated now that APC is presenting a Southern Muslim from a region that’s largely Christian.   APC: From consensus to electoral calamity     APC’s 2023 Options: Facts and Fallacies     2023 presidency and the error factor   While matters of faith are very important and people find it comforting when they have political leaders whose religion they can identify with, it is important not to get carried away. As many have pointed out over and again, there’s scant evidence that an office holder’s faith is critical to their performance. There’s also no evidence that your lot is better when your president or his deputy shares your religion. To my mind the prospect of the same-faith ticket is no worse than the casual junking of the zoning principle by parties. Would the religious bodies and others moaning have considered it equitable if the parties offered a running mate role to people of their faith in exchange for those of an opposite faith governing ad infinitum? The problem with the clerical meddling is that sectarian politics is a slippery slope and you never know where to stop. What next after the big fight over religious balancing on presidential tickets? Would we now be debating how many ministers, ambassadors, permanent secretaries, directors etc are Christians or Muslims? It would get to that because if it matters on the election ticket why shouldn’t it matter on these equally important positions? In a way it is to the advantage of APC that the Muslim-Muslim ticket controversy is happening now. The more Nigerians interrogate the concept, the more its irrelevance to resolving the critical challenges facing the country would be evident. And as it was in 1993, by election day it would have been largely defanged as an issue. Indeed, for the PDP and APC it’s not likely to shift the needle significantly in terms of their support or pathway to victory. The opposition isn’t going to make the same-faith ticket an issue against APC in large parts of the North. But it would do so for all it’s worth in the Southeast and South-South which are historically its strongholds anyway. In the Southwest, it’s an issue that leaves many cold. In the end people are largely going to make their choices based on who heads the ticket and not the undercard. In this instance, they would be choosing between two Muslims candidates of the leading parties. This cycle, some would take issue with that last line, arguing that in former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and one-time Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, there are other viable alternatives. I disagree. Everything points to the fact that the 2023 presidential contest, just like those of 2015 and 2019, would largely be between PDP and APC. Between them they control the governorships of 25 states across the country and in this country, incumbency is no small matter. You don’t overturn that sort of advantage with the rickety platforms on which Kwankwaso and Obi are running. There’s excitable chatter online about the former Anambra governor’s bid being driven by youth. But that sort of assertion naively assumes that Nigerian youth are one party united in thought and action. In reality they are just as divided along social and ethnic lines. All the major political parties can lay claim to significant support within this demographic. No matter how positive you want to be, there’s no pathway to the Nigerian presidency for any candidate running on platforms other than APC or PDP. It’s all down to the high bar set by the constitution. To be elected a candidate must win a quarter of votes cast in two-thirds of the states of the federation as well as muster a majority at the election. I suspect that Obi and Kwankwaso supporters understand the kind of odds those they support face. That’s why they are so excited about talk of the Labour Party (LP) and New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP) discussing a merger. The very fact that this on the table is evidence of the weakness of their platforms. Those who are strong enough don’t need coalitions and alliances, they go it alone. Again, I doubt if anything would come of the merger talks because Obi and Kwankwaso both want to be president. If the former wanted to play second fiddle he would have remained in the PDP and fought to run again with Atiku. The same can be said for the former governor who left the main opposition party for a place where he would be king of the hill. In the end their significant role might be how they helped one of the big two to get elected by splitting the vote in Kano in the case of the NNPP. Obi’s base could suck votes away from Atiku in the Southeast when he needs his numbers to hold up in a traditional stronghold. But that’s where it ends. To be president, however, you need more than home support.