The Federal Government has pledged to support the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in positioning the capital market to enhance economic prosperity. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Zainab Ahmed made this known yeterday at the presentation of the Revised Nigerian Capital Market Master Plan (2021-2025). The government, she added, “will continue to support efforts to position our market where it deserves to be – a capital market that will broaden access to economic prosperity by enabling the emergence of financially responsible citizens, accelerate wealth creation and wealth distribution, provide capital to small and medium scale enterprises, and catalyse housing finance”. The finance minister also urged capital market stakeholders to encourage transparency and investor confidence if they want the capital market to grow. She told members of the Capital Market Masterplan Implementation Council (CAMMIC) that to sustain growth and eventually transform the capital market to a world-class capital market, transparency and investor confidence was key. Investor confidence, she said, “will accelerate the growth of our market and increase both domestic and foreign investor participation”. She said the government “will continue to support and strengthen the regulator to effectively do its job of regulating and developing the capital market”. Mrs Ahmed said she sees the capital market as “an important driver of our economic growth objectives”. The minister commended the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Capital Market Masterplan Implementation Council (CAMMIC) and the capital market community for the accomplishments in the Master Plan implementation.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   According to her, “I am also aware of your ongoing efforts on initiatives like direct cash settlement, introduction of derivatives, financial literacy, enhancing market liquidity, incentives for listings, growth of collective investment schemes and leveraging Fintech solutions in the capital market. Dr. Adedotun Suleiman, who represented the Chairman of CAMMIC, lamented to the Minister of Finance that “Fintech is a significant disrupting force in financial markets”. However, he advised that “as we juggle our response to it, we must articulate a plan to utilize the opportunities it presents. I am glad that the Revised Mater Plan has done that”. The revised Master Plan, he noted, “has also itemised important objectives for the regulator to enhance its capacity to deliver on its mandate”. This, he said, is especially important “as without a good referee, the market cannot operate efficiently”. On this account, members of the CAMMIC appealed to the Federal Government “to look into the financial sustainability of the SEC to ensure it is able and fit to regulate and develop our capital market over the long-term”. The Director-General, SEC Mr. Lamido Yuguda said the Master Plan recommends a periodic review of the assumptions, goals and objectives of the Plan to align it with realities and innovations in the global financial system. He said the revised Plan has “incorporated the views and aspirations of stakeholders in our market as well as best practices globally to produce a well-articulated strategic plan for the next four years. The revised Capital Market Master Plan, he added, is designed to “chart the strategic position and future direction of the capital markets, while providing both the SEC and market participants clarity on the vision of the capital market and the road map required to facilitate a conducive business environment to encourage innovation, investment, growth and expansion of economic and employment opportunities in our country. The SEC’s vision, he said, is “to be Africa’s most modern, efficient, and internationally competitive market that catalyses Nigeria’s economic growth and development. “We believe the Plan provides a solid roadmap for achieving this vision as we collaborate with all our stakeholders under your continued support and proven leadership”.