While Apero 1 focused on education, Apero 2 was on Health, Social Welfare and Public Health: How was it done successfully in the Golden Era of the Yoruba. How can it be done now? With a panel of healthcare researchers and providers with a lifetime of experience in public health, Apero 2, like Apero 1, did not disappoint. The Chairman for the session was Professor Funsho Famuyiwa, a pillar of the Apero project. A retired professor of medicine with more than forty years of experience in healthcare delivery, Professor Famuyiwa was one of the first three Board Certified Endocrinologists in Nigeria. The panelists included Professor Oyewale Tomori, Past President of the Nigerian Academy of Science, former Vice Chancellor, Reedemer’s University, a distinguished virologist, and a recipient of the Nigerian Order of Merit. Dr. John Mabayoje has specializations in internal medicine, family medicine, geriatric medicine and emergency medicine. Now he is devoted to building a new model of healthcare. However, before the discussion of healthcare which was the topic for Apero 2 on June 18, there was an unfinished business with Apero 1 on June 11. Due to a scheduling conflict, Pastor Muyiwa Bamgbose‘s presentation on education had to be moved to June 18. An expert in E-learning, Pastor Bamgbose has been ranked as the #9 in E-learning in the world. Actively involved in the reform of education in Oyo State, where he is based, Pastor Bamgbose is also an advocate of entrepreneurial education. Bamgbose identified three categories of problems with the educational situation in the Yoruba nation: government, teachers, and society. The quasi-unitary structure imposed on the country has been a serious challenge. So are corruption, inadequate budgetary provisions, and lack of vision and focus. On teachers, Bamgbose identified inadequacy in numbers and quality, remuneration, training and commitment, many being in the service because they couldn’t get more satisfying jobs. Bamgbose then highlighted leadership deficit, parental ignorance and poverty, celebrity role models with drug problems and yahoo-yahoo connection, peer influence, inadequate facilities, and low literacy in the general population as societal challenges. The question, then, is what to do? Pastor Bamgbose emphasized the need to change with changing times. We must move education delivery to the technological age that we are in. Benefits of technology include, speed, automation, detailed analysis, and lower costs. He identified available technological resources such as flipped learning, flipped classes, dual language instruction, especially with lower classes, and the use of library and archives. He saw beneficial cooperative efforts between the diaspora and the homeland in the matter of dual-language instruction. Apero is looking closely into these ideas for execution. Turning to healthcare, Professor Tomori led the discussion with a passionate presentation on the constitutional provision and the strong and committed leadership that made the Golden Era possible. He argued that politics of selfless service was the instrument that led to the various achievements during the first republic and we must not sideline the ideological orientation of democratic socialism and the Action Group (AG) political party that facilitated it. The AG leadership was renowned for its in-depth policy analysis in education, health, and rural development. The result was a robust educational system that translated into an informed citizenry which also led to achievements in health for the people. Tomori identified the issues militating against adequate health care today as including a volatility in political structure—from a federal to a quasi-unitary one—which has made healthcare reforms impossible. Alongside are infrastructural deficits, due to inadequacy of funding and corruption, health inequity, and shameless dependence on foreign aid. To redeem the Golden Era’s exploits in the area of healthcare, Professor Tomori suggested that Yorubaland must fight inequity with action, not by whining and weeping before donor agencies. We must establish good governance, accountability, and transparency. And we must learn again to be producers and not just consumers, using our resources wisely. He ended with a challenge to Apero to avoid being just a think tank of boilers, plastics, and containers. Rather Apero must be action-oriented. We take up the challenge. Dr. Mabayoje had a great pedigree, his father being the first Board certified Physician in Africa and the first cardiologist in Nigeria. Following in the footsteps of his eminent father, he went into medicine with a social conscience. We have always asked the question, “Where did the rain start beating us?” Dr. Mabayoje’s answer, as far as healthcare delivery is concerned, is when we stopped the regional arrangement, when we abandoned federalism. General Hospital, Lagos was the best hospital in Nigeria in the early 1950s before the University College Hospital, Ibadan started in 1957/58, and became the standard of excellence in teaching, research, and health care delivery. Rural Medical Service (RMS) was compulsory for new doctors and they were well-paid with provisions for car loan and other benefits. That was until 1972 when Brigadier Adefowope was replaced by Col. Ahmadu Alli as the Armed Forces Medical Service representative on the Nigerian Medical Council.   Takeaways from Apero 1     Welcoming APERO     An embodiment of moral politics   Colonel Alli saw the effectiveness of RMS, took it to the Supreme Military Council, and recommended its nationalization as National Youth Service for all university graduates. That, according to Dr. Mabayoje, was the beginning of the crisis of healthcare in the country. It led to the perception of insecurity in the medical profession, and naturally, to brain drain. Dr. Mabayoje also provided an answer to the question: How do we improve the situation? He echoed Buckminster Fuller’s prescription for real change which is to “build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete.” This was what led him to the idea of a brand new system of Rural Medical Care, which involves the physician as the head of a team that includes mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, agriculturists, and architects. Thus, he started a rural development venture with a 50-acre land on the outskirts of Oyo. It is the model of a healthcare cooperative, the template of which is replicable across Yorubaland. Apero takes seriously this model, which doesn’t rely on handouts from government. Finally, the Chairman of the session, Professor, Famuyiwa made a presentation along the same lines, starting with historical anecdotes similar to Dr. Mabayoje’s. Professor Famuyiwa reiterated the importance of Rural and Divisional Health Centers during the Golden Era, as well as the contributions of Public Health Inspectors (Wole Wole) to public health, a point which Professor Tomori also emphasized. It was during the era of the Public Health Inspectors that pit latrines were a feature of every large market and city. This took care of the prevalence of the menace of open defecation. Today, unfortunately, Nigeria has become No. 1 in open defecation. Professor Famuyiwa identified the Ibarapa Health Project of the University of Ibadan as a model worthy of replication. With this model, people took ownership of how and where they were taken care of. Primary Health Centers (PHC), which now appear as the replica of the Ibarapa model, are unfortunately not really so, because PHC facilities are almost always likely to be abandoned by government as soon as they are completed. Professor Famuyiwa suggested that lack of knowledge and understanding about healthcare, lack of access to healthcare, and lack of financial resources for healthcare cost, are the major challenges to healthcare in Yorubaland. To meet these challenges, he recommended a three-way partnership between government, the people, and third parties including NGOs, Corporations, voluntary institutions such as mission hospitals, secondary and tertiary health facilities, and institutions such as the Ibarapa Health project, with Primary Health Centers as the base of the healthcare pyramid with a health Insurance scheme that is affordable. Apero is looking into these suggestions. Apero will next focus on “Rural Development and Employment Generation: How was it done then? How can it be done now?” That is, after Professor Isaac Adewole gives his presentation on healthcare, which he was not available to give last week due to a conflict of schedules. No political drama. No sectarian intolerance. No sexism. Just a passionate commitment to the good of the homeland. Join us on a fully liberalized Zoom platform: Saturday 25/6/2022 11 am EST; 4 pm Lagos Time User ID: 87834935009 Passcode: 690337