Precious Chikwendu, the estranged wife of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani- Kayode, has expressed joy over reuniting with her children after almost two years of being apart. The tussle for the custody of their four children, who have been in their father’s care, has been a heated one. In December, 2021, Chikwendu lamented her ex-husband frustrated all attempts to see her kids over the past year. “The children are with him, I haven’t seen them since August 2nd, 2020. “Yes, since August 2nd, 2020, I haven’t seen my children and I’ve been physically prevented from seeing them,” she said. Responding to the accusation, FFK countered his ex-wife noting she had been granted access to the kids for over 17 months but has willfully refused to visit them. “Their mother has been given access to see them in the house for the last one year and five months but she has refused to do so”, he said. In a new development, the excited mother of four shared photos of beautiful  moment with her boys even if it was just for few hours.   Owo terror attack: May Nigeria not happen to us – RMD     Polygamy will solve marital infidelity, says Arike Gold     Regina Chukwu threatens to beat celebrities who campaign for…   She appreciated everyone who showed concern while she was away with them. The former beauty queen wrote: “Dear All, overtime I have learnt to keep my peace and focus on the things I aspire to achieve in my youthfulness rather than the ones that would derail me from my path but I have to keep everyone updated on what is currently going on especially for the people who have constantly prayed and fought with me when I was going through the worst time in my life. “As a mother, my greatest prayer is being able to hug my kids, play with and spend time with them no matter how little the time. Bearing in mind that God gave me a basic assignment in their lives as a watchman. “This is a win for us all, I have gone from not seeing them AT ALL for 2years to spending a few hours (Play Date)with them and also tending to one who wasn’t well as at the time I was reached. That is all that it is currently, but I believe their Father has a change of mind and is working out a process for a peaceful co-parenting as wars always have a long lasting effect to both parties regardless. “Please be patient with me as I am basking in this little joy and win for a little longer as well as soaking it all in as I figure a way to put all issues to rest without drama. “Thank you all so very much for the messages and well wishes. Thanks to my concerned elders. “Their Father (through his aides) and some good people around him are in talks to see to it that my children grow up having balanced love and affection from both sides. “I am hoping this leads to an end in media wars and to a peaceful co-parenting as we move on to achieve our various destinies apart.”