Ex-Niger Delta Affairs Minister Senator Godswill Akpabio has picked the All Progressives Congress(APC) ticket for Akwa Ibom Northwest. Akpabio stepped down from the APC presidntial primary on Tuesday evening for the eventual winner, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed TInubu. In the party’s primary that held on Thursday evening, Akpabio scored a total of 478 votes to emerge winner. He defeated Udom Ekpoudom and Sir Joseph Akpan who scored three and one votes respectively. Eleven votes were however declared invalid. The primary, which held across the 108 wards in the 10 Local Government Areas of the District, produced DIG Udom Ekpoudom(Rtd) as the initial winner. Setting the tone shortly before rerun of the exercise in Ikot Ekpene on Thursday night, Chairman of APC Akwa Ibom chapter, Mr Stephen Ntukekpo explained the National Working Committee of the party ordered a rerun due to security infractions in the May 28 exercise.   I’m proud of you, wife hails Osinbajo after APC…     NDLEA decries abuse of pentazocine injection by youths     Oyo Deputy Gov hails Tinubu, says emergence will foster…   He said: “There were some infractions in the primaries held about a week ago and I was directed by the National Working Committee of our great party to conduct a rerun”. “We have about three aspirants in this exercise, and they are fully aware. They are: Sir Joseph Akpan, DIG Udom Ekpoudom, Obongemem Ekperikpe Ekpo, and Senator Godswill Akpabio.” He introduced Sir Sylvester Okonkwo as Chairman of the National Working Committee for the senatorial primaries, Mrs Bunmi Moleye as returning Officer and Chief Sunday Ewoleye – Chairman, APC Primaries Appeal Committee. Addressing the delegates, one of the aspirants, Mr Ekperikpe Ekpo announced his withdrawal drumming support for Akpabio. Akpabio appreciated the NWC of the party for the exercise and delegates across the Senatorial district for finding him worthy to represent them in the senate. He said: “May you live long to reap the fruit of your labour, may God Almighty give us the opportunity to empower you. I was the only senator ever to do the kind of empowerment I did; from market to water project, electrification, even road construction, I did all as a senator, and I promise to do more”.