The board and management of Sterling Bank Plc yesterday assured shareholders that the bank remains committed to implementing its growth strategy, which has continued to impact positively on the bank’s performance. At the annual general meeting yesterday in Lagos, the bank reported a 20.2 per cent growth in net profit for the year ended December 31, 2021. The audited report and accounts approved by the shareholders showed that Sterling Bank recorded net profit of N13.5 billion on gross earnings of N142.3 billion in 2021 compared with net profit of N11.2 billion on gross earnings of N135.8 billion recorded in 2020. These represented 20.2 per cent increase in profit after tax and 4.8 per cent increase in gross earnings respectively. Chairman, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Asue Ighodalo said the bank was consistent in 2021 with its strategy to drive financial intermediation in high impact sectors that aligned with its HEART strategy. According to him, the continuing implementation of the sectors-targeting strategy enabled the bank to focus and deliver innovative solutions that enabled its customers to thrive in the dynamic environment. “We are unwavering in our commitment to build a forward-thinking organization focused on delivering the best value to our stakeholders,” Ighodalo said. He noted that 2021 was a year of recovery from the adverse economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic as breakthroughs in the development of vaccines for the virus, along with the campaigns to inoculate the global population gained ground and bolstered consumer and investor confidence globally and locally.   ‘Cadbury Nigeria’s repositioning drive yielding results’     Honeywell Group partners Lagos on young tech entrepreneurs     Titan Trust Bank completes acquisition of 89.39% majority…   He added with the pace of economic recovery exceeding expectations despite threats of a third wave and the emergence of variants of the virus, the bank received significant momentum and was able to increase its profitability and growth. Chief Executive Officer, Sterling Bank Plc, Abubakar Suleiman, said 2021 performance was driven by a growth of 28.5 per cent in non-interest-income and a 51.4 per cent increase in transaction volumes processed – significant numbers that illustrate the effectiveness of the bank’s recent digitization efforts. He outlined that customer deposits grew by 21.7 per cent from the previous year’s numbers, with an improvement in cost-to-income ratios, despite an increase in operating expenses brought about by foreign exchange inflationary pressures. “We will continue to focus on our HEART strategy, optimize our expenses and lending while strengthening our risk management and recovery practices. These have remarkably improved our exposure with non-performing loans dropping from 1.9 per cent in 2020 to 0.7 per cent in 2021. Put together, these have enabled us increase shareholder funds by 4.2 per cent,” Suleiman said. Meanwhile, Sterling Bank was awarded the 2021 People First Organisation by the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM) and continued to push the edge with innovative solutions like PayWithSpecta delivered to drive small-business productivity and real-sector growth. The bank also commenced on the largest commercial property solar project in Africa with the remodeling of her Marina headquarters with building installed photovoltaic (BIPV) panels. This will power Sterling’s head office with solar energy and make Sterling Towers the first building in Africa to achieve the feat.