Ever wondered why Nigeria’s national flag (the green white green), which is the symbol of the nation, does not always attract good care or command respect and pride among many?  Why should organisations fly tattered and worn out flags? How should our national flag be treated and handled? Is there any disconnect between Nigerians and their national flag? A visit to Isaac Emokpae’s ongoing solo art exhibition tagged Are You Ashamed of Yourself? at the O’DA Art Gallery in Victoria Island, Lagos, a body of works, which dwells on fragility of Nigerian nation, affirms that the negative narrative must be changed if other people from across the globe must take us serious. With this unprecedented exhibition advocacy, Emokpae is unashamedly promoting nationalism and patriotism using the art. Interestingly, when a nation flies its national flag, it is a sign of pride and patriotism. It is also a positive affirmation of loyalty and commitment, thus presenting a country that has confidence in itself, and is comfortable with its place in the world, its history and its future. Not many will be taken aback at what Isaac Emokpae (son of the renowned Nigerian artist, the late Erhabor Emokpae who played active role in the organisation of the FESTAC 77) is using his art to do. Like his late father, he is championing a new consciousness for a better Nigeria. His current exhibition, Are You Ashamed of Yourself?, which opened last Saturday and runs till June 29, is a new positive start in the way Nigerians view their identity as well as their national flag. No fewer than 22 of his works of art dominated the walls of the gallery, many already tagged by collectors. Leading the pack of works is Nigerian Stars (Framed Plexi Glass). Mounted at a strategic position, it welcomes every guest into the exhibition hall and no missing the large size work. With a background design of Nigeria’s green and white flag, the artist arranges lots of stars of different shapes, sizes and colours to depict the large army of Nigerians who are doing well and achieving great things. Unfortunately, these are never talked about or promoted. The regular and irregular shaped stars in the painting show that there are different levels of Nigerian stars and their contributions vary across the globe. But, for the blank spaces in between, it speaks to the constant brain drain facing the country as a result of economic instability. To reflect the diversity of Nigeria’s ethnic groups and their culture, the artist uses different tones of green colour of the flag to drive home the message. The diversity, he said, must be allowed to thrive. But, underneath the glass framed piece is a void that speaks to the need to be transparent in our everyday dealing with one another.   IPMAN makes u-turn, directs members to sell fuel at N165 per…     Gunmen kidnap former Ekiti Chief pharmacist     FEC approves N52.204bn for contract reviews   “More importantly, we should allow each ethnic nationality or group to be themselves. That is when we can truly live together in peace and harmony instead of the suspicion among people,” Emokpae said. In Cornucopia (Framed Plexi Glass), a near duality painting that shows connectivity of family members, the artist believes strongly in the promotion of some rich cultural values of Nigeria such as extended family bond, which is not common among the West. With bright colours amidst patches of green, the artist captures the fruitfulness of the family bond and the attendant happiness among members of the family.  Interestingly, most of the works are in series like the Nigerian Stars, Adobe and Grey matters matter. According to the multi-faceted artist whose approach to art is based broadly on the principle of duality, Nigeria as at now is a fragile state.  “We relied too much on our strength and size for so long to the detriment of renewing those elements that bind the nation together. Already there are collective and individual fragilities because of instability in the country,” he observed while conducting Arts writers round the exhibits. Emokpae studied Visual Art under the tutelage of Prof Abayomi Barber at the University of Lagos, where he honed his skills as a painter. He is an award winning artist with several group and solo exhibitions within and outside Nigeria. His other works at the on-going exhibition include Structure brings success, For peace and prosperity, Peace requires care (Intaglio inks on paper), Protect our environment, Be careful with our dreams, Grey matters matter, Uphold honour and glory, A fragile peace (Nigerian stars), and The Adobe series (1 to 11), acrylic paint on print. Curator of the exhibition, Mr. Obida Obioha, said Emokpae has worked tirelessly to depict the social and political climate in Nigeria using the flag as a symbolic focal point. “Upon stepping into the gallery, we are greeted with a bubbie wrap installation that is indicative of a fragile country. Our nation is not bullet proof. It needs care, it needs us. If we do not act soon, it will implode. “You see the broken cracks in Emokpae’s A Fragile peace” 2021, which features the universally recognised face of the resistance, and how those who dare to stand up to the status quo are penalised.  In Be careful with our dreams 2022, the artist explores yet another view of our flag as a green forest of Nigeria being bubble wrapped. This is especially poignant this opening week of the show as we hear reports of terrorist cells existing within the forests in the South West Region of Nigeria. “As you walk through the gallery, take note of the stars across For Peace and prosperity, 2022. It draws attention to those amongst us who, in spite of the insecurity and instability, are stellar examples of what it means to take ownership. Emokpae pays homage to heroes like, Dr Stella Ameyo Adadevoh, Ken Saro-Wiwa, Dora Akinyuli, The Feminist Coalition & all the EndSars activists. In the piece, Emokpae made sure to include some stars that are missing, dimmed, bloody and broken; this is to show the disparity between each star. But, in spite of this reality, some of us are still shinning bright, and are a sign of hope for others to keep believing in Nigeria,” he said at a preview session.