Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, says the Federal Government (FG) is expanding the use of hydro, wind and other natural resources. He said the usage of solar energy is already being vigorously promoted across the country. Sylvia stated that about 760 million people lack access to electricity worldwide, with three out of four of them living in sub-Saharan Africa. The minister said this at the Nigeria-Africa natural resources and energy investment summit, themed: ‘towards a greener Africa, which was held in Abuja’. His words, “Based on the UN data, about 760 million people lack access to electricity worldwide, with 3 out of 4 of them living in sub-Saharan Africa. Furthermore, one-third of the world’s population about 2.6 billion people have no access to clean cooking fuels, with over 900 million of these in sub-Saharan Africa. “On the average, only 48% of sub-Saharan Africa population has access to electricity, while only 18% has access to clean cooking fuels, compared with a global average of 90% and 70%, respectively.   Court urged to penalise ex-AGF, Aondoakaa for allegedly…     ECOWAS secures additional €3.5m for Abidjan-Lagos highway…     We’re not responsible for Kaduna train attack – Ansaru   “In addition, the usage of solar energy is already being vigorously promoted across the country, while the use of hydro, wind and other natural resources are also being expanded. “In relation to CO2 emission, World Bank statistics shows that the world average of CO2 emissions was 4.48 metric tons per capita in 2018, with some regions and individual countries recording five to seven times this value. Emission by sub-Saharan Africa in total was only 0.76 metric tons per capita.” Meanwhile the Deputy Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN), Amina Mohammed, disclosed that the UN plans to assist Nigeria and other African countries in meeting its giant climate change goals. She said: “The way in which Africa develops will have significant implications for the world. It shows the urgent need for African countries to receive financial and technical support now to develop rapidly and sustainably. “The quest for emissions reduction and a speedy transition, the developmental priorities of the continent cannot be sacrificed. Nigeria and all other African nations must be supported within the confines of our climate targets to enjoy speedy economic development and to create foundation for a just green and sustainable transition. “The United Nations will continue to support Nigeria and I believe this is the door for African solutions developed by Africa for the attainment of African priorities.”