Clean-tech utility and energy access company, Havenhill Synergy Limited has secured $2.3 million grant to electrify 245 off-grid healthcare facilities in Nigeria, Kenya, Malawi, Sierra Leone, and Uganda. The grant funding came from Power Africa through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for the electrification of 50 primary healthcare facilities in Oyo State, Nigeria. Havenhill will share the grant with four other companies with competence in healthcare facility electrification (HFE) — Aptech Africa, D.Light, Equatorial Power Ltd., and Solar Works B.V. to enable them execute the project. In addition, Havenhill will be injecting substantial equity & debt as counterpart funding alongside this grant provided by Power Africa in order to electrify the healthcare facilities.   Court orders forfeiture of university, factory, hotel,…     Ex-Chief Judge Umeadi emerges APGA presidential candidate     How Kanu left APGA to join Radio Biafra, by Chekwas Okorie   “This is a win for the industry and the healthcare facilities to be electrified. We are excited for this scale-up phase of our Energizing Healthcare Initiative that will enable over 700,000 patients annually to receive better healthcare service. We are grateful for yet another opportunity from the Power Africa team,” said Olusegun Odunaiya, CEO of Havenhill Synergy Limited, while speaking about the grant. “We are delighted to further contribute to the improvement of the Nigerian health sector through the provision of reliable electricity that would aid the work of medical practitioners and caregivers and also impact the lives of those within the communities.” As part of their Energizing Healthcare Initiative, Havenhill is committed to deploying clean-energy solutions to bridge the energy gap and improve healthcare service delivery across the country. In the past two years, the energy access company has deployed over one mega watt (1MW) of solar-hybrid systems across rural, peri-urban and urban healthcare facilities in South-West and South-South Nigeria. Fourteen Tertiary Healthcare Facilities in South-South Nigeria were electrified under the ‘Covid-19 and Beyond’ programme under the World Bank and African Development Bank Group-funded Nigeria Electrification Project. About 60 per cent of healthcare facilities in Africa do not have access to electricity and of those that do, less than 30 per cent have reliable access to electricity. In order for these healthcare facilities to deliver quality and efficient services, access to reliable electricity is important.