With the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike still on, it is imperative for the government to address the challenges threatening education. Public universities are in dire need of infrastructure uplift. This not only impedes learning, but also discourages students. Even after ASUU calls off its strike, observers say that the challenges of the education sector cannot be solved overnight. Concerns  have  been raised and some students are  discouraged they would return to the same old cramped lecture halls and hostels. The problem of inadequate lecture rooms  and hostels has been existing before now. A student, who expressed her displeasure on the inadequacy of learning spaces, said: “In my school,  lecture rooms are inadequate. They are too small to accommodate students, so   you find students cramped and some hanging outside the window during a lecture and  there are no   functional audio systems. When lectures are on, only those at the front can hear. There is also  no proper ventilation for the large number of students.” This kind of situation causes  inconveniences, lack of concentration and discomfort. A University of Benin student spoke about her lecture room experience — “Lecture rooms are totally not conducive from my experience. First of all, the issue of low  number of seats. Most times, the number of seats in a class is less than the number of students which makes students squeeze themselves into desks causing inconvenience. This particular situation also fosters rowdiness and lack of concentration.” School authorities really need to upgrade lecture rooms. There are inadequate numbers of seats and this can be very annoying. Many  have to stand  during lectures, sit on the floor and strain their  ears.   Ag. VC: LASUSTECH committed to students’ welfare,…     VC charges students to make the world better     Creating opportunities for youths   There  should be an expansion  of  classrooms to fit the number of students that are taking lectures, provision of  a good sound system for everyone to listen to lectures. Poor accommodation also hinders learning. Hostels provided  in public universities are  not  proportional to the number of students admitted. This is a great challenge that needs urgent attention. As this issue is   commonly associated with public universities, a larger percentage of  students are from homes that are not financially buoyant to seek accommodation off-campus due to the exorbitant prices. Therefore, the in-campus accommodation is preferable and more affordable. However,  where there is  lack of adequate accommodation on campuses,  overpopulation becomes the order of the day. First, this is a threat to healthy living. If  students cannot afford other   accommodation spaces, they are left with no other options than being cramped up  in school hostels. Staying off campus is better because you can choose a place of your taste or even have your   own apartment, but it is expensive and most people can’t afford it. School hostels should be  better because some people are forced to stay off campus not totally out of choice but, due to the poor  conditions of school hostels.  Also there  should be  more hostels to avoid squatting.