The maiden champion of the Higher Institutions Football League (HiFL) UAM Tillers from the University of Makurdi has qualified for the round of 16 of the 2022 season. The Tillers will be joined by 2019 and 2021 quarter finalist UNILORIN Warriors from the University of Ilorin and the LASU Blazers from the Lagos State University. DELSU Titans from the Delta State University and UNIPORT Sharks from the University of Port Harcourt will be staging a comeback after missing out from the round of 16 since their first appearance in 2018. “We are pleased that HiFL has now broken a few records for the calibre of players the league is putting forth as scouts from all across the nation are now watching games more closely to spot talent, especially for kids who have decided to pursue a career in football,” Goodness Onyejiaku, , the Chief Operating Officer at Pace Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited, said  even as he applauded  the sponsors. “We truly appreciate the support of our sponsors, particularly StanbicIBTC, Bold and the Lagos State Inland Revenue Services; we are also quite pleased with our partner, the Nigeria University Games Association (NUGA) which has ensured that we get the games going.”   Applause as Dare hosts victorious Golden Eaglets     Morocco 2022: NFF confirms Falode as Chef de Mission     Oregon 2022: World Athletics defend Nigeria’s expulsion from…   Meanwhile, Kaduna State University and Ekiti State University will be playing in the round of 16 for the first time since they started participating in the competition. Expectedly, the 12 teams that qualified from the group stage will  be joined  the Super Four teams from the last  edition including  2021 champion the UNIMAID Desert Warriors from the University of Maiduguri, AAUA Luminaries from the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba Akoka, UNN Lions from the University of Nigeria Nsukka and the FUTMINNA Transformers from the Federal University of Technology Minna. The remaining teams that will play in the round of 16 are the ATBU Bravehearts from Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, BUK Stallions from Bayero University Kano, KSU Steelers from Kogi State University, FUOYE Dazzlers from the Federal University Oye Ekiti and the IAUE Minders from the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt. President of the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA)  Emeka Ogbu,  stated that the  on-going HiFL season has been  full of surprises, adding  fans should watch  out for more thrilling matches “We appreciate all of our sponsors for supporting this big project and the good sportsmanship of the participating colleges,” he said. “Even as they conveniently combine sports and academies with the backing of the university management, NUGA and HiFL are committed to their mandate of offering sporting chances for students in Nigerian universities to thrive; we are pleased with the achievements made in this area.”