Senators Yahaya Abdullahi and Enyinnaya Abaribe formally resigned their posts yesterday as Majority and Minority Leaders of the Upper Chamber. Senate President Ahmad Lawan read their resignation letters at the resumption of plenary. The two Senate principal officers resigned their positions following their defection from the political parties that elected them to other parties. While Abdullahi defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abaribe dumped the PDP for the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Lawan said: “Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe decamped from the PDP to APGA. He also has resigned his position as Minority Leader of this chamber. “Also, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, in his resignation letter, said he left APC due to lack of internal democracy in the party.” Quoting Abdullahi’s letter, the Senate President said: “Politics is local. I can’t continue to work for the government at the centre while my people are wallowing in abject poverty.   APC widens consultation over Tinubu’s running mate     PDP panel okays Wike as Atiku’s running mate     Akeredolu: Southwest will resist unprovoked attacks   “After failing to get justice in APC, I have moved to the PDP.” Abaribe’s letter of resignation was not read on the floor because the Senate President reportedly forgot to bring it to the chambers. But he promised to read it at plenary today. The letter of Senator Adamu Aliero (Kebbi Central), which announced his defection from APC to the PDP, was also read on the floor of the Senate. Lawan directed Chief Whip Orji Kalu to relocate the former Senate Leader and his colleague in the minority caucus to their new seats. Attempts by Senators Phillip Aduda, George Sekibo and Gabriel Suswan to stop the relocation of Abaribe, because he had not formally communicated his decision to his caucus, were frustrated by the Senate President. He also advised Senator Betty Apiaffi to seek legal redress when she cited constitutional provisions which require the defectors to lose their seats. The formal defection of Abdullahi and Aliero was conveyed in two separate letters addressed to Lawan and read during plenary yesterday. Both lawmakers represent Kebbi North and Kebbi Central senatorial districts.