The meeting by heads of the agencies of Federal Ministry of Transportation achieved a milestone: digitalisation of their organisations to actulise the National Single Window (NSW) for trade facilitation. At the fourth Heads of Maritime Agencies meeting in Lagos, the Registrar of Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN), Sam Nwakohu, stressed the need for the automation of their organisation’s processes. Other stakeholders were unanimous that one step that must be taken to quicken cargo clearance and realise the government’s diversification agenda is the adoption of the NSW system. They agreed that the NSW is a laudable initiative which Nigeria should embrace. The Single Window A single window, involved parties in an international trade, which use the latest information communications technology (ICT) techniques, international data and messaging standards with simplified, harmonised and remodelled information systems for data exchange to replace traditional paper-based information. Its benefits are immense, because it boosts the competitive advantage of our ports and its traders on the international markets, and increase the government’s revenue, boost foreign direct investment (FDI), introduce simpler, and faster clearance, and release processes, an expert said. However, the Federal Government needs to expedite NSW’s execution. Why scheme is delayed Former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA) Prince Olayiwola Shittu said the execution of the scheme was being hampered by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) such as the Nigerian Ports Authority (‘NPA), Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), various terminal operators, and shipping firms trying to align their e-platforms with the NSW platform. He however, expressed optimism for the delivery of the promise by the government, moreso, when new people are expected to come into power next year. Commitment from govt, stakeholders Nwakohu, who chaired the meeting, said the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of the various agencies agreed on timelines for achieving full automation of their organisation’s internal processes. “We have agreed that  agencies under the Ministry of Transportation should, as a matter of priority, attain full automation. This process will be well coordinated and we also gave ourselves timelines to achieve this,” he said. The Director-General, NIMASA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, added that this was no problem as his organisation’s automation had reached over 80 per cent. “In line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order on Ease of Doing Business, we are committed to full automation to attain reduction of human interface in the majority of our transactions with our stakeholders and this is in our bid to ensure transparency and professionalism which the sector requires to grow,’’ he added. Also, a university don, Mr Dipo Alaka, said the implementation of a NSW involved stakeholders and requires long-term commitment from the government and business. The platform, Alaka added, must fit the environment. An importer, Mr Bamise Soremekun, said in each phase of port development, the Federal Government should look at the prevailing global trends and plan for the next 50 years and make adjustments to its plans along the way. What CBN has done Findings have shown that despite that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has established a foreign exchange (Forex) window for investors and exporters to boost liquidity in the market and ensure timely execution and settlement of eligible transactions, the country is still faced with  import and export procedures challenges. This is what the stakeholders said the NSW would address.  FIRS and tax payments True, tax payments and remittances have also been simplified through the e-filing by the Federal Inland Revenue System (FIRS). Importers and exporters are not left out with the documentation. No doubt, the agencies need the single window platform to deliver quality service, experts have said. “Promoting efficiency is a major challenge confronting many African ports. A global bench-marking study by SAP found that ports that leverage technology to drive productivity improvements enjoy 36 per cent higher operating margins than similar peers and that is why the Federal Government is working to institute a single window operation in our ports. Port automation and digital solutions are potential game-changers, not only for cargo throughput but also profitability,” Shittu said. ‘Nigeria only country without Single in Africa’   Forensic probe links Naira Marley with Visa card fraud     Femi Kuti: my 60th birthday gift is bigger than Grammy     Fed Govt declares June 13 public holiday   Despite promises by the Federal Government, Nigeria remains the only country without a single window platform in Africa in an age where information technology drives businesses. Stakeholders urged the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration to boost its diversification agenda.Some importers, in separate interviews, agreed that the Single Window system is vital to the sector’s growth. An importer, Jide Egbeyemi, said: “The implementation of a Single Window system enables international (cross-border) traders to submit regulatory documents at a single location and/or single entity. Such documents are typically customs declarations, applications for import/export permits, and other supporting documents, such as certificates of origin and trading invoices.   Plan to use one per cent Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme Former Minister of Transportation,  Rotimi Amaechi last year promised to set up an NSW platform to be managed by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), but he didn’t. Egbeyemi lamented that lack of the NSW has resulted in Nigerian-bound vessels being diverted to Benin Republic, Ghana and other neighbouring ports because of the intractable traffic in Apapa and delays during cargo clearance at the ports. The importer recommended that the policy on single window on the clearing of goods should be implemented without delay to discourage physical examination of cargo by men and officers of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). ‘Non-implementation of NSW platform costs Nigeria N1.08 trillion revenue yearly’ A senior official of the ministry, who craved anonymity, said the Federal Government would generate additional $800 million yearly from the ports and border stations if government agencies key into the SW initiative. “As of 2017, Ghana had commenced the registration of vehicles doing business at its port in preparation for full automation of the processes this year. Last year, the port welcomed a $1.5 billion fully-automated terminal built by the APM Terminals, Bolloré Africa Logistics, Meridian Port Services and the Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority,” Atanda said, adding that the expanded port could accommodate the world’s largest container ships in their breakwater and access channel. Like Ghana, other ports in Africa have automated their processes, making clearing faster and easier. He said if the Federal Government could put the NSW in place, Nigerians who patronise other African ports would return to the nation’s ports. It would be recalled that during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Lagos International Trade Fair,  Buhari, represented by his deputy, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, announced plans to establish a NSW to cut trade times and costs by making information flows more efficient and streamlining trade procedures and address other issues affecting the transaction cycle in bringing in goods, clearing and exporting it through the ports. Jamoh said Buhari has the determination to make the ports, the hub of maritime in the West and Central Africa through the introduction of a national single window, provision of maritime security, improvement in port infrastructure, formulation and implementation of other laudable programmes. He said the geographical location of Nigeria would aid its transformation to a regional maritime hub after the introduction of the new platform to boost efficiency and competitiveness. He added that the Buhari administration has a long-term, strategic port planning system that would ensure that the seaports provide adequate capacity to meet the demands of key shipping lines and their alliance partners in sizeable blocks of volume. The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Managing Director, Mr Bello Koko, told reporters that the agencies, terminal operators and stakeholders must key into the government’s initiative of promoting the SW platform to meet the 48-hour cargo clearance deadline. The NPA, he said, has embarked on the establishment of a SW through an intense automation and introduction of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). “There is no doubt that the adoption of a national SW will strengthen the port industry by boosting efficiency and reduce cost and time, which are the major objectives of port concession agreement signed by private terminal operators,” she said, adding that the SW has been used by many countries to facilitate trade at ports. The adoption of the SW, according to him, will make local ports competitive in the international trade network and boost trade facilitation programmes of the Federal |Government. “It will also reduce corruption and entrench transparency and accountability in the port operations,” she said. Importers and exporters react An importer, Mr Yusuf Aladejobi, said the NSW woulf increase compliance level and see to efficient and productive use of resources, facilitate enhanced fee, duties and penalties’ collection. “It will institutionalise more comprehensive, streamlined and automated business compliance to government legislative and regulatory requirements. It will also enhance risk analysis, management and improve security. There will be reduction in corruption and illegal trade activities, enhanced transparency and accountability. It will equally bring more trader-friendly environment, leading to increased foreign investment, integration and timely flow of information between government agencies and improved business intelligence,”  he said. Aladejobi said for importers and exporters, there would be cost reductions through minimised paper work, time spent will reduce and eliminate delays. “There will be more predictable, reliable and authoritative decisions, just as there will be faster goods clearance, exceptional handling and dispute resolution, leading to reduced inventory holding costs. Also, there will be predictable and reliable consignment clearance and availability of advanced goods release information and reduction in face-to-face meetings, greater transparency and reduced opportunities for rent seeking and corruption.” An exporter,  Mr Chris Christopher, said the NSW is laudable. “We are aware that the management of the NPA is not happy over the past failure of 48-hour cargo clearance policy. Apart from the delays in cargo clearance, which disrupts the production schedules of manufacturers as raw materials are not delivered in time to their factories, they affect their revenue and are responsible for high level of corruption at the ports as importers struggle to clear their cargoes under harsh condition. This, again, exacerbates inflation as goods are not quickly cleared from the ports to meet relevant needs in the economy and that is why the need for a national single window is imperative.’’  he added.