Kwara state People Democratic Party (PDP) is more united to win the governorship seat and all other elective positions come 2023 general elections in the state, party Chairman and governorship candidate Hon Babatunde Mohammed and Alhaji Shuaib Y. Abdullahi have said. Hon Mohammed specifically attributed the unity in the party to the leadership qualities of former Senate President Bukola Saraki. PDP chair said that “in the aftermath of the PDP primaries, some states are still enmeshed in crisis. But that is not the case in our party in the state. Post primaries, Kwara PDP has come out stronger and more united.” Mohamed said this yesterday in Ilorin, the state capital while presenting certificate of return to the governorship candidate and the unveiling of his running mate, Hon. Gbenga Makanjuola. Alhaji Abdullahi was optimistic that PDP would erase the ‘hardships and economic woes’ the APC controlled government at the state and the federal levels foisted on Nigerians.   Owo massacre: ‘We are still devastated’     Sanwo-Olu, others to discuss ‘Ease of Doing…     Fashola appeals to residents along Lagos/ Badagry Expressway…   The programme also featured the presentation of certificates of return to all the party’s House of Assembly candidates, House of Representatives and Senatorial candidates. The PDP governorship candidate called on members to unite and collectively root out the APC across the states and at the federal level come 2023. The PDP umbrella will cover Kwara and Nigeria as a whole from the ruining brutality and economic woes the APC foisted on  Nigerians come 2023. The two terms House of Representatives member promised to work hand-in-hand with the governorship candidate to address “the issue of poverty, insecurity, political decadence, financial misappropriation, lack of respect for rule of law, transparency and dwindling state of economy bedeviling the state when elected in the 2023 general elections”. He assured the people of Kwara that Abdullahi/Makanjuola ticket would usher in a fresh air with a new direction to address failures of the APC administration.