The John Odigie-Oyegun-led Presidential Screening Committee (PSC) of the APC confirmed yesterday that it disqualified 10 of the party’s 23 screened presidential aspirants ahead of the June 6 special convention and presidential primaries. Odigie-Oyegun who presented the report of the screening to the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, did not name the disqualified aspirants. But explaining how the committee arrived at its decision, he said: “There were two aspects to it: constitutional qualification for you to aspire to be a President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. That was simple, that was straight forward and on that basis, every single aspirant that presented himself qualified because it was basic, it was simple. “But we are a governing party and we are keen on continuing the process and replacing at the proper time our president with yet another member of the party.” The committee, according to him, considered “the ability to lead, your background, your experience, your understanding of the Nigerian situation, your ideas as to how issues, difficulties, problems and the rest can be addressed and how the country can be moved forward became a principal consideration. “It is on that basis, who are you? What have you achieved? What is the understanding of your nation and what do you think you can contribute to moving the nation forward? “It was based on that that we made our final shortlist. I don’t want to read the names, I think we leave that to you. But we have a shortlist. We brought the number severely down to 13. “We could have cut it a little shorter but we wanted deliberately, the younger element to surface, for them to be seen, for them to be noticed, who knows. We hand them to the party and it’s for the party to decide the preferred candidate. “It is also an opportunity to showcase the kind of people that exist within the party. Their youthfulness and their kind of experience; let the world know that we care for the young and this is a party that when we say the young can aspire to, we mean it. This has been showcased in the report that we have written.” On power rotation between the North and the South, the PSC advised the party to address the phenomenon because of its implications.   Port Harcourt refinery to be ready in March 2023 – NNPC     APC ticket: President didn’t discuss consensus, zoning in…     I have high regard, respect for Buhari – Tinubu   His words: “We only drew a word of caution that there is this cleavage that is gradually becoming the centre stage in national discussions as between the north and the south as regards presidency, and we advise strongly that the party should please think of it in making its decision, address it and let it influence their thought because it has its implication.” On consensus, the committee said all but one aspirant agreed to its adoption with a proviso that the party should make wide consultation before arriving at a candidate. He said: “The issue of consensus and it is a pleasant surprise that 98 to 99 per cent agreed that the party is supreme. And that whatever the party finally decides with proper consultation, they will likely accept. We had only one exception who said yes, he will accept consensus so long as it is built on him. “So, I think it is a point that needs to be made and emphasised. So, that gives you a lot of leeway in the days and hours ahead to trim down even more drastically. But, finally, we think you should not be afraid of a contested primary if anybody insists on the contest.” When asked if former President Goodluck Jonathan was screened by his committee, Oyegun said the former leader never appeared before his committee. “No, no, I can confirm we did not screen him (Jonathan),” Oyegun said. Adamu commended the committee for what he called a thorough job. He said: “Whoever emerges to be the flag bearer of the party is only the symbol of the party and I hope that the spirit in which we approach the convention will guide all of the contestants, guide us and the leaders of the party…we will do the best we can in the circumstances the party finds itself.” The party chairman also promised that due consideration would be given to the power rotation between the north and the south. “We hope that due consideration will be given based on the facts available to those who would be opportune to be behind the decision.” The panel had screened the following aspirants: Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Chief Emeka Nwajiuba, Governor Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa), Senator Robert Boroffice, Mrs Uju Ken-Ohanenye,  Mr Nicholas Felix, Governor David Umahi (Ebonyi), Senator Ken Nnamani, Dr Tunde Bakare and  Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Also screened were Ahmad Rufai Sani, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, Dimeji Bankole, Governor  Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Senator Godswill Akpabio, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Senator Rochas Okorocha, Governor Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Mr. Tein Jack-Rich, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Governor Ben Ayade (Cross River) and Mr. Ikeobasi Mokelu.a