Some buildings at the ongoing federal housing estate in Akure, the Ondo State capital, have been destroyed by thugs. The estate, being developed by Medaville Building and Construction company, is part of the mass housing project of the Federal Government awarded since 2010. Workers at the site said the thugs beat them up before chasing them away. Chairman of the firm handling the project, Otunba Ademola Akin-Benson, accused Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade, of sending the thugs to disrupt the project over ownership of three hectares of land. Ademola, told journalists after the attack the Akure monarch has been using thugs to disrupt work on site and sometimes drop charms to scare him and the workers. He said the hectares of land in dispute was not the spot where work is currently ongoing in line with extant court judgment. “Several time Deji of Akure has come here to beat people; two weeks ago he sent his boys to kidnap some of our workers here. We reported it to the police and appropriate authorities.   Manchester United confirm Lingard departure     Why the APC should head South     Family of five perishes in Ondo auto crash   “They were here on the 18th of this month with two bikes, beating and harassing the workers; destroying many building materials as well.” “My lawyers have filed Section 49 against him but he has been trying to dodge it. We will not take any law into our hands. We will continue to pursue the case to the highest level.” Akin-Benson, who disclosed that two different litigations have been instituted to check the monarch’s excesses, said he would not allow thugs to disrupt the Federal Government project. “We are doing this in order to ease housing problems in Ondo State. What they did this morning was a disturbance of the peace of the community. “It is a shame to a first class Oba. It is a disgrace because I am from a royal family. I gave him all that this respect but we are going to pursue this case. The Federal Government is aware of the frequent harassment and destruction.” But the Akure monarch who spoke through his media aide, Micheal Adeyeye, insisted that work must stop on the site. The Akure monarch said the contractor continued working to arm twist the court. He, however, denied sending thugs to destroy the buildings.