The Police have confirmed the recovery of some AK-47 pellets and unexploded explosives from the scene of the Sunday attack in Owo. A statement yesterday by the Force Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, also said the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Usman,   condemned in all totality, the attack in which scores were killed and others injured by gunmen. He added that Alkali had  ordered the  deployment of specialised operatives of the Police EOD-CBRNE, police experts, and other tactical units from the Force Headquarters for a comprehensive investigation, and for immediate interception of the villains.” Adejobi also said that some of the gunmen posed as worshippers inside the church while others who positioned themselves outside fired at the congregation.   Owo Church Attack: Governors condemn attack     Owo Church Attack: Tinubu, NGF donate N125m to victims     Owo Church Attack: Ooni, Sultan, Olubadan express anger   He explained that the recoveries, according to Adejobi included pellets of expended AK-47 ammunition,  Explosive Ordnance Devices – Chemical Biological Radiological and Nuclear Explosives (EOD-CBRNE). The statement reads in part:: “Further investigations revealed that some of the gunmen disguised as congregants, while other armed men who had positioned themselves around the church premises from different directions, fired into the church. “The assailants fled the scene using a Nissan Sunny car with Reg No. AKR 895 AG which was snatched from the owner, and escaped through Owo/Ute Road. The vehicle has been recovered while the owner of the vehicle is currently assisting the Police in its investigations. “The IGP has ordered full-scale investigations into the incident in order to bring to book the perpetrators of the gruesome killing of the worshippers at the church.“ “The Inspector-General of Police, therefore, condoles with the Ondo State Government, family members, relatives, and friends of the victims who lost their lives in the unfortunate attack.