Sen. Stella Oduah (PDP-Anambra) says incursion of the  Labour Party into  Anambra through former governor  Peter Obi as its Presidential Candidate, is not a threat to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Oduah said this at a news conference during the presentation of certificates of return to 30 PDP candidates who won the party primaries for both the House of Assembly and National Assembly on Thursday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that 20 House of Assembly PDP candidates and 10 National Assembly candidates  from Anambra North and South were presented with certificates of return. Oduah said  that Igbos should work with a party and candidate that would win the presidency and a party that would take them to the national level. The former minister of Aviation noted that it was not the first time a new party would come into Anambra, adding that the PDP had always defeated them. “This is not the first time a new party is coming to Anambra, we have nothing to fear, politics is local and what we are contesting for is to represent our people.   2023: I’ll work for Tinubu same way I worked for Lawan –…     ‘Nigerians should focus on competence, character, not…     Will SDP, PDP truncate APC’s continuity agenda in…   ” Our people cannot leave what they know to what they don’t know. We are not jittery and we are more than capable to win the election for the PDP,” she said. Speaking on the certificate of return , she said it was a happy day for them for receiving their certificates , adding that the journey was tedious, saying the supporters had  done the right thing by voting them. “We thank the delegates for voting us, the real election is coming and we are ready. We will put ourselves together to combat the opposition. ” Anambra is a PDP state, so having this solders with us, you can imagine what will happen when we put our strategy in place, the victory is ours,” she said. The senator thanked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the PDP  for a credible primaries. She said the incumbent lawmakers among them had worked tirelessly to serve the people, adding that what the people had seen in terms of performance was a tip of the iceberg. According to her, our people will again,  see good roads and other infrastructure. We have people with capacity, the party knows that and the delegates. Continuity is what is important in legislative work. Asked about the relationship with the APGA administration in Anambra,  she said: :We will get along with the governor. (NAN)