Oyo House of Assembly has levelled five allegations against Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan. Twenty four members of the Assembly signed the petition which was read during plenary on Wednesday. The allegations against the Deputy Governor include gross misconduct, abuse of office, financial recklessness, abandonment of office and official duty and insubordination and other offences. Reacting after the petition was read by the Clerk, Yetunde Awe, Speaker Adebo Ogundoyin said the petition meets the two-third requirements to initiate the process. He added that the House would give the Deputy Governor a seven-day period to respond to the allegations, adding that failure to do so can lead to the commencement of impeachment move. The seven-day window takes immediate effect immediately and lapses on Wednesday June 22. The petition was signed by the PDP lawmakers. The House thereafter adjourned till Thursday.   Abductors demand N10m ransom for Abia journalist     I’ll run for presidency again in future – Yahaya…     What you probably didn’t know about Peter Obi   The petition titled: “Petition and Notice of Allegations of the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency Engineer Rauf Olaniyan” reads in parts”Consequent upon listed below, we the under listed elected Honourable members of the 9th assembly hereby allege the Deputy Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency Eng. Rauf Olaniyan with the following allegations: “Gross misconduct “Abuse of office “Financial recklessness “Abandonment of office,official duty “Insubordination and other offences. “This is in accordance to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended in 2011. Section 188.” The lawmakers and constituencies that signed the petition include: Fadeyi Muhammed (Ona Ara); Onaolapo Sanjo (Ogbomosho South); Babalola Olasunkanmi (Egbeda); Adebisi Yussuf (Ibadan Southwest 1); Okedoyin Julius (Saki West) and Adebayo Babajide (Ibadan North 2). Others are Kehinde Olatunde (Akinyele 2); Olajide Akintunde (Lagelu); Mustapha Akeem (Kajola); Popoola Ademola (Ibadan South East 2), Owolabi Olusola (Ibadan North East 2); Olagoke Olamide (Ibadan North East 1); Olayanji Kazeem (Irepo/Olorunsogo), Ojedokun Peter (Ibarapa North/Centre). Others are Gbadamosi Saminu (Saki East/Atisbo); Mabaje Adekunle (Iddo); Oluwafowokanmi Oluwafemi (Ibadan Southwest 2); Akeem Adedibu (Iwajowa); Fatokun Ayo (Akinyele 1); Rasak Ademola (Ibadan South East 1); Obadara Akeem (Ibadan North West); Oyekunle Fola (Ibadan North 1) and Adetunji Francis (Oluyole).