The inimitable James Hadley Chase would have put it in biting wit: Nyesom Wike, the combative Rivers governor, simply loves the sound of his voice! Now, while that could provide some dart and dash for fawning gubernatorial courtiers rippling for the boss to say the word, it could be fatal to winning new friends. But if you stayed with such boisterous, yet ruinous braggadocio, the Yoruba wit would muse: now, his kith-and-kin claim his case is but a mild ailment.  But those who know him not swear he is raving mad!  Don’t know if the Ikwerre have a similar concept. Indeed, it’s the fatal cut of the unbridled tongue!  The braggart-in-chief, to commander-in-chief, has proved a bridge too far! That rather unflattering, if dramatic metaphor, aptly captures Wike’s dash — and crash — for the PDP presidential ticket, as he bristled with contempt, talked down on friend and foe, and yelled, bawled and barked: give me the ticket!  Give me the ticket!  I’m a man of dash and grit! That might well be — that bit about dash and courage.  Still, our own WS would have remonstrated with poetic wit: must a tiger proclaim its tigeritude? The PDP had better win the presidency in 2023. If not, the way Wike crashes bridges both in Rivers and across the country, feigning Solomon and Sampson in one incredible, if delusional hulk, his might just be the political humpty-dumpty, who all the king’s horsemen couldn’t cobble together again, after a big fall! But Wike’s presidential debacle is not even the news. The real gist is losing the vice presidential ticket to Ifeanyi Okowa, Delta governor, despite Wike’s loud loyalty to the PDP in its most troubled of times. Truth be told: Nyesom Wike was there for his party, at its lowest hub and weakest spoke.  While the trio of Atiku Abubakar, Aminu Tambuwal and Bukola Saraki galloped away in the so-called n-PDP into the new APC, in mortal combat with the bumbling Goodluck Jonathan, Wike stayed true to the PDP cause. Yes, Cousin Goodluck was embattled president, ogling four more years; and Niger Delta presidency was the endangered species; and the likes of Edwin Clark, unfazed presidential godfather, were also rallying the South-South herd, in a plucky puff of self-interest; and Elder Godsday Orubebe did the final naked dance in the market. Yet, the brutal truth is that Wike never betrayed his party; and if Atiku, Tambuwal and Saraki (ATS) had stood firm as Wike did, PDP would probably not have lost power, to now languish in opposition. Besides Wike, perhaps more than anyone, saw through the Trojan horse, in the alleged Ali Modu Sheriff ploy to ruin the troubled PDP from the top, when he birthed as controversial national chair.  Wike again fought the alleged impostor to a standstill, until he was vanquished. All of these heroics the Rivers governor trumpeted, with undisguised moral scorn, as he pushed his crashed presidential nomination run. If he wasn’t strafing the trio ATS prodigals, he was savaging Godwin Obaseki, who he conked, not without merit, as the “Ingrate of Edo”!  Obaseki, of course, returned fire for fire. Still, aside from splashing the cash and raking others with his fiery tongue as Wike, Okowa has been no less faithful to the PDP cause.   Omolúàbí!     Cost of an eye     Fanatics or lunatics?   Okowa never joined the n-PDP.  He never, despite the prison baggage of their paterfamilias, abandoned the Ibori Delta power clan, the group “dynasty” that has triumphed in Delta State since 1999.  He never crowed about his golden taciturnity, in quiet service. Yet, his pick over Wike, as Atiku’s running mate, birthed as a spectacular sweet-sour, exciting marginal players that loom large in ethno-regional identity politics, but punch well above their paperweight in real realpolitik. These are the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum coalition, of Afenifere (South West), Ohanaeze (South East), Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF: South-South) and Middle Belt Forum (North Central). That media-powered coalition is now up in arms against Okowa, for “betraying” Nigeria’s political “South”, by accepting Atiku’s pick as running mate. But back to the sweet-and-sour motif. Atiku’s Okowa pick is sweet because you can trust the medic-politician not to talk out of turn on the hustings.  That you cannot assure of Wike.  In a tempestuous campaign, with Wike’s tongue let loose, the party might find itself putting out irrelevant fires, as rival APC gallops clear. Assuming a PDP presidential triumph, Okowa cuts the perfect Vice President — more seen than heard, and merrily so! That would appear the very diametric opposite of Governor Wike, with his eternal boasting and bragging. Such troubling cohabitation (were Wike to be the pick) could open the ogre of Olusegun Obasanjo-Atiku Abubakar 2 — the bickering presidential pair that marked the beginning of the end for PDP as federal ruling party, even if it was not so apparent back then in 2003-2007. Now, Okowa’s sour bit: he hosted the Asaba Declaration of May 2021, which fumed that after President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidency must revert down “South”. Now, that was high-powered blustering, made more thunderous by a southern media blaring own home agenda — no crime, any more than a northern media doing same. But in truth: is there a Nigerian political “South” as there is the political “North”, despite the exertions of MBF?  Even at the height of that bluster, it was clear the APC governors (dominant in the South West) were only lending credence to their PDP peers’ opportunistic hell-raising. The so-called “South” had diametrically opposed meanings to both.  As the APC, PDP primaries fully played out, even the South-South has own intense interpretation of “South”!  So, on the day of reckoning, it was “To your house, O Israel!”, to borrow that evocative biblical phrase. Still, Okowa would live with the stigma of grand treachery. If he hosted the fiery Asaba Declaration, how come, without much ado, he’s now coupling Atiku, he of the much maligned Fulani stock? Nevertheless, the same query would be valid and legitimate, had Wike, Anyim Pius Anyim or Enugu’s Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, become Atiku’s pick.  Wike and Ugwuanyi might not have hosted the Asaba declaration.  But both would have been no less guilty of “betrayal” — at least on the scalding, emotive front. Yet, the stark reality is that Atiku won the PDP ticket; and he’s constitutionally obliged to pick a deputy; and the lot fell on Okowa, over Wike.  That can’t be a crime, can it? For PDP, the Atiku move is 1999 all over again.  True Obasanjo, an ethnic Yoruba, was top draw.  Still, he was only the Hobson’s choice, of the so-called “owners of Nigeria” (with his Yoruba kith-and-kin screaming and kicking), who coupled him with Atiku, and gave the Igbo mainstream political elite an el dorado of ceaseless political spoils. Too bad Wike can’t be part of that renewed ticket — no thanks to a scalding tongue!