Actress Laide Bakare has stirred reactions following her announcement of a car gift from her 13-year-old daughter to her brother on his ninth birthday. The mother of three in recent Instagram posts claimed her teenage daughter gifted her younger brother a Benz for his birthday. The movie star shared several photos and videos of the ‘donation’ accompanied with different captions. She wrote: “Money Truly stops Nonsense. My forthcoming Book launch is gonna surely impact your life positively {how to make billions in 6 months) can’t wait to share with u. Simi is just 13, she just gifted her brother A Benz. Bakare added: “From a 13 year old Simi To her 9yr Brother DAMY, I’m Blessed indeed Aliamdulilai for everything LOVE lives in my house, I don’t hunt for it anymore. Allah Be praised always. #youngestbillionaire #laidesotheaterdowo #multiplelandandy #nofakezone everything organic.” Tweeps have continued to chide her over the claim. Read Also: Actress Laide Bakare buys third car in less than a month   Mr Ibu’s colleague arrested for alleged Instagram hack     Anita Joseph frowns at plastic surgery, advises confidence…     Actor Ikeagwu seeks dissolution of marriage   @UnlimitedEniola tweeted: “When you talk about nonsense and call for the gathering of foolish fools, kindly invite Laide Bakare to the table. She needlessly exposed her children and she does it foolishly.” @PabloHoggs said: “Everybody just de ment these days.. that’s how Bobrisky said he bought a wig for N90M, one yeye ex BBN housemate too told us she got her dress for over N1B, today it’s Laide Bakare’s daughter buying car for his 9 years old brother. Una no de rate us walai. Gbogbo yin ONKR.” @Tee_Classiquem1 wrote: “Its only on Instagram Laide Bakare can sell that kind of zobo and go away with it because where will a 13 year old girl get the money to buy car and present it to her younger brother? Did she start hustling from womb? What’s so difficult in admitting yo buy car for you kids?” @_sugarSZN stated: “3 year old girl of Laide Bakare bought a car for his brother, the rate this people Dey give us lamba on Instagram should be illegal, y’all should try rate us na.” @TomisinAmokeoja tweeted: “Laide Bakare no con de rate anybody again. It’s good for the clout sha. And some gullible followers/fans will still believe and defend her blindly.” @UncleFarr said: “Opened Instagram and saw Laide Bakare’s 13 year old daughter, gifting her 9year old brother a car. Not a toy car, an actual car that drives. I just closed the app. I don’t want my intelligence insulted today.” @SirDavidBent wrote: “So, how on earth can Laide Bakare’s 13 year old daughter afford a car to gift her 9 year old brother? The problem I have with many Nigerian celebrities is the need to be in the spotlight for ridiculous stuff. Mind you, at least 95% of the Naija Instagram believes it.” @Neophlames stated: “Laide Bakare has done what no actress has ever done. Iro ojukoroku.”