Presidential Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu and 14 governors yesterday stormed Ekiti State to rally support for the party’s candidate in Saturday’s governorship election, Biodun Oyebanji. Also at the campaign rally were the National Secretary Iyiola Omisore, former interim National Chairman Chief Bisi Akande, members of National Working Committee, National Assembly, ministers, among others. Governors Babajide Sanwolu (Lagos), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Gboyega Oyetola (Osun), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) and Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), were also at the grand rally. Others were Solomon Lalong (Plateau) Abdulrasaq  Abdulrasaq (Kwara), Inua Yahaya (Gombe), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Babagana Zulum (Borno) Abdullahi Sule (Nassarawa) and Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano. Tinubu, who represented President Muhammad Buhari, said the election is a must win for the APC, adding that nothing will stop the party from winning  ‘the first test after his emergence as the party’s standard bearer in the 2023 presidential election’. According to Tinubu, the APC leadership was not oblivious of the election’s importance to the 2023 general election, noting that the party stood a better chance of winning going by the preparations made so far. The presidential candidate said the APC had started a revolution in Nigeria since 2015 by sweeping away then ruling PDP and sustaining it in 2019. He said the revolution should be allowed to reach an enviable height by voting APC in all election. He added: “We started the revolution since 2013. We succeeded in February 2015 by sweeping away the Poverty Development Party (PDP). We were about to bury them in 2019 but they begged that they wanted to survive. So, come 2023, we are going to bury the PDP completely and it would start from Ekiti State. “President Muhammadu Buhari, a man of honour and dignity, kept his promise by passing the ball to us in the South that we should produce the next president, and so it is now left for us to vote APC to maintain the unity and progress of our nation.” Tinubu appealed to aggrieved APC members to sheathe their swords and embrace unity to work for the party’s success in the governorship election. “Democracy is full of twist and turns. To those who are aggrieved in Ekiti, nothing is wrong in having quarrels in a party, but it is not good to burn down the house. That is why I want you to vote for ‘Emilokan of Ekiti’ Biodun Oyebanji. This is our first test after my emergence, don’t let us fail. Don’t let us disappoint President Buhari. We must put Nigeria on the path of progress and you will never regret voting for APC in this election,” he added.   No need changing winning party, says Oyetola     Stakeholders canvass better funding for NAPTIP     Technology transfer: 167 locals trained for Lagos-Ibadan…   Governors Akeredolu, Sanwo-Olu and Bagudu said the APC would leave no stop in its quest to sustain progressive governance in the state. Sanwo-Olu, who described Oyebanji as the best man to succeed Fayemi, said what Ekiti needed now was a ‘competent leader, not an apprentice, that would continue the good works of the outgoing governor’. He urged the people to vote for the APC to sustain tempo of socio-economic development in the state. Bagudu, who is Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, said the governorship election was important to the party as it would be a major pointer to the 2023 general election. He added that Tinubu had been picked as the party’s presidential candidate and so the Southwest must stand firmly by him, ‘and the only way to demonstrate this is by winning Ekiti for APC’. “The Progressive Governors’ Forum knows that Ekiti will do us proud on Saturday by overwhelmingly voting for APC, banking on the solid foundation Governor Fayemi has provided. “Biodun Oyebanji is the only one that can continue the good work Fayemi has begun. He will not disappoint you. The Southwest has a big task ahead of 2023, and holding the zone strongly for Asiwaju to be able to win the 2023 presidential election will be to the benefit of all of us,” Bagudu added. Adamu, while presenting the flag to Oyebanji, hoped he will be elected to succeed Fayemi ‘who has done wonderfully well in the last four years’. He added: “Since the nomination of my brother and your father, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as our presidential candidate, this is our first outing. We want to see you come out and vote for this humble and service-inclined young man. “I have been to Ekiti on three occasions, but I have never seen this kind of crowd. I have never seen a crowd like this, and this shows the support you have for APC. We saw the votes you gave APC in 2018, and you have to replicate and even do more on Saturday.” Akande stressed that if all Nigerians agreed to make a Yoruba man President in 2023, then Ekiti voters shouldn’t disgrace the party on Saturday. “Please, whoever we have offended should please forgive us in the interest of our party and all of us. APC is a party that we can trust. Yoruba and Ekiti in particular belongs to the progressive, and we must display this election”, Akande said.