Tyson Fury has confirmed he intends to return to the boxing ring in a complete U-turn to his previous talk insisting he had retired. Following his win at Wembley over Dillian Whyte in April, Fury has repeatedly stated his desire to walk away from the sport and claimed he had no interest in fighting again, even in a potential undisputed bout against Anthony Joshua. However, as many have suspected, Fury has now suggested he will fight again and while there was no confirmation of his future plans, the WBC heavyweight champion revealed he is in talks with promoter Frank Warren. “I will be back in the ring 100 per cent, just like in the movie when Jerry Maguire shouted ‘Show Me The Money!” Fury told Queensbury Promotions. If anyone can show me the money then it’s Frank Warren, I call him the Magic Man and we are going to make some big, big things happen.” Joshua is expected to fight Oleksandr Usyk in August in Saudi Arabia, with the winner of that bout holding all the other heavyweight world titles.   ADAORA ELONU: Basketball ban will ruin many players     AWCON: Kgatlana tips South Africa to dethrone Nigeria     Dstv, GOtv to air Paris Diamond League   That would then set up an undisputed clash with Fury, who believes that Usyk will once again get the better of Joshua, as he did last year with a points victory in London. Fury shut down reports that claimed he was in talks to fight the winner later this year, however his latest comments make it clear he would be willing to do so as long as the money was right. “When this middleweight knocks out this bodybuilder there will only be one man to sort this absolute circus out,” Fury said. “What I would say to the people who want this fight to happen is: you better have a big cheque-book, because to bring the big GK out of retirement to redeem this country – yet again – it’s going to cost. “I am a prize fighter and I do fight for prizes but it is going to cost if you want me to do a mission on this middleweight and show what a real heavyweight does to them. “And that will be expensive, they will need deep pockets and then we can talk.” Fury’s father John has suggested that a fight between his son and Usyk is unlikely though, when asked if it was only Joshua that would bring him out of retirement.