In June 2020, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had at the inauguration, via a Zoom virtual meeting, of Nigeria’s first Gold and Precious Metals Refining Conglomerate, an operation of Dukia Gold a Precious Metals Raw Materials Buying Programme, in collaboration with Heritage Bank, disclosed that Nigeria has potential reserves of 200 million ounces of gold, and the commencement of the project would create new opportunities locally and beyond, especially post-COVID-19. The vice president was optimistic that the launch would enable Nigeria to mine reserves properly, trade responsibly, refine locally, and boost the nation’s foreign reserves. “It is said that Nigeria has potential reserves of 200 million ounces of gold and the launch of this expansive project, Dukia Gold, creates new opportunities for us to mine these reserves properly, trade responsibly and refine locally. What we are looking at here is an extremely valuable new source of trade, jobs and foreign exchange,’’ the vice president said. So, what has happened to this seemingly promising project? Two years down the line, Nigeria is yet to modernise mining of the commodity as it is still mostly extracted by artisan miners who use the crude form to extract them, unlike some other West African countries like Ghana and Burkina Faso that have fully developed their mining potential. We ask this question in view of the revelation in the report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) titled ‘Trade in Goods Statistics,’ that Nigeria realised a paltry N10.3bn from extraction of gold deposits and production in the first quarter of 2022. This is a far cry from what the sector promises. The commodity, classified as ‘Gold unwrought or in semi-mfr. forms, or in powder form’ was exported to Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates. Certainly, a commodity that is found in at least 14 states of the federation namely: Zamfara, Kaduna, Kebbi, Niger, Kogi, Ogun, Osun, Bauchi, Cross River, Edo, Sokoto, Oyo, Ebonyi, Kwara, and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, can do better than this. It is unfortunate that the country still lacks the capacity to refine gold into consumable products like jewellery.   Electric car?     World Bank’s alarm     Rush for voter card   Sadly, this is the fate of several other commodities and items that Nigeria has comparative advantage in. Here, we are talking about crude oil which the country is a major producer of but is also a net importer of finished products like petrol. This is despite the fact that the country has four refineries which have largely remained moribund despite the infusion of several billions of dollars into their Turn Around maintenance (TAM). The same thing applies to the agricultural sector where we export raw agricultural produce at cheap prices only to import finished products from the same produce at exorbitant prices. Why we continue along this trajectory is baffling because the country’s major foreign exchange earner, crude oil, is susceptible to the vagaries of the international market over which the country has no control. The resultant unpredictability has also led to unpredictable revenue and budgetary expectations. For a country willing to learn, we have had a lot of shocks to make us pay diversification of the economy the desired attention. That we have not is not only saddening, it is equally regrettable. To reverse the trend, the Federal Government must be ready to tackle headlong, the problems of illegal mining and smuggling that President Muhammadu Buhari said Nigeria lost $3 billion to between 2012 and 2018. Not only is the country losing revenue through illegal activities in the gold subsector of the mining sector, the activities of the illegal miners and smugglers have also compounded insecurity in a state like Zamfara. If it means granting incentives to those who would officially mine the gold, so be it. The government must activate its Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMDI), an artisanal and small-scale gold mining that would enable the miners send refined gold to the Central Bank of Nigeria, in accordance with the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) standards. It is by doing all of these that the country can realise its full potential in the sector, boost foreign earnings, create jobs as well as enjoy other multiplier effects that the sector holds for those doing the business according to international best practices.