The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River, Senator Sandy Onor has confessed members of the opposition party prayed against the emergence of Asuwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said they knew his absence from the ballot would have made the victory of PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar an easier ride. Speaking in Calabar with reporters at the NUJ Press Center in Calabar, Senator Onor said: “The emergence of Tinubu, is what we didn’t want to happen. But somehow, the APC advised itself and they have brought him”. He admitted the 2023 Presidential contest would be a tough one between Atiku and TInubu. According to him: “It’s going to be an interesting battle but a lot still has to fall in place for us to be in a position to hazard reasonable guesses as to who will eventually win. “First of all the choice of their deputies, will be strategic and critical: Tinubu is a southern Muslim, will he bring a northern Christian?   Tinubu: The man who would be president     Schools’ audit not for tax purpose, says LASUBEB     Ondo, Oyo APC chieftains congratulate Tinubu   “Will that help his ticket? Or will he bring another Muslim from the north? Will that help or thwart his ticket in this time of religious crisis and sensibilities in the country?” “For Atiku; who will he bring as his deputy? Will his deputy come from a pull of sentiments, or will he bring the kind of deputy that will add value to his ticket? “How will the north react? Is the north equated enough to see a northern candidate and a southern deputy and say no and rather go for a southern candidate with a northern deputy? “All these variables will eventually play out for me to be able to hazard a reasonable guess and I think sometime in October, we should be in a position to take a guess. But trust me, PDP should take over Nigeria; Just as we will take over Cross River.” Onor also spoke of his vision for Cross River State if he gets elected as Governor come 2023. He said: “I am aware that the people of Cross River State are very anxious to see the birth of the new Cross River State that we promised. All I can say is that we are very close to our Eldorado. Darkness will soon give way to light and our people will smile again.” “I will need the support of all citizens and residents for us to achieve this. It starts from the determination of our people to register as voters and making sure their PVC is with them. “As a Cross Riverian therefore, I am begging you to go and get your PVC. That is the only weapon that you have. When you get it, please keep it safe. You will need it on election day, not as bargaining power for N1000 naira or some cups of rice from those desperate power-seekers, but for you to be able to reclaim this state from people who have no value for your life”.