Fiery Catholic priest and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka has given reasons why Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi, can never win the presidency in 2023. The cleric who was speaking during one of his programmes in Enugu, described the former Anambra Governor as a stingy man, insisting that he would never become president. Mbaka, who had in an earlier viral video apologised to Obi over scathing remarks he made about him during the 2019 elections, said he did that under duress because of his bishop. He declared that Obi can only become the President when God ceases to exist. According to the priest, it was better to have an old man as President than a ‘stingy young man’. According to him: “A stingy man, that cannot give people his money, with this hunger ravaging the land, and you are saying he is the one you want. You want to die of hunger? Are you people insane? Where is the Holy Spirit? “It is now that Atiku is seriously contesting for President; now that he is contesting without Peter Obi; it is now that he is serious. “We want somebody that is serious. Unless Peter comes here to kneel, if he becomes president, he will close down this ministry. What we are doing is spiritual. “Listen, a good old man is better than a young wicked man; Peter Obi is going nowhere as far as God lives. If Igbos want a representative, it is not someone like Peter Obi.   2023: Lady dumps boyfriend for not supporting Obi     New surge in girl-child enrolment in northern states     Aviation fuel hits N714 per litre   “I should not have talked but I saw my video going round everywhere as if Fr. Mbaka wholeheartedly came out and apologised. “No, I didn’t apologise wholeheartedly, it was out of duress. I had to obey my Bishop. In obedience I had to; it is not of my volition. I did it because I am a Catholic priest, my Bishop said, do it, my own is ‘Yes my Lord’. “I did not say he(Obi) is a bad man; I said he is a stingy man. A hungry man wants someone that is generous; the man has so much money, but he is ‘I, me, myself’. But that money will not be useful to him. I am very happy now that I have spoken out. That apology is a poisonous curse against Peter Obi. “If he is wise he should have come here after that apology to say he is sorry but he waited. Anybody supporting him is wasting his money, he is going nowhere. “He is my friend. When he was chased out of Government House, he knew the role I played to bring him back, but how did he pay me back? Night meetings we attended to bring him back, ask him, ask Eselu Uga, ask Archbishop Anikwenwa, they know where and how we did it and he was brought back. “Ask Peter since then what he used to reward Adoration. If you like Peter Obi, tell him to come and ask for forgiveness. Let him come and redo what he did. There is an altar of God he blasphemed; he defiled an altar of God, the Holy Spirit. “I called Atiku in 2019; he was in Dubai. I told him that there is a revelation on your presidential election; that you are going to be the President of Nigeria on one condition, that Peter Obi is not going to be your running mate. Peter Obi has incurred a curse to himself, which means that he is carrying a curse; if you want to be President, change him. “Atiku responded that I cannot, Peter must be my running mate, we must win. You saw what happened. Atiku is still alive. That is why I said it is now that Atiku is preparing to be President. “Never you quarrel with a prophet. If you must quarrel with anybody let it not be a prophet. “I didn’t ask Atiku to give me one Kobo. But do what you should do. Without that, you fail. He took Peter and failed “Just like during (Goodluck) Jonathan, I told President Jonathan. He was my friend then. I called him(that) God has shown that you are going to win this election but on one condition; Jega should be changed. If you change Jega you will win Buhari but if you don’t, Buhari will win you. Goodluck told me, ‘Fr. I will not remove Jega, we will still win’. He held on to Jega and failed. Then, people started saying that Mbaka was supporting Buhari”.