In the heat of the ongoing long presidential primary process, it is not likely that the decision-making body of the All Progressives Congress would read this piece. But I hope that someone, who by chance reads it, would whisper these recommendations to them: (1) The APC should not imitate the Peoples Democratic Party in jettisoning zoning. (2) APC should ignore the lure of northernization that comes with the abandonment of zoning. (3) The party should go for a Southern candidate that could muster the widest voter spread across the country, especially among the masses. Although the PDP presidential primary was well planned and well executed, the outcome was not without rancour in the South. Southern leaders (the Southern Governors Forum, Traditional and Religious leaders, and Sociocultural Organisations), who had canvassed zoning the presidential position to the South felt cheated and betrayed. In particular, the hotbed of PDP in the South (South-south and South-east) was so upset that the party’s flag bearer, Atiku Abubakar, quickly embarked on appeasement and reconciliation mission. How he can appease the South-east, whose leaders warned its politicians against accepting a Vice-Presidential slot, remains to be seen. So far, Atiku and PDP national leaders have been afraid to even consider someone from the Southeast for the slot, even though one was chosen in 2019. PDP did not just abandon zoning. It did it in an in-your-face manner. Here’s how the South-east socio-cultural group, Ohaneze Ndigbo reacted: “the PDP is now a political party for the Northern region, with Dr Iyorchia Ayu (Benue) as PDP Chair, Walid Jubril (Nasarawa) as BOT (Board of Trustees) Chair, and Atiku Abubakar (Adamawa) as 2023 PDP presidential candidate,” As if to complete the oppression of the South, another Northerner, Senator David Mark, supervised the PDP presidential primary. No wonder then that, within hours, Southern, Middle Belt, and South-south leaders rejected Atiku as PDP candidate. At the end of the day, this may well be a bluff. However, it cannot go without some repercussions for the PDP. If there is a lesson the APC should learn from the PDP convention, it is not to abandon zoning but to go South as it originally planned. The argument leading to the election of party officials was that the 2015/2019 arrangement was being reversed, implying that the Party Chairman would now go to the North, while the Presidential candidate would go to the South. Accordingly, the party chairmanship was successfully zoned to the North. If they still exist, the intrigues that led to a stalemate in implementing the promised zoning of the presidential candidate to the South should be ignored, if the APC hopes to win the election. Read Also: Full list of 27 Imo APC House of Assembly candidates   Family of five perishes in Ondo auto crash     PDP cancels Ebonyi primaries     Global tourism conference ‘ll connect Nigeria’s…   Another factor the APC should consider in favour of the South is the role of the legacy parties that formed the APC. Many commentators have drawn attention to the role of the Action Congress of Nigeria, which had as many Governors (6) as the other legacy parties, ANPP (3), APGA (2), and CPC (1). It was the ACN that delivered victory to then candidate Muhammadu Buhari, who had previously run unsuccessfully for the same office three times. It speaks volume to the character of a person or group that ignores this history and the accompanying ethical bond in order to hold on to power. In the final analysis, it may well be suicide for the APC to ignore the South, especially the Southwest, the hotbed of ACN until the formation of the APC. Fortunately, the APC is not short of good candidates from this zone. In his column yesterday, Festus Eriye exposed the fallacy of the idea that only a Northern APC candidate can defeat Atiku, who is also from the North, or that the North is a monolithic voting bloc (see APC’s 2023 options: Facts and fallacies, The Nation, May 31, 2022). Granting that Atiku will be able to cart away some votes, APC should be the party to beat in the APC should still be the party to beat in the region. After all, it has 13 of the region’s 19 Governors currently in power. Equally unfathomable is the idea of another Northerner succeeding President Buhari in the same party after an 8-year tenure. Not only is it an insult on Southern sensibilities, it robs deep on the fragility of our democracy. Here’s where the PDP does not offer a model for the APC to follow. For one thing, the last PDP President was from the South. Therefore, the rotational principle might operate differently for the party. That’s one reason the same Atiku was their candidate in 2019. True, the idea of matching Buhari with a Northern candidate was in the consideration, that, too, should not be a model for the APC, whose Northern candidate would have been in power for eight years by 2023. Still lurking in the background of the ongoing presidential primary process is the new political fad, consensus. There are at least three indications that the APC might be working toward a consensus presidential candidate. First, attached to the nomination and expression of interest form is a consensus form, which many aspirants ignored. Second, the aspirants were asked during the screening if they would agree to a consensus candidate. Again, not all aspirants agreed to the arrangement. Finally, as recently as last evening, Tuesday, May 31, 2022, the President met with the APC Governors and shared with them his “dream” of the “ideal candidate” he would like them to consider. It is no longer the President’s body language. Now it is his dream. It remains unclear where either or both could lead. What is clear is that the President has just given the party leaders another goal to pursue—his dream of the ideal candidate. A categorial statement on zoning could limit the sphere of this wild goose chase. There is no better leadership the President can give on the presidential electoral process at this time than such a statement. If and when he makes the statement, the keyword should be South.