Out of almost one million registered voters and more than 700,000 people who collected their voter cards less than 400,000 actually voted in the gubernatorial election in Ekiti state last Saturday June 18. This is a couple of thousands less than those who voted in the last election in 2018. Is this the result of voters’ apathy or fatigue or feelings that not much would change? There was an apocryphal story about the 1993 election which Moshood Abiola won. The story was that some peasant farmers in Ekiti on the morning of the election were accosted on their way to their farms. When asked why they were going to their farms and abandoning their civic duty, they retorted that they thought there would no longer be elections after Obafemi Awolowo had died and that elections died with their favourite politician! This is not likely to be the case this time because even the rapidly declining population of farmers in Ekiti knows that there had been post-Awolowo elections in Ekiti. The decline may be explained in that many fake electors registered. This is the pattern all over Nigeria. When there is a census either for population, school enrolment, city planning, electoral roll and even for vaccinations against diseases, there are always attempts to cheat through over registration because individuals and states always think there is money to be made. I remember a case of a northern state which returned a figure of 2.5 million children under five years when the federal government was planning enrolment of children into its UBE program. The governor of the said state felt ashamed when he was told the entire population of his state was about 3.5 million and 2.5 million of them could not be under five years! Perhaps in the next population census, the federal government should link it with tax revenue and one will be surprised that our ballyhooed population of over 200 million would come crashing down to about 100 million which I believe is more like the real and actual figure of our population. I have travelled all over this country from  Owo, Akure, Ado Ekiti, Ilesha, Oshogbo,  Lagos, Ibadan, Oyo Ogbomosho, Ilorin, Jebba, Mokwa, Kontagora, Kaduna, Zaria,  Katsina, Kano, Bauchi, Maiduguri down to Yola, Jalingo, Makurdi, Lafia, Jos, Akwanga, Keffi, Abuja, Lokoja Benin, Asaba, Onitsha, Enugu, Aba, Port Harcourt, Owerri, Calabar, Uyo,  Badagry, Abeokuta, Sokoto and so on. The point I am making is seeing is believing. We deceive ourselves by all these fabricated and inflated census figures.   Inflation and the global economy     The joke of primary elections in Nigeria     Unintended consequences of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine   Now back to the Ekiti election. It is heartening to know that Ekiti now appears to be solidly back into the progressive camp of Nigerian politics. I know that people may say there is no difference between the PDP and the APC but for whatever it’s worth, some of us would like to think the APC represents the progressive wing of Nigerian politics. There is a linear connection between the pre-independence Action Group party ( AG ) of Obafemi Awolowo  to the UPN, the SDP, the AD, the ACN and now the APC. This is arguably true but whatever it is, this is the general belief in the Southwest of Nigeria. The brief domination of Ekiti by Ayo Fayose and his party, the PDP has now been exposed as an aberration backed by presidents Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan using federal might to impose their political party on our people. I have nothing against Fayose; he is actually a jolly good fellow. But I detest his politics of hedonistic crudity of so-called “stomach infrastructure” in which he reduced himself as governor of a state to buying roasted plantain and roasted corn and wolfing them down with palm wine with the plebeians on the streets of Ado Ekiti as a system of government. Ekiti people are too educated to allow this humiliating parody of democracy to be their contribution to the evolving Nigerian special variant of democracy. Thank God, Kayode Fayemi has shown the world who we  really are and by the current election, he has buried forever, the odious and degrading governance system that elevated gruffness and aggression rather than reason and polished discussion as the best way of ruling a people, even if they are poor. In the 16 local governments in the state, the APC won in 15 conceding to the PDP Effon Alaaye where Bisi Kolawle the PDP flag bearer comes from. Bisi Kolawole has graciously conceded the election to Abiodun Oyebamiji, the APC candidate. This is a civilised way of doing things. Segun Oni unfortunately wants to challenge the election in a law court. This is his right but to what end? He should just accept his defeat and go home to rest after mounting a glorious challenge to the status quo. In the interest of the state, I suggest Governor Fayemi, the leader of the APC should visit Oni and make up with him. There is no doubt that Oni has a reasonably sizeable following in the state who believes he represents honour and integrity close to the attributes  for which Ekiti  people of my generation were famous for. Even though Segun Oni has moved from PDP to APC and now to SDP, he should settle down and remain in a party to which his people are ideologically inclined to and certainly it will not be the PDP judging from their political antecedent. It is now left for me to congratulate the newly elected governor who will be sworn in come October. One hopes he will concentrate on whatever his predecessor has not been able to finish in terms of infrastructure. I pray that in the last year of Muhammadu Buhari’s presidency, the Ado – Akure road will be dualised  jointly by both Ekiti and Ondo states  but  the cost of which will be reimbursed by the federal government to facilitate rapid linkage of the economies of the two agricultural states producing cocoa, the second foreign exchange earner for the country. The new Ekiti governor should also consolidate on areas of increment in internal revenue and foreign and local investments and adding value to our produce and whatever mineral resources that God has put under our soil including granite which can be used for flooring of houses when polished. The problem of Ekiti is not establishing tertiary institutions; we have enough and our sons and daughters can also find their ways to federal institutions all over the country by the dint of hard work and competitive ability. Our problem is job creation and providing the right infrastructure of roads, water supply, security and electricity that will facilitate rapid development through industrialisation, value addition to local produce and employment. We should also under the scheme of innovation that should be located in the governor’s office, find a way of converting our high cerebral intensity to material production.