ANNONYMOUS: Hello, I retired from the Nigeria Police in 2015. I learnt President Mohammed Buhari has approved a minimum wage and subsequential adjustment  to pensioners. Some federal establishment have received this money in arrears, including 2.5 per cent. I want to know why PenCom has refused to remit it our various PFAs. Any time we demanded the money, they would reply that it had been paid to our PFAs. But our PFAs denied this. If I may ask, what is happening and why has PenCom not remitted the said money to police retirees? Most importantly, retirees in other federal establishment have collected their entitlement up to the last percentage. My complaint is: PenCom has not released ours to our PFAs for payment. Why? Some of us suffered for this nation and the money should not be for a particular section. Mr. President has directed payment. How long will it take us to get the money? PENCOM: Please be informed that the payments approved by the president have since been paid to the pension fund administrators (PFAs). Kindly liaise with your PFA for further assistance. Thank you. OLATUNJI: Dear Madam, I have money in my account with my PFA. My company closed during the COVID-19 lockdown. Since then, I have not secured a job since. I have approached my PFA to collect my contribution to start a business. My PFA said I could only be given 25 per cent of my contribution. I have pleaded with them that  this is not enough. But they are not listening. Please I need your help. PENCOM: Please be advised that due to the balance in your RSA, you are only entitled to withdraw 25 per cent as lump sum while the balance will be spread as your monthly pension, kindly liaise with your pfa for further assistance. thank you.   PTAD complaints and solutions     Anchor Insurance launches product for air travellers     PenCom recovering pension liabilities, says DG   CHUKWUKADIBIA: Good day, madam. I am Chukwukadibia. I registered with Premium Pensions Limited when I was a constable with the Nigeria Police. I later lost the phone. I no longer have access to  it. Worse still, I have not been receiving alerts and updates on my RSA from Premium for many years. I am now an Inspector of Police. Kindly help me to resolve this issue. Thanks in anticipation. PENCOM: The complainant is advised to visit Premium Pensions Limited to update his record and request to receive alerts ABDULLAHI: Good day, my name is Abdullahi, the son of the late Inspector Etubi. You earlier informed me that everything had been settled. We were asked to provide our father’s name and RSA PIN to enable the commission to investigate further, which we have provided. We were told in The Nation that we were among the next batch to be paid. But we are yet to get anything. Kindly help. PENCOM: Investigation has shown that there is no such information in our database. Kindly visit your PFA to ensure that your documents are further submitted to the Commission. HASSAN: I am Hassan. My RSA shows that there was no remittance by my employer in 2015, 2016, 2017 and part of 2014 and 2018. Please help find out why. PENCOM: Please write to the commission, stating the non-remittance of your contributions by your employer. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for Annuity. The Federal Government has released money to pay 2.5 per cent of the amount it is owing. I am being owed 24 months. When and how will this money be paid? PENCOM: Please note that if the amount payable is less than N100,000, it will be paid into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life. Annuity (RLA) provider. GIMBA: Good day. My name is Gimba from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. My complaint is about the non-release of my pension since October 2020.