Valency Agro Nigeria Limited has opened application list for subscription to a new commercial paper issuance under which the agribusiness firm is seeking to raise up to N5 billion. Under the N5 billion Series 9 Commercial Papers (CP) issuance, Valency Agro is offering 269-day CPs at discount rate of 12.69 per cent and implied yield of 14 per cent. Minimum subscription is N5 million while the application list closes today. Valency Agro Nigeria is a subsidiary of Valency International Pte Limited – an international commodity trading house with presence in over 15 countries – that deals in the sourcing, production, and trading of agro and consumer food products. The net proceeds from the CPs would be used by the company for its short-term financing requirements.   NGX mulls guidelines on corporate compliance on climate…     Stock Exchange suspends Multiverse over share reconstruction     ‘Investors need accurate data to succeed in capital…   Valency trades in portfolios of products that are classified as agro and consumer goods, Sulphur and fertiliser, steel and scrap, and other commodities. The company was established as a commodity trading company in 2007 with headquarters in Singapore and has become a prominent integrated supply chain manager across Africa and Asia. Through an already established extensive global reach, the company has developed excellent sourcing networks directly with farm gate suppliers and manufacturing processors while also nurturing strong local and international relationships worldwide. Valency has also expanded its presence across the value chain with operations in logistics, warehousing and through its own processing facilities. The company has a deep manufacturing and processing presence and also has the largest cashew processing plant in Ogun State, Nigeria. It has raw cashew procurement and drying centres in Lagos, Ibafo, Ogbomosho, Kano, Anyigba and Ankpa. It also has sesame cleaning facilities in Kano, Lagos and the Middle Belt, as well as cocoa drying machines in its centre at Ogun state.