Since news about the arrest of former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu alongside his wife, Beatrice Nwanneka, broke on international media outlets, the couple has become the thrust of public discourse.  The couple during the week, was arrested and arraigned before a United Kingdom (UK) court over allegations centered on organ harvesting. The serious accusations not only signpost a personal tragedy to him especially with his daughter’s current travail, but are of larger and unpleasant implications for the country’s reputation. The term “organ harvesting” has since topped social media trends. Organ harvesting or donation/transplantation involves removing an organ from one person (the donor) and surgically placing it in another (the recipient) whose organ had failed. In the UK, forced organ harvesting and trafficking are interlinked crimes. Trafficking of human organs is illegal in the UK and legal donation of organs can only take place with the donor’s consent. The illegality of harvesting and trafficking human organs within and outside Nigeria has made it one of Nigeria’s Serious Organised Crimes (SOC). Ekweremadu, a member of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, had been a senator since 2003. He served as Deputy President of the Senate from 2007 to 2019. Born on May 12, he holds both Bachelor and Masters’ degrees in Law from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 1987. He was also recently made a visiting professor at the University of Lincoln. Ekweremadu was recently in the news after saying the South-East region would not vote for the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Peter Obi, in 2023. Before his comment on Obi, the embattled lawmaker withdrew from the 2023 governorship race in Enugu State after he failed to win the PDP’s ticket. Now, the desperation to save the life of their daughter, Sonia, has landed Ekweremadu and his wife, Beatrice in London detention. If convicted, the couple may get a maximum of life sentence or 12 months imprisonment or a fine or both, on summary conviction under the United Kingdom’s Modern Slavery Act 2015. Ekweremadu, who is a UK resident, has since surrendered his passport to the UK government over the issue. According to the prosecutor, a 15-year-old homeless boy was transported from Lagos to Heathrow with the intent of harvesting kidneys because one of Ekweremadu’s daughters has kidney disease.   Orubebe dances with yesterday’s foes     Tonto Dikeh heads to Government House     Two policemen killed in operation, three others   On June 21, the couple was discovered with £20,000 in cash before boarding a flight to Turkey. But Ekweremadu had in December 2021, written a letter to the British high commission about a kidney donation for his daughter. In the now-viral letter which is yet to be independently verified, the former deputy senate president said he was writing in support of a visa applicant who was scheduled for “medical investigations for a kidney donation to Ms Sonia Ekweremadu”. The letter did not disclose the age of the male but UK prosecutors alleged that the victim is a minor and that Ekweremadu had falsified his age to 21. He said the donor and his daughter “will be at the Royal Free Hospital London,” adding that he would “be providing the necessary funding”. Confirming the arrests in a statement, the metropolitan police said the pair were charged to court on Thursday following an investigation by the police’ specialist crime team. The police added that the investigation was launched after detectives were alerted to potential offences under modern slavery legislation in May 2022. At the court proceedings, the court heard the couple, who have four children and a house in Willesden, North London, hoped to transplant the boy’s organs to their daughter who suffers from kidney failure. The prosecutors reportedly informed the court that Ekweremadu procured a passport for the boy and claimed he was 21 years old but the prosecutors discovered that he was 15 years old. According to the prosecutors, the duo have a daughter who has a kidney-related disease and has been on dialysis. They added that they believe the plan was to use an organ from the boy on their daughter who appears to need a kidney transplant. “Beatrice Nwanneka Ekweremadu, 55 (10.9.66) of Nigeria is charged with conspiracy to arrange/facilitate travel of another person with a view to exploitation, namely organ harvesting,” a statement by the police reads. “Ike Ekweremadu, 60 (12.05.62) of Nigeria is charged with conspiracy to arrange/facilitate travel of another person with a view to exploitation, namely organ harvesting.” The child was said to have “been safeguarded”, while the police added that its operatives “are working closely with partners on continued support”. The couple have since appeared before Uxbridge magistrates’ but were denied bail and remanded in custody. The case has been adjourned till July 7.