A tech firm, Clickafix,  is set to transform many artisans into entrepreneurs and ensure they get the best value for their services. Speaking during the unveiling the Clickafix app in Ikeja, its founder/Director, Mr. Arun Goswami, said the app was created to bridge the gap between skilled professionals and service seekers who are  unaware of the best place to get the right service providers to carry out repairs in their homes and offices. He said the app is a trusted platform that provides access to skilled artisans, thereby giving the service seekers peace of mind when requesting a service. He said the app, which is available on Playstore and IOS for Lagosians to access the professionals of their choice and get their repairs done as quickly as possible, was unveiled in partnership with several training institutes in the state and has enrolled hundreds of verified and competent professionals in the areas of plumbing, electrical repairs, hair and beauty, carpentry, haircuts, air conditioning and refrigerator repairs, generator repairs, and appliance repairs. Customers, according to Goswami, have access to many of these professionals with details of their years of experience and areas of competence, giving customers the choice of their preferred artisans on the app and requesting service. The artisans will be at the doorstep of the customers in no more than 45 minutes to deliver service.   ‘Sustainability key to Africa’s digital…     Nigeria understudies Istanbul, Brasilia in airport…     ITF puts Nigeria’s labour force at 69m   Speaking on the app’s benefits to artisans, the co-founder and Director of the company, Mr. Pawan Bhandari, said as much as the app makes life easier for customers, it also enables artisans with more opportunities to render their services to huge numbers of customers they may not have met. Bhandari said Clickafix as a marketplace is a technology-enabled platform that rides on choice and convenience. To build trust, he said: “We have partnered with top quality training institutes and have thoroughly verified every single service provider such that service rendered via the app is fully secured and until the customer is completely satisfied, the service is not concluded.” He added that the Customer Success Team of Clickafix is committed to service excellence and will attend to customers’ requests promptly, stressing that the team also has effective feedback and review channels which enable customers to share their experience on the go. He said Clickafix is location based and provides service seekers and professionals access to jobs or professionals closest to them. He urged professionals who are yet to enroll in the app to seek better opportunities on Clickafix. He expressed confidence that the entrepreneurship space will witness a further boom in Lagos as more people get onto the app. Sharing the technicalities of the solution, Goswami said the app is user-friendly and enables hitch-free transactions for both service providers and seekers. According to her, as soon as a customer downloads the Clickafix app from the Playstore or IOS app on a phone, the customer is in charge. The customers only need to enter their phone number, choose the service required, select a preferred professional, select the time he or she would like the service delivered, and make payment as agreed with the service providers, all within the app. Goswami added that the app seeks to make life simpler for Nigerians as they can carry out home repairs with the best of service providers on their phones.