President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, said hosting the Global Conference on Tourism, Culture and Creative Industry in Nigeria would bring the country’s leisure and business sectors in contact with potential investors. The President spoke during his visit to the headquarters of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO) in Madrid, the capital of Spain. He assured the global community Nigeria would deliver a world-class reception to participants at the upcoming Global Conference scheduled to hold in Lagos in November. According to him, the Global Conference would be an opportunity for Nigeria to showcase its warm hospitality and world-class leisure industry to the world, noting there are yet countless wonders and beauty hidden in the country, which the world had yet to witness. The right to host the UNWTO first-ever Global Conference on Tourism, Culture and Creative Industry was granted to Nigeria in May at the newly refurbished National Theatre in Lagos by November.   Family of five perishes in Ondo auto crash     PDP cancels Ebonyi primaries     Bamise murder: Okada ban stalls BRT driver’s trial   Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said since the hosting agreement was signed, Nigeria had gone to work in preparation for the maiden event. He re-emphasised Buhari’s assurance that the conference would show to the world the secret of Nigeria’s leadership in the areas of culture, tourism, music, film, gastronomy, fashion, photography, and many more. Secretary-General of the UNWTO, Zurab Pololikashvili, welcomed Buhari, noting that his visit was a confirmation of how important tourism is to Nigeria. “Your visit is a direct confirmation of how important tourism is to Nigeria. You are the second from Africa to ever visit us but the very first from such a big country with huge resources in culture, nature and diversity . “We have a long term commitment with Nigeria to develop tourism and attract more and more tourists to Nigeria. The numbers are very small at the moment and I think it’s a shame.Nigeria has to receive much more tourists to see the beauty and meet the people,” he said.