Imo Police Command on Monday paraded the gunmen reportedly who murdered former aide of ex- President Goodluck Jonathan Ahmed Gulak last year along Ngor Okpala Airport Road in Owerri. Parading the suspects at the Command’s Headquarters Owerri with those who bombed the residence of the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor, Commissioner of Police Mohammed Barde said the suspects have confessed to be members of Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB) and Eastern Security Network (ESN). He said the Command on June 20 arrested one Anosike Chimobi (28) of Umuedo Obohia in Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area who confessed to be among IPOB/ESN members that murdered Gulak on May 30,2021. According to him, Anosike who was also involved in the burning of Aboh Mbaise, Ahiazu Mbaise, Ezinihitte Mbaise, Ihitte-Uboma and Obowo police stations, confessed to be among the IPOB/ESN terrorists who attacked the onions’ truck at Enyiogwugwu junction, Aboh Mbaise LGA shortly after killing Gulak.   IPOB declares sit-at-home on Tuesday in Southeast     BREAKING: Buhari swears Ariwoola in as Acting CJN     JUST IN: Suspected killers of Ahmed Gulak paraded   Interacting with newsmen, Anosike confessed that some politicians were behind some of their crimes in the State. “Sometimes the politicians will come and meet our commander, Ebube Uche Madu aka virus but our leader will drive us away each they come to discuss with him,” he said. Three other suspects namely Ifeanyi Awaenyi(28) of Umuokwe Awo-Omamma, Oru-East LGA; Ahanotu Chimezie (24) of Umuokwe Oru-East and Axhazie Chukwudi (24) of Obo Autonomous Community, Orlu LGA confessed to be among the syndicate that attacked and burnt the residence of Obiozor on March 19, 2022. The suspects, who were arrested in Lagos, were said to be among the same syndicate that kidnapped an abroad based philanthropist, Chief Okoro Junior of Ubachima Awo-Omamma, Oru-East LGA when he visited his home town on April 28. Barde said that the victim paid N1million ransom to the hoodlums before they released him, adding that the suspects killed the victim’s police guard, one inspector Ado Ibrahim of 43 PMF and ran to Lagos where they were arrested by the Command’s Anti-kidnapping Unit.