Nigeria has posted its best performance in the open budget survey conducted among 120 countries. The country improved by 24 points for transparency in the latest Open Budget Survey. Director-General, Budget Office of the Federation (BOF) Mr. Ben Akabueze, stated this in Abuja yesterday during the launch of Open Budget Survey 2021 Report organised by BOF and the International Budget Partnership (IBP). According to Akabueze, “the total transparency score of 45 over 100 in the 2021 survey, is a significant leap from the 21 over 100 scored in the 2019 survey”. This performance, he said, “is the second highest improvement worldwide”. Nigeria made this leap in budget transparency because it has implemented the Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative SRGI 1.0 and SRGI 2,0, which are still ongoing; included the Budgets of 63 Government-Owned Enterprises (GOEs), which have “better improved our comprehensiveness as well as transparency position in terms of reporting for GOEs”, according to Akabueze. Other factors that contributed to Nigeria improving on its budget transparency include timely submission of the MTEF/FSP and budgets such as early approval by the National Assembly (NASS); better collaboration with key stakeholders like the Executive and the Legislature that have witnessed improved coordination and collaboration which has improved timeliness.   Nigeria, others need $25b to deliver universal energy access     BoI stakes N3.5b in ShopRite’s new owner, Ketron…     ‘Fashion industry revenue spinner’   Improved engagement with citizens has led to improved levels of engagements, leveraging technology to reach more Nigerians via virtual platforms and the full disclosure of Federal Government of Nigeria’s (FGN’s) payments – available to state and non-state actors leading to improved transparency, governance, service delivery and accountability through the implementation of Open Treasury Portal. Sally Torbert of International Budget Partnership (IBP) stated: “At the federal level since 2010, there was not much progress made on the Open Budget Survey (OBS) indicators for transparency until this round of OBS 2021 when the score for Nigeria jumps from 21 to 45.” This big leap that is being seen by OBS Transparency in Nigeria, she said, “is mainly driven by the government’s successful efforts to improve the tiny availability of three key budget documents. So here you can see the pre-budget statement, the in-year reports and the mid-year review have changed between 2019 and 2021”. IBP, she noted, has sounded a global call to action to urge governments to commit to some goals that are common across all countries. “These include establishing meaningful inclusive opportunities for public engagement, including oversight especially during budget execution, where we’ve seen many governments deviate from their plans during budget implementation, disclosing more and better information on plans and executed budgets, especially around the debt and fiscal risks, and institutionalized accountability requirements as permanent features of the budget system”. The IBP, she said, is “excited to hear about plans such as the reform of the organic budget here in Nigeria”. “Around the world, governments are making commitments to improve and we hope we also see strong commitments made in Nigeria linked to wonderful public financial management reforms that are ongoing,” she said. Based on the OBS’ findings, Torbert listed “a number of recommendations for government reforms and actions that could improve Nigeria’s OBS for any upcoming OBS in 2023”.