Nigeria Women’s cricket team made it two  wins in as many matches after beating Germany in an historic first-ever meeting between the two sides. The win comes after the team had earlier defeated Brazil yesterday at the 7th  Kwibuka T20 Women Tournament in Rwanda. Nigeria won the toss and put the European side to bat. A move that speaks both to their belief in their bowling attack and their ability to chase down a score. A development the President of the Nigeria Cricket Federation Uyi Akpata  said   has justified the federation’s investment in the team. “I am particularly very happy at their performance. They had a little hitches here and there but you must admit that this team has improved from what we saw earlier in March in Lagos and they are getting better with every game,”he said.   Exciting weekend on DStv, GOtv for UEFA Nations League     Barca plan €1bn clause to ward off Liverpool interest in…     Pirlo to coach Musa at Fatih Karagumruk   Teenage sensations Lilian Ude and Rukayat Abdulrasaq took the new ball for Nigeria and bowled beautifully but it was Rachael Samson with 4 wickets for 13 runs from her 4 overs who did real damage. Christina Gough 22(49) and Sharanya Sadarangani 22(30) were the only ones to put up any real resistance. In their reply, the Nigerians were expected to make light work of the total but their innings got off to a shaky start, losing Kehinde Abdulquadri and Agatha Obulor cheaply before the pair of Esther Sandy and Salome Sunday 32(40) took the game away from Germany. There was a mini-collapse towards the end after Sunday lost her wicket in what can only be described as a rush of blood but Abigail Igbobie and Favour Eseigbe made sure of victory. This win moves Nigeria to the top of the standings at the ongoing KwibukaT20 Tournament in Kigali along with Kenya, as the only teams with 100 percent record so far. Rwanda nicked their first win at the event after over Brazil with a 35-run victory after losing to Kenya in their Opening game by six wicket. On match day three, Nigeria faces Botswana today and hopes to a third win to remain top of the table and a better chance at the Kwibuka honours.