GEORGE: I am George, a pensioner with federal share. I have been logging into the website (www.ptad.gov.ng) for the “I AM ALIVE” pilot scheme but the computer keeps telling me that I am not selected. Please verify and let me know. PTAD might have sent the text message in error. Meanwhile, I am yet to see the reaction of my last enquiry in The Nation. PTAD: Please note that only 50,000 pensioners were selected for the Pilot Phase. We will get to  pensioners in due course. BAYI: BAYI: My name is Comrade Bayi from Jos Plateau. I retired in April 1999 from FBN Plc. They started paying me pension in May 2011. Since then, my pension arrears haven’t been paid. Verification was done in 2017. We were told to wait for payment but nothing has been done till date. I also haven’t received my arrears for 11 months, though I saw the first one for seven months. While PTAD says it has paid N70 billion to pensioners, many pensioners and NOKs from Plateau State have not been settled. PTAD: You will do well to provide detailed bank statement from period of complaint till date. PAUL: My name is Paul. My pension from August 1997 to July 2018, has not been paid. PTAD: Please provide your bank statement for period you complained about. GYET: My name is Gyet, my pension arrears for six years have not been paid. PTAD: Please provide your bank statement fot period of complaint till date GOKOP: I am Gokop. I have not been placed on pension payroll since February 2010 till date. PTAD: Kindly provide the bank statement from period of complaint till date Mohammed: Good day. I am Mohammed. I have not been placed on pension payroll. PTAD: Complainant should provide the bank statement for the period. MEDU: I am Medu. I retired in 2006 under the Old NEPA/PHCN and by transition from NELMCO to PTAD. My monthly pension for January and March 2015 was omitted. After my complaint, I did what I was told to do. I went to PTAD up to five times but to my surprise, each time I went there, they would tell me ‘no funds’ yet to pay. My complaints were published several times in The Nation.   PenCom kicks off online verification for MDAs’ retirees     Pension complaints and solutions     14,836 civil service pensioners overpaid, says PTAD   Please intervene and recover my arrears, including my gratuity and omitted three months’ arrears as contained in my verification with PTAD. I have also not been paid minimum wage arrears as contained in my complaints form, which I submitted on July 5, 2021 to PTAD office. PTAD: You are to provide your bank statement to enable us treat your case. MURITALA: Dear Omobola. Thank you so much for the wonderful job you have been doing. God will bless you. My name is Muritala Bolaji Morufu. I resigned from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 1996. My entitlement has been paid to September 2020. But to my surprise, the monthly payment from October to December 2020 has not been paid. Please assist me so that my monthly due for these months can be paid. Following my compliant through this newspaper of May 12, last year and PTAD’s request that I should submit some documents, which I did with affidavit, nothing has been done. Note that I forwarded the documents plus the affidavit on June 12, last year. PTAD: Pensioner to avail him/herself for verification in our head office or Lagos office. If he has been verified, then should send verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng IRIOGBE: Good day, my name is Iriogbe, a NIPOST retiree. My phone had been inundated with requests from some colleagues who want to know if PTAD has stopped the on-line verification of Federal Government pensioners. They are worried that after some pensioners were chosen to do same, they are yet to be asked to do theirs and this has caused a lot of worries to them, fearing it may eventually lead to removal of their names from payroll. They are not tired of phoning me, having known that I have done my late last year. Please, clarify. PTAD: This is just the Pilot Phase of the ‘I Am Alive’ confirmation and as such only a few pensioners were selected to try out the application. OWARI: My name is Owari, the non-payment of my pension for over a year is worrisome to me. I am still alive. I need my pension   to attend my needs and that of my wife. We are in a vulnerable condition to survive. I urge the newspaper to treat my case as a Save my Soul (SOS) agenda. Thank you. PTAD: The payment of Mr. Owari has been computed. He will be paid as soon as the Directorate gets fund in line with his case. MABAWONKU: My name is Mabawonku, a federal/state pensioner. I worked with Nigeria Educational Research and Development Centre (NERDC) from September 14, 1982 to July 6, 1993. I joined the Lagos State civil Service on July 15, 1993 and retired on January 26, 2008 as a Director. The government has paid their  share of gratuity and pension in 2010 but that of the federal share has not been paid up till today despite demands in writing. I am owed gratuity and six months’pension arrears from January to July 1993. I took part in the  verification with PTAD at the Tafawa Balewa Square in Lagos on April 23, 2019. I submitted bank statements (from 2008 to date)  and  other documents as requested by PTAD. My original pension file has been retrieved from NERDC by PTAD since November 2017. With the conditions met since 2019, the gratuity and pension arrears have not been paid. Kindly help. PTAD: Kindly provide a bank statement for the period of complaint. Thank you. Oyibo: Please I am Peter Oyibo. God bless all of you. I was born on June 10, 1968. I am 54 years. I was employed by the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on December 9, 1991 and retired in January 2005. I took part in the last verification. I am owned nine years’ pension arrears. Please pay me and place me on monthly payroll. My account  number is: Access Bank 0043942375  Thanks.(07031212581)