Pastor Alamu David of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) Abule Egba, Lagos has claimed All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential hopeful, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The cleric, in a statement, explained: “God revealed to me on the 24th June 2008 that a man with the name Bola Ahmed Tinubu will rule the nation, Nigeria for its betterment and I have a strong faith that the time is here; 2023. ‘Baba is unstoppable’” He appealed to members of the APC and Nigerians “all over the world, irrespective of their tribe, religion and political party to support this revelation so that the plan of God towards our nation, Nigeria can manifest.” David advised Yorubas against the candidature of Tinubu for different reasons to “note that Asiwaju is our son and father, we should look past his shortcomings and see him as the only candidate ready to retrieve our lost rights in 2023.” The statement reads in part: “Asiwaju is the messiah of our time and denying him would be synonymous to the awful occurrence of Baba MKO Abiola and Baba Awolowo that we especially the Yoruba tribe regret afterwards. “This shouldn’t be allowed to repeat itself as its effects might be beyond comprehension.   Kwara reopens school shut over hijab crisis     Full list of 27 Imo APC House of Assembly candidates     One killed as Police rescue 4 in gun battle with bandits in…   “I strongly believe only ‘A man of pedigree’ Baba Bola Ahmed Tinubu fits into this office. “He has always been a politician with good strategies. “He was the only gubernatorial candidate of the APC, the then Action congress of Nigeria (ACN) who emerged as a governor in the South West. “He had and implemented a master plan for Lagos state which exists till date. “Similarly, his good strategies served as a ladder to several politicians who have emerged in one political office or the other, whether gubernatorial, ministerial or senatorial offices. “The incumbent president and his vice, Senate President and the speaker, all climbed on this ladder to attain their respective offices. “It’s a payback time to support him and his ambition. I am also appealing to the elders of the Yoruba tribe to intervene, solicit and support him.”