Police in Keffi, Nasarawa State, have arrested 24 suspected political thugs at Miniki Suites, along Keffi-Akwanga Road. According to the police, the suspects came into the hotel in a convoy of seven private vehicles. Findings revealed that the police moved to the location following a tipoff. Items recovered from the arrested suspects, the police said, included eight pump action guns, two locally-made revolver guns, 37 rounds of live cartridges, four bulletproof vests, 27 mobile phones, two pairs of vigilante uniforms, five cutlasses, 10 assorted knives and charms, among other objects. A statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday by the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi said preliminary investigations revealed that the suspects, who are thugs for hire, carry out their heinous acts under the guise of being members of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN).   LIVE UPDATES: APC presidential primary     Herders kill two in Benue community     Three rescued in foiled attack on Kaduna-Abuja road   Adejobi said: “The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, has ordered the immediate transfer of the case to the Electoral Offences Desk at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID). “The IGP reiterates the commitment of the Force to stamping out threats to peaceful and credible elections at all levels, even as he vows to deal decisively with anyone caught engaging in political thuggery”. IGP Baba has approved the establishment of Electoral Offences Desk at the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID), Force Headquarters, Abuja, with the Commissioner of Police, FCID, as the Desk Officer. The IGP has equally approved the establishment of the Desk at State Commands across the nation with the Assistant Commissioners of Police in charge of the Criminal Investigation Departments as State Desk Officers. The mandate of the Electoral Offences Desk Officers includes the collation and investigation of all electoral offences/complaints from members of the public or any quarters, with a view to determining culpability in line with the amended Electoral Act 2022, and proffering charges before Courts of competent jurisdiction for necessary legal action.