President Muhammadu Buhari will on Wednesday depart Abuja for Kigali, capital of Rwanda to participate in the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM). According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the event, which is holding between June 20 to 26, 2022, will focus on the progress and prosperity of the over two billion people that make up the Commonwealth states. While in Kigali, Buhari is expected to deliver a remark on high-level session of malaria and neglected tropical diseases summit, as well as engage in bilateral talks with some other leaders attending the summit. “President Muhammadu Buhari departs Abuja Wednesday, June 22, for Kigali, Rwanda, to attend the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM), being held from June 20 to 26, 2022. “At CHOGM 2022, the President will join other leaders to participate in discussions focused on the progress and prosperity of the more than 2 billion people living in the 54 independent countries in Africa, Asia, the Americas, Europe and the Pacific that make up the Commonwealth. “The theme for CHOGM 2022 is ‘Delivering a Common Future: Connecting, Innovating, Transforming,’ and the Heads of Government are expected to reaffirm their commitment to upholding the Commonwealth Charter, which focuses on democracy, human rights, the rule of law, as well as economic opportunities and sustainable development. “President Buhari will attend the official opening ceremony on June 24, followed by high-level meetings of Heads of State and Government on Friday 24 and Saturday 25 June.   Re: Train of two traitors     Flood sweeps student away in Ondo     Why I returned $4,050 to passenger, by Bolt driver   “The leaders are expected to consider a range of topical issues including post COVID-19 economic recovery, debt sustainability, climate change, poverty reduction, youth entrepreneurship and employment, trade and food security. “Prior to this, the Nigerian delegation drawn from the public, private and youth organisations participated in four forums covering youth, women, business and civil society; and will engage in ministerial meetings and several side events. “On the margins of the meeting, the Nigerian leader is scheduled to deliver remarks at the High-Level Session of Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases Summit and participate in an Intergenerational Dialogue for Youth. “President Buhari is also expected to hold bilateral talks with some leaders from the Commonwealth countries. “Ahead of the biennial meeting, which was due to take place in June 2020 but was postponed twice due to the COVID-19 pandemic, President Buhari, in an article published in The Telegraph, London, stressed that the Commonwealth can become a real global power with improved collaborations on trade and security, lending weight to each other in international bodies,” the statement reads. The President will be accompanied by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire; Minister of Environment, Mohammed Abdullahi and Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Pantami. Others in the President’s entourage are the National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director-General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar and the Chairman/CEO Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NidCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa. The President will return to Abuja on Sunday.