The World Health Organisation(WHO) has reported 1,365 cases and 69 fatalities related to monkey pox in five African nations where the virus is endemic. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control(NCDC) confirmed 21 cases of the disease across Rivers (1), Imo (1), Kano (2), FCT (2), Cross River (2), Delta (2), Bayelsa (2), Lagos (4) and Adamawa (5) The viral zoonosis monkey pox, is a virus transferred to people from animals with symptoms comparable to those seen in smallpox patients in the past, however it is less severe clinically. Monkey pox has emerged as the most important orthopoxvirus for public health since the eradication of smallpox, and the consequent suspension of smallpox vaccination. On May 7, 2022, United Kingdom authorities officially notified the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) of a confirmed case of monkey pox with a link to Nigeria. In this notification, it was stressed that the individual is a UK resident who arrived in Nigeria on April 20, 2022, travelled to Lagos and Delta States during the time spent in Nigeria, departed Lagos on May 3, 2022 and arrived in the UK on May 4, 2022. Fever, headache, muscle aches, backache, swollen lymph nodes, chills, and tiredness are some of the symptoms. A rash can appear, usually on the face, and then spread to other parts of the body. The rash evolves and progresses through stages, similar to chicken pox, before creating a scab that eventually falls off.   11 celebrity couples that make marriage look beautiful     One dies as Nigeria records 21 cases of monkeypox –…     Not every fibroid requires surgery, expert tells women   Anyone, according to the World Health Organisation, is at risk of getting infected with the virus. Children, pregnant women, and immunocompromised people are thought to be particularly vulnerable. These diseases were recorded between the middle of December and the end of May, however it is less severe clinically. At this time, the World Health Organization (WHO) does not suggest any specific treatment for monkeyypox. The smallpox vaccine, on the other hand, was crucial in eradicating smallpox decades ago, and it can be highly effective — 85 percent – in preventing monkey pox. Although monkey pox is not a sexually transmitted illness, it can be spread by close contact during sex when a rash is present. People with possible, probable or confirmed monkey pox should avoid contact with other people until their lesions have healed and the scabs have dried off. Cases can reduce the risk of transmission by following standard cleaning and disinfection methods and washing their own clothing and bed linen with standard detergents in a washing machine. Taking precautions such as hand hygiene is especially important following interaction with diseased or suspected infected animals or humans. Wash your hands with soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.