There are insinuations as to the relationship between Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan in the last three years. For a while, the Deputy Governor has been absent at some state functions including the recently held governorship and presidential primaries. He spoke recently with some journalists, YINKA ADENIRAN was there. Excerpt: You were absent at two key events of your party, the governorship and presidential primaries… Am I supposed to be there? Let me tell you, I am not a delegate. Before now, there is what is called statutory delegate but that has been removed. I am not a contestant, I am not a delegate, why should I go and gatecrash? Why should I go there to make the place rowdy? So, should I go there to be hanging around or what, when I don’t have a function to perform there? I am not a member of any committee, so what should I go and do there? If you are not invited why should you be there? I don’t see the reason why as a deputy governor I should go,  besides, in that area, I am not suppose to take the toga of a deputy governor there. What I should take there is either I am a delegate, or a contestant or a committee member with a function, out of the three. If I am not, I am not supposed to be there. Does that argument also holds sway as to why you were absent at the Governorship primary of the state? Yes. Maybe that explains why some people were harassed because many people who were not supposed to be there were there, leading to the harassment and assault on some people who were there to perform legitimate duties. Does this development buttress the insinuation in town that the Governor has sidelined you from the affairs of the state? Whoever says that, I don’t believe that. What is the meaning of sidelined? I am a deputy Governor to the Governor. If he is not around, I should be around. And if he is around, am I supposed to be seen if he is around? Will I be struggling the steering wheel with him? Typically, the Governor sometimes assigns supervisory roles to the Deputy in some MDAs, so the notion is that Governor Makinde has not given you any of such roles to play. Well, I don’t know what you mean, but that is not true. You see, I have been in the system for long and I know how it works. There is a Yoruba adage that says “Oba Mewa, Igba Mewa” loosely translated “Ten kings, ten seasons”. You cannot say today is not like yesterday. Yesterday is different from today and today is different from tomorrow. (Picking up a copy of the 1999 constitution), it is only when something ascribed to me by the constitution exclusively and it is not done, that is when I have issue. The 1999 constitution is not only unfair to the deputy governors, it also overload the governors. If you go to Radio Nigeria, somewhere in the archive back in 2017 or thereabouts, I was with them and what I told them that day about the problem of Nigeria was this constitution. It is only when the governor did not give his deputy the roles as specified in the constitution that someone can say something. We have the Executive Governor of a state and the Deputy Governor of the same state, are they the same? They are not. It is only an insane or a deputy governor that doesn’t understand this that will be struggling the steering of the state with the governor. As far as I am concern, if I am a deputy governor for 30years, I will go by the required constitution. Even, if it is from the House of Assembly law, and something is supposed to be a schedule, you cannot win it. Only when a governor feels he is tired or he has something else doing that is when he assigns. The bulk stops on the governor’s table, so I don’t know why people are insinuating. In the last three years of the present administration, what is your level of assessment of what your ‘team’ planned to do for the people with what you have done as a government? (He burst into songs of thanksgiving) Let’s just be thankful to God. I had a leader in those day, particularly General Adisa, when I complain to him, he would say, look, press on. Whatever the situation, let people always talk and say their mind. If they are saying you are not doing it well, they are telling you to improve, if they say you are doing it well, they are only saying you should keep it up. But I don’t think the governor or the deputy governor should assess their own government. The only people who can do a little bit of that are the commissioners because they are under the mercy of the pen of their employer. I will admonish you to look at people outside the government to assess the last three years. What you are asking me is like a talking drum, the way if faces one person is also the way it backs another person at the same time. Before you agreed to join Governor Makinde as his deputy, you also aspired to be the governor. Looking back, do you feel probably you shouldn’t have accepted the offer to be deputy governor? Do you want sincere answer? Looking back, I have no regret. None at all. I repeat, no regret. There is an adage loosely translated as, someone sort a loan, he got it, people asked him to thank God that he was not put to shame. At another time, someone sort a loan but he could not secure it, people again told him to thank God that he did not run into debt. I am satisfied with my condition. Let me tell you, you were looking at the tangible elements of the association but I am looking at association globally, intangible and tangible.  If given the opportunity again, would you do this again? Let me tell you, if you went for an exam, you have your answer sheet and after the exam, I give you back your answer sheet to answer the same question again, will you answer the same question the same way again? So, what will you do differently sir?   2023: Akeredolu begs Ondo aggrieved aspirants     Setting transparency agenda for APC presidential primary     Osun poll: How far can Adeleke go?   A lot of things. Only a foolish man will keep on doing the same thing the same way and expect a different result. I will do a lot of things differently. But, because they are not tangible things that you can hold, there are a lot of intangible things, so I am not going to mention them for now. You see, you can be aggrieved and still be satisfied. Whatever God wants to happen to you will happen. But you can also tell God that you wish the thing didn’t happen to you. There are examples in the Bible and Quran of people who had issues and accepted fate even though they told God that they wish their situation was different. You said if you have the opportunity you would do things differently. Can you please tell us what your next political move would be? I had some meetings earlier and as someone who is careful and sensitive enough, you have to think deeper, if not deeply. I used the word deeper and deeply. I want to think deeper than I am thinking now. And if you have observed, always a year to the election year, this is always the case. In 2018, this was the case, even in 2014. So, you have to keep learning and improving. That was why I said if given the same answer booklet, I will do some things differently because I must have learnt from 2014 and learnt from 2018 elections. Obviously, the Governor is running for a second term in office, there are insinuations that someone else would be selected as his running mate, also from your Oke Ogun zone. Has he spoken with you about being his running mate for the second term? He doesn’t have to because the time is still very much there. Except you want to say all other governors going for a second term have picked their running mates too. There is still time for that. For the fact that a governor has announced his own running mate doesn’t mean the person who has not announced his own is bad. He can decide to keep it to his chest until when he deems fit. Sir, in the event that you are not invited to run for a second term with Governor Makinde, what would be your next political move? God will direct the next move. God will be the one to direct the decision. You need to ask Him and he will tell you what to do tomorrow. It is not only when you want to take decision that God will start talking to you. Well, God said to me, my son, wait, I am coming. I will do great and marvellous things. So, He has been telling me to keep my calm because He will do a lot of things. When the Saka Balogun report was submitted, it was gathered that one of the reason you were aggrieved was because the Chairman of the State Advisory Council, Senator Hosea Agboola, has become the voice of the Oke Ogun zone, and that he takes every decision because he is in charge, despite the fact that you as the Deputy Governor is also from the zone. That was not what I said. There was never a time I mentioned anybody’s name. That’s me. Whatever is happening, the only language you will ever hear from me is that “Olorun lo n dara (God is the one doing everything), “Olorun lo n Sola”, (God is the one doing wealth). It is not any human being because it is whatever God says would be that would be. God is the only person who says something and stands by it, not anybody. How is your relationship with Senator Hosea Agboola? Perfect. It is very perfect. There is never a time we met that we don’t exchange handshake. Even during the period of Covid-19, we still shake hands. He will greet me, Your Excellency and I will reply him by saying ‘Distinguished’, so what else? Sir, if truly they take decisions that concerns Oke Ogun, your political zone, without recourse to you as the highest political office holder from the zone, is that not a disregard of your person and office? It doesn’t matter. I am fine with whatever happens. I am very okay. When you put everything to God, He does everything for you. If you put some to God, you want to do some yourself; He will do some for you. I have committed everything to God. Why should I fight? That I was supposed to be in charge of something, and it was not so? That they took certain decisions without recourse to me? That when they were having some discussions, I was not called, invited or consulted? Are those the issues you expect that I should give a fight over or about? Or things that were done in my absences that affected me? I should fight for it? Does it worth it? I put that across to you. Does that fight worth it? Well, to me as Engineer Remi Olaniyan, that’s not my style. I am an Omoluabi. What God says would be, will be. You can’t take whatever God says is mine. You can’t take it from me. Will it be out of place to say other political parties wooing you are seeing something different that the ruling party and your current government is not seeing? I will give an analogy, there is a saying that there is no way a market would be so crowded that an albino would enter and people will not notice him or identify him. And there’s no way you will get to a thick forest and not see an Iroko tree or that you see an Iroko tree and not identify one. The last time we checked, there were about three political parties interested in you joining their train. What is the update? Maybe they are even more now.. (laughs).  I will not tell you how many they are now. I am not saying anything about it. Well, I’m still consulting. I’m talking with God, with people and every relevant individual. I was still telling some people yesterday that, this political game doesn’t worth fighting about or fighting for. You don’t win political war. Be at peace with yourself. It doesn’t worth it. Let me tell you, I have also been saying to people that 24hours is a long time in politics. Look at the situation, June 3rd was the initial deadline for submission of candidates. But as we speak it has been extended. Nobody knew or saw it coming. And the scripture told us that we should stop struggling, referring us to little flowers and birds of the sky and wonder how they survive. If they could survive, how much more we human beings. Talking about 2023, what do you make of those leaving the PDP in the state, is it that you are not bothered? Is it that the leadership of the party in the state is not bothered? The PDP you mean? Those people leaving the party are like passengers in a public bus with different bus stops. That is what is happening. And as somebody is getting down, another person is getting in. Look at what is happening in the Oyo PDP; Senator Kola Balogun decided to get down from the PDP vehicle, about a week later, Joseph Tegbe entered. But, it depends on the number of electorates and people that Kola Balogun commands and those Tegbe commands. That is what will make the difference. It can be gain, it can be loss.