Rerun primary election conducted by the All Progressives Congress (APC) into Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin Federal Constituency is generating bad blood. An aggrieved aspirant, Cornelius Oluwasegun Adebayo, has faulted the exercise, describing it as a kangaroo primary election. Another primary election was conducted on Thursday for the Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin Federal Constituency where the incumbent lawmaker, Hon. Tunji Raheem Olawuyi reportedly won, against earlier primaries conducted where Engir Adebayo emerged the winner. Speaking with reporters in Ilorin yesterday, supporters of the aggrieved aspirant, led by Emmanuel Moronfoye, said that Adebayo remained the validly elected APC flag bearer for the constituency. Moronfoye said that there was no valid ground for rescheduling of the purported re-run primary election, adding that there was no protest or valid complaint against the initial primary election “as the result was widely accepted by all”.   2023: Akwa Ibom APC has no governorship candidate – INEC     2023 presidency: APC, PDP heighten search for running mates     Terror attack on Ondo church targeted at Akeredolu, says…   His words: “The purported re-run election was not communicated to Cornelius Oluwasegun Adebayo and the reason for the cancellation of the only valid election is still unknown. “Cornelius Adebayo was neither represented nor did he have any agent present during the rerun. It was an internal arrangement orchestrated by a few unscrupulous elements disguised as progressives.” Moronfoye recalled that “Engineer Cornelius Oluwasegun Adebayo clearly won the original primary election which was held on May 27, 2022 at Omu-Aran. “The election on May 27, 2022 was a free, fair and credible election devoid of disruption. “After the primary, his fellow contestants conceded defeat and made several broadcasts to congratulate him. “It came as a rude shock to Engineer Adebayo and his supporters that another rerun was being conducted for the Ekiti/Oke-Ero/Irepodun/Isin constituency Federal House of Representatives seat, with the inclusion of an aspirant who had never participated in the initial process.