The South Africa Football Association (SAFA) are doing everything possible to halt the dominance of Nigeria’s Super Falcons at the forthcoming Women’s African Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in Morocco, as the federation dangled over N260m (R10m) on Bayana Bayana to win the trophy. Already, South Africa has been drawn in the same group with defending champion Super Falcons, Botswana, and Burundi for the tournament which kicks off on July 2 in Morocco and SAFA has been working tirelessly to ensure that the win over Nigeria at the Aisha Buhari Cup in Lagos is repeated by the coach Desiree Ellis-tutored side in Morocco. Bayana Bayana are expected to depart to Morocco today and SAF Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Tebogo Motlanthe confirmed yesterday that the federation has set aside the money in what could be a historic bonus for the South African teams. With this, each of the players is expected to get N10.5m (R400,000) for wins over Nigeria, Burundi, and Botswana and proceed to emerge champion on July 23.   Why Atiku didn’t pick Wike as running mate, by Babangida…     Sanwo-Olu heads 86-man Campaign Council for Osun…     Lagos renews commitment to renewable energy   Before now, Bafana Bafana, the South African men’s team have always been promised N7.8m (R300,000) to win AFCON, but in SAFA’s bid to put more focus on female football decided to increase the reward by N2.6m (R100,000) for the female national team. According to Johannesburg-based Daily Sun, Motlanthe said: “The R400,000 is a historic amount for all our national teams, it has never happened before.”   Motlanthe who was speaking yesterday in Johannesburg during Bayana’s training session added: “The 23 players have a lot to play for, including the bonuses. This will hope will motivate them to bring the trophy home.” However, Coach Ellis has picked a 23-man squad for WAFCON and this includes Janine van Wyk, Refiloe Jane, Jermaine Seopasenwe as well as star player Thembi Kgatlana. The coach also announced three players who will be on the standby list. Captain Janine Van Wyk will lead Bayana charges in their first match on July 4 against Nigeria to avenge their final defeat to the Super Falcons four years ago.