You have probably been overwhelmed with its audio and video jingles. Perhaps, you have come across its Press Release. Flyers have been flying around. You have watched the APERO roadshows. And you have obviously been a victim of Aperomania on your various group platforms. Yet, you wonder, what is it? What motivates it, you ask innocently. That is, if you are not sold on one conspiracy theory or another: is APERO a political ploy funded by some errant politician? Is it a mischievous plan to scuttle the Yoruba nation agitation? And you’ve got no answers, even from the torrent of information available online and in-person from APERO advocates and media gurus. If you are in the state of mind just described, this piece is for you. APERO YORUBA NILE LOKO (Yoruba Global Summit) is the initiative of Egbe Omo YORUBA, North America (EOYNA), an association of homeland loving individuals, which has, since 1994 devoted the mental and material resources of its members to the cause of the emancipation and development of our people. Inspired by the outlook of the sage Chief Obafemi Awolowo, these patriotic men and women have appropriated the philosophy of Freedom for all, Life more abundant which he propagated and actualized in the middle of the last century. Now they are experiencing a debilitating heartache at the sad turn of events in the same land that was celebrated for its amazing pace of development in the 50s and 60s. And they wonder aloud: WHY? With a view to doing something about the distressed state of our homeland, President Durojaiye Akindutire convened a mini summit of the Yoruba in the Diaspora from September 16 to 17, 2021. The theme of that summit was “The Yoruba in a Federated Nigeria: The challenges and the way out. With a kind invitation of the president, I gave a keynote address titled “The Yoruba in Federal Nigeria”. My address was later published on this page on October 8, 2021. In October 2021, President Akindutire, Professor Ropo Sekoni, Mr. Femi Odedeyi and I had a discussion on the summit and the way forward. Based on the group’s reflections on my submissions to the summit, President Akindutire decided that we should engage more of our people in further discussions and planning for a more inclusive summit. He wanted me to chair the planning committee. I couldn’t say No to him because I was convinced of his zeal for the good of our land. Thus was born APERO Planning Committee, with members drawn from across the United States, including members and non-members of EOYNA, Europe, and Yorubaland. Our first meeting was held on October 30, 2021, and if I had any doubt getting involved before that meeting, such a mindset was effectively laid to rest at the end of the meeting. I was inspired not only by the caliber of Yoruba patriots in attendance, but also especially by the quality of their contributions and the passion of their commitment. It was at that first meeting that we arrived at our guiding principle with the contribution of a remarkable man of science and medicine, Professor Funsho Famuyiwa. In the preamble to his prepared remarks, Professor Famuyiwa observed as follows: “Chief Obafemi Awolowo, an Avatar of the Yoruba Race, who through the grace of God, carried the equivalent of their “Abrahamic Covenant” has provided the TEMPLATE for our Self Governance. At its core is the Principle of Egalitarianism–The Greatest Good for the Largest Number. An “Equal Opportunity” dispensation. Good Governance married to Sound Moral Values and the Fear of God! Ethos of OMOLUABI, BIBIIRE and ALAJOBI.” Professor Famuyiwa then asked the question: what will Awolowo do if alive today?” We took this rhetorical question seriously, and it has been the basis of our deliberations on what to do. We decided to have critical reflections on Yoruba in the past, Yoruba in the present, and Yoruba in the future.  Pending an opportunity for a physical summit, we agreed to have a series of Virtual Summits on zoom focusing each on different topics under each of the three phases of the trajectory of the Yoruba since 1952. Phase 1, from 1952 to 1966 was the Golden Era of the Yoruba. Phase 2, from 1966 to date are the Years of the Locust. Phase 3 is the future that we must seek. Discussions on Phase 1 will focus on the topics of Education, Health, and Social Welfare, and Rural Development and Economic Development. The questions we ask on each topic are two: How was it done in the Golden Era? How can it be done now? Experienced professionals, including men, women, and the youth, will deal with each of these topics. In Phase 2, we ask our speakers to zero in on the culpability of the federal government in the matter of bad governance, the failure of successive Western regional governments since 1966, and the neglected cornerstone of local government misgovernance. We will also deal with the complicity of the people as followers in bad governance, the decline of cultural values, and the youth as endangered species. In Phase 3, we engage the future and its challenges. Here we ask our speakers to debate the contending issues of the political pathways for the Yoruba moving forward. Proponents of Yoruba Sovereign Nation and advocates of Restructuring will have the floor to trash out the issues for the benefit of our people. The highlight of Phase 3 however is a robust discussion of two important matters: internal security and alleviation of poverty. On the latter, proposals for a new paradigm of community development will be unveiled. We appreciate all our speakers who have volunteered their time. These zoom meetings will be held every Saturday starting tomorrow, June 11, 2022 until Saturday August 6, 2022. The grand finale will be a hybrid of in-person and zoom at the EOYNA National Convention in Atlanta on August 20, 2022. At this convention, the crucial topic of Political Leadership will be the focus of discussion. Finally, there will be a physical meeting of APERO in Yorubaland in the near future.   An embodiment of moral politics     The poverty of immoral politics     Political evil   Let me end this piece by quoting from the APERO Press Release which sums up the ultimate goal of APERO: The point of these discussions is to ….map out a future that is deserving of the labours of our heroes past and the aspirations of future generations. This future mapping, with practical ideas of community development, is the highlight of APERO, and it promises a new paradigm which the planners of APERO expect to implement with the support of the Yoruba, both young and old, at home and abroad, especially in the private sector. I hope that the foregoing recollection of how APERO came about and the kind of patriots involved in it, will disabuse the minds of those who have been sold pathetic conspiracies about politicians sponsoring these efforts or even hijacking it for their benefit. Indeed, it is not as if the members of the Planning Committee didn’t anticipate such conspiracy theorists. Thus with divine wisdom as their guide, they took a firm decision at the very first meeting that politicians were not going to be invited as speakers and that APERO will not involve any politician. That decision led to a debate on how the proposals coming out of APERO will be implemented without the involvement of politicians. To which our young members with professional bona fides responded firmly that they were development professionals and will implement the proposals with the support of willing compatriots in the private sector. Again, being involved in Yoruba affairs since at least the last 30-plus years, I cannot ask for a more dedicated and passionate compatriots to work you on this important matter of the future of Yorubaland. And neither naysayers nor conspiracy theorists will discourage us. Every worthy compatriot is invited to join fellow compatriots in APERO YORUBA NILE LOKO starting tomorrow, June 11, 2022 and continuing every Saturday as indicated below.   Time: 4:00pm Lagos Time 4:00 pm London Time 11:00 am New York Time 10:00 am Central Time 8:00 am Pacific Time   Zoom Link: Meeting ID: 87834935009 Passcode: 690337