The Gombe State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been engaged in a fight to remain in power after the tenure of the current administration elapses by May next year. The crisis within the party had resulted in a series of defections to the opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). The opposition had been reaping from the misunderstandings among major gladiators of the ruling party, particularly, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya and his predecessor, Senator Danjuma Goje. The struggle got to a head in October, following the attack on the convoy of the former Governor Danjuma Goje, who currently represents Gombe Central at the National Assembly. In the process, one life was lost. Goje was arriving at Gombe, the capital city, from Abuja, on his way to attend the wedding of one of his granddaughters when his convoy was allegedly attacked by hoodlums, identified as Kalari boys. The incident climaxed the yearlong cold war between the Yahaya and Goje. The latter’s daughter, who was serving in the former’s cabinet was caught in the crossfire between the two politicians and she had to resign her appointment. Goje, an extremely strong force in Gombe politics was instrumental to the emergence of Yahaya as governor during the last general elections. Yahaya defeated his PDP counterpart in the election, Usman Bayero Nafada to emerge as the governor. But, Goje has been absent since the party commenced the processes for the next general elections. The tension was further heightened by the conflict between Senator Goje and Mohammed Kumo, who represents Kumo Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives over the emergence of Abu Mu’azu, a former youth leader in Goje’s administration, as an aspirant for Gombe Central senatorial district. As the crisis blossomed, the national headquarters of APC, then led by Yobe State’s Governor Mai Mala Buni, set up a peace committee led by the incumbent chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, who visited the two protagonists in Gombe and Abuja for an amicable resolution. However, despite the intervention of the national headquarters, the crisis persisted. Indeed, there were rumours that Senator Goje was on his way back to the PDP. He was even said to have held a meeting with the opposition party leaders, led by former Governor Hassan Dankwambo in his Abuja home. To many political observers in Gombe, the exit of Goje from the APC is already a foregone conclusion, most especially when a group was said to have purchased the PDP’s Gombe Central senatorial form for him. Also, the sudden appearance of Goje’s name on the ballot paper of the PDP in the Gombe Central senatorial primary threw the APC into a panicky mood.  But, Goje, denied the development and threatened to sue the National Chairman of the PDP, Iyorchia Ayu for that development. Yet, the signal was strong enough to cause tension in the APC leadership in Gombe. On Friday, May 27, the eve of the APC senatorial primary, the leadership of the party went into an intense emergency meeting that lasted for more than 24 hours in the Government House. It was such a crucial meeting that attracted anxious party faithful hanging around the Government House for the latest line of action on who would emerge as the APC senatorial candidate of Gombe Central and whether the primary will be by affirmation, direct or indirect election. By the close of the day, rumours were rife that the party leaders had resolved to return Senator Goje with a condition of going through the primary.  The stance of the party negated the consensus arrangement popular within the chapter at the time.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     Sultan directs Muslim to look out for new moon of…   On Saturday, May 28, the tension was high in Kumo, the venue of the Gombe Central senatorial primary. More than 500 armed police and Civil Defense Corps men were deployed to the town to forestall an outbreak of violence. However, the primary went smoothly to the shock of political observers. In the end, Goje was not only returned as a candidate for Gombe Central, but he also came to the venue in the company of Governor Yahaya. The emergence of the duo at the venue of the primary attracted a huge shout of Ko Gazou from the crowd in the hall. After the primary, Goje polled 100 votes to defeat his two opponents, Abubakar Mu’azu Hassan and former Minister of Transportation, Senator Idris Umar who scored three and two votes respectively. Governor Inuwa who commended the peaceful conduct of the exercise and others across the state expressed delight over the amicable resolution of the differences among the stalwarts of the party. He said: “With understanding and good leadership, what was thought impossible is made possible. Even though I am not from Gombe Central senatorial district but as governor and in particular for the sake of the unity of our dear party, I have come here to witness this moment and throw my weight in support of this historic resolution, which I believe will further strengthen our great party.” The governor thanked Senator Goje and Kumo, as well as other stakeholders for putting the party’s interests above their interests. He described the level of maturity exhibited by the chieftains as an “indispensable sacrifice for the unity and progress of the party”. The governor added: “With this settlement, the drift has come to an end and the party will remain united and wax stronger to face the general elections with a strong front. We are now united and formidable and I do not doubt that we will win the forthcoming elections in 2023 with a landslide.” The governor also thanked the party leadership at all levels, traditional rulers and religious leaders, as well as all stakeholders who contributed to the success of the peaceful resolution. He said: “I would like to thank the APC election panel under the chairmanship of Dr Danjuma Dabo for doing everything possible to make sure that the APC in Gombe State remains a united indivisible entity. For those who contested but lost in the primary not only in this primary election but in all other elections elsewhere in the state, I assure them that we will carry everybody along.” In his acceptance speech, Senator Goje commended Governor Yahaya for showing courage in leadership and for his cooperation and intervention which led to the resolution of the dispute. He said: “All grievances and differences have now been put to rest in the interest of our party and dear state.” Goje assured the party faithful of his unflinching support and commitment to ensuring the success of the party at all levels. He said he knew the peaceful resolution of the m conflict would not have been possible without the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari and the party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Also speaking, Bello Kumo, who represents Akko Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, said he was delighted with the turn of events. He also commended the governor for his good leadership and foresight, which he said: “keeps the party united and will surely lead it to success”. Kumo urged members of the APC in the constituency to forgive and forget, and concentrate on the greater task ahead. The resolution of the conflict between Governor Yahaya, the party and Senator Goje was not only a relief for the tense political atmosphere but also a tonic for the ruling party to hold on to power and return the incumbent to the Government House next year. Before the peace truce, political observers had warned that the conflict would affect the chances of the party retaining power during the next general elections, especially now that the PDP is getting its acts together, with former Governor Dankwambo returning as its Gombe North senatorial candidate. The renewed peace within the APC has sent signals to the opposition party, which had been planning to capitalize on the friction in the ruling party to displace it from the Gombe Government House.