For a while now, communities around Orlu and environ have been having sleepless nights over the constant killings of people by gunmen. It was gathered that as a result of these attacks, residents have deserted their communities and are relocating to a safer environment. Last Thursday, some indigenes who were having a family meeting in Okporo, Orlu Council Area of Imo State were shot by yet-to-be identified gunmen who stormed the venue of their meeting. It was reported that no fewer than five persons were allegedly shot by the gunmen while the meeting was going on. The Imo State Police Command, Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Michael Abattam, confirmed the latest killing in Owerri. According to Police, “They were having a meeting when the gunmen came and attacked them.” However, at the time of filing this report, the police command was yet to say how many of them were confirmed dead and how many of them were shot by the unknown gunmen. But the viral video captured at least five persons covered in the pool of their blood following the gunshot injuries they sustained. Some of them were shot in the leg and hand as they were seen crying and calling for help.   Tinubu makes case for SMEs at Afreximbank 2022     Court restrains FG over e-Customs project contract     Osun partners World Bank on post COVID-19 recovery programme   It was observed that about two persons lying helplessly may not have survived the gunshot injuries. It also showed sympathisers who came trying to assist the victims including an aged woman lying close to one of the victims suspected to be her son who was crying uncontrollably. “Come and help me oo, am dying oo,”  he said in Igbo language. Also, a woman was crying and calling for help for her son to be taken to the hospital for treatment. “I’m dead, Chineke mea I am dead,” she cried. Just as another gunshot victim was dragging himself and shouting for help. The victims were all soaked in blood gushing out from the gunshot injuries they sustained as there were blood stains at the compound where they were having their meeting. However, some of the residents told The Nation that the victims were shot by Ebebeagu operatives who were going about looking for young men believed to be members of the Eastern Security Network(ESN). “We have heard more horrible tales about the activities of Ebubeagu in our area. They were not unknown gunmen, ” a man who identified himself as Duruihoma said. “The Ebubeagu guys who shot the people were said to be looking for some youths. When they didn’t see the people they were looking for, they descended on the old folks. “I know what those people are passing through. There’s no villager who doesn’t know the activities of unknown gunmen. When it is the state operatives, they also know,” he added.