Following the massacre at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State last Sunday where scores were killed and others sustained injuries, churches in Osun State have beefed up security around and within worship centres to prevent such occurrence. The Nation observed this was after church leaders met last Tuesday to consider ten security measures. The measures include; the Constitution of a security committee, which may comprise government security personnel, disallowing baggage in the church auditorium, erection of metal doors, proper scrutiny of all newcomers, installation of CCTV cameras around the church, usage of hand-held scanners by the church security personnel, ensuring well illumination around the church premises among others. Some of the churches visited on Sunday were: Living Faith Church(Winners Chapel) Oke-Onitea, Osogbo; Methodist Church, Osogbo; Redeemed Christian Church of God Ogo-Oluwa; Celestial Church of Christ, Osogbo; Christ Life Baptist Church, Omo-West and Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Alekuwodo. Some churches recorded low turnout of worshippers over the panic of a likely attack.   Police arrest three hunters for alleged kidnapping…     Democracy Day: Abiodun reverses death sentences, frees 40…     June 12: Defence minister salutes Nigerians, military   At Winner Chapel, the church created two additional exits in the church auditorium while the security put in place did not allow bags into the church except Bible and notepad. Speaking about the development, the Commandant of Osun Amotekun, General Bashir Adewinbi (RTD), disclosed that the outfit is on red alert to prevent crime in the state. He said: “We have deployed our men to churches in all local government areas of Osun State. We have spoken with churches to alert us when they see strangers coming to the church, they must not see that a new worshipper has come in but they must ensure they know them, they can give us their information so that we can monitor such worshippers for them.” The Chairman of Osun State CAN, Bishop Amos Ogunrinde said: “We have issued guidelines to our members across the state. We are conducting regular sensitization for members on security issues and also seeking cooperation with Security Agencies in the state by reporting any security challenges to them.”