American rapper, Jonathan Lyndale Kirk aka Dababy’s new music video for his single “Showing Off Her Body” featuring Afrobeats superstar Davido has continued to elicit reactions. The highly anticipated project was officially released on all streaming platform on Friday, weeks after teasing fans with snippets of their upcoming collaboration. The 3minutes 32 seconds long song is the first collaboration between the duo. Music lovers have taken to social media to share their reactions on the released collaboration. Many hailed the duo on delivering a smashing summer hit jam. @_hellomohamed tweeted: “Dababy x Davido on repeat. Davido amazing as always.” @boothang_girl said: “This DaBaby x Davido’s song is sweet abeg. Learning the lyrics today. @cruzzo1002 wrote: “Whenever you hear OBO say Shepe! You know it’s all over. Dababy x Davido. Breakfast coming in early tomorrow.”   Uche Maduagwu to Tonto Dikeh: Jesus anointed your womb to…     Never share girlfriends’ secrets with your partners – Elsie…     Simi curses mosquitoes, typos   @VelllySlimKing stated: “Dem no bold criticize Dababy x Davido jam.” @heisekovert1 tweeted: “If you say this Dababy x Davido doesn’t slap hard, man you’re real hater.” @edafe_iam said: “Life is too short to pretend that you do not like Davido’s music …. Enough of the pretence already. Meanwhile, don’t forget to stream Dababy x Davido “Showing off her body” and please, Stan Davido today for peace of mind. T for thanks.” @cocobenson_ wrote: “I’m so happy y’all FINALLY get to hear that Dababy x Davido it’s a sweet one. The block is hot oo.” @_mainjoe_ stated: “Dababy X Davido Tonight, Another delicacy for the summer “Showing off her body” A record breaking hits.” @thajbn tweeted: “That new Dababy x Davido is straight heat bro, don’t care what nobody say. Sheesh.” @thee_cape said: “Dababy x Davido is so smooth!! A sweet summer tune I can’t get enough. This song is so good.” @Alaye_money wrote: “I guess davido went to do PhD at Harvard University, Dababy x Davido.” @PospiOtuson stated: “Immediately DaBaby x Davido dropped, My Boss at the office just texted us that he’d be taken us out for lunch after work. Thank you DaBaby & Davido.”