His victory is a tribute to his tenacity of purpose, audacity of courage, determination, resilience and fidelity to a vision to seek the ticket for the purpose of making an exceptional political impact. The victory was also a collective effort. The flagbearer is the symbol of a coalition of forces and alliances that reposed much trust and confidence in his ability, experience, expertise and capacity to make a difference with the baton of leadership in post-Buhari era. Having renounced his bid to return to the Senate in 2007 after his two terms of eight years as governor of Lagos State,  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu set his eyes on the presidency. He described it as his life ambition. He made no pretension about it. He was focused. But, when the former governor declared his ambition for president, his detractors predicted doom, saying that he will crash out. The Pa  Ayo Adebanjo faction of the pan-Yoruba group,  Afenifere, mocked him, warning that his Northern allies had already used  him and will  dump him. Social media warriors were on the prowl. They peddled falsehoods to dent his image, malign his reputation and generally de-market him. Some critics raised issues about his fitness for the job. They alluded to old age, as if it is a disease. They also raised questions about his health. On the field, he proved them wrong. During the consultation and mobilisation ahead of the presidential convention, he was agile, hate and hearty. He covered more grounds than his younger opponents. He mapped out his plans, set up a formidable campaign structure and backed his plans with sound strategy. Tinubu forged ahead with hope and optimism, traversing most of the All Progressives Congress (APC) state chapters across the federation. He told his story of manifold contributions to pro-democracy crusade, the consolidation of democratic rule, how he set an excellent example of good governance in Lagos and built critical cross-regional alliances for national redemption. Tinubu, the most tolerant politician in Nigeria, is blessed with an uncanny forgiving spirit. He also has a reputation for striving in adversity. Never downcast, he is an embodiment of hope, an elixir of life. Despite the prediction of doom, he succeeded in forging understanding between the Northern and Southern caucuses of the APC. The understanding, of which Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu played a good part, in terms of advocacy, led to consideration for zoning for national unity and confidence building. Yesterday, Tinubu fulfilled a part of his destiny when he received the presidential nomination flag from President Muhammadu Buhari, following his victory at the APC primary.   Buhari pledges full support for Tinubu     Firm bags Shell’s Leadership awards     Adebule congratulates Tinubu over party’s victory   His success during the shadow poll manifested the growing movement in support of his presidential bid. More stakeholders, including those outside the political class, will be coalescing for the realisation of the dream of the APC candidate. A great tactician and strategist, Tinubu is, no doubt, unmindful of some of the challenges in  the titanic battle of 2023. Winning a ticket is one thing, wining a general election is another. The standard bearer has to forge unity and cohesion in the ruling party. It is noteworthy that he has applauded those who stepped down for him. He has also given the assurance that the politics of the primary was over. Reconciliation should reflect in his disposition to inclusion. It is important that the team that will drive the campaigns should be representative of all shades of interest in the party. The CPC-ACN-ANPP-nPDP cleverages should fizzle out. Under him, APC should be one. During the primary, a feud broke out between Northern governors and the national chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. The bone of contention was the unilateral adoption of Senate President Ahmed Lawan as consensus candidate by Adamu. Mutual confidence was ruptured. There is the need to restore it so that acrimony will not characterise relations between party leadership and the Progressive Governors’ Forum. It behoves the flagbearer to also assume the role of chief reconciliator in the party. There are unresolved crisis in some chapters arising from 2023 nominations. He will need wisdom to unite the divided chapters and prevent likely defections. Also, Tinubu has to secure his Southwest base. Charity begins at home. Eyes are on Ekiti and Osun states as their governorship elections draw near. It will be a major test for Tinubu, who must work hard to deliver the two states. It is not the best of times for the APC chapters in the two states. For example, Ekiti APC is polarised. The outcome of primary elections in Ekiti has generated a deep gulf between SWAGA group and the party’s leadership in the state. There is need to broker peace between the two ‘factional’ camps. Reconciliation is also an unfinished business in Osun State where the camp of Governor Gboyega Oyetola and Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola are at war. There is no political rift that cannot be resolved. There is no permanent friend or foe in politics. What is important, as it is said, is interest. During the preparations for the primary, many people grumbled that Tinubu never visited the Southeast to meet with Ndigbo delegates on their soil. The PDP is capitalising on the score card of the current APC administration to mount an aggressive campaign. The opposition party wants to bounce back. The last lap of the administration should be devoted to project completion of projects in the Southeast. APC government must strive to improve the economy and fight terror. The growing perception is that the Buhari administration needs to double its efforts. It will need the support of the various stakeholders to contribute ideas that will facilitate the resolution of these knotty challenges. Also, the people of Nigeria expect from Tinubu an action plan; a manifesto that can rekindle hope and reassurance that the next APC government will perform better.