An NGO, Arewa Initiative for Peaceful Coexistence in Southern Nigerian, has pledged to end any conflict between northerners and some communities in the South. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the organisation is made up representatives of northern communities from South-South, South- East and South –West. Speaking at its Annual General Meeting, in Abuja, Its Chairman , Alhaji Musa Saeedu, said a new mediation strategy to avert future conflict had been introduced. Saeedu said that the strategy included a coordinated routine contact with the state governments, as well as setting up a mediation committee at local, state and zonal levels, to discuss with the various ethnic groups. According to him, the action is necessary to erase the state of fear and uncertainty of peace among Nigerians, especially in the South-East.” He said that the perennial ethnic conflict in South- East would had been averted if it was properly handled by the governors, traditional and religious leaders from the affected states. “We must find lasting solutions to this recurring problem by ourselves to safeguard the lives and properties of Nigerians wherever they reside.   Use cyberspace positively, cleric tells Nigerians     Voter registration will be extended, says INEC chairman     I have no third term agenda – Buhari   ”There is no reason for some unidentified people to indulge in killing innocent people in their own country, while leaders and institutions watch,” he said. Saeedu further said that the association was formed to foster unity among northerners residing in the South, as well as foster peaceful coexistence among the diverse ethnic and religious groups in Nigeria. “We are also liaising with other groups interested in peace and harmony in Nigeria. We are a registered organization with 5.3 million members across the southern states,’’ he said. Saeedu also said that the association had elected new officials to run its affairs for the next five years. Alhaji Musa Saeedu was elected Chairman , Dallami Isa ,Vice Chairman, Gidado Saddik, Secretary. Muktar Usman, Assistant Secretary and Alhaji Shuaibu Mohammed Treasurer I. Others are Alhaji Isah Adamu ,Treasurer II, while Ahmed Salisu was elected Public Relations Officer.   (NAN)