A pan-African non-governmental organisation, Madiba Foundation for Good Governance, has launched a project aimed at reigniting active citizenship and fresh zest amongst Nigeria’s literate youth and grassroots communities for civic participation. The project tagged ‘Organising for a New Nigeria (ONN),’ would use the tools of media, technology, and grassroots organising to build a movement that engages youth in Nigeria’s democratic processes from elections to governance, according to a statement by the group. The group said it would be adopting a ‘MAIN’ model to meet its goals and objectives. The model comprises the mobilisation of young people using digital technology; advocacy to galvanise public support; intervention through the mobilisation of youth energy and resources to address pressing governance issues; and nurturing platforms to groom an army of young people to make meaningful contributions to Nigeria’s development.   Tinubu: let’s work together to stop PDP from taking power     Banks, firms in N11b deals at Nigerian Exchange     Governors, Lawan, Atiku, Kwankwaso, Uba, others salute…   The group’s chief operating officer, Frederick Adetiba, said with the current state of affairs in the country, there are two options available to citizens: leave the country or stay back and fix it. He said, “Madiba Foundation is creating a platform that would give passionate and patriotic Nigerians, especially young people, an opportunity to stay back and fix the country. “Our conception of youth is not simply as a time in life, but in the words of Robert Kennedy ‘a state of mind, a temper of the will, a quality of the imagination, a predominance of courage over timidity, of the appetite for adventure over the love of ease,’” the group said in a statement. “Therefore, we will work with skilled people, who may be older than the constitutionally defined age of youth, but who possess a compelling vision of the future and the requisite energy to do the work required to realize our collective aspirations. “We will reject the corrupt ways of the past which privilege wealth for its own sake, rather than as an output of productivity.”