Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, Chief Ikechi Emenike has urged Abia people to do away with “turn-by-turn politics” which the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has used to perpetuate incompetence and stagnate the state. He made the call while addressing a meeting of stakeholders at Ohambele in Ukwa East Local Government, saying that the style has failed to bring development to Abia as it has been used to produce concentric layers of incompetent leaders. “What we need is the best for Abia,” he said, alluding to the controversial power rotation debate which has continued to rage in the state with the proponents less bothered about competence. The governorship candidate argued that having tried the ruling PDP for over two decades with little or nothing to show for it in terms of good governance and development, the time has come for Abia people to try another party.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   “Incompetent people have had their turn, now is the turn for competent people,” he said. Emenike said that Abia must put an end to the relay race of PDP which involved passing the baton of governance from one incompetent person to another, adding that 2023 would usher in brighter days for God’s Own State. “Your morning is about to break. You have witnessed the darkest part of the night. The time is up for bad leaders in Abia,” he said. The Abia APC leader lamented the deplorable state of the roads leading to Abia’s oil-bearing communities in the state. He promised to fix the road within the first six months of his administration in Abia come 2023, adding that both Ukwa East and Ukwa West deserve priority attention being the goose that lay the golden egg for Abia. Chief Emenike stated that it was pathetic that Nigerians have found themselves in situations where mundane issues like building of roads have become campaign issues while higher issues of governance were relegated to the background.