South-South All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders have vowed to deliver the region for the presidential candidate of the party Asiwaju Bola Ahmed TInubu in 2023. The decision to support Tinubu was reached Thursday night at a crucial meeting of leaders of the party from the zone in Abuja. Addressing newsmen after the meeting, APC National Vice Chairman, South-South, Hon. Victor Giadom, said the leaders agreed to ask all members of the party from the six States to ensure the party and its flag bearer win the next year election. According to him: “The party is determined and will do whatever it takes to ensure that Asiwaju successfully takes over from the President Muhammadu Buhari after the 2023 general election. “We congratulate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for emerging as the presidential candidate of our party and thank him for the steps he has so far taken to unite those who contested that election with him and to assure him that the South-South zone will support his ticket. “The South-South Zone in that direction has resolved to work with him and the party to ensure victory in the 2023 general election.” The meeting also resolved to work harder to restore the party dominance in the six states of the region by 2023.   NDLEA charges 32-year-old with illegal deal in hemp     TETFund spent N185bn for training of 35,000 scholars     Mbaka: Pope Francis condemns social media attack on Enugu…   Giadom further said the zonal leaders commended the political maturity exhibited by former Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi after he lost the party’s presidential primary to TInubu. “We appreciate Hon. Rotimi Amaechi, our son and former Minister of Transportation, who came second in the presidential contest, for the party unity he has demonstrated after the presidential primary. “We, therefore, urge all party members in the South-South zone to embrace the presidential ticket of our party to ensure victory in 2023,” Giadom stated. He also saluted the President and the APC northern Governors for their commitment to the unity of the country and allowing a level playing field for all the aspirants. “We congratulate them too for the patriotism for which they demonstrated in ceding the presidential ticket of the APC to the Southern part of the country,” he said. The meeting had in attendance delegation of the South-South leaders including the party’s former National Chairmen John Odigie-Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole; former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Senate Deputy President, Ovie Omo-Agege, and former Edo Deputy Governor Lucky Imasuen among others.