Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Biodun Oyebanji has won his Unit 003, Ward 6, Ikogosi with 296 votes. Two people voted for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while three votes were voided. Oyebanji, who voted around 10.40am, exuded confidence as he hailed the huge turnout. He was not accompanied by his scholar-wife. The former Secretary to Ekiti State Government was decked in a white buba with his trademark green Awoist cap to match. He was calm as he alighted from his utility vehicle. His presence was electrifying. A homeboy, he walked majestically with charisma and dignity, bowing to elders and shaking hands with youths. He beamed an infectious smile as he advanced to the polling unit in front of the residence of a local chief, Ejisun Oyebanji, elder brother of his illustrious father, Pa Ezekiel Oyebanji, a foremost educationist. Accompanied by security agents and aides, Oyebanji posed as a populist as he trekked many meters, waving his hands at the crowd of rural dwellers. As he exchanged banters with the natives in the rustic town, shouts of ‘Bao, Bao’ filled the air.   APC shows strength in Ado-Ekiti     Ekiti 2022: Olujimi loses polling unit to APC     APC wins in SDP Deputy Gov candidate’s unit   Although it was dizzling in the morning, heaven withheld the rain. Indeed, nature was kind and the weather was benevolent. Electoral officers came very early. The machines never malfunctioned. Security agents policed the polling materials. There was no unruly behaviour. Oyebanji expressed satisfaction with the process, saying there was no cause for alarm. He hailed the performance of the electoral agency, noting that polling officers prepared well for the exercise. Oyebanji dismissed allegation of voting buying in some locations, saying that APC members were not involved. Asked to assess the exercise, he said:”I cannot assess the entire exercise. I can only assess the exercise in my polling unit. It has been seamless. I must commend INEC for a job well done.” Oyebanji urged his supporters to remain orderly and avoid unpatriotic behaviour. He said:”I will encourage them to be orderly, to be non-violennt, to persevere, to cast their vote and defend it.” He said he expected total compliance with the Electoral Act. Asked to clarify if there is a case in court, Oyebanji said:”I am not aware of any case in court.” Many people in Ado Ekiti said they voted for APC because of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whose intervention in the electioneering motivate them to rekindle faith in the ruling party.