The Federal Government has canvassed support for locally-made leather products. Speaking at the 5th Lagos Leather Fair, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment Adeniyi Adebayo said patronising made-in-Nigeria products will boost the nation’s enonomy globally. According to Adebayo, the fair over the past years has created a solid platform where everyone within the leather ecosystem can meet up and hold conversations on how to move the industry forward. “The result of this has become very visible with the growing attention gained by the industry and increased collaboration amongst players. For us as a ministry, we will continuously drive support till the potential of the leather industry is fully harnessed in Nigeria,” he said Convener of the Lagos Leather Fair and Creative Director, Femi Handbags, Mrs. Femi Olayebi, said the fair is a testament to the value of the finished leather goods sector for the wider industry if properly harnessed. ‘For five years now, we have constantly provided a platform for leather and lifestyle enthusiasts and industry players to come together, to enhance visibility for the industry, whilst also championing conversations on how to move the industry forward.   e-Naira: IMF asks CBN to review identity systems, KYC policy     Emefiele lists benefits of e-Naira to trade, investments     Govt shares $322.5m Abacha loot to 1.9m Nigerians   “And this year, despite the impact of the pandemic, we have seen that industry players have continues to hone their craftsmanship, their skills, and their innovation, in order to drive the shift that we need to make the industry’s potential a reality. we are glad to have created this platform to showcase some of the country’s wins and economic prosperity. “Some exhibitors who have been with us from the very first edition have now metamorphosed into international phenomenons, driving a positive Made-in-Nigeria narrative on the global stage,” Olayebi.said. While lamenting that issues such as copyright infringements, infrastructure constraints, skill quality gaps, power, among others are are major challenges facing the industry, Olayebi charged government to create right policies and an enabling environment for the industry to thrive. Speaking further, she said: “As we round up year five with much excitement and optimism, the work continues — we are determined to continue to seek out ways to pull all the necessary thought leaders, policymakers and key players together to keep changing the narrative and advancing the necessary conversations.”. The fair also featured masterclass conversations that addressed the challenges of cross-border payments for SMEs, the role of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) in aiding intra-African, and ways to enhance growth for businesses within the leather industry. Speakers were drawn from all sectors of the economy across finance, policy, manufacturing, and consultancy The two-day event which sought to reiterate the potential economic impact of the leather sector on the Nigerian economy had in attendance over 2000 key stakeholders and members from several Federal Ministries, Bank of Industry, Trade bodies, financial institutions, Leather designers, players in the leather ecosystem as well as local and international investors.