The forum of Chairmen of South West Zone of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP) has commended what it describes as the exceptional leadership roles of its vice presidential flag bearer, Olufemi Ajadi. It also singled out Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan and Dr. T.K.O Aluko, saying they like Ajadi, deserved commendation for support, guidance and ensuring the formidability of NNPP in the Southwest. A communique signed by Chairman Olayinka Dada, and Secretary Peter Olagookun, said the forum made the commendation at the end of its meeting held at Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. “Forum appreciates the love and mobilisation efforts of Mr. Olufemi Ajadi in aspiring for the NNPP Presidential ticket and welcomes his decision to massively support the aspiration of Engr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwanso in emerging as the Presidential candidate of our great party the NNPP. “Forum congratulates all candidates on the platform of NNPP in the South West region and assures them of mass mobilisation for their victory at the polls”, the communique added. On its presidential flag bearer, Musa Rabiu Kwankwaso, it said he deserved commendation for excellent leadership, characterised by dexterity and hard work, even as it also passed a vote of confidence on its National Working Committee (NWC) It said the NWC led by Prof. Rufai Alkali and all members of the National Executive Committee of NNPP had succeeded in positioning the party as the new bride of the Nigerian people. “Forum notes with satisfaction the growing acceptability of the NNPP across the country and attributed the growth to the strict execution of party programs and obeisance to rules and regulations.   Firm to launch instant messaging app     National Assembly workers vow to begin indefinite strike     Akwa Ibom PHCs seek functional vaccine storage facilities   “Forum discussed challenges in state chapters and resolve to continue to engage stakeholders in the party in tackling them. Such challenges include mobility, campaign souvenirs, funding and sentiments being employed by tribal jingoists within the region in our quest to market the NNPP to our people”, the communique said. The meeting, it said also restated commitment to the South West Zonal leadership under the Chairmanship of Prince Ayoade Ademola, towards making the South West Zone impenetrable for other parties. It, therefore, called on the zonal leadership to convene an urgent meeting where issues of mutual concern in the states could be addressed by the zonal leadership. It noted reports of mass defections of other politicians into the party, as well as took reports of the outcome of the party’s primaries across the region. “Forum agreed to float a support group that will assist in galvanising political and funding support to the states particularly on massive membership drive into the NNPP. “Forum admonishes State Executive members to always adhere to party rules and regulations and conduct themselves in all manners and aspects with a great sense of discipline and ensure absolute loyalty to the party as represented by their State Chairmen. “Forum urges all party members and stakeholders to in the interest of rescuing and rebuilding our nation mobilise the support of delegates for the success of the aspiration of Engr. Dr. Rabiu Musa Kwankwanso in pursuit of his aspiration to become the flag bearer of NNPP for the 2023 Presidential election”, the communique said. While congratulating all candidates on the platform of NNPP in the South West region, it assured them of mass mobilisation for their victory at the polls.