Liverpool have agreed a 41m euro (£35.1m) deal to sell Sadio Mane to Bundesliga champions Bayern Munich. The Reds will get a fixed 32m euros (£27.4m) with an additional 6m euros based on appearances and 3m euros based on individual and team achievements. Liverpool turned down two bids from Bayern before accepting their latest offer for the 30-year-old, whose deal with the Reds ran until next summer. He joined Liverpool for £31m plus £2.5m in add-ons from Southampton in 2016. Since then, Mane scored 90 Premier League goals for the Anfield club and finished last season with 23 goals in all competitions. News of his departure follows Tuesday’s signing of Uruguay forward Darwin Nunez from Benfica for an initial £64m. Alongside fellow forwards Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino, who are both 30, Mane has been integral to Liverpool’s success in recent years. The trio helped the club win the Champions League in 2019 and then end a 30-year wait for the league title in the following season. This has also been an exceptional year for Mane, who won the Africa Cup of Nations with Senegal before helping Liverpool win the Carabao Cup and FA Cup and finish runners-up in the Premier League and Champions League.   Pundits give Peseiro pass mark on new-look Eagles     PAUL POGBA: How French star quit Manchester United in anger     BIG BENZ: Perez favours Frenchman Karim Benzema to pick…   Mane is expected to replace Robert Lewandowski at Bayern, with the Poland international set to lave the German club having been linked with a move to Spanish giants Barcelona The countdown to a brand new Bundesliga season has begun! With the fixture list dropping an opening day round of games to whet the appetite of all and sundry, champions Bayern Munich visiting UEFA Europa League winners Eintracht Frankfurt and Borussia Dortmund hosting Bayer Leverkusen are among the most delightful of highlights. There’s also the small matter of a big Berlin derby to get excited about, while European chasers Borussia Monchengladbach and Hoffenheim will square off in a Matchday 1 contest that’s certain to provide plenty of incident and a generous serving of goals. With newly promoted Schalke and Werder Bremen also landing intriguing opening day fixtures, the commencement to the 2022/23 campaign can’t come quick enough. After an opening round of DFB Cup fixtures, the Super Cup will get us into the swing of things: RB Leipzig – who picked up their first piece of major silverware with May’s DFB Cup penalty shootout triumph against Freiburg, playing host to the mighty Bayern, the Bundesliga’s 10-in-a-row champions. That 30 July teaser at the Red Bull Arena will lead us perfectly into opening night, when Bayern go to Frankfurt for a Friday night special that will act as the perfect curtain raiser to what will be a season of thrills, spills and goals galore. Fresh from winning the Europa League in incredible circumstances in Seville, UEFA Champions League challengers Frankfurt couldn’t have hoped to entertain their home fans at Deutsche Bank Park with a bigger opening night special. Lock the 5 August date in your calendars and start counting down to what’s certain to be a classic. What is absolutely certain is that Oliver Glasner’s men will know exactly what they’re up against for Bayern are specialists when it comes to kicking off a new campaign. The most successful team on Matchday 1 with an average of 2.1 points amassed, the defending champions have also earned the most victories (36) and scored most goals (136) on opening night. With the action then spilling into the weekend, we will be presented with a cracking clash that could gauge the early title credentials of Dortmund and Leverkusen, last season’s second and third highest scoring teams respectively. Under new head coach Edin Terzic, BVB have brought in several big names as they seek to go one better than their second-placed finish last term.