In Nasarawa State, All Progressive Congress (APC) stakeholders are calling on party leaders to address alleged irregularities that characterised the recent primaries especially in Nasarawa West Senatorial district, reports Linus Oota. After more than three postponements, the Nasarawa West Senatorial primaries was finally held on the 5th of June 2022 and  Shehu Tukur, the anointed candidate of the APC national chairman, was declared winner with 179 votes to defeat his only challenger, Barrister Labaran Magaji, who garnered 114 votes. The exercise was widely condemned for alleged alleged irregularities through doctoring of delegates list by the agents of the national chairman who were allegedly acting on his directive. It was also trailed by controversy over what some claimed was a grand conspiracy to ensure that Tukur emerged at all cost to take the APC national chairman is former seat at the senate. The state party chairman, Dr. John Maaman, had before the exercise, raised alarm, expressing disappointment in the national leadership of the party for allegedly changing the delegates list at will. According to him, the list presented by the  leadership was different from the one recognised by the state chapter of the party. Speaking further, Maaman added that “The party in Nasarawa State is saddened by the discovery that the official and authentic list of delegates sent to the national Secretariat from the state after the nomination of delegates by party members, for the party’s primaries, has been completely changed or doctored in a number of local governments of the State. “We find this inexplicable. In the light of the above unfortunate development, the Nasarawa APC wish to state that we will not tolerate this unwarranted doctoring of the official delegates list sent to the national Secretariat. We consider this as undemocratic, and that it is capable of breeding disaffection, tension and disunity in the party, therefore the party will not accept any list outside of congresess conducted in the state.” Aggrieved party sources claimed that the national chairman of APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, was disturbed by the shocking visibility of Toto LG born legal luminary, Labaran Magaji, a frontline senatorial aspirant, who threw his hat in the ring to take over the Senate seat vacated recently by Adamu. Reliable party sources also claimed that Governor Abdulahi Sulelike many other party leaders, was displeased with the development but chose not to rock the boat in the interest of the party. Speaking to our correspondent, Barrister Labaran Magaji said “I can’t fold my hands and watch this happen. I want to assure you, if the authority can’t solve this issue. I’m not stopping here. I’m taking it beyond here. “I see danger coming to APC in Nasarawa state because of selfish interest and the Zamfara treatment is not too old for us to realize” he said. Our correspondent also gathered that the delegates list used in conducting the primaries of all the two federal and 10 state constituencies in the same Nasarawa West senatorial district was not the same as the one used last Sunday. An alleged conversation involving a first class traditional ruler and a local government party chairman in the Senatorial district, which was allegedly intercepted, is also fueling protest across the district. “Good afternoon sir, just go back from the crowd so that we can talk, if you allow this delegates list to scale true, Arch Shehu Tukur will not win” the party chairman was heard telling the traditional ruler in the alleged conversation.   Eneukwu congratulates Tinubu over APC presidential ticket     Fuss over House of Reps rerun in Kwara     Tinubu’s victory reward for years of investment…   Our correspondent equally obtained documents which showed some council wards delegates participating in same elections, same total number of voters, same date and different names which clearly shows high level of manipulations. Many stakeholders in the party are accusing the national chairman of threatening the peace of the APC in the area because of his desire to impose Tukur as candidate. Nasarawa West compromises of five local government areas, namely Keffi, Karu, Kokona, Nasarawa and Toto LGAs, while the first three LGAs formed a single federal constituency, Nasarawa/Toto equally constitute a federal constituency. Agitation for the rotation of the senate seat among the component areas had been on for quite a while. While Senators Walid Jibrin and Abubakar Sodangi who both hails from Nasarawa LG, had earlier represented the Senatorial district for over 12 years, Abdullahi Adamu, from Keffi LG, also represented the Senatorial district for over 11 years running before he recently vacated the seat to assume office as the ruling APC national chairman. “For fairness, equity and political balancing, since Adamu just vacated the senatorial seat after 11 years and is presently occupying the highest office of the ruling party in the country, the senatorial seat should naturally return to Nasarawa/Toto LGAs and Toto LG in particular where Barr Labaran Magaji hails from should get it. That is the popular position across the district,” a source said. The APC national chairman, who initially endorsed Magaji, had a change of mind, reverse his decision and endorse Tukur to succeed him. The late entry of Tukur was due to the fact that Adamu was no longer comfortable with Magaji taking over his seat following some development within the party, according to sources. Consequently, he decided to shop for a candidate who can neutralise the influence of Magaji within the senatorial district, as a possible candidate of the party in the race. His search allegedly yielded Tukur in spite of objection to his choice by notable party leaders and chieftains within and outside Senator Adamu’s political family. Sources also alleged that upon discovering that it would be difficult for Tukur, the anointed candidate, to defeat Magaji at the primary election, agents of the National chairman allegedly decided to change the delegate list as many times as they could, just to ensure that his anointed candidate pick the party’s ticket to replace at the national assembly. The Nation gathered from party members in the district that Magaji had won massive grassroots followership over time, and the colourful, massive political movement he had put in place for the actualization of his senatorial aspiration had been doing a good job of selling his candidacy to the people. By the time the plot to stop him unfolded, he had become the toast of many in the Senatorial district. The determination of Magaji to push on despite intense gang up against him allegedly by senior party figures and a first class traditional ruler, was said to have surprised many within the party. His popularity made it difficult for his opponents to carry out the plot to truncate his aspiration. Besides, many chieftains and elders of the APC in the district are of the opinion that the Senate slot should go to Toto LG, where Magaji hails from, going by the unwritten zoning arrangement. This made the alleged plot to impose Tukur, who hails from Keffi axis, a difficult one. The move is being viewed as unfair by many party members and leaders. “He has us to contend with. We will resist him to the very end. He cannot be bigger than the party that produced him as the national chairman. Magaji is a young politician that has been of great assistance to a lot of party chieftains in the area. He has maintained a visible presence in the state with regular outings and visits in the Senatorial zone. Tukur, we don’t know. Magaji we know,” one of the party chieftains vowed.