Mixed reactions yesterday trailed the choice of Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar in 2023. Those who bared their minds included former National Chairman Uche Secondus, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu and a PDP chieftain in Cross River State, Ntufam Okang. The trio of Secondus, Obaseki and Ekweremadu lauded the decision taken by the opposition party. They said by bringing a “resourceful person” with immense electoral value like Okowa, the PDP was on its way to returning to Aso Rock, Abuja next year. Okang however differed, describing the preference of Okowa over Wike on same ballot with Wike as a political miscalculation. Delta State House of Assembly Speaker Sheriff Oborevwori also reacted. In a congratulatory message to Abubakar and Okowa, Secondus described Okowa as “a good head” to be around the presidential candidate. It was Secondus’ first public reaction to events in the PDP since was removed as chairman in August 2021. He wrote in the message released by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi: “Abubakar’s choice of Governor Okowa as his running mate says it all about his knack for picking a good head to be around him for the gargantuan task ahead. Obaseki described Okowa as an energetic grassroots mobiliser whose emergence as a vice=presidential candidate would translate to victory for the PDP next year. In an online statement, Obaseki said the pair of Abubakar and Okowa would rescue and place Nigeria on a growth path. Obaseki said: “I heartily congratulate you, my friend and brother, His Excellency, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, on your emergence as the vice presidential candidate of our great party, the PDP. “He (Okowa) has the needed experience that will guarantee victory for our party in the 2023 elections, in our bid to rescue the country and place it on the path of progress and prosperity.”   VP slot: How PDP elders dropped Wike for Okowa     Akeredolu, Malami clash over restructuring     CBN makes new plans to fix forex crisis   Ekweremadu, in a post on his verified social media handles, described  Okowa as “highly resourceful and prepared for the office of the Vice President.” He commended the PDP and Atiku for the decision and called on all party leaders and faithful to go to work and ensure the success of the ticket in the presidential poll. The former deputy senate president wrote: “I join our party leaders, party faithful, and supporters in congratulating my brother and friend, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, on his emergence as the Vice Presidential candidate of our great party, the PDP. This is a sound choice by our presidential flag bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and our party.” The Delta State Speaker described “the choice of Okowa as indeed a round peg in a round hole.” Oborevwori added that PDP stakeholders in the state would soon commence “grassroots mobilisation for the party and the presidential candidate and his running mate.” But Okang, a former Information Commissioner in Cross River State, argued that the “PDP has already lost the 2023 elections by that singular decision (choice of Okowa as running mate).” He said: “Who knows Okowa?  What has he done for the party before? Look, I can’t get it on that choice. Why not Governor (Nyesom) Wike?” Expressing disappointment at the decision, Okang said that “the only chance the party has to win the 2023 elections was to make Wike its vice presidential candidate. “He is the only one who would have been able to speak for us in the Presidency,” Okang said. There was unusual silence when news of the selection of Okowa filtered into the Government House. Most stakeholders of the PDP in the state were said to be disappointed at the last-minute horse trading that shut Wike out of the ballot. On Wednesday, the Government House and PDP leaders celebrated reports that Wike had been recommended by the PDP’s National Advisory Committee as Atiku’s running mate.