Former Rangers defender Marvin Andrews has reckoned that Calvin Bassey has a huge future ahead of him after an impressive campaign for Rangers. The Nigerian international was influential as Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s team made it all the way to the Europa League final, while Gers also lifted the Scottish Cup. Bassey’s performances have resulted in increased transfer speculation, with some reports linking him with a move to Steven Gerrard’s Aston Villa. Andrews expects offers to come in for the 22-year-old and the Ibrox legend expects him to gain a big move sooner rather than later. “It is very important, the defence,” Andrews told Glasgow Live. “Big Goldson has been tremendous. Calvin Bassey is strong and athletic. He’s only 22 as well. “If he can avoid any serious injuries then he can go on to have a very big future ahead of him. There’s a bit of interest but you were going to get that. They reached a European final and made their mark.”   2023 AFCON: Simon excited captaining Eagles in record win     Osimhen tips ‘united’ Eagles for glory       Nigeria ‘ll host best World Fencing Championships , says…   Andrews also expects Van Bronckhorst to strengthen his Gers side ahead of a huge campaign next term as the Govan outfit looks to wrestle the Premiership title back from their rivals Celtic. He continued: “Everybody knows about Rangers Football Club. For all the bad things the club have been through in the last 10 years, to be in a European cup final in 2022 is amazing for the club. “They have been good, very good, but they have been very unlucky. They reached the cup final and any team can lose on penalties. “It’s like a flip of a coin. I don’t think any player should have any regrets about that match. “I think they can move forward. Everything Gio did last season was with Steven Gerrard’s team. But he’s taken his team and achieved great things. Hopefully, they can build and become better and stronger. “It was difficult for Gio to come through mid-season and really put his stamp on it. But after a couple of weeks, he transformed the team into how he wants them to play,” he said.