The Zonal Coordinator, Southwest Zonal Command, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Assistant Comptroller-General (ACG) A. M. Amosun said the zone generated about N1.240 trillion between January and June. Amosun made this known. Also, the Chairman, House Committee on Customs and Excise, Mr Leke Abejide said the new Customs and Excise Management Act Amendment Bill would soon be transmitted to the President for assent. The law, when signed, would reform the operations of the NCS and improve their revenue generation activities. Speaking when Abejide visited the zonal office on oversight function, ACG Amosun assured that the Service would met the revenue target of N3.1 trillion allocated to it in the budget. She described the zone as the main financial hub of the NCS, collecting about 80 per cent of revenue for the service. According to her, operation of the zone is very crucial to the NCS hence the need for them to maintain integrity and the need to upgrade the operational equipment of the service which will enhance their performance. She said most of the scanners needed to enhance revenue collection for the service have not been deployed, while two of the three scanners so far supplied have been installed and currently undergoing test run.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   She said the third scanner which is supposed to have been installed at the Apapa Port has not been installed because of the threat of pulling down the building which will house the scanner by the Federal Ministry of Transport to make way for the rail line to the port. She said the zone has seized several items such as tramadol and Pangolin scales worth about N2 billion, while prosecution of smugglers involved is currently going on. She complained about the non-compliance by importers and clearing agents is creating a major problem for the service, while expressing concern about the increasing level of smuggling in the country. She said majority of the subsidy paid by government on petroleum products in the country is consumed outside the country as a result of smuggling of the product by non-patriotic Nigerians. She advocated the collaborative policing of the port to curb the activities of smuggling, especially of small and light weapons which usually found their way into the country through smuggling. Abejide informed the Customs and Excise team that the new Customs and Excise Management Act Amendment Bill has been passed by both chambers of the National Assembly, ready for Presidential assent. Abejide said a clean copy of the Act will soon be forwarded to the President, adding that it is expected that when signed, the law will help addressed the challenges facing the Customs service as well as improve revenue generation for the country. He said the Committee was not unaware of the incapacitation of some Terminal Operators and Bonded Terminal Operators, adding that the Committee has received complaints from both the Service and critical Stakeholders for lack/inadequate equipments, poor infrastructures, poor services, among other inadequacies l which is inhibiting trade facilitation and as such the Committee is more than ever before ready to recommend for closure any erring Bonded Terminal Operator not meeting requirements. He said one of the major purposes of this oversight is to hear from you what your needs and challenges are to pass same to National Assembly who is constitutionally empowered to peruse and approve your Budget to cure the problems for you once and for all.