Hope for the release of the 62 abducted  Kaduna-bound train passengers has risen with the presentation of the conditions given by their abductors to the Federal Government. The link man between the terrorists and the families of abductees, Mallam Tukur Mamu, disclosed this in a telephone interview with The Nation yesterday. Mamu, who is also the publisher of Desert Herald and spokesman for an Islamic cleric,  Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, said the response of the government to the demands was being awaited. He however did not say when the terms were presented to the government through a “top security personnel.” The mediator had disclosed last week that one of the demands of the terrorists was the release of eight of their teenage children from government custody.   2023: Fresh suit seeks Atiku’s disqualification over…     Clark demands Ayu’s sack over Tambuwal     The Nation names Sobowale Ombudsman   Mamu also disclosed last Sunday that, the abductors extended by two weeks their initial threat to kill the abducted passengers to enable the government to tidy up the processes for the release of the eight children. In the interview with The Nation,  Mamu said the terrorists were ready to open negotiations with the government once the children were freed. He said:  “The latest development I can tell you now, is that the demands of the abductors have been presented to the government through top security officials. “We are now waiting for the government’s response and we are hoping that the response will be quick so that the abductors can open negotiation that  will lead to the release  of the 62 innocent Nigerians in captivity,” The terrorists had on Monday released a video of some of the victims. In the video, a woman, who described herself as Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo’s Law School classmate, asked the nation’s number two citizens to come to their aid. Sadiq, another, abductee and son of Prof. Ango Abdullahi of the Northern Elders Forum(NEF), also called for urgent action by the Federal Government to save their lives.