June 19, 2022 was celebrated as Father’s Day. Preceding that was the International Day of the Boy Child held on May 16.  The next celebration would be on November 19 when the world celebrates the International Men’s Day. However, despite these global events, experts still believe that not much is being done to groom young boys to become functional men. As the country celebrated Father’s Day, there was a noticeable low celebration for fathers when compared to Mother’s Day. In the same vein, the International Day of the Boy Child was almost unnoticed. This contrasts sharply against the International Day of the Girl Child that normally comes up on October 8, annually. We might shrug our shoulders and say that boys and men are not supposed to celebrate such mundane events. This exactly is the crux of the matter. It has become a conscious effort by most people to underrate attention to the boy child, and with that a pass-over of attention to men who ultimately become husbands and fathers. The implications of the subtle and overt lack of attention to the boy child are legion and the society ultimately suffers the grave effects. The advocacy for gender equity and justice seems to have stripped the society of the needed attention to the boy child. In an ironic twist, the boy child seems to be culturally more valued in most patriarchal societies in Africa, especially Nigeria. The value put on the boy child is often for parental and family egoistic value. They are supposed to grow up and continue the family lineage, unlike the women that often get married off and move into other families. However, the sad part is that besides being raised to be family heirs, the society seems not to do enough to cater to the social and emotional needs of the boy child. From cradle to grave, the expectations on the boy child is how to attain manhood, not show any emotions, grow to be providers and protectors of his family, even without the requisite tools of education or skill acquisitions. In essence, the average boy child is expected to grow into a superman that magically grows through life as the ‘saviour’ and one with the magic wand to solve the problems of his immediate and extended families, and be recognised by society.   Bad governance, economic despair, driving youths into drug…     Aesop tales and Amosun’s Ake tragicomedy     June 12 revisited II   As a child, the parental attention is often on the girl child. She is being groomed to be a woman, a wife and a mother. However, no one grooms the boy to be a man, husband and a father in the sense that there are soft skills that they are supposed to be armed with to be the best in those roles. The assumption is always that they are born with those skills by merely being male. This failure by society to fully understand that the boy child is first a human before being identified as a gender is the albatross of the society, The main training for boys is often very bullish, they are constantly encouraged not to show any emotions even when hurt or in pains, as they are reminded to ‘be a man’. While adolescent girls are often taught to be ladies, to be empathetic, show all sorts of emotions, the boy child is bullied into harmful silence through the suppression of all forms of emotions. The result, most boys grow with bullish attitudes that to them define their masculinity.  Violence and uncivil behaviours often turn to indulgences as the parents and the larger society become very permissive. The urge to show masculinity and fearlessness often leads them to display anti-social behaviours and, at some point, they begin to seek extra power through the use of drugs and other illicit items. We seem not to understand that there is a correlation between the pressure to be fully masculine and certain anti-social behaviours. The society never reckons that proving masculinity at every point often strips the boy child of his humanity and the beastly part surfaces and destabilises the system. The terrorists, the bandits, the rapists, the herdsmen, the kidnappers, the ritualists and all other anti-social behaviours are all actions that involve men with dysfunctional boyhood. We recommend that parents, the first teachers of any child, boy or girl, must begin to re-evaluate how children are raised. A child is a child. This means that each child, whether boy or girl, is like clay and the moulding of the child must start with good and functional parenting. Gender equity is good but we must be careful not to raise good girls that have only bad men to marry. All children must be nurtured to be loving, empathetic and caring. These are the hallmarks of good upbringing. Even in the society, the political field is showing us how badly raised men impact our lives when they access power. The lack of empathy and care is why most leaders behave the way they do because no one can give what he or she lacks. While this is not to say that every woman is a saint or every man a sinner, the result of bad leadership is traceable to leaders that are not empathetic. If then more than 95 per cent of those in leadership positions are men, it therefore goes to show that most men have not been raised to be caring because when a human is empathetic, the attitude to those being led would be remarkably different. Given the increase in domestic violence, divorce and other security problems involving young men, it is obvious that there are missing gaps in the raising of young boys who grow into men. There must be a change through upbringing and education, and more involvement by parents and governments at all levels to help young boys lead a happier, more socially acceptable lives. The pressure on boys to be ‘men’ in the eyes of the society is too enormous and this even shows in the very low life expectancy of men. Older men must also be in the vanguard of advocacy for better lives for the boy child. The women might not do that for them because they have their own fights too. School curriculum can be adjusted to accommodate more civic studies for both genders while more non-governmental organisations should also incorporate the welfare of the boy child alongside those for girls. There must be that balance for a better society to emerge.