Gary Neville believed Paul Pogba’s Manchester United departure ‘leaves a bad taste in the mouth’ as the under-performing midfielder prepares to re-sign for Juventus. It came as it emerged the Frenchman dismissed United’s contract offer of more than £300,000-a-week as ‘nothing’ in an exchange with his late agent Mino Raiola captured in a new documentary. United are set to lose their record £89million signing to Juventus for the second time with 29-year-old Pogba poised to agree a four-year contract. Old Trafford legend Neville said Pogba’s six-year second stint at United, which saw him win just two pieces of silverware, left both parties wanting more. He said in a TikTok chat: “I’m not bothered about Pogba’s comments to be honest with you. I think that once a player has left, he can say whatever he wants. Fine, no problem. “But I don’t think he has performed well over the last six years. I don’t think the club have performed well with him either, or handled him well. “It’s been a partnership that, to be fair, has failed on both sides so that is what you’d have to say on that one. There is no winner when a player leaves after six years with the money that has been spent and very little has been won.   BIG BENZ: Perez favours Frenchman Karim Benzema to pick…     Arsenal sign Vieira for £34m, confident of landing Jesus     AFN shifts C’wealth Games, World Championships trials   “The player leaves dissatisfied and the club are dissatisfied with it as well. It leaves a bad taste in the mouth because it’s the second time it’s happened. “You wish him all the best in the future at Juventus.” Pogba played 226 times during his second spell at United, scoring 39 times, but never achieved the same heights as during the successful four seasons at Juventus that preceded it. He helped Jose Mourinho’s United win the EFL Cup and the UEFA Europa League during his first season back but has been complicit in a decline in standards at United which has seen them go five years without a trophy. Pogba will depart in acrimonious circumstances after a clip from a new Amazon documentary on the player revealed he rejected two offers from United in excess of his existing £290,000-a-week deal. The 29-year-old also confirmed he was unhappy that United waited so long to propose a new deal after he first approached the club in the summer of 2019.