Of recent, Peter Obi has become the toast of many youths on social media platforms. He is the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP) and ex-governor of Anambra State. Obi’s exit from the main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) on the eve of the party’s presidential primary came as a rude shock to his supporters. His defection to LP and emergence as the party’s presidential flag bearer also elicited mixed reactions. While his supporters on social media grew exponentially, some other carpeted him for lack of “structure” across states. It indeed going to be a tough race for Obi as he would be slugging it out with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu (All Progressives Congress); Atiku Abubakar (Peoples Democratic Party; Dumebi Kachikwu (African Democratic Congress); Prince Malik Ado-Ibrahim (Young Progressives Party); Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso (New Nigeria Peoples’ Party) and Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP). Others are: Prince Adewole Adeboye (Social Democratic Party (SDP); Omoyele Sowore (African Action Congress); Kola Abiola (Peoples’ Redemption Party); Peter Umeadi (All Progressives Grand Alliance); Dan Nwanyanwu (Zenith Labour Party); Christopher Imumolen (Accord Party) and Maj. Hamza Mustapha (Action Alliance). Here are few things to know about him:   24 lawmakers file five allegations against Oyo Deputy…     Gunmen kidnap Adamawa ex-commissioner, demamd N30m ransom     Buhari urges Senate to confirm Ohiani as ICRC DG   1. Peter Gregory Obi was born on 19 July 1961 in Onitsha. 2. He graduated with a BA in Philosophy from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka in 1984. He has also completed numerous certifications in prestigious international universities such as Oxford, Harvard and Cambridge. 3. Obi had a successful banking career, rising through the ranks to become the youngest chairman of Fidelity Bank Plc. He was also the chairman of Guardian Express Mortgage Bank and Future Views Securities Ltd. 4. Peter Obi was the vice-chairman of Nigeria’s Governors’ Forum from 2008-14, as well as the chairman of the South-East’s Governors’ Forum from 2006-14. 5. Barely a month before former president Goodluck Jonathan left office after losing the 2015 general election, he appointed Obi as the chairman of Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 6. In 2019, Obi was Atiku Abubakar’s running mate on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket. But they lost the election to incumbent President and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. 7. He was the first Governor to serve a 2nd term in both the new and old Anambra State. 8. The presidential aspirant was also a former chairman of Chams Nigeria Plc.; Paymaster Plc. and Next International Ltd., the expansive supermarket chain, located in Abuja and Port Harcourt. 9. Obi was a member of many professional bodies, including the Nigerian Economic Summit Group; Nigerian Chartered Institute of Bankers and a member of the British Institute of Directors. 10. Obi married Margaret Brownson Usen in 1992, and together they have two children.