Actress Charity Eke aka Chacha Eke is back to social media filled with gratitude to all and sundry after news of her mental state broke, necessitating the deactivation of her Instagram page. The screen diva was reported to have experienced a mental breakdown after she’d been diagnosed of bipolar few years ago. In October, 2020 the mother of four revealed she’s been diagnosed of bipolar disorder in a view while debunking speculations that her marriage crashed over domestic abuse from her husband. Though a few days earlier, the actress herself had taken to social media to announce the end of her 7-year-old marriage to her movie producer husband, Austin Faani. As she spoke from her hospital bed, debunking the news of her marriage crash and revealing her mental state, she said: “Five days ago, I made a video saying that my marriage to Austin Faani is over and that video came with a lot of backlash from people with many insinuating that it’s a clear case of domestic violence. It’s not. Austin has never laid his hands on me. Austin has never even raised his voice at me and God in heaven knows that’s the truth.”   Why I must date a wealthy man, by Tiwa Savage     I don’t want bedroom-inspired attractions- Esther     Angel to fans: you can drag me but not my parents   Continuing she said: “I’m here at First Delta American hospital, Asaba, receiving treatment. Several psychiatrists have come to assess me mentally and I have been diagnosed of bipolar disorder. Bipolar is real. Here in Africa, we tend not to know about it due to ignorance or overlook it. I cannot tell you all how I’ve been feeling in these tiny videos that I’ve been making but I will, however, show you motion pictures soon”. Reactivating her Instagram page in the wee hours of Saturday, the movie star appreciated everyone for their prayers revealing they did bring back her mind to life. Thankful Chacha sharing a photo displaying her beautiful and infectious smile wrote: “Truly, darkness cannot swallow light. God is Real. “Beloved, your prayers eventually brought my mind back to life & my body back on track. Thank you so much everyone.”