Heifer International has announced payment of about N111.4 million as insurance compensation from Leadway Assurance to 3, 110 smallholder rice farmers operating in Benue and Nasarawa states under its pay-at-harvest Area Yield Index Insurance (AYII) project being a component of Heifer’s Naija Unlock Signature Programme for Nigeria. AYII was launched last year by Heifer International in partnership with OLAM, Leadway Assurance and Pula to mitigate climate change-induced losses among smallholder farmers and restore investors’ confidence in rice farming. Heifer International is a global non-profit development organisation on a mission to end hunger and poverty sustainably by working with farmers and their communities to unlock opportunities within the agricultural sector for improved incomes, food security and resilience. Speaking during the farmers insurance claim payout in Makurdi, Benue State, Heifer’s Country Director, Rufus Idris confirmed that a total of 4,358 hectares belonging to 4,354 smallholder rice farmers in Benue and Nasarawa states were insured during the 2021 wet farming season under the project, among which 3,110 smallholder rice farmers suffered losses due to soil moisture stress.   Stakeholders target 500,000 metric tonnes of cashew     ‘Leverage tourism to boost economy’     Sterling Bank, Community Pot launch pilot project   The affecte farmers who suffered poor harvests are scheduled to receive N111.4 million, as insurance compensation claim to enable them to recover their investments and refinance their insurance premium for another farming season. Head, Agric and Micro Insurance, Leadway Assurance Limited, Mr. Ayoola Fatona,  the payout marked a major milestone in the agriculture insurance space. “Leadway wishes to reiterate our commitment to assisting smallholder farmers in guaranteeing the food security of the nation by leveraging on this type of partnership with Heifer International,” Fatona said. Idris explained that the project is carried out through a pay-at-harvest model that enables participating farmers to pay back the pre-financed premium at harvest when they sell the rice produced to Olam as the off-taker. The recovered insurance premium is then re-used to pre-finance premiums for smallholder farmers during the next farming season, hence guaranteeing farmers resilience to climate induced losses. “This cycle continues for three to five farming seasons until the rice farmers see the value of the innovative crop insurance, adopt the new practice, and begin to attract private sector interest for the financing of their crops and farmlands. Once this is achieved, Heifer’s investment would then be used to replicate the same solution with other sets of smallholder farmers within another geographical focus area of the signature program where crop insurance adoption is still low,” Idris said.