Abductors of former Abia correspondent of Daily Sun Newspapers Chuks Onuoha are demanding N10m ransom for his release. Onuoha was said to have been kidnapped at Umungasi, Umuagu, Ohuhu in Umuahia North Local Government Area. Onuoha is the editor of All Facts Newspaper print version. When contacted, Abia Police spokesman Geoffrey Ogbonna said he was yet to be informed about the development. Ogbonna promised to get back to our correspondent as soon as he gets information on the incident from the DPO. But Ohuhu Welfare Union Worldwide confirmed Onuoha’s abduction from his residence. Reacting to the incident, Ohuhu community in a statement by it’s Publicity Secretary, Enwereuzo Ogbonna, noted that it is working with the Onuoha’s family to ensure the safe release of the victim. It called on the community to reinforce it’s 24hours local vigilantes patrol to help ensure security of lives and properties.   #EkitiDecides2022: Ini Edo mobilises women to vote     Tems diagnosed with ‘reflux laryngitis’,…     Malabu Oil Block: I’ve been vindicated, says Adoke   The statement reads: “This to bring to the notice of ndi Ohuhu that the family of our brother, Mr. Chucks Onuoha contacted the Union this morning to report that at about 11. 00 pm. last night, about five armed men broke into their home at Umungasi near Umuagu and abducted him and also made away with his green colour Nissan Pathfinder. “According to the family, the abductors have contacted the family with a demand for ransom. “While the Union continues to interface with the family to ensure his safety and safe return, the Union is using this opportunity to reiterate our earlier call to all villages in Ohuhu to activate their local vigilantes on 24 hours basis. “We again call on ndi Ohuhu and all non indigenes resident in Ohuhu to take responsibility for their security, their families and environments by curtailing late evening movements and ceremonies and also avoid all acts of carelessness that may compromise their individual security, their loved ones and environments. “Please be assured that the Union is working with the security agencies to ensure that these threats to the peace of Ohuhu land is nipped in the bud. “We call for the prayers of ndi Ohuhu for the safe return of our brother and his family in this trying times. “We are certain that this emerging atmosphere of lawlessness and evil will soon dissipate. “May the peace of God preserve our land from evil.”