No fewer than 4,000 persons have benefited from a free medical outreach programme at Mushin, Lagos State. The event took place in the premises of Omodigbo Primary Health Centre, Mushin. It was organised by Daily Need Industries Limited (DNIL), a leading manufacturer of pharmaceutical, food and personal care products, to celebrate its  50th anniversary. The outreach, done in conjunction with Mushin Local Government, offered free tests as well as drugs for common illnesses. Others are free HIV test, counselling and awareness talk, blood sugar level checks, malaria, hepatitis tests and dental checks. Medical professionals from the pharmaceutical giant collaborated with officials of Mushin Local Government to carry out the outreach. A woman, Oloko Taiwo, 36, who was one of the beneficiaries of the outreach, thanked DNIL and the medical team for the initiative, especially the free hypertension and blood sugar screening. She said the outreach helped her to find out what was wrong with her, which she said she had not done before. “I am happy to do the test, especially the medications and treatment for people. Many people like my neighbours have been battling with  various ailments, but due to lack of funds have been unable to run tests for proper diagnosis.   Braide, Omotosho, others get NHEA 2022 recognitions     Christabel’s death: Our story, by Cynosure Clinic chief     Amalaha is UTA Country President   Another beneficiary, who simply identified himself as Mr. Samuel, said Mushin residents would remain grateful for the free tests and drugs. DNIL Group Managing Director, Oluwatosin Jolayemi, gave a hint into why his company embarked on the medical outreach. Besides celebrating 50 years as a company, he said the event was an opportunity to create awareness for people on the need to take care of their health and be health conscious, adding that health is wealth. He added that this was why his company came to the venue with various professionals – paediatricians, pharmacists, optometrists, etc. – because “the platform is for people to know their health status and get treated immediately.” Apart from free drugs and treatment, Jolayemi said chronic cases were to be referred to recognised hospitals for proper management. Commending DNIL for the outreach, Chairman, Mushin Local Government, Emmanuel Bamigboye, said he was delighted to identify the company’s “50 years of manufacturing to the benefit of mankind.” He described the medical outreach as a two-in-one benefit for those graced the event. By this, Bamgboye meant that his administration decided to embrace the outreach and expand it by using the opportunity to kick off its measles vaccination campaign for children from nine months to months. He added: “With collaboration of the public and effective planning and judicious utilisation of resources by stakeholders, measles vaccination campaign will be a success. “Measles is a highly contagious viral infection that mainly affects children under five years old, it is known to account for 95 per cent of under-five mortality in African and Asia. There have been frequent outbreaks of vaccine preventable diseases in several parts of the country, including Lagos State. For this reason, the state is joining other states to implement a National Measles Campaign to eliminate measles.”