An ardent reader of The Nation Newspapers, Oluwagbenga Samson Tope has creatively adorned old copies of the newspaper in a photoshoot. In the exclusive images shared with The Nation, Samson said he had been buying copies of the newspaper since 2010. The 32-year-old, who is based in Ondo, is a graduate of Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma Edo where he studied English and Literary Studies and bagged numerous awards including: “Best student in literary criticism”. On what prompted the creative idea, Samso said: “I started buying The Nation since 2010. I must confess the many reasons that kept me buying the newspaper is that the paper is blessed with intellectual columnists like Sam Omatseye, the man whose works cut across allusions, histories, myths, literary texts, philosophers and this repository ideas made me to study English and Literary Studies. “Olukorede Yishau: I do refer to him as my best book reviewer. His column opened my eyes to different literary books and history through his sense of realism.   FCTA insists Abuja Okada operators must get permit     EFCC confirms release of former AGF     2023: I will beat Atiku as APC candidate – Okorocha   “Olatunji Ololade is my coinage and metaphorical columnist. His works is full of metaphors which are difficult to third class readers to digest. “Gbadegesin my nationalist columnist. His works preach nationalism, morality, good character and the unity of Yoruba and Nigeria at large through his Omoluwabi ideology. Another reason why I kept buying the paper is their editorial column. This column is strictly written from the verge of hollisticism and realism coupled with solution to any socio political and economic issues. In fact, the niation is the best newspaper I have read.” He added: “The Nation Newspaper is gifted with intellectual columnists whose works are problem solving through their literary dictions. The Nation is blessed to have those men of great minds such as Sam Omatseye, Ololade, Yishau, Gbadegesin, Festus, Prof. Olatunji etc… If you want to know politics through grammar read Prof Olatunji” Samson said he reads the newspaper regularly and ended up creating a library where he stored the old copies. “There was a time I was inside my library at home and I looked at where I’m storing my papers and I saw more than one thousand copies and I asked myself what can I do to spread to the world that The Nation newspaper makes my dream come true. “I must confess, The Nation newspaper made me study English and Literary studies coupled with my passion for the course. I love the Nation newspaper. I don’t know why I can’t read any other papers.” Samson further said he would like to be The Nation‘s ambassador to showcase his creative works for the organisation.