The decision of the Nigerian Federal Government to ban international basketball for two years has been trailed by a myriad of reactions. Among them is the captain of the Nigeria women’s basketball team D’Tigress Adaora Elonu, who said she thought the story was a big joke at first. Speaking from his Texas-Unites States-based, the D’Tigress forward said: “I did not believe it at first because I don’t know how a ministry of youth and sports would be involved in things detrimental to the development of its youths.” When it later dawned on her that the ban was a reality, Elonu, who led the team to the World Cup qualification, said she was completely shattered. She said her teammates were equally shocked. She described the ban as ill-fated that will be detrimental to the growth of everyone in the basketball family while pleading with the FG to reconsider their decision. She said: “A quick look at the situation, we think there are better ways it can be handled while allowing development in the local leagues, grassroots as well as the national team. “No player has to suffer. We do not agree with the ban. We do not see this coming. We put a lot of effort, not just the players, the staff, and everyone. “Other players who cannot venture themselves playing international competitions. We disagree with the ban. We are strong globally. To take that away will be disastrous.” Asked to react to the fact that they would not be at the FIBA Women’s Basketball World Cup in Australia, she said: “that is unfortunate and I’m not happy that some people are toying with our lives and career. “It is like destroying a team that is moving on a great trajectory. We won the Afrobasket back-to-back and again in 2021, and so, I think continuing to win titles in a style that is conducive to all of us individually and still maintaining the D’Tigress identity. I think that’s the kind of legacy that is about to be truncated.” Elonu was part of the reigning African champions that won the Afrobasket Championship a record three times and bac to back from Mali 2017, to Senegal 2019, and Cameroon 2019. So, what would she be doing now that the World Cup is no longer on her calendar? She said: “I have to focus on my club’s games and, then, my foundation. I just wish the FG can rescind the decision because it would have a great consequence on the up-and-coming players.” The African and international bodies have warned that they may follow with more sanctions in the coming days, following the replacement of Nigeria with Mali, at the World Cup.   FOUNDATION      The CB Girona Spain forward said she would continue to pursue the development of the girl-child in the society, through her foundation, adding that the foundation is open and willing to work closely with all the agencies and relevant stakeholders in Enugu State. In January of this year, Adaora Elonu Foundation berthed at the eastern city of Enugu, for the Adaora Elonu Basketball Camp tagged “All Dreams Achieved” inside the Indoors Sports Hall, Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium. The former Texas A&M College Football player, who was part of the 2011 NCAA Championship-winning side, said she aimed to continue the progression of basketball in the state and extension, the country, to encourage the girls that they can make a career in the game. Reacting to how tasking juggling between the club side and the national team has been, the 2021 Afrobasket Most Value Player further revealed that it has not been easy, but the experience of winning the championship for Nigeria in Cameroon for three consecutive editions was phenomenal.   THE RUSSIA EXPERIENCE  Elonu was recently in Russia to play for a local club during their off-season. The trip turned out to be quite eventful as the forward encountered American player Brittney Griner, whose arrest by the Russian Police has become a sensation. Adaora Elonu was playing in Russia for a different team when Griner was arrested. She told DailyMail.com that no one in the basketball community knew about it until they returned to America. She and Griner have known each other since they played against each other in high school and college   AWCON: Kgatlana tips South Africa to dethrone Nigeria     Dstv, GOtv to air Paris Diamond League     Sadio Mane off to join Bayern Munich in £35m deal   Elonu, who is now home in Texas, fears like others that Griner has been made a political target because of the worsening tension between the U.S and Russia. Elonu and Griner are among dozens of international female basketball stars who go to Russia in their off-seasons to play for local teams. They are paid more handsomely but it’s also a chance to keep themselves fit before returning to the WNBA. After the war broke out, the US State Department issued an urgent warning to all Americans in Russia to get out. According to Elonu: ‘We left on March 1st, I flew Aeroflot to Istanbul and then back to Houston, and the first I heard about it was March 3rd after I arrived back. ‘When we were in Russia, I wasn’t aware of it at all. At first, I thought it was fake news then later on through the day it became real,’ she said. ‘There are no words to express this pain’: Wife of WNBA star Brittney Griner arrested on drug charges in Russia says her heart ‘skips beats every day that goes by without hearing’ whether she is safe Brittney Griner was earning $1.5million per off-season playing for a Moscow team that is backed by one of Putin’s oligarch friends – six times her ‘Initially, I was just thinking “what happened?” She has so much experience and has been playing in Russia for a while. It can be surprising [that she was arrested]. You know, how? Why? Why this time?’ she asked. Russian authorities claim Griner was traveling with the illegal vape pen in her carry-on but some skeptics say it’s possible they fabricated the charges and are making a political example of Griner to get back at Biden. ‘It’s very possible,’ Elonu said. ‘It’s very unfortunate. What’s occurring right now, could very well be true. ‘I hope that people here in the US can find a way to get her home. I’m not sure what’s being done – there’s not so much information out.  We can only hope and pray that things are happening behind the scenes,’ she said. Elonu said it was surprising Griner would be arrested for carrying an illegal substance when she was so familiar with Russia, having played seven off seasons there. Elonu described Griner as a ‘very pleasant and ‘kind’ athlete. ‘She’s not necessarily a jokester but she is very kind on the court. She can be an aggressive player – she’s difficult to stop. She has a great sense of humor and she is fun to be around, I can attest to that. We never had discussions about it but I knew she played in Russia, I knew she enjoyed her team.’ She said she never expressed any fears about going to play in Russia or anywhere else, and that she loves the sport. ‘I think everyone is just very worried. Even my family. It just feels so close to home.’ The Biden administration says it is aware of Griner’s incarceration.  She is not the only American locked up in Russia amid the deepening conflict. Trevor Reed, a 30-year-old Marine, also remains in custody. He was arrested in 2019 and was charged with assaulting two Russian police officers. His family said the charges are bogus and that he’s being made an example of. He is desperately trying to get him home. Elonu, however, is not all about basketball. She loves Nigerian music and describes her life outside the court as interesting. “I love Nigerian music a lot. I have a range of Nigerian artists on my playlist, but if I have to pick one, I will go back a little and say Flavour. He is probably my favourite Nigerian artist.” As for her clothing, Elonu loves her pants but can also dress up when she has to. “What I wear depends on the weather and occasion. Comfort is what comes first for me because I have to be comfortable in what I am wearing, she added.