The National Coalition – Buhari Support Organisation (TNC BSO) has charged the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC) to ensure credible presidential primary The group also enjoined delegates to elect credible, reliable and tested presidential candidate that can be trusted with the leadership of the country in these critical times. A statement by Rev. Peter Oganto, the National Chairman of the group in Abuja said the party should strive to conduct a transparent exercise that will truly translate to the wishes of the majority of our party members. “Our message at this critical time of decision for the party is to call for solidarity with the leadership of the APC as a major precondition for a successful convention. “The delegates must elect a credible, reliable and tested candidate who can be trusted with the leadership of our dear country in these critical times. “In the process of exercising their franchise, delegates must remember that the decision they make will define the future and the electoral fortunes of our party. They must therefore search their consciences and put the interest of the party and the nation at heart. “What we expect from the convention is a very peaceful exercise and a more United party.”   Lawmakers that lost return tickets to House of…     Why Tinubu should be president, by Dibal     ‘No constitutional backing for interim government’   The group appealed to the party leadership to conduct a very credible exercise “that will not only be transparent but, truly representative of the wishes of the majority of our party members. “The new party leadership shall be facing a great litmus test with this exercise as their capacity to deliver a convention that will earn the confidence and trust of the majority of our party members will be put to the test. “As a support group, our stake is to assist the party in retaining power at the centre and winning the forthcoming elections across the country. “TNC-BSO looks forward to a convention that will produce the right candidate for the office of the next president of Nigeria, a just leader with a big heart that would be accepted by Nigerians to improve on the record of President Muhammadu Buhari. “TNC-BSO is ready to deploy our teeming membership of over four (4m)million, young men and women with three hundred registered support groups spread all over the country. It will be recalled that these same support groups operated under the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO) mobilize Nigerians to vote President Muhammad Buhari into power in 2015 and 2019. TNC-BSO is set to embark on the same strategy and experience to bring about another victory for our great party APC in the 2023 Presidential election.” The group then called on all our aspirants to demonstrate the spirit of good sportsmanship by embracing whoever emerges as the winner and to be united behind him in the collective interest of everyone.