FILM star and TV talk show host, Monalisa Chinda-Coker has unveiled her plans to explore and celebrate the culture and heritage of West Africa. The mother of one has partnered with Goge Africa and some corporate organisation to explore, celebrate and exchange cultural ideas across West Africa. The partnership, Chinda-Coker noted, is expected to boost tourism in West Africa. using her TV show, ‘You and I with Monalisa’ and Goge Africa to revamp and revitalise tourism in West Africa. “We will be exploring further opportunities in West African and Nigerian tourism. We also look forward to sharing the beauty of our common heritage, and cultural similarities, among others. Most importantly, we look forward to engaging the youths in these  areas to further consolidate on the gains and importance of tourism,” Chinda-Coker said.   Lady Donli thrills at Alliance Francaise     Real Housewives of Lagos: Laura, Carolyna take animosity to…     Burna Boy: Back in trouble with the law   Continuing, she said, “And since I have a platform and a huge following, we intend to bring these places to the front burner in the scheme of global markets and visitations. “Also, as the host of You and I with Monalisa, the pan African TV talk show since 2015, our sixth season focuses primarily on tourism and its huge potential, especially on the African continent.” Tagged Destination West Africa Project (DWA), the project will begin with a tour of four West African countries Benin, Togo, Ghana, and Ivory Coast after departure from Nigeria. The second leg will take the tourists to Gambia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Guinea Conakry, respectively. Each leg of the project will take a minimum of two weeks, with the team of destination promoters, tour operators, media, bloggers, influencers, travel, and tourism advocacy groups, TV show hosts, and celebrities. The tours will be broadcast on Goge Africa with over 40 million viewers, You and I with Monalisa. It will also be reported in the print media with live updates on various channels online to millions globally.