National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal yesterday came under scathing criticism from Ijaw leader Chief Edwin Clark. The elder statesman asked Ayu to step aside from office for describing Tambuwal hero of the PDP. Tambuwal, who as one of the Presidential aspirants, had earlier solicited for delegates’ votes during the five-minute window allotted to each of the contenders, returned to podium to back out of the race and declare support for former vice president Abubakar Atiku. Ayu, accompanied by Atiku, who clinched the PDP presidential ticket, visited the Sokoto helmsman after the primary to give him a pat on the back for his action. But Clark berated Ayu and demanded his resignation for what he called “undignified and parochial conduct”. The party chair, Clark said, could have been more circumspect than openly taking sides. In a statement, the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) leader also described Tambuwal’s conduct as a “betrayal of national patriotism for hidebound interests”. The statement reads: “I was alarmed by the outrageous and Machiavelli manner in which Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, Governor of Sokoto State, was so apparently ‘arranged’ to announce his withdrawal from the contest, at the last minute; his speech changed the mood of the event. “That was done in order to foist another northerner as the party’s flag bearer; having regard to the fact that Governor Aminu Tambuwal was the only aspirant from the whole of the Northwest, which had about 192 delegates at the convention. “What Tambuwal did was not only dishonourable, but also a serious electoral abnormality and a tragic betrayal of national patriotism for hidebound interests. “Even much worse, in the extreme, was the action of the National Chairman of the PDP, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, in his open visit to Governor Tambuwal to congratulate and hail him, in his words, as ‘the hero of the convention.’ “This clearly reveals his partiality and predilection in the processes leading to the baffling conclusion of the PDP presidential primary.   The Nation names Sobowale Ombudsman     Investors net N1.81tr gains in May rally     Sleepy driver kills conductor, injure four others in Anambra   “His (Ayu’s) undignified and parochial conduct, to please his northern principals, is not only a big disgrace to the office he occupies, but also a sad display of lewd subservience to the political subjugation of one ethnic group, in a diverse country like Nigeria.” Clark stated that Ayu’s action confirmed his suspicion of that the PDP chair was in favour of a northern candidate, saying Ayu, had on the day of his inauguration last year, needlessly in his remarks, promised to resign if a northerner emerged as the presidential candidate of the party. He said: “Senator Ayu has failed to realise that what we are fighting for affects all minorities in Nigeria. The Southern Nigeria relationship with the Middle Belt is well established, dating back to the First Republic, during the period of Dr. J. S. Tarka, from today’s Benue State, a founding member of the then, United Middle Belt Congress, and the strong alliance with Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s Action Group. “The relationship subsisted during the Second Republic, when the minorities of the South and the minorities of the North combined to fight for a common course; the inclusion, and full participation of all minorities in the politics and governance of the country, of which I was the leader.” He noted that Ayu’s conduct “bears grave negative consequences. He should, therefore, no longer consider himself fit and proper to retain his position as the national chairman of PDP, and should resign now.” Clark condemned what he called monetization of the electoral process, especially, the primaries being conducted by the parties. He warned that such developments portend danger for next year’s general election. Clark said: “Most disturbing is what happened at the special national convention of PDP in Abuja, on Saturday, 28th May 2022. I followed the live broadcasts of the proceedings, keenly, until about 12.30 am on Sunday, the 29th. I was quite impressed by the efforts of the convention committee, which was headed by former Senate President David Mark, and his assistants, particularly, the Governor of Bayelsa State, Douye Diri. But, sadly, the outcome of the election leaves much to be desired. It was very unjust and rather unwholesome. It will definitely impact severe, adverse ramifications on the future unity of the country. “Another Northern aspirant, Mr. Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, a businessman from Borno State, had earlier also suddenly withdrawn from the contest, citing its obscene monetisation as his reason, but we now know better.” “It is now widespread understanding that there were pressures mounted on Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, and former Senate President Bukola Saraki, to also withdraw, while Tambuwal deliberately delayed his action till the last minute. By so doing, unduly swept his Northwest votes to Atiku Abubakar. “One can now appreciate the reasons given by Mr. Peter Obi for his withdrawal from the PDP, both as a member, and as an aspirant, few days before the party’s primary. And I would think that what he did was, without doubt, in respect, or obedience, to the position of the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum. “Unfortunately, some aspirants from the South believed that, with the resources and facilities at their disposal, their elders no longer matter, and disregarded, with impunity, the patriotic advice on the need to be steadfast on the position of the zoning of the Presidency to the South. “They never minded that what we have been advocating was in their interest. They proved themselves to be selfish and arrogant, and thought they could win on their own steam. They failed. I can only hope that they have now learnt their lessons.”