Senate President Ahmad Lawan has said the Senate will, on June 29, screen the seven nominees of President Muhammadu Buhari for ministerial appointments. Lawan announced this yesterday before the Senate adjourned plenary till June 28. “The ministerial nominees will be screened on Wednesday next week,” he said. President Buhari, in a letter, dated June 15, requested the Senate to confirm the nomination of seven ministerial nominees. The President had said the request was made in accordance with Section 147(2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended.  The nominees for confirmation include Henry Ikechukwu Ikoh (Abia), Umana Okon Umana (Akwa Ibom), Ekumankama Joseph Nkama (Ebonyi) and Goodluck Nanah Opiah (Imo). Others are: Umar Ibrahim El-Yakub (Kano) Ademola Adewole Adegoroye (Ondo) and Odum Udi (Rivers).   Buhari off to Rwanda for 26th CHOGM     Varsity gas fire: FG to conduct hydrocarbon exploration in…     Fed Govt’s bailouts saved states from going under,…   Also, the Senate yesterday confirmed the nomination of Dr. Hale Gabriel Longpet (Plateau State) for appointment as a Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This happened as the Upper Chamber said it will, next Wednesday, screen the seven ministerial nominees whose names President Muhammadu Buhari forwarded to it on Tuesday. Longpet’s confirmation followed the consideration of a report by the Senate Committee on Electoral Matters. In his presentation, Committee Chairman Kabiru Gaya (Kano South) said Longpet’s nomination was made pursuant to the provision of Section 154(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). The chairman said the nominee, while appearing before the committee for screening, gave explanations about his personal life, work experiences, suitability, competence and integrity for appointment as an INEC commissioner. He said members of the committee lauded the nominee’s impressive curriculum vitae and satisfactory answers to the questions posed to him. The Upper Chamber thereafter confirmed the nominee.