Dr Jimoh Ibrahim, the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearer for Ondo South Senatorial District, has urged Sen. Bola Tinubu to be magnanimous in victory over his emergence as the APC presidential flag bearer. Tinubu polled 1,271 votes to defeat his closest rivals, former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, who scored 316 and 235 votes respectively at the APC primary on Wednesday in Abuja. Ibrahim, in a congratulatory statement he signed and made available to newsmen on Thursday in Okitipupa, described Tinubu as “a quintessential leader and exemplary 21st century politician whose leadership acumen, Nigeria yearns for at this material time.” Ibrahim, a business mogul cum politician, said the operationalisation strategy of direct delegates mobilisation, the power of survey, incredible domestic socialisation, eliminations strategy and candidates self-confidence made Tinubu win the primary. Describing Tinubu’s emergence in the keenly contested primary as a deserving victory, Ibrahim implored Nigerians to support the APC presidential candidate, who he said had the track records as a good manager of public funds. “I want to implore Nigerians, particularly those with Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) to vote for Tinubu in the forthcoming general elections because he is a proven human and resources manager of great repute.   Climate Resilience: World Bank donates $385m to Africa     APC presidential primary: Tinubu, tested, trusted –…     Tinubu’s victory in 2023 almost a done deal –…   “Lagosians and observers will attest to it that Tinubu has taken the state to a world-class developing mega city through provision of infrastructural facilities and social amenities. “He is known to be a promise-keeper among politicians and the citizenry and with what he has done in Lagos and the template he designed for new Lagos. “Nigerians should be assured that he will design a new Nigeria template which will be deployed to be a turn around if he becomes the president in 2023. “His ambition to manage our patrimony is not impulsive, but rather a long time planned one which will turn around the life of the least Nigerian.” Ibrahim said. Ibrahim, founder of University of Fortune in Igbotako, Okitipupa, also congratulated all the political like minds and aspirants, who sacrificed their ambitions and stepped down for Tinubu at the eve of the primary in Abuja. He described the aspirants as good spirited Nigerians whose passion for the country goes beyond pecuniary motive. Seven presidential aspirants including, Godswill Akpabio; Gov.Kayode Fayemi; Sen. Ibikunle Amosun; Sen. Ajayi Boroface; former Speaker, Dimeji Bankole; Gov. Abubakar Badaru and Uju Ken-Ohanenye stepped down for Tinubu. (NAN)