Leon Balogun has penned an emotional farewell message to Rangers as the Nigerian international prepares for the next step in his career after leaving Ibrox. Balogun’s contract ended this summer after two years with the Gers and the classy veteran has paid a glowing tribute on social media to everyone at Rangers, from the fans right through to the players and staff. The defender, who joined Rangers as a last-minute signing after Niko Katic’s knee injury, made 65 appearances for the Light Blues and leaves with a Premiership and Scottish Cup winners’ medals. Having always carried himself impeccably while representing Rangers, Balogun’s touching message is a further show of just how classy the German-born star is off the pitch. The 33-year-old has given no hint as to where his next step will be but there’s no doubt that he’ll have plenty of Rangers fans keeping tabs on what the future holds for the Super Eagles international. “Took me some time, but eventually it is time for me to say goodbye.   CAF Awards hold 21st July in Morocco     Rangers target former MFM striker Odey     Top stars hit Asaba for AFN Trials   “Thank you to every single soul at the club working their socks off, making sure I and the boys can focus on performing at our best. “A lot of whom we work with on a daily basis: kitchen staff, medical staff, sports scientists, and athletic trainers, as well as our two girls Katy and Hannah. You have shown and taught me – in your very own way – the dedication that is expected and I thank you for that. “Thank you to the managing staff and especially to my amazing teammates over the 2 seasons, who welcomed me from day one as a player and a friend. Who have pushed me to be better and taught me the Rangers way.” He continued: “A lot of highs, a few lows that made our bond even stronger. We became invincible champions, the class of 55 … those magical European nights at Ibrox that led us all the way to the final. And eventually, we crowned my time at the club with the Scottish cup. “Thanks for all the memories, the laughter, and for sharing some of the best moments in my career with me. “And last but not least, a massive thank you to you, the supporters. You are one crazy, passionate bunch. High expectations, that can be intimidating at times – but I loved every single second of it. “All your messages over the past 2 weeks have been incredibly overwhelming for me and at the same time, they’re the greatest testimonial I can get for my time at Rangers. It has been an absolute privilege and honour to represent you near and far.”