Super Eagles captain  Ahmed Musa  believed he still  strong enough to add more to his already  well decorated  international caps, adding he would honour the national team call  once  coach Jose Peseiro deemed it fit to call him. The 29-year-old Fatih Karagumruk winger  who  has already earned 106  international caps, said  his stance that the last 2021  Africa Cup of Nations(AFCON) in Cameroon  must have been misconstrued  as retiring from the Super Eagles. “I only said that the last AFCON  in Cameroon was going to be my last but I never said I’m retiring from the Super Eagles,” the former Leicester City’s star  said in Abuja ahead of the  Super Eagles’  2023 AFCON  opener against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone.“ Yes, I said the last AFCON was going to be my last but  didn’t  say I’m not ready to play for the national team again. “The coach (Jose Peseiro)  knows  I still have something I can give  and that is why he has called me. “ The next AFCON is next year  and I don’t know if I’ll still be playing active football. But if I’m still active, it is left for the coach to call me if he thinks I still have something to give. “ So anytime I get a call up, I know I have to come because this is my country .”   2023 AFCON Qualifiers:  Dessers tips  Eagles’ to beat Leone…     Back2Base Talent Hunt excites Mikel     ICC honours Nigeria  Cricket Federation on developmental…   The Super Eagles would on Thursday  open their 2023 AFCON  campaign  against their ‘bogey’  opponent  with whom they drew twice including surrendering a 4-1 lead  to draw 4-4  in Benin City  in the qualifying tournament for Cameroon 2021. “ Against  Sierra Leone, we are not settling for a draw or a loss but definitely, we are going for a win on Thursday,” noted  the 2013 AFCON winner. “We know it’s going to be a tough game but it is a home game for us. “ Agreed we drew with them the last time at home from 4-1 and then to 4-4  but  we won’t make that mistake again,” he  further said. Meanwhile, Musa remains apologetic over the Super Eagles’ failure to qualify for the upcoming Qatar 2022  FIFA   World Cup even as he pleaded with Nigerians  to repose  their confidence  on the  team yet again. “First, I want to start by saying we are sorry  about the  World Cup disappointment  and we know it is not that easy to forget about  the defeat (non-qualification FOR Qatar 2022)  and up till now, most of us  still have that shock,” noted Musa who is Nigeria’s top marksman at the FIFA World Cup with five goals including a brace against Argentina (2014) and Iceland (2018).“ Honestly, I still think that game(against Black Stars of Ghana)has not been played. “ I know a lot of Nigerians have lost confidence on us but we want to beg  them  and they should keep believing in the Super Eagles . Insha Allah (by the grace of God) , we shall make sure  they  have that confidence back in us,” he added.