Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN) Prof. Ernest Ojukwu and Kunle Adegoke supported the move by Zamfara government, saying that it is legal. Ojukwu described the order as “bold” and “lawful”, but noted that it was evidence of failed governance. He said: “It is a lawful directive as the government asked the citizens to obtain gun licences. It is also a sign of a failed governance and failed state to ask the citizens to arm themselves to defend themselves from terrorists and kidnappers. “The Zamfara State government is bold to recognise the failure of governance and has taken the bold steps to make its citizen aware and protect themselves. “I wish many other states in the same precarious security situation will take the bold steps of Zamfara to protect lives and properties.” Read Also: Gani Adams writes UN, others over insecurity   Buhari returns from Rwanda after 26th CHOGM     Taming petrol scarcity menace     Onnoghen’s ghost   Lamenting the insecurity problem in the state, Adegoke warned that Nigeria was going the way of Syria or Sudan. He said: “It is unfortunate that we have reached this state security-wise. It is evidence of failure of government to provide security. We are descending to the state of nature. “The directive by the Zamfara State Government is the outcome of state’s inability to guarantee life and property. It shows that the federal security architecture has collapsed.” Adegoke noted Zamfara’s lukewarmness to the idea of state police, which could have solved the problem. He added: “It is rather too late for the state government that did not support state police to claim responsibility for provision of security. It has abandoned everyone to himself and God to us all. “It is certain that we are all coming to this stage. The federal government has been making it unlawful for ordinary citizens to bear arms even in self-defence yet, it is unable to rein in terrorists it euphemistically calls bandits. I’m afraid we are descending to the state Syria and Sudan.”