The Appeal Court in Abuja has awarded N20million in damages against the Nigeria Police Force and a commercial bank for brutalising an Abuja-based journalist and publisher of FreshNEWS Online Media, Desmond Utomwen. The court dismissed the appeal filed by the police and the bank against the October 12, 2012 judgment by Justice Peter Kekemeke of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The appellate court affirmed the High Court’s judgment, to the effect that the attack on Utomwen and confiscation of his work tools were a violation of his right to freedom from inhuman and degrading treatment. The Appeal Court reduced the N100 million damages earlier awarded against the police and then bank to N20m. Utomwen, a former staff of TheNEWS Magazine, had sued the bank and the police over his molestation at the Area 3, Garki Abuja branch of the bank on December 11, 2009.   Checkmate terrorists, Nigerians in UK tell security agents     Owo: SSANIP decries insecurity, condemns killing of…     40 worshippers killed, 61 hospitalised in Owo church attack   He had gone to the bank to cover a protest by some Nigerians over allegations that officials of the bank were involved in fraudulent withdrawals of large amounts via the bank’s Automated Teller Machines (ATM). Policemen attached to the bank and its officials, he said, descended on him, beat him till he became unconscious and then seized his identity card, N2,000, camera, and digital recorder. Utomwen added that he was later detained at the Garki Police Station for several hours during which he was denied access to medical treatment. Utomwen consequently filed a fundamental rights enforcement suit at the High Court of the FCT, which held in his favour in the October 12, 2012 judgment, a judgment the police and the bank appealed against. Justice Godswill Amadi, in the lead judgment of the Court of Appeal, held that the right to protest is an inalienable right of the citizen and a newsworthy event deserving coverage by journalists.