Life is full of ironies and contradictions that daily tighten the noose over the mystery that is life.  Certain incidents in our daily lives often defy explanations. The tragic deaths of 31 people at Polo Club, Tomba Street, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, who had intended to benefit from a proposed charity event organised by the Kings Church Assembly on May 28 is as paradoxical as it is tragic. The dead had come to get life through the free food they expected; in its stead, however, they got death. Religious houses of any creed are supposed to be a shelter from the vagaries of life. A church in this instance ought to be a house of joy, praise and alleluia chants but this particular church is now a house of dirges and mourning. Some of the people that thronged the venue as early as 3am  for a programme billed for 9am just so they could be the first to benefit from the charity handouts had seemingly become the last, and in fact lost out to life, and those who came ‘late’. We sincerely commiserate with the families of the victims and the people of Rivers state on this tragedy while we pray for the repose of the souls of the dead and quick recovery for those injured. We also commend the move by the Rivers State government and the Commissioner of Police to probe the tragedy. We hope that this will not go the way of other similar tragedies. In September 2014, a building in the Synagogue Church of All Nations, in Ikotun-Egbe area of Lagos, collapsed, killing 115 people. In December 2016, Reigners Bible Church in Akwa Ibom State collapsed, killing more than two dozen people, including Ernest Idem, an aide to Governor Udom Emmanuel, who died trying to save the governor. Not much has been heard about the incident or what has been done to the victims. In essence, with tragedies in Nigeria, there seems to be a deliberate sense of amnesia and non-challance, starting with victims of the Nigeria/Biafran war. Today, victims of all sorts of social crimes  — banditry, kidnappings, terrorism, etc. — are neither documented nor honoured by a country they call theirs. This must be corrected. The tragedies will continue unless there is a thorough handling of past ones and efforts made to prevent the ones like the one under review. While we believe that accidents are facts of life and a global and existential reality, we also know that nations are deliberate and consistently working on ways to mitigate frequent occurrences. The way loss of lives is handled in the country seems to suggest a country that feels lives don’t matter, but no nation is a vacuous geographic entity. Humans make nations. This tragedy must be a re-awakening for all sectors, more so the leadership. It is again, very ironic that the promise of freebies can attract such a desperate multitude in a country where members of the political class, especially the state governor, Nyesom Wike, were alleged to have splashed millions on delegates to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) special convention for the selection of the party’s presidential candidate. If the allegation is true, has the governor, now instituting a probe, done enough to mitigate the poverty that drove the people to such desperation in the last seven years?   Football induced memories     2023: Who wins APC presidential ticket?     Heavily pregnant in Abuja   On the part of the church, while we understand that the programme is an annual event, we expect that it ought to be up to date with the desperation and poverty in the land and remodel its strategy to prevent this avoidable tragedy. What if it created units to handle issues in a segmented way over some days, instead of planning a very huge charity event, given the dire times? Did the church not realise that Nigeria is today the poverty capital of the world? Being up to date with societal, environmental and social configurations is necessary in planning. Or, was the church surreptitiously trying to make the ‘crowd’ a klieglight and media spectacle? This incident must also call to mind a social attitude that must be curbed. The proclivity to selfish acquisitive tendencies is the main reason some people rushed to the venue hours before the event. The ‘me, myself and I’ social mantra seems not an exclusive of only politicians. The politicians who are accused of selfishness are after all members of the society. Despite the religious commandment of loving your neigbhour as yourself, the average citizen often never practices that, even when it is the greatest commandment. It amounts to hypocrisy to mouth any religion and not live out its tenets. Love of neighbour means being thoughtful and sacrificing for others. Greed and selfishness are not admirable virtues. If we can take any good example from our own social backgrounds, we are all from communities where order is respected. The idea of community age grades and social responsibility are all followed strictly in ways that no one usurps the role or entitlement of others. We are not intrinsically a selfish society. The desperation to acquire more than others is not synonymous with survival. Being present at the event at the appointed time and sitting quietly to be served could  have prevented the stampede and saved lives. The driving force that threw chaos up was the selfishness to get vantage positions to be served first. All tiers of government and government agencies must work harder at maintaining order in what is quietly turning into a lawless society fuelled by poverty and lack of care by governments. There must be stricter rules about gatherings and events. We must stop managing tragedies and start planning better and educating people more on the values of personal civility and public decorum. Agencies like the National Orientation Agency and emergency management agencies at state and federal levels must devise strategy that would inform the people and work to prevent these tragedies. We hope the probe panel would do a thorough job and punish any negligent group whose actions or inactions caused this tragedy. Nations do not run on sentiments or good intentions.