The Ondo State House of Assembly says it has commenced the process of amending the law that established the State Security Network Agency code-named Amotekun to deal with the rising insecurity in the state. Gbenga Omole, the Assembly’s spokesperson, said this on the sidelines of the Oka Security Summit organised by Oka community in Akoko South-West Local Government area on Saturday. Omole, who is a member of the House Committee on Security, said the law after the review, would give the Amotekun corps power to have access to improved technology and more sophisticated weapons to tackle security challenges. “We (the Assembly), have been doing our best; of recent we have to tinker with the Amotekun law. “We are looking at the law to give more backings to Amotekun in terms of procurement of more sophisticated weapons and more technology to be deployed. “So we are supporting the government (executive) in terms of security that law is under the process of being ammended now to give more power to Amotekun,” he said. The Olubaka of Oka Kingdom, Oba Yusuf Adeleye, thanked sons and daughters of the community for organising the summit, saying security is a collective responsibility. “This is not the first time we are having this summit, but it is important to have this summit now, considering the various security challenges that we have been having and it is important to do this because we have to be vigilant now.   NDLEA seizes N6bn worth of drugs in Apapa – Commander     World Drug Day: CADAM raises awareness on drug abuse     Obasanjo: I made mistake picking Atiku as vice president   “Security committees have been established at various quarters in Oka and each households have been levied certain amount as government cannot do it alone. “We have to give kudos to the state government for establishing Amotekun corps and we give kudos to other security operatives. “What happened in Owo on June 5 where unknown gunmen came to a church and killed over 40 people is an eye opener that we have to be up and doing. “We have to be vigilant; we have to know people around us; we have to take issue of security serious more than ever because what happened in Owo could happen anywhere. We have to be proactive,” the traditional ruler said. Speaking at the summit, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Chief Adewole Ajakaiye, called for cooperation between the citizens and security agencies. According to Ajakaye, “people must take their security serious; so when someone is going out, you must be prepared for anything. “It will be foolish for anybody to travel early in the morning and in the night, If you are traveling, arm yourself with dress you can run with,” he said. (NAN)