A subsidiary of Vitafoam Nigeria Plc Vitapur Nigeria Limited, has received the certification of Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) on Integrated Management System ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018 after conducting an intensive audit of the Company’s factory and its production processes. A statement from Vitapur indicated that the development has placed the company as the first  insulation manufacturing company in Nigeria to possess integrated management system certification. According to the statement, the certification is a clear demonstration of Vitapur’s commitment to offering quality products and ensuring customer satisfaction. By the certification, ISO 9001:2015 elaborate on quality management system ensures that all customers and stakeholders’ needs are met. Products are built to the required standards so that the requirements are met in terms of quality and customer satisfaction. This standard is in conformation to world best standard practices, this means that the same product quality that can be gotten in Europe or anywhere in the world, is the same product that will be got at Vitapur.   ‘There is need to decarbonise cities’     ‘Fuel hike affecting agric value chain’     No 40% telecom tariff hike now, says NCC   On the other hand, ISO 14001:2015 focuses on the Environmental Management System, what this implies is that, in terms of the environment, Vitapur has been certified as being land and environment conscious. The blowing agents and chemicals used for their products are green chemicals which means that they are Ozone-friendly chemicals. This management system also focuses on waste management and the general housekeeping of the factory. ISO 45001:2018 focuses on the Occupational Health and Safety of everything within the organization (lives, equipment and properties). Vitapur has been certified as a safe place to work and health hazard risks have been reduced to the barest minimum. This means that in terms of on-site installations and spray foam applications, Vitapur is sure to meet up to all safety standards and regulations. Commenting on the certification, Vitapur’s General Manager,  Engineer Yemi Mofikoya, said : “ it is a big deal to us at Vitapur Nigeria Limited to be the first and foremost insulation company in Nigeria to be certified by the Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), most especially with a 3-in-1 Integrated Management System. We sincerely appreciate all of our clients and thank them for their continual support and patronage over the years. We also want to use this opportunity to assure our customers and interested stakeholders that Vitapur as a company is committed to delivering products of good quality and standard that meet our customers’ expectation and requirement.” He stated that Vitapur Nigeria Limited was the largest indigenous manufacturer of rigid polyurethane insulated products in Nigeria. “ Our products include Sandwich panels, Insulation Boards, Insulated Roofing Sheets, Spray Polyurethane Foam, Pre-cut Pipe Section, MDI Prepolymer, Adhesive, Pigments and Blended Polyols. These products are used in a wide range of sectors such as Building and Construction, Oil and Gas, Manufacturing, Telecommunications as well as Agriculture. “ Vitapur provides insulation solutions for top organizations such as Olam, Coca-cola, CHI, Rite foods, Friesland Campina, Reckitt Benckiser, May & Baker, Shoprite, SPAR, Vitafoam, Sarafoam, Unifoam amongst others. Some applications to which Vitapur products have been used within these sectors and organizations include: Cleanrooms, Prefabricated Housing, Cold Rooms, Partitioning, Roofing, Reconstituted foam, Furniture making amongst others.”, he said.