The savagery of gunmen has continued apace in parts of the country. In Plateau, bandits, who abducted a traditional ruler, have asked for N150 million for his release. The monarch of Panyam in Mangu council, Da Aminu Derwan, was seized and taken away from his palace in the early hours of Monday. He was the fifth traditional ruler to be abducted in the last six months in the state. A family source said, “We are still talking with them, hoping that they’ll reduce the ransom or release him on compassionate grounds”. Police spokesman Alfred Alabo said a tactical team was working hard to find the abductors and free the monarch. In Anambra, a former member of the state House of Assembly, Nelson Achukwu, has been murdered by gunmen. The deceased, popularly known as Ogbatuluenyi, kidnapped from his home in Ukpor, Nnewi South council, on June 9, was beheaded by his captors. Less than a month ago, another lawmaker representing Aguata constituency 2, Governor Soludo’s constituency, Okechukwu Okoye, was beheaded by his abductors. A family source said Achukwu was quickly buried by the family on June 21, 2022, after his decomposing body was found between the boundary of Uke and Ukpor.   Army intercepts carload of explosives in Cross River     Court orders Mompha’s arrest in N6b laundering suit     Pupil swept away in Ondo floods   The gunmen killed the lawmaker after his family paid N15 million in ransom. “We couldn’t believe he would be killed after they paid the N15 million ransom requested by his abductors, despite his physical challenges,” the source said. Police spokesman Tochukwu Ikenga confirmed the incident, saying investigation was ongoing. In Benue, Governor Samuel Ortom said 15 people were killed in his Guma council on Tuesday. Speaking yesterday, Ortom advised people to fight back and defend themselves against killer herdsmen. “Please tell Mr. President that Nigerians are not happy because no one is at peace, no business is going on. Only bandits are reigning as people are even being killed in the church” he said. “I challenge anyone who thinks what I’m saying is not right so that we can chart a way forward on superior argument”. He appealed to the federal government to provide security fe peoor thple. Also, gunmen killed two children and a landlord after firing gunshots into a provision store in Sapele, Delta State. On Tuesday, the assailants shot randomly at a group of persons in a provision store along Shell Road in Sapele. An eyewitness said more people may have been hit by stray bullets at the other. Police spokesman Bright Edafe confirmed the incident, adding that four suspects have been arrested in connection with the attack.