Ndutimi Alaibe’s name resonates with excellence, intelligence and grand opulence. At 60, the dazzling accountant has achieved all and more. He began to shine like a star when Nigeria returned to democracy in 1999 after ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo created the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC to impact the lives of people within the Oil Minerals Producing Areas Development Commission (OMPADEC). Along with other bigwigs, Timi, a seasoned accountant with Peat Marwick Ogunde and Ani, now “KPMG,” was inaugurated as executive director, finance and administration of the 19-man board that will oversee the affairs of the board that will take care of the oil-producing states, to boost multi-sectoral development in the oil-bearing states. He served the commission with his whole heart. He was amiable and accessible. He ensured that the hope and aspiration of President Obasanjo were carried out with rapt development within the axis. He also grew his resume politically.   Folorunsho Alakija’s wondrous taste     Toke Benson-Awoyinka’s uncommon aura     Another laurel for Akinwale Abidakun   With his dedication and service to the work, being familiar with the region spread across 5000 communities, covering 185 local government areas and collectively straddling nine states in the region, in three geopolitical zones, the south-west, south-south and south-east, Alaibe was appointed managing director in 2007 till 2009. President Yar’Adua in 2009 in a bid to demobilisation, rehabilitation and reintegration of ex-militants through the Amnesty Programme, appointed Alaibe Adviser on Niger Delta Affairs and coordinator. He started testing his popularity in 2003, contesting the gubernatorial primary against Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. In 2007 and 2011, He also threw his hat in the ring for the same office. In 2019, he contested against the incumbent governor of Bayelsa State, Duoye Diri, in a very controversial primary election which declared Diri the winner. Governor Diri and Alaibe later formed an alliance to work for the progress of the state. The Accounting graduate from the Rivers State University of Science and Technology, (RSUST) celebrated his 60th birthday with a massive soiree last week on June 10 and top businessmen and women, billionaires converged to celebrate with the birthday boy in the company of his children and grandchildren. Decked in their colourful attire, the Alaibe family danced into the hall as Beejay Sax thrilled them with melodious tunes. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo presented Alaibe with a book written for him by 29 of his friends. Kizz Daniel also made a surprise performance at the soiree. Those spotted at the event were; Atedo Peterside, Allen Onyema, Musa Danjuma, Ifiesimama Sekibo, Tundun Abiola, Austyn Ogannah, Nina Adimora, Sholaye Jeremi, Scott Tommy, Bola Awosika, Terry Waya, Olumide Akpata, Julie Pinnick, Chief James Ibori, Donald Duke, Fidelis Anosike, Rita Dominic-Anosike, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, Tony Elumelu, Nkiru Anumudu and a host of others.