Security chiefs got fresh orders from President Muhammadu Buhari to spare no effort in freeing the remaining hostages from those who attacked the Abuja-Kaduna train on March 28. The President directed that non-kinetic efforts be deployed to secure freedom for the victims. Buhari’s order came barely a day after negotiator Malam Turkur Mamu raised the alarm on the state of health of the hostages in the terrorists’ camp. According to Mamu, snakebites and the poor condition in which they live in the forest worsened their health. Eleven of the hostages were on June 11 released following negotiations between the authorities and the terrorists. The families of those so far released by the terrorists have raised the alarm that the freed victims have demonstrated mentally instability, sick, traumatised and still hospitalised. Raising the alarm over the deteriorating health conditions of the remaining victims, Mamu feared that some of them may not survive if the federal government delayed in ensuring their release. But the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, hinted of the President’s fresh instructions to the armed forces and other security agencies. He said in a statement that they have been tasked to step up their efforts.   Buhari for 26th CHOGM in Kigali     Re: Train of two traitors     Flood sweeps student away in Ondo   The statement reads: “As the government continues to review the issue of the kidnapped railway passengers and making all efforts to trace and bring back the 51 or more still being held in custody, President Muhammadu Buhari has directed increased efforts – kinetic and non-kinetic, to bring the case to a closure. “Upon the President’s approval, the government is continuing on the two-lane approach, kinetic and non-kinetic, to secure the passengers’ safe release. “The kidnappers made a demand for the release of their own children and upon the settlement of that issue, they let go eleven of the victims, even though more were expected. “The setback notwithstanding, the Government is not leaving any stone unturned in the efforts to bring all of the hostages back. “The defense, security and intelligence agencies have given assurances to intensify operational engagements geared towards securing the rescue of all hostages and restoring peace to all parts of the country. “The government is also mindful of efforts of some patriotic and influential persons and institutions that are helping in securing the safe release of the hostages. “President Buhari welcomes the return of the recently released passengers back to their families and loved ones, while expressing his solemn commitment to the families of those still in captivity, assuring that there will be no let-up until they are reunited with their families in the shortest time possible. “The President’s clear directive on the issue is that the hostages must be brought home alive. The country’s military and security agencies are aware of their duty to the nation and are determined to give effect to the President’s charge with increased urgency.”