The race for the league’s highest scorer took a new dimension yesterday with Chijioke Akuneto moving to the top of the top marksmen chart with 16 goals after his two goals helped Rivers United to a 2-1 home win over Abia Warriors. Akuneto who is in his debut season with Rivers United scored back-to-back braces for the Promise Keepers in their past two home games to shoot himself to the top of the scoring chart with barely five games to the end of the season. Another player that sparkled in the last weekend game was Victor Mbaoma whose sensational first professional hat trick over Enyimba in their 3-0 home win over Kwara United sent him to the second spot with 15 goals. In Gombe, Abdulazeez Yusuf failed to lose hope in his bid to end the season as the best attacker in the league. He scored once in Gombe United’s home draw with Dakkada FC for his 15th goal of the season.   Napoli reject Arsenal’s £51 bid for Osimhen     Salah  admits ‘ incredible’ Courtois  denied Liverpool UCL…     NCF partners The Middlestump on Africa cricket roundtable   Rivers United’s Ishaq Rafiu is currently fourth with 14 goals while Valentine Odoh remains in fifth spot with 11 goals. Tochukwu Michael converted from the spot for Nasarawa United in their slim home win over Enugu Rangers. It was his 10th goal of the season while Ugochukwu Leonard Aputazie hit the bull’s eye once in Sunshine Stars’ home wins over Niger Tornadoes for his 10th goal of the season also. The former Nasarawa United and Enyimba striker was rotting away in Heartland last season before his renaissance in Akure. Andy Okpe (Remo Stars) and Enugu Rangers’ Ossy Martins are next with nine goals apiece while Plateau United’s Akila Jesse, Samad Kadiri (Kwara United), and Godwin Obaje of Abia Warriors are on eight goals. There are about seven players on seven goals. They are Christian Nnaji (Enugu Rangers), Mohammed Zulkifilu (Plateau United), Babatunde Bello (Akwa United), Alao Danbani (Kwara United), Chukwuemeka Obioma (Enyimba), Chukwudi Nwaodu (Heartland) and Ifeanyi Ogba who scored Lobi Stars second goal in their laboured home win over Heartland FC.