A group of prominent Ondo indigenes, under the aegis of Ondo State Eminent Persons Group (OSEPG), has condemned Sunday’s terrorist attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. Over 20 worshipers were killed and scores injured. OSEPG described the killings as “wicked, barbaric, sacrilegious and an affront on God”. In a statement in Lagos by its Convener, Mr. Banji Alabi, the group commiserated with families and relatives of victims of the attack, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ogunoye Gbadegesin, the Owo community and the Catholic Church in Nigeria over the dastardly attack. Alabi, who is the immediate past Chairman of the Governing Council of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, noted that the incident was alien to the town, the state and Yoruba land. The convener urged the Federal Government and security agencies to get to the root of the crime, fish out the perpetrators and prosecute them accordingly.   Owo Church Attack: Akeredolu, Bishop differ on casualty…     Attack has vindicated me, says Sunday Igboho     16m Nigerians supporting me, says Gov Bello   He warned that failure to do this could aggravate ethnic mistrust currently ravaging the country. Alabi described the terror attack, especially its ethnic coloration, as a very dangerous signal that could jeopardise peaceful co-existence, mutual trust and national integration. The Lagos lawyer, who advised Ondo State residents to be more alert and report suspicious movements or conversations to government and security agencies, also urged people in the area to be on guard and show more security consciousness. He appealed to the people not to take the law into their hands but wait for government to do its duty. According to him, it is not enough to condemn the attack or empathise with the victims without assisting them to get some relief to the injured and the families of those killed. Alabi pleaded with all the sons and daughters of Owo, at home and abroad as well as residents and friends of the state to support the state Governor, Akeredolu, financially and logistically as he embarked on measures to restore life back to victims of the attack