The Federal Government has fingered the Islamic State, West African Province (ISWAP) as likely responsible for last Sunday’s attack on St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State where about 40 persons were killed and several others injured. Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, disclosed this to State House Correspondents on Thursday. Aregbesola, who briefed reporters after the National Security Council meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Minister, who briefed alongside Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman, said security agencies had been directed to go after the perpetrators of the act and bring them to justice. According to Aregbesola, the motive of the terror group is believed to be pitching Nigerians against each another and make it appear as ethno-religious war. While noting that the group’s imprints had been determined in the attack, he said arrests are yet to be made. He said there was no ethnic agenda in the attack, urging Nigerians to unite and defeat the terrorists. “The National Security Council has just risen from its meeting today, which reviewed, very critically, all aspects of security situation in the country and came up with conclusions, commending the efforts of the military and other security agencies in mitigating the insurgency, particularly in the Northeast, where the fundamentalists there have been weakened, degraded and equally in the Northwest, where the bandits are equally weakened, and the North central, where we’re engaged with pockets of bandits… “The council is quite concerned about the violent attack in Owo, Ondo State, and have been able to locate the perpetrators of that horrendous attack. From all indications, we are zeroing in on ISWAP, the Islamic State for West Africa. “It is not an ethno-religious thing, the animals in ISWAP wanting attention, recognition, are suspected to have launched that attack. We have directed all the agencies concerned to go after them and bring them to justice,” he said.   Jonathan to presidential candidates: eschew acrimonious,…     Olubadan installs Ladoja, Oyewole, Kola-Daisi as Otun, Osi,…     One die, five injured in Rivers APC members auto crash   Speaking further, the Minister stated the Council is also concerned about killings in the name of blasphemy and has directed the security agencies to go after perpetrators of both incidents that occurred in Sokoto State and Abuja recently. He added that enough security arrangement has been made for the Ekiti State gubernatorial election taking place on June 18, 2022. “We are equally concerned about the spate of attacks in the name of blasphemy. The police have been directed to mobilize, identify and preempt all those involved in the blasphemy attacks in two areas of the country, namely Sokoto and Abuja, of recent. The assurance is that we are committed to maintaining law and order and providing adequate security for Nigerian citizens. “Appropriate preparation is put in place for the elections coming up in Ekiti, this month, and Osun, next month, principally by Nigeria Police and supported by other security agencies, and to some extent, the military. That’s the long and short of it. “The President wants us to assure Nigerians that his administration is committed to providing adequate security and ensuring the maintenance of law and order, so that Nigerians will be able to go about their businesses, particularly farmers, who will want to go to their farms without any fear of attack or molestation,” Aregbesola said. On the level of preparedness for the upcoming Ekiti and Osun elections, the IGP said:“As for how many policemen are deployed to Ekiti or Osun, I can say for the police, just like the Minister said, other security agents followed, but as for the police, we are deploying 17,374 policemen”. Responding to the recent kidnap and release of the Methodist Church Prelate, His Eminence, Samuel Kanu-Uche, the IGP said no arrest had been made, but pointed out that the matter is still being investigated. “For the issue of the kidnapping of the Methodist Church Prelate, no arrest has been made in terms of suspects, but we are still on it, arrest doesn’t have to come immediately. The case is still under investigation. The case is open and we are still looking for the suspects. “We have leads, we have some issues that we are still following through how the ransom was collected and how the negotiations were done. We have information to that effect and we’re looking at getting into the real aspect of getting the suspects arrested. “As for the issue of helicopter attack, the allegations are there, the assertions are there. We have not been able to say there is any helicopter attack on innocent citizens, like you have suggested. but most of the times these assertions are made and up till now we’ve not been able to see or we’ve not been able to identify any helicopter that is flying and killing people unnecessarily. “But there are instances where are own helicopters, security forces helicopters, that are flying, but we don’t have that allegation of innocent people being killed, except where in some instances in the past, where the military helicopters had, maybe in one way or the other, missed target or misdirected target and so forth. “But that issue has not been an issue of discussion in the security meeting. We are still looking into the allegation and we are still looking into the assertions. If there are any leads to follow, we’ll do that,” he said.