There has been a lot of talk, and apparently little action; but the situation demands less talk and more action. The ineffectual talk continued as the Federal Government blamed a terrorist group, the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), for the horrific Sunday church killings in Owo, Ondo State, on June 5. It’s unclear how the National Security Council identified the perpetrators. Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola, who provided the information following a meeting of the council chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, said the authorities “are zeroing in on” ISWAP.  It remains to be seen when arrests would be made in connection with the crime, and who would be arrested. But Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s response called into question the conclusion that ISWAP was responsible for the attack. “The statement is too hasty,” he observed.  “I take their conclusion with a pinch of salt. ISWAP doesn’t hide its attacks. If they had done it, they would have owned up.” The truth is that the identities of the attackers and killers cannot be ascertained unless and until they are arrested. The Director of Social Communication at the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, Rev. Fr. Augustine Ikwu, in a statement, gave the context and scale of the tragedy: “It is Pentecost Sunday, a time every Catholic is expected to be in Church to commemorate the solemnity. It is so sad to say that while the Holy Mass was going on, men of unknown origin, wielding guns attacked St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church, Owo, Ondo State. “Many are feared dead and many others injured and the Church violated. The identity of the perpetrators remains unknown while the situation has left the community devastated.” According to the state Commissioner for Health, Dr Banji Ajaka, there were 127 victims and 40 died. President Buhari, in a release issued by his media adviser, Femi Adesina, said “eternal sorrow awaits the perpetrators of the bad act both on earth here and ultimately in the hereafter.”  He added: “No matter what, this country shall never give in to evil and wicked people, and darkness will never overcome light. Nigeria will eventually win.” Governor Akeredolu, in a statement issued by his chief press secretary, Richard Olatunde, had described the mysterious attackers as “the enemies of the people.” “We shall never bow to the machinations of heartless elements in our resolve to rid our state of criminals,” he declared. The Ondo State Police Command, in a statement by its public relations officer, Funmilayo Odunlami, said “all efforts are being intensified to arrest those who perpetrated this evil.” A lot of talk, but talk is not enough.  It is good and proper to condemn the blood-curdling attack on innocent worshippers. But condemnation is certainly not enough. The perpetrators must be caught and punished. Notably, the expression “unknown,” used to describe the assailants, surfaced in various narratives.  Again and again, the agents of evil carry out devilish acts, and it seems nobody can identify them. Indeed, it seems they are unidentifiable. But those who carried out the horrifying killings are not spirits. They were likely under the influence of evil spirits, but they are flesh and blood. This means they should be identifiable.   Ransom payment and logic of survival     Attahiru’s apparition     NDDC after Akpabio’s control   If they are identifiable, then the criminals should be identified and brought to justice. It is the role of law enforcement to identify, catch and prosecute them. The yet-to-be-identified gunmen that assaulted the country’s psyche by the horrendous Owo killings must not be allowed to get away with murder. The Federal Government’s attribution of the killings to ISWAP is disturbing.  If that conclusion is true, it evokes the alarm by Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum in January. During his interaction with members of the Senate Committee on Army, when they visited him at the Government House in Maiduguri, he had highlighted “the growing presence” of ISWAP in the southern part of Borno, stressing that this would likely worsen the country’s terrorism problem. Increased activities by terrorists can only mean increased insecurity in the country. Zulum had observed that “If nothing is done to check and tackle the growing presence of ISWAP fighters who are better armed, better equipped, more deadly, more sophisticated and receive more funds than Boko Haram, it will be disastrous not only to Borno State but the country in general.” The alarm was loud enough. ISWAP is believed to have about 3,500 – 5,000 fighters, and has carried out many attacks in Nigeria since it was formed in 2015 following collaboration between Boko Haram and the Islamic State (IS). However, the union of terrorists collapsed a year later, and Boko Haram and ISWAP began to operate separately. It is relevant to look at some of ISWAP’s recent terrorist activities in the country.  For instance, a report said its fighters burnt four vehicles, including a petrol tanker, during an attack in Kaga Local Government Area of Borno State, on June 6. The group, in April, claimed responsibility for the attack on a police station in Adavi, Okene Local Government Area of Kogi State. Five people were killed in the raid. In January, the group released video of its fighters attacking Tukur Yusuf Buratai Institute for War and Peace (TBI), a research institute of the Nigerian Army University, located in Buratai Village, Biu Local Government Area of Borno State. Two civilian members of staff were killed. A Nigerian Army general and three soldiers were killed, in November 2021, during an attack by ISWAP in Borno State’s Askira Uba Local Government Area. The group’s history shows that its activities were in the northern part of the country. The Federal Government’s allegation that the group was responsible for the Owo attack and killings suggests it may have extended its operation to the Southwest.  But the authorities need to substantiate the claim by bringing the Owo killers to justice. Then their identities would be beyond doubt. ISWAP has not claimed responsibility for the attack, which does not necessarily mean that it is innocent. But the accusers need to prove the group’s guilt. Also, blaming the group for the attack suggests that the incident had a religious and ethnic complexion.  It is contradictory that the minister was reported saying “It is not an ethno-religious thing.”  This aspect is an important reason the authorities should thoroughly investigate the attack, and ensure that the actual culprits are caught. So far, it looks like a case of baseless blame. The government should not encourage jumping to conclusions when crime is committed.