A chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief Emma Eneukwu, has said the recent presidential Primary election of the party was the best ever in the history of Nigeria’s democracy. Eneukwu, who is the Deputy National Chairman, South, of the ruling party stated this while fielding questions from journalists in Enugu. He maintained that aside being the most peaceful, the exercise also produced a presidential candidate with towering credentials in terms of leadership qualities, including vast local and international exposure as well as possession of unique knack for wealth creation and resource management. He appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari and APC leadership for allowing all presidential aspirants a level playing ground to contest the election when the consensus candidate arrangement failed. He denied online reports he chided the party’s presidential aspirants for trading several millions and billions of naira to clinch the presidential ticket of the party, describing such reports as handiwork of political mischief makers. Eneukwu congratulated the party on her victory at the just-concluded gubernatorial election in Ekiti State, stressing that the wide margin of the governor-elect, Biodun Oyebanjo’s victory was a tip of what the outcome of the 2023 presidential and governorship elections would be.   PAP deploys 450 ex-agitators for training in oil spill…     UK Foundation to assist Edo in out-of-school crisis     Cleric advises politicians against truncating youths’ future   Speaking on APC’s chances in future elections, Eneukwu said: “Our party has the wherewithal and exceptional tips on how to win elections and that is why there are panics in the camps of the opposition parties. “It is an open fact that we have the best Presidential candidate in the person of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu ahead of the 2023 polls; his pedigree remains the best, he has all it takes to win the election and he also has in his palms how to make Nigeria a better place. “The just-concluded presidential primary of APC is so far, the most transparent, free, fair and credible elections ever conducted by any political party since the inception of our democracy. “That is why one of our opponents in other political parties which milked this country for 16 years are afraid of the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC in general. “And as regards the fallacy they are circulating online against me, the report is fake news, fallacious and apparent orchestration of political mischief makers. “I was among the first to congratulate our presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu after the election where I also praised other contestants for their spirit of sportsmanship during and after the contest. “Would I hail them if I didn’t believe in Asiwaju and if I was not proud of all our aspirants? “I only made reference to the high cost of running elections in Nigeria during a lunch party organised by friends of our leader and former Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu some people intentionally chose to quote me out of context”.