A 30 years old member of a local vigilante group, Ahmad Usman, was killed in Lugbe area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja for allegedly insulting Prophet Muhammed. The incident, which occurred at the Lugbe timber market section of Fruit Market in Federal Housing Estate, our correspondent gathered, created panic and confusion in the area. An eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, told The Nation that there was a stampede as police fire gunshots to dispatch people. The mob action took place around 1pm yesterday after Usman sought refuge in the vigilante office in the market. Findings revealed that the local security outfit was overpowered before Usman was killed in front of the office after which his body was set ablaze. The mob, according to the police, numbered more than 200 people. Another eyewitness, John Adelowo, told The Nation: “He (Usman) was caught buying food in the market in the afternoon. When the blasphemy occurred, there were only a few people there and a stick was used to hit him in the head. “After that, he was stoned before he ran into the office. His colleagues at the office could not protect him due to the number of people that chased him. “After he became unconscious, petrol was poured on him and he was burnt in front of the office.” The arrival of policemen after a while was said to have calmed the situation with three people shot in the process.   Orji Kalu’s contrarian politics     Bandits attack Kaduna community, abduct 14     Court order: APC sticks to elected delegates for…   On May 12, a mob in Sokoto had gruesomely murdered Deborah Samuel, a female student of Shagari College of Education, and set her body ablaze after she was accused of committing blasphemy against Prophet Muhammed with a post on the school’s Whatsapp group. Four days later, there was tension in Maiduguri, Borno State as an angry launched a manhunt for another lady alleged to have blasphemed Islam. Responding to the Abuja incident, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, confirmed the development in a statement, saying that the police had commenced investigation into what led to the incident. Adeh said: “Today 4th of June 2022 at about 13:00hrs, one Ahmad Usman, a 30 years old member of the local vigilante around Tippa garage at Federal Housing Estate in Lugbe Area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), got into an argument with a cleric (Malam) whose name is yet unknown from the same area. “The heated argument degenerated into an outbreak of violence that led to the murder and setting ablaze of Ahmad Usman by the enraged mob mobilised by the clergy, numbering about two hundred (200). “Upon the receipt of this information, a quick intervention team comprising of The Surveillance and Ambush team of the Command attached to the Lugbe Divisional Police Headquarters was drafted to the scene where the enflamed victim was rescued suffering severe degrees of burn and taken immediately to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by a doctor on call. “Normalcy has since been restored to the situation while monitoring and surveillance of the area continues. “Residents are therefore urged to go about their lawful duties without fear or apprehension of any kind from any quarters as discrete investigation continues to unravel facts surrounding the ugly incident and to effect the arrest of the perpetrators therein.” The Commissioner of Police CP Babaji Sunday, while warning against the indiscriminate act of self-help in obtaining justice, known as jungle justice, stated that adequate sanctions will be meted out to subscribers of what he described as crude and dastardly act. “Additionally, members of the public are urged to remain vigilant, eschew every form of disorderliness and report any suspicious or abnormal occurrence to the police through the following emergency lines: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653, and 08028940883, While the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) desk, could be reached on: 0902 222 2352.”