Afrobeats have been the centre of attention for decades with the primary architect of the genre late Fela Anikulapo kuti (a.k.a Baba 70) showcasing African genius and vast uniqueness to the world Billboard Hot 100 is updated weekly based on popular songs sales, digital streaming numbers and radio plays audience impression. Talented artistes like Wizkid, Burna Boy, Davido, Tems, Tiwa Savage among others have taken the global stage astronomically with funky beats and punch lines that captivate the heart of their fans around the world. Beyoncé, Chris Brown, Ed Sheeran among other International superstars have given accolades to the genre and also collaborated with Nigerian superstars. Stylish Afropop superstar Wizkid “Essence” was announced by the official music chart for the United States as the longest Charting African Artist. The song, which featured Tems, was released in 2020. The album “Made In Lagos” reach an incredible milestone after displacing the pioneer of afrobeats Fela’s “The Best of Black President” from the number one spot. MCA Records released the “The Best Best of Fela Kuti” in 1999. For his posthumous birthday in 2009, Knitting factory records rename the album to “The Best of Black President”. In 2013, a companion 2-CD compilation, was reissued in the U.S. by Knitting Factory as The Best of the Black President 2 to commemorate the 1999 version. it stayed on number 45 on the week chart DMW Boss Davido released “Fall” his second single from second studio album “A Good Time” in late 2019. In February 2019, “Fall” became the longest charting Nigerian pop song in Billboard history. The song was officially recorded in 2017. The song was ranked high on global billboard and Davido was the first African act to be certified gold as a lead artist in U.S.   Why I fought fan in Ogun – Ogogo     Angel mourns late lover three years after     Bob Em reminisces on journey, hints on new move   Burna Boy album fourth studio album African Giant made Billboard list of 50 Best Album of 2019 clinching 14th position . This consistency earn him nomination at Grammy awards in the Best World Music Album category in 2019. The album was celebrated as a refreshing development from Africa. Burna released his fifth studio album titled “twice as tall” in 2020 and won Best Global Music Album at the 63rd Grammy Awards in 2021. Singer and Songwriter Ckay made history with his first hit single, ‘Love Nwantiti’ in the international scene and this officially earned him a record deal Warner Music Group. The song was released in 2019 and later remixed with Joeboy and Ghanaian singer Kuami Eugene, in 2020. This song became commercial success in Nigeria, Middle East, North Africa and in many European club venues. The song has plenty remixes with international artistes and even a French version of the song. YBNL golden boy, Fireboy DML  “Peru” earned him his first entry on the Billboard Hot 100, where the song peaked at No. 57 , and  top 40 on Pop Airplay and Billboard Global 200. In February 2022, he did a remix of “Peru” with Grammy award-winning British singer, Ed Sheeran which became a landmark On May 9, 2022, Talented vocalist Tems break new ground as the only Nigerian artist to be debut No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 following her feature on Future’s hit song ‘Wait For U’ alongside rapper Drake. She was also appear in wizkid’s “Essence” ft Justin Bieber which maintain a no. 9 spot several weeks. Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo popularly known by stage name D’Banj is arguably one of the best musicians and performers to come out of the Nigerian music industry. The former MO ‘hits hitmaker released ‘Oliver Twist’ in 2012 summer and made waves on the Billboard charts. Oliver Twist peaked at no. 15 on billboard chart Olamide Baddo’s latest song “Rock” made it to the no. 9 spots on Billboard’s top thriller global chart, making him the only African artiste on the top 10. On Billboard charts, the songwriter dominates the World Digital Song Sales chart with Somebody’s Son ft Brandy peaking at no. 11. Koroba peaked at no.24, Ma Lo ft Wizkid peaked at no. 13, Keys To The Kingdom peaked at no. 16, 49-99 peaked at no. 9, Temptation ft Sam Smith peaked at no. 14, and Lova Lova ft Duncan Mighty peaked at no. 11. On the World Albums, her 2020 album, Celia peaked at no. 15. On Top Triller Global, 2020 singles Dangerous Love and Koroba peaked at no. 2 and 9 respectively.