An Information Technology (IT) start up, SkillPaddy, is set to roll out an online programme focused on training youths In a statement, the company’s Opeyemi Adetomiwa, Chief Marketing Officer, quoted the founder/Chief Executive Officer of  SkillPaddy, Kunle Erinle, saying that the firm began working with young Nigerians after the COVID-19 pandemic to help them develop their skills in line with the global economy. With the help of experts, he said, they commenced courses on their platform to train learners into a community for a three-month programme, supported by organisations.   Firm unveils N1m research grant     Making a fortune from honey     Funding dreams of African entrepreneurs   ‘’SkillPaddy will help participants gain on-the-job experience and expand their opportunities with their partners and sponsors, he added. Erinle added that SkillPaddy aims to not only address unemployment, but also help in bridging the productivity gap which exists in many industries. He said: “The world is changing very fast. Today, eight out of 10 biggest companies in the world are in the tech industry. This translates to 10 million jobs in the digital technology space, with one million of these jobs open in Africa. Do you realise that most of these jobs remain open year after year, because people with the right skills are either not applying or non- existent? It is a real challenge for us as a continent, and that is why SkillPaddy exists.” He said further that the platform would be rolling out its first batch of courses for roles that are in high demand in the job market such as graphic design, mobile app development, business analysis, product management, and software testing. Erinle added:  ”To further help our learners, our partnerships extend to different fields, including the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, Honeywell Group, Chocolate City Group and others to help them transition into most industries that are now driven by tech. Obviously, we are seeking more partnerships and hope to expand our array of courses and experts.”