In these days of figure 8 and banging bodies, the internet is filled with so many who look like they were born with pear shaped bodies. Having a Brazilian butt lift has become the rave of the moment because it is now the beauty standard for us. Media and on-air personality Toke Makinwa was one of the very first Nigerian women to undergo the butt lift. She had it done when it was still very uncommon in this part of the globe. The OAP didn’t just undergo butt lift but lip fillers as well. Speaking in 2020 as to why she underwent the surgeries, Toke said she did it because she just had fibroids removed from her body and wanted the curvy look to feel better in clothes. Unlike the taunting and trolling that goes on the internet, the OAP cum actress said she doesn’t regret it as it is one of the best decisions she has taken Right from the start of her career as an actress, Tonto has been very controversial and somewhat unusual. She was one of the first actresses to proudly wear body tattoos. In fact the actress one time boasted of having more than 50 tattoo drawings.   Why I wooed Pete Davidson, by Kim Kardashian     Fat definition of rich-Cubana Chief Priest     Bobrisky flaunts account balance   Multiple body tattoos are not the only thing the actress loves but she revealed that she had gone through liposuction three times. The actress in 2019 revealed in an interview with BBC pidgin why she went under the knife. According to her, it was a confidence booster and she wears clothes with confidence after undergoing the surgery Much loved BBN reality star Nengi Hampson is one of the celebrated people who have come out clean about her body enhancement. Nengi attracted a lot of fans at the beginning of the show not just because of her pretty face but also because of how rounded her butts and shape were. She had the perfect body every girl wanted backed up by a pretty face. The perfect definition of figure 8. However, in one of the discussions with fellow housemates, the reality star revealed that she had undergone a liposuction and she is not ashamed of saying it. She said, there was no need hiding that fact from the public and she is comfortable with her body. The star however confirmed that she only did liposuction. Meaning that fat was only removed from her stomach but not inserted into her butts because she wanted it to be as natural as possible as she didn’t want it to be too big. Speaking on why she did it, she said she always felt her stomach (pelvic area) was always too big and she wanted to reduce it. Popular crossdresser Idris Olarenwaju known as Bobrisky is another popular person that has undergone butt surgery. What is more peculiar about Bob is the fact that he is a man. He even in 2021 complained about the pain of liposuction and how uncomfortable the sleeping position for lipo requires staying one position.