Why are sports administrators so dense in their thought processes (please forgive my very harsh words, dear reader)? Why do they also think after calamitous decisions have been taken which most times belittle eminently talented sportsmen and women? Where else in the world do countries sign their coaches orally outside such a nation or are such Lilliputian coaches doing us a favour by accepting the Nigerian job? How does it feel to  Nigerians that a coach whose contract hasn’t been signed asked one of us not to be part of the Super Eagles for he underwent an interview and was deemed competent to do the match analyst’s job? Do you blame the Portuguese coach if he embarrasses a Nigerian in Dallas, USA when we can dignify him with a lot of preferences by urging him to meet the players, officials and backroom staff a few days before a game? We are in the habit of doing things unconventionally as if there aren’t structured ways of organising simply things? What would it have cost our federation’s chieftains to get the coach to meet with his support staff through zoom with their employers who may be in attendance in designated countries? A digitalised federation secretariat would organise such an interface professionally where the coach and staff listen to their boss to know what he wants to achieve with Eagles outside just winning matches. It didn’t come as surprise when news broke from Dallas that Super Eagles Technical Adviser Jose Peseiro walked out the team’s match analyst Eboboritse Uwejamomere from Eagles’ technical meetings. Peseiro ordered Uwejamomere out of where the coaches were sitting to eat their meal. The coach escorted him out just as he pointed to the dining tables where backroom staff were munching stating clearly that was where he belonged if at all he was among his staff. Sadly, while Uwejamomere suffered the humiliation, not one of the senior members of the technical crew who were Nigerians could walk up to Peseiro to whisper into his ears who Uwejamomere was having read in the newspapers and heard on the radio his name as seen in the federation’s newsletter written by the body’s media director, Ademola Olajire. It raised the poser of how the contingent went to America from their different domains and who the head of the delegation was? Who received the contingent in Dallas? Was it the country’s liaison officers in the Protocol department of the Nigeria Embassy in America? The Nigerian Embassy people’s job is to ensure easy passage of the contingent without hitches not to identify players different from players and backroom staff. Peseiro knew what he was doing. He told those who cared to listen inside the hotel’s dining that he had assigned the Eagles’ match analyst job to his senior, thus rendering Uwejamomere otiose. Pity! Only in Nigeria, such shameful acts can occur. Where were the top members of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) who accompanied the delegation from Abuja when Uwejamomere was being humiliated? Or would they say that they haven’t seen him before in their midst during the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations held in Cameroon? Did I hear you ask how the matter was resolved? Well, a concerned Nigerian who wanted to get photoshoots with the players stood aside to watch 23-year old Uwejamomere’s encounter with an unsparing manager narrated his ordeal to the witness who then channelled the report to the NFF President Amaju Pinnick who joined them later. Miffed by the account narrated to him by his Personal Assistant Neville, Amaju went to Peseiro for his side of the story on the matter. The NFF boss warned the Portuguese that he was employed the same way as Uwejamomere with everyone having his own briefs in the Super Eagles by the federation. Pinnick, subsequently directed Peseiro to work with Uwejamomere as Eagles match analyst, not the Portuguese manager’s son. Please, dear readers, how did we get to this condescending level where a coach hired by Nigeria would appoint his son as the team’s match reader? It shows how the minds of our soccer chiefs work. Otherwise, they ought to have asked Peseiro to send the names of his three assistants to the NFF for facts checking. It doesn’t matter if the assistants’ wages were going to be paid by Peseiro. I hope that the NFF know that we have started a painstaking rebuilding of the Super Eagles. We, therefore, mustn’t allow any foundation built on quicksand which is what Peseiro has done by bringing his son to do a job that is too big for him. Except Peseiro is telling everyone that his son is knowledgeable about it. If so, what is his son’s pedigree in the match analyst job? We need to know.   The power of television     Nigeria needs a sports budget     Goodbye, journeymen coaches   I  didn’t expect from the Eagles against Mexico considering both countries’ ranking on FIFA’s monthly. I considered the game the type of match that truly brings out the best in the players. The players were awful in the first half which was expected. The central defenders were slow on the counter, leaving gaps at the rear which exposed the goalkeeper. It was apparent that they could run making it imperative for the coaches to look inwards for younger players who were talented, fit and quick to retrieve the ball from the opposition either attacking or defensive situations. Alex Iwobi stood out in the midfield, not surprising with the home-based introduction into the game showing they could be better with proper supervision and the belief that they don’t have to sneak into Europe before they can play for Nigeria. Assistant coach Finidi George’s post-match comments for the game against Mexico raised hope that the right message was being passed to the boys. “We’ve had a couple of sessions even while in Dallas, I liked it; we’re building,” George remarked on the first days of the Team’s camping. “The building process has started and we want to see how far we can push the players, It has been good so far. Let’s see how the second game will go.” “This is a building process, a draw will not be a bad result. If we have the victory we will take it at any time, but if we can have a draw and play a good game I think we’ll all accept it, go back home and build on that.” Pinnick stated after the two losses to Mexico and Ecuador that: “I am happy and I can tell you that we fulfilled our objectives of restoring the spirit of the Super Eagles following the failure to qualify for the FIFA World Cup. We lost both games against Mexico and Ecuador narrowly but we were up for it and never finished on the back foot. The boys gave a good account of themselves in both games. “Given the number of first-team players that were not available, we have to praise the boys who showed up here and gave their all. They have given us confidence going into the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. The despondency is over and we can now march forward in a sure-footed manner.” NFF’s president’s penchant for the positives after Eagles’ matches is legendary, He needs to understand the fact that our players’ European status affects the Super Eagles when pitched against countries whose players populate the bigger European league. What it means, therefore, is we must start to build a new team populated by hone-based players who would effectively utilise the period between now and the next World Cup get a team which would blend using their matches. We should stop this habit of running to Nigeria-born kids to fill existing lapses in all our national teams.