In what was one of the few exceptions to the tendency for crime and other cases to drag on interminably in Nigerian courts, an Edo State High Court, on June 20, sentenced a maid, Dominion Okoro, to death by hanging, for the murder of Madam Maria Igbinedion, mother of a former governor of Edo State, Chief Lucky Igbinedion. The crime was committed on December 1, 2021 when the 25-year-old Dominion hit her octogenarian boss on the head with a stool, leading to her death at the latter’s residence in Ugbor community in the Oredo Local Government Area of the state. Before committing the act, the maid had mixed Madam Igbinedion’s food with Indian hemp to weaken her and facilitate the murder, after which she escaped from the house the following morning, having also robbed her victim of the sum of N100,000. It is remarkable that police investigation was concluded and the trial was conducted and judgement delivered within six months after the crime was committed. Commendable as this case is, it is an exception to the norm, which is for crime cases to be investigated by the police and suspects charged to court with no progress made for years, leading to such prosecutions pending indefinitely. For example, on October 31, 2018, a Togolese house-help, 22-year-old Sunday Anani, was alleged to have stabbed his boss, Chief Ope Bademodi, an Ondo high chief, to death at 3A, Onikoyi Road, Parkview Estate, Ikoyi , in Lagos. The suspect, who fled from the scene with some valuables belonging to his boss was arrested in the first week of November, 2018, by operatives of the Ondo State Police Command in Yaba area of Ondo town.  Till date, we are unaware that any progress has been made in prosecuting the crime.   Emefiele lists benefits of e-Naira to trade, investments     Warning shots from kigali, by Femi Adesina     Solving Nigeria’s energy crisis with renewable energy   Similarly, a notorious alleged kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Balaka aka as Wadume, was arrested in Ibi, Taraba State, by members of the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Office of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) on August 6, 2019. The case generated nationwide sensation when some soldiers forcefully freed the suspect from police custody, in the process killing three police officers and two civilians, and injured five others. Following widespread public outcry, Wadume and six of his accomplices were re-arrested and arraigned at the Federal High Court, Abuja, on June 8, 2020, on amended 13 counts of terrorism, kidnapping and other related offences. The trial judge, Justice Binta Nyako, told all defendants who intended to file no submission cases to do so within 21 days while adjourning the matter till May 18, 2020, for further hearing. Again, this case remains pending and unresolved. The speed and efficiency that characterised the handling of the Madam Igbinedion murder case indicates that justice can indeed be swiftly dispensed in Nigerian courts if the requisite will is there, notwithstanding the admitted challenges in the system such as personnel inadequacy and insufficiency of funding. This creates the unfortunate impression that the seriousness attached to the prosecution of cases may often be a function of the perceived influence and social background of persons seeking justice. When crime cases are investigated by the police but suspects are not arraigned in court or prosecution in court becomes a never-ending and perennially inconclusive affair, then criminals are encouraged to perpetrate atrocities in the hope that they will never be conclusively brought to justice. There is also the point that the large number of inconclusive court prosecutions also contributes significantly to the problem of congestion in custodial centres, with huge proportion of inmates being those either awaiting trial or whose cases are pending indefinitely in courts. We hope that the swiftness in ensuring justice in the Madam Igbinedion case becomes the standard that other courts would strive to emulate.