All wrangling and doubts surrounding the certificate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Cross River State have been rested following a  final clearance from National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The party issued the final clearance based on the attestation from WAEC confirming that Senator Otu attended Salvation Army Secondary School in Akai Ubiom of Akwa Ibom State in 1977 and genuinely secured his certificate. Providing clarifications on the certificate matter, the Media Aide to Senator Otu, Barr. Ekpenyong Akiba, said the highest hierarchy of a political party which is the NWC had cleared Otu  even though the position of the committee as was clearly stated was inconclusive since they knew that there was another step that had to be climbed for a final position and that step is the NWC where the National Organising Secretary of the party is in charge of the conduct of the election and the manager of party activities.   Ngige seeks foreign support for Nigeria to achieve SDGs     UK promises £1million support to NDLEA as Marwa seeks more…     Lawan urges striking NASS workers to call off action,…   The National Organizing Secretary, Mr. Sulaiman Mohammad Argungu in a letter to the Chairman, 2022 Governorship Primary Election Committee, said, “please be informed that Mr. Bassey Edet Otu has been cleared to participate in the governorship primary election. To this end, it will be appreciated if he is accorded all respect and privileges deserving of a governorship aspirant in Cross River State .” Akiba said, “so as at today his name has also been uploaded on the official website of the party where other candidates across the state are uploaded. His name as we speak is going to be forwarded to INEC as the candidate of the party in Cross River State. If Prince Otu was not duly screened and cleared, the party would not forward such name to INEC. “So, all that has to do with Prince Otu has been put to rest by the position of the NWC of the party which the constitution empowers to oversee the activities of the party at all levels.”