Singer Davido reportedly has his eyes on American model, Lori Harvey, following her breakup with actor Michael Jordan. Over the weekend, news of Lori and Michael’s breakup hit several news platforms after having been together for over a year. Jumping on the opportunity, the Afrobeats superstar shared the model’s photo via his insta story with his caption declaring her the “Greatest of all time…” The duo had called it quits after dating for a year and a half according to a source who confirmed news to PEOPLE. “Michael and Lori are both completely heartbroken,” the insider said. “They still love each other.” Harvey apparently “wasn’t ready to commit” and remains focused on her career. “She still wants to have fun and be free,” said the source. “Michael is a great guy. She is sad that their relationship didn’t work out, but she is moving on”, the source added. Lori confirmed her romance with Michael B. Jordan with some loved-up photos on Instagram in early January 2021. The actor also shared some snaps cozying up to his new girlfriend. In late November 2020, Lori Harvey was spotted leaving a flight with Michael B. Jordan as they touched down in her hometown of Atlanta ahead of Thanksgiving.   I’m ready for an arranged marriage – Latsha…     Banky W wins Lagos PDP Reps primary rerun     No one can visit my home, office without PVCs – Mr P   Harvey and the Black Panther star were both pictured wearing sweats as they exited the plane, where a car was waiting to pick them up. A month later, they were spotted exiting another plane together, this time in Utah, ahead of New Year’s Eve. Jordan has remained pretty private when it comes to his dating life over the years, while Lori’s romances have steadily remained in the spotlight In January 2016, Lori began dating soccer player Memphis Depay; they were engaged in June 2017. However, the couple split later that same year, with Harvey being spotted without her engagement ring in 2018. Following the end of her engagement with Depay, Harvey was temporarily linked to British racing driver Lewis Hamilton, R&B singer Trey Songz, and Sean Combs. There were also rumours she dated Diddy’s son, Justin Combs though neither of the duo addressed the rumours. Later she would be linked with the rapper Future; the pair confirmed their relationship in January 2020, and broke up in August of that year. Future would later take aim at Harvey on his featured verse on the song “Maybach” by 42 Dugg, with the lyrics “Magic City, I’m the owner. Tell Steve Harvey, I don’t want her.” In November 2020, Harvey began dating actor Michael B. Jordan. In December 2021, Jordan declared in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, that he “finally found what love was” with Harvey. In June 2022, it was reported that the couple had ended their relationship.