Telecommunications firm, Lets Talk I.T & Telecommunications Company, has said it was working on launching Nigeria’s first instant messaging application, Lets Talk, before the end of the third quarter of 2022. The Chief Operating Officer of the company, Ms Folashade Ayeni made this known while speaking with newsmen on Sunday. Ayeni said the application was designed by a team of Nigerian software engineers in line with the vision of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) for indigenous companies to come into the social media space. She said: “Lets Talk was created out of a need that Nigerians and Africans have. “If you look at it, sometime last year in October, October 4 To be precise, WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram crashed. No one was able to use those applications because of one thing or the other. “Many people lost money, several people were not able to reach families, friends, relatives and do business normally, because a whole lot of people have taken business and relationship to the social media. “It crashed for about six hours or so and the reality dawned on us that really, whether it was intentional or not on purpose that we could lose everything. “So, we thought about owning our social media platform; where Nigerians can have guaranteed communications, with utmost security, which is Nigerian owned and indigenous to us and for us in Africa.”   National Assembly workers vow to begin indefinite strike     Akwa Ibom PHCs seek functional vaccine storage facilities     ‘Buhari will hand over reformed NDDC to Niger Delta’   Ayeni said the company was aiming to collaborate with NITDA, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and other relevant agencies to ensure the success of the application and acceptability by Nigerians.   On the unique features of the app, she said it is end-to-encrypted, allows users to listen to and share music, video and audio calls, 5,000 member group chat, seven-person conference calls and file exchange up to 2GB. According to her, it also allows for device and cloud caching as well as sharing moments and trends which will give users very pleasant experiences. She said the application could be downloaded on Google Play and App Store for both Android and Apple phones. Ayeni also explained that the application would be in two parts, Lets Talk Basic which would be a free social media platform while there would be a secondary phase that would be on a subscription basis. “Now, there will be Lets Talk social which is the basic one that everybody knows. You chat, you speak to people, you do video calls and video conferences for free, but there’s a secondary part of it. “It is to provide enterprise resource management. So there are people who want to subscribe to that package. “We are talking about ministries, government agencies, businesses, banks and other sectors that can utilise the platform to improve their businesses and services and that is where value comes in,” she said.