The Deputy National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) South Chief Emma Eneukwu has congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for winning the presidential ticket of the party. of the just concluded presidential primary of the party, Senator Ahmed Tinubu emerged winner with a landslide victory after amazing 1272 votes to beat his closest rivals former minister of Transportation Romiti Amaechi, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and others. Chief Eneukwu, in a statement on Friday, stated APC has always been a reference point for democratic principles owing to how it has been coordinating their affairs. He stated the emergence of Tinubu is a welcome development as he would unite all other aspirants and move the party forward. ” I wish to congratulate our leader and presidential flag bearer, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu on his victory at the just concluded APC presidential primary” “His emergence came from one of the most successful and transparent presidential primary of a political party in Africa owing to the commitment of our great party, in leading the line for the implementation of democracy in the continent.   Fuss over House of Reps rerun in Kwara     Tinubu’s victory reward for years of investment…     How to end bad governance, by Adebayo   “Tinubu is a leader who has positively played key roles on building the party. The story of Our Lagos of today, cannot be written without acknowledging his roles, as his blueprint is still visible hitherto. “I am very confident in his capacity to deliver electoral victory and also sustain the key achievements of our current administration. I am very confident that, he would work with everybody to ensure electoral success as he has always been a team player. He is the best presidential candidate amongst others from various political parties in the country,” he said. Eneukwu also enjoined all the party members to stop at nothing to make sure APC wins the forthcoming gubernatorial elections in Ekiti and Osun. He reiterated the party’s commitment in making the South its fortress, declaring APC is the only party that has the interest of Nigerians at heart. “I enjoin all our members, to rally round and support the party at all levels, so as to achieve electoral victory come 2023. We have done it before and we will do it again. “It is time to make the first mark and declare our statement of intent by wining Ekiti state election which comes up on the 18th of June, 2022” “I am very confident in the ability of the party to win the whole of southern Nigeria and make it our beloved territory. APC come 2023, will take over the whole of southern Nigeria,” he said.