Until the first week of March 2022, not many people knew about the existence of the New Nigeria Peoples’ Party (NNPP). Even though the party participated in the last general election, it was never a force to reckon with at any level. But when former Kano State Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso came into the party with his political movement, The Nigeria Movement (TNM), the fortunes of the party changed, as it attracted lots of members both from the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). Strategically, the party has fixed its primary after that of the other major parties, apparently waiting for a possible harvest. At the last count, several big-name politicians, particularly from the northern part of the country were already heading for the party because they consider it an alternative to the APC and the PDP. As of today, the party is made up of politicians who felt that they have been unfairly treated by the two major parties. Its National Chairman, Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali told The Nation that he has been receiving calls from politicians across the country who wants to come to the party with their supporters. The party is conscious of the baggage of some politicians coming into the party, which may likely cause some problems. He said: “Our door will remain open because, in every political party, you have to accommodate every political tendency. But, that does not mean you will be allowed to come here with excess baggage and cause trouble for us. If you come with irredentist tendencies to divide the country or divide our people, it will not be acceptable. Since last year when we started this journey, we knew that a time will come when people will come with big trouble because they have forgotten about Nigeria. “They are not even bothered about what is happening now, but about power. Ask them what they intend to do when they get to power, they will not be able to tell you. Our people are not happy and they are at serious risk. Even journalists are at risk; your businesses are collapsing and it is only a few of you that would be able to survive. The media has been working round the clock since the beginning of modern Nigeria. What can you count as your gain in 22 years of democracy in Nigeria? “You have been sick for 22 years, applying the same medicine and no cure and you want to continue like that? Somebody who is supposed to negotiate with Nigerian university teachers and they have been at home for three months and you want such a person to continue to lead the country. There is no country in the world where universities are closed for such a long period and yet people are going about their businesses unperturbed.”   LIVE UPDATES: APC presidential primary     APC won’t get 25 per cent votes in states, claims…     Fed Govt offers 9.2% return for new three-year savings bonds   Alkali said the NNPP has begun a process of repositioning itself as a force to reckon with in the country’s political landscape “by offering Nigerians an alternative platform to save democracy and rescue the nation from the stranglehold of the two old, hegemonic and visionless political parties”. The national chairman said the party issued an Expression of Interest Form free to youths and women and at a 50 per cent discount to people living with disabilities to encourage them to participate in the political process. He added: “This is a complete departure from those plutocrats who are asking Nigerians to cough out over N100 million just to purchase a piece of paper whose value is no better than the value of the paper upon which the humongous amount was written. In the same vein, we have started the process of rebuilding our structures across the country. As I stated earlier, we started from wards to local governments, to states, to zones and finally at the national level. We now have fresh ward structures all over the country.” Alkali, a professor of Political Science said the situation in the country has gone from bad to worse in the last few years. He called on the ruling APC to urgently reduce the over-dependency on oil by diversifying the economy, and address the infrastructure gap, tackle the persistent fuel crisis, check the illegal smuggling of petroleum products across the borders, build strong and effective institutions, and address governance issues and public financial management systems. He said: “it is rather sad that the  APC government that promised milk and honey and a phantom Eldorado has failed to fulfil all its promises despite the presence of abundant human and natural resources in the country. “Since 2015, Nigeria’s economic outlook has remained highly unstable and uncertain. There is even uncertainty around the amount so far spent on Covid-19 vaccinations and related matters. Moreover, the modest projected recovery is being threatened by volatility in the oil sector, including an unexpected shock to oil prices, and weaknesses in the financial sector. Even in the most favourable global context, the policy response of the Federal Government has been unable to lay the foundation for a robust economic recovery.” Among those that recently teamed up with the NNPP are former Kano State governor, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau and some other serving lawmakers from the north. But, no prominent politician from the south has publicly associated with the party. The former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi is believed to have held talks with the party before joining the Labour Party. It is believed that Obi’s decision to join the Labour Party was since the latter was ready to offer him its presidential ticket, which the NNPP could not guarantee. Alkali told The Nation that apart from considering a waiver for new entrants, the NNPP was not ready to give anybody an automatic ticket because doing so will offend the guidelines and constitution of the party. He added: “With the PDP and the APC engrossed with leadership problems, our party has become the precious bride sought after by many politicians across the country.” Unlike in 2019, the political situation ahead of the next general elections is a different ball game. This, Alkali said, is because the NNPP has taken steps to re-launch and reposition itself as one of the major political parties in the country.