A Federal High Court in Abuja has scheduled judgment for August 29 in the extradition proceedings involving suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari. Justice Inyang Ekwo announced the date yesterday after lawyers to parties made their final submissions. Lawyer to Kyari, Nureini Jimoh (SAN) faulted the extradition application filed by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF). Jimoh claimed that the AGF did not comply with the requirements for extradition under the Extradition Act, and as such the application was incompetent. He argued that there is no sufficient cause to warrant the extradition of his client, adding that the three offences, including wire and mail frauds, for which Kyari was to be extradited to the United States (US) were not extradictable offences. Jimoh claimed that his client had written to the INTERPOL and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) that he was conducting a sting operation on international fraud suspect, Abbas Ramon (Hushpuppi), over a year before he (Hushpuppi) was arrested.   LASG begins crushing of 2,000 impounded okada     FG expanding use of hydro, wind other natural resources,…     Court urged to penalise ex-AGF, Aondoakaa for allegedly…   He claimed that the request for the extradition of his client was “international politics at play,” which he alleged is meant by the US to get hold of Nigeria’s security system in view of Kyari’s strategic role within the nation’s security settings. Jimoh urged the court to dismiss the application seeking to extradite his client. Lawyer to the AGF, Pius Akutah, argued otherwise, insisting that the AGF has complied with all necessary requirements for an extradition process. He urged the court to discountenance the extraneous issues being introduced by Jimoh and cited past decisions by the court, some of which have been affirmed by the Supreme Court, in urging the court to allow the AGF’s application. Akutah noted that the court was not at this stage required to determine the merit or otherwise of the charges against Kyari, but to determine the AGF’s compliance with the extradition process in the application filed. He prayed the court to allow the application and order the AGF to surrender Kyari as requested by the United States (US). The US requested the Nigerian authorities to surrender Kyari in view of his alleged link with Hushpuppi.