Mixed reactions greeted the Super Eagles opening two qualifiers in the race for the 2023 Africa Cup Of Nations (AFCON) but many pundits agreed new coach Jose Peseiro would bode well for Nigeria if the team keeps the winning momentum under his watch. TUNDE LIADI reports. The Super Eagles began the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations race with two consecutive victories over Sierra Leone and Sao Tome & Principe to open a wide goals margin at the top of Group A which also has Guinea Bissau. Of course, the ghost of the 2022 World Cup miss won’t disappear in the coming months but the team can’t afford to live under that cloud knowing that what lies ahead is more important than what cannot be changed. Sao Tomé and Principe could only fight for nine minutes in Agadir and could have been hit for more but for profligacy on the part of Victor Osimhen and Terem Moffi. Speaking on the Eagles’ bright start to the 2023 AFCON qualifiers, former Super Eagles midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju praised the professionalism, the hunger and desire to score as many goals as possible but cautioned the team should not be carried away by the outcome against Sierra Leone and Sao Tome and Principe. He stressed that the two losses to Ecuador and Mexico in the United States should serve as wake up call for the Eagles to gird their loins and strive to compete with other top nations in Africa and outside it. “I want to thumb up the performance of the Eagles in both games. They worked really hard to get the three points against Sierra Leone which showed they have the willpower and the strong mentality to get out of difficult situations,” Adepoju told NationSport.”In the victory over Sao Tome, they were insatiable until the referee blew the final whistle. It was the kind of Eagles we prayed and wished for. They kept on attacking even when they were 7-0 ahead. The two games are not enough to measure the depth and strength of the Eagles. “But we now know that we have bunch of players who are eager and hungry to succeed. The new coach too has started on a good pedestal and he needs to build on these results in subsequent games.” Former NPFL’s  top scorer Victor Ezeji affirmed he was thrilled with emphatic result recorded against Sao Tome but feels the Eagles were not truly  tested in both games. “It was an emphatic win which we were all happy about. It has been long we won by such wide margin but the Eagles still have a lot of things to work on,” the  former Enyimba and Heartland FC striker said. “The defence is still very much in suspect but I can boldly say we are moving in the right path. The new coach is stamping his authority too and Nigerians will gradually forget about the inability of the Eagles to qualify for Qatar 2022 World Cup.” However, Godwin Izilein,  former coach of the Super Falcons, said the Super Eagles were yet to improve in their playing pattern under the new coach, Jose Peseiro. Izilein who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria, noted that the 10-0 mauling of Sao Tome and Principe in a 2023 AFCON qualifier in Morocco did not translate to the fact that the team had arrived. He  decried lack of creativity in the midfield, adding  the team continued to exhibit that lukewarm attitude in their play.   PAUL POGBA: How French star quit Manchester United in anger     BIG BENZ: Perez favours Frenchman Karim Benzema to pick…     Arsenal sign Vieira for £34m, confident of landing Jesus   “I am yet to see anything new, it’s still the same old pattern of play; lukewarm attitude towards games should be changed,” Izilein stated. “They have no fighting spirit, it is only Victor Osimhen that does that and he does not get a good ball from the wingers. He (Osimhen) needs that deep penetrative passes. “The basic fact is that we are still not playing as a team, that individual play is still very much visible in our games. “There is also need to introduce into the team element of speed, they are too slow for my liking. “Another missing link is that of creative midfielders. With this, it will create that effectiveness in our attack as well as cover the defence. “Our wingers should also remember that great goals are scored from pullout. “There is nothing new with the Eagles under the current coach for us to be celebrating 10 goals, we are yet to get that rhythm Eagles are known for.” Izilein admonished Peseiro to take a look at players in the Nigerian league that could combine well with the foreign based players. Sharing Izilein’s sentiments  regarding given more room to  players in the Nigerian  domestic league is former international, Felix Owolabi,who   expressed shock that the media prominence given to the Super Eagles in the aftermath of the 10-0 bashing of Sao Tome and Principe. The former Shooting Stars ace said that the emphatic result would have served as a succour to his frustration about the running of the country’s football if the Eagles that prosecuted the game comprised both players in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) and their foreign counterparts. “I was shocked with the various media headlines on the 10-0 Eagles’ victory over Sao Tome and Principe. I cannot believe that Nigerians would be celebrating a 10-0 victory over an Island, and in the process the media are talking about breaking a record created some years ago,” Owolabi began in a chat. “It is a shame that we are celebrating a win over an Island and we call that a big win. The question we should ask is, why didn’t we beat Sierra Leone with the same margin? “Also, can we beat Cameroon with that same score line or even against the Ghanaian team?” he asked rhetorically. Owolabi added: “Supposing Eagles had beaten Sao Tome and Principe with some of the home-based players in the team, at least I would have been glad with the result. But that the team was made up of solely foreign-based players does not call for any jubilation. “I want Nigerian football to be is far above where it is now that you, journalists, are writing about on the pages of newspapers. As I keep saying, the local league is the bedrock of any nation’s football and nothing is being done towards uplifting it from the current pedestal level.