One of the objectives for the establishment of the Conference of Speakers and Heads of African Parliaments was to help governments across the continent fight against bad governance. To this, lately is added, debt cancellation. Undoubtedly, the continent has suffered a plague of bad rulers. While Africans heading global bodies have continued to demonstrate credibility and capacity to deliver, this has yet to cascade to the continent, as corruption, insurrections, diseases, among others, have continued to ravage Africa and its peoples. When the Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, mooted the idea of a Conference of African Speakers and Heads of Parliaments, his colleagues from across the continent keyed in. Little wonder, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in his keynote address at the opening forum, described the maiden event as a true expression of democracy because it represented the assembly of African peoples’ representatives. At the event, Osinbajo canvassed a truly African synergy, adding that “only this could engender strong and visionary leadership.” The Vice President believed that the COVID-19 pandemic provided the opportunity for African leaders and parliamentarian to show strong will in addressing the health needs of the continent and prepare the continent to develop appropriate response for future health challenges as the pandemic exposed the decay in health infrastructures across the continent; even though Africa witnessed far less deaths than other continents. He said: “The COVID-19 pandemic has had a widespread effect on economies across the world, destabilising health systems, upending supply chains, disrupting industries and led to the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives.” He argued that records available from the World Bank revealed that the COVID-19 pandemic successfully pushed 26 to 40 million people into extreme poverty on the continent. Osinbajo urged the forum to work with the executive arm of government on the continent to boost the relatively weak economic situation. He disclosed that the Nigerian government rolled out a stimulus package of about $7billion (about N2.3 trillion) to stabilise the economy, adding that the implications of the huge deficits from these supplementary budgets must have kept legislatures and the executive awake at night, but many realised and performed these hugely risky but historical assignments. For him, a post-COVID economic recovery strategy for Africa must go beyond efforts of individual countries to forging greater collaboration and integration to drive sustainable economic growth and recovery across the African continent. To achieve this, he said: “our parliaments have a central role to play. It is to them that the power to enact laws, oversee government budgeting and international borrowing belongs. And there are many opportunities for their proactive collaborative intervention. A crucial concern for all African economies is how to improve liquidity, reduce the debt burden and improve our balance of payments positions, especially in the wake of the huge damage done to our finances by the pandemic.” Stressing the need for debt cancellation, Osinbajo said one of the key issues discussed and agreed to at the preparatory meeting for this inaugural meeting was debt cancellation for African countries, and this is already gaining considerable traction. “A practical initiative introduced in the immediate aftermath of COVID-19 was the new SDR (Special Drawing Rights) reallocation of $650billion, which was implemented in August 2021. The allocation improved our balance of payments position by increasing the share of SDRs in the reserve assets of our countries, thereby providing direct liquidity without raising our debt burdens. So, I think that African countries speaking in one voice can seek more SDR support vehicles, such as the Liquidity and Sustainability Facility (LSF), a trust for middle-income countries, multilateral and regional development banks as well as the Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust (PRGT).” Presenting a paper on gender-inclusive budgeting and planning in the COVID-19 era, UN Women Country Representative to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Beatrice Eyong, said well-structured and resourced parliament is essential to a vibrant democracy, maintaining peace, upholding the rule of law and human rights, advancing gender equality and youth participation, increasing economic prosperity, and promoting social justice. Parliaments’ growing legislative, oversight and representative responsibilities in these areas imply that all citizens have a vital stake in the institution, she said. She argued further that there was a strong desire by many parliaments on the continent and beyond to develop their capacities in response to the growing expectations of people for more efficient and effective service delivery from their representatives. She said: “Gender inclusive or responsive planning and budgeting can enable parliaments to achieve these expectations and thereby contribute to the attainment of the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG). Experiences from previous pandemics and large-scale shocks show that these crises often affect men and women differently. COVID 19 was not different.” According to her, parliaments have a key role to play in every step that needs to be taken to address the key variables affecting the continent and its people. She advocated for strong parliaments with strategic leadership, adding that the speakers should enact gender-responsive legislations that provide a favourable legislative and policy environment for gender equality and gender inclusive or responsive planning and budgeting as well as women’s political participation. She argued further that “since parliaments should oblige ministerial budgets to provide evidence of mainstreaming gender in their policies, programmes, and budgets, parliaments should follow up through studies carried out with specific GRB tools if the needs of the various social groups they represent are being satisfied on a yearly basis have been included in development planning and budgeting” The representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in Nigeria, Mohammed Yahya, said the global agency recognises the central role that Parliaments and Houses of Assembly play in advancing national development agendas and its democratic values, considering the fact that parliaments as platforms of elected representatives of citizens have a critical role to play in advancing people-centered development, promoting peace, inclusive governance and advancing a nation’s value system. He stressed that “human capital development is a process of building skills, expertise, and innovation that allows the individual to do their task more productively. In other words, it is the aggregate of investments in key areas such as health, education, training, and talent migration that have propensity of enhancing productivity in the labour market. As we all know, the citizens that parliamentarians represent are the greatest assets of any country, thus they must be invested in order to propagate the development of any nation.” Proffering the ways forward, the UNDP chief canvassed “sound advocacy for policies and institutional reforms that position the health sector as a core aspect of social economic transformation. In this regard, there is a need for parliaments, in playing its oversight role, to pay attention to incentivising the systems to retain health sector professionals in developing countries and reverse the growing brain drain. Secondly, there is a need for strong advocacy on strengthening the country and continental research and development capacity. One such area is the ongoing discussions on the capacity of the continent to produce vaccines and limit dependency on donations.”   BUA Cement eyes N102.68b revenue in Q3     Kwara assures of safe investment environment     Owo killings: Controversy rages over ISWAP link   Osinbajo, on his part, believes that Africa’s post-COVID recovery must leverage the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). “The AfCFTA is a unique opportunity to consolidate Africa’s enormously large market, which will create and recover millions of jobs, reduce Africa’s import dependency, boost intra-Africa trade and exports; and strengthen intra-Africa cross-border ties and trade relations. The opportunities are simply mind-blowing, but they will involve the magic word – collaboration. “Recently, Afrexim and the AfCFTA secretariat working jointly launched the Pan-African Payment and Settlement System (PAPSS), which provides a robust financial market infrastructure connecting African markets. The system enables instant cross-border payments in the respective local African currencies. This is a big boost for cross-border trade and will save African economies almost $5billion annually. Afrexim Bank as the main Settlement Agent for PAPSS provides settlement guarantees on the payment system and overdraft facilities to all settlement agents, in partnership with Africa’s participating Central Banks. PAPSS will effectively eliminate Africa’s financial borders, formalise and integrate Africa’s payment systems, and simply make trade within Africa using local currencies easier. This is the way to go. Domestic legislation will be required as time goes on; we must anticipate and be prepared to act on these promptly.” Gbajabiamila drew home the need for Africans to come together to advance their cause and ensure good governance. He lamented the fact that the continent has failed to advance the cause of democracy over the years as military incursion and insecurity posed threats to democracy. He said democracy on the African continent was under threat by military incursion in some Francophone countries and loss of confidence on democratic government by the people. He stressed that even in places where democratic governance is still in place; confidence in public institutions has been at its lowest ebb. “Africa has come of age. Yet there is no gainsaying that we are far from achieving the highest capability. Across the continent, democracy is under threat and in retreat. From Sudan to Mali, Guinea and Chad, elected governments have been usurped by military junta, overturning years of progress and the hopes of millions. Even in the places where elected governments are still in charge, public faith in the governing institutions is at an all-time low. When citizens lose confidence that democratic governments can meet their expectations, democracy loses credibility and support and begins a death spiral. This is the reality in too many places across our continent.” He argued that Africa’s destiny is not cast in stone. “our tomorrow is a consequence of today’s choices; the commitments we make and the priorities we choose to pursue. Despite the real challenges and present dangers, this is also a time of abundant promise and possibility for us in Africa. Technology has remade our world into a global village where a child with a computer and internet connection in Lagos or Addis Ababa can compete in and succeed in a global marketplace that prioritises ideas and talent over religion, ethnicity and tribe. “As leaders in this new world, there is no decision more consequential than investing in Africa’s young people, protecting them, ensuring their health and wellbeing and providing them with a solid education upon which to build their future.” On insecurity, he said “the present insecurity and the rampaging uncertainty across the continent represent the single biggest threat to the well-being of our children.” Like the Vice President, Gbajabiamila said the COVID-19 has exposed the dire conditions of our social infrastructure and brought into stark relief the massive effort required to ensure that we are better prepared for next time. He warned that “there will be a next time.” He however said that despite predictions of disaster, Africa, for the most part, has managed this disease with evenness, and the actions of many governments across the continent worked to keep the worst outcomes from manifesting on our shores. But there is a lot of work to do, he said. Much of that work will fall to parliaments across the continent. He told his colleagues that “as advocates and representatives of the people, it is our responsibility to set the terms of our national development and ensure that government priorities reflect our citizens’ most pressing needs and highest aspirations. We live in a time fraught with potential and danger, and every governing decision we make and every action we take has the potential to substantially remake our world for good or ill. This is, in effect, one of those defining historical moments.” The Speakers resolved that there was the need for African countries to make special provisions in their laws that will tie loans to specific projects and programmes, while taking steps to free themselves from lender nations and organisations. Africa, they said, must take appropriate steps to develop local institutions and inter-African trade enact laws that will put in place serious measures against military intervention in governance on the Africa continent. They want strong punitive measures for unconstitutional overthrow of governments on the African continent, saying “African parliaments must stand together to resist military coups in all parts of the continent and jointly advocate for more punitive measures, collectively as defenders of our democracies.” They want African countries to institutionalise mandatory regular reporting and publication of public debt reports, adding that there should be legislation requiring approval from the legislature on any borrowing as well as limits and properly documented plans for borrowing tied to specific projects and programmes. The Speakers also said that African parliaments must ensure proper oversight to proactively reduce Africa’s debt profile while there should be greater oversight and increased budgetary allocations to ensure enhanced agricultural productivity and building of internal capacity for food production to eliminate Africa’s import dependency. Also they stressed the need to develop mechanisms to increase coverage and scope of social protection to aid citizens who live in poverty, especially those affected by the recent pandemic. “Legislative interventions are needed to ensure that across our continent; we cater to the needs of the poorest and weakest as well as calling for support for operationalisation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement  (AfCFTA) to develop competitive regional and global value chains, enhance domestic resource mobilisation, including effective public private partnership frameworks for infrastructure delivery.” On debt cancellation, the speakers insisted that debt cancellation from international financial institutions is required to enable African countries to invest more revenue in social protection programme; while the Conference of Speakers should press for this as a collective entity. They also called for the building of internal capacity and local industries to enable local production and processing of raw materials for export, while building resilience against external and internal shocks, eliminating dependency on external institutions, lenders and grantors. President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, however, warned of an imminent food crisis, saying African countries must begin to produce their own foods and stop relying on imports from developed nations. He said many African countries rely on the importation of grains from either Ukraine or Russia, pointing out that the continent has the capacity to produce its own food. “The Russian war in Ukraine has added another challenge to what we are facing in Africa. The dependency of African countries on Russia and Ukraine, the war disruption has added to the looming food crisis in Africa. The African Development Bank has designed a $1.5 billion emergency food production plan to support African countries to avert the looming food crisis. Africa should be decoupled from food import dependency. Africa must feed itself and do so with pride. The economic recovery must be felt in the day to day lives of people. The recovery must create jobs and recover jobs lost, focus on MSMEs; the recovery must focus on youths and tackle debts of Africa. The recovery will require close partnership with the executive arm and legislative arm of government. Regardless of the challenges facing our country, be the solution providers, drive for an economic recovery that’s felt by all.” While challenging the Speakers and Heads of Parliament to help find a solution to the food and health crisis on the continent, he said: “The COVID-19 pandemic affected the growth and development of Africa as well the rest of the world. Africa’s confirmed COVID-19 cases stand at 11.5 million people with 253,000 deaths. Africa’s economic growth declined by minus -1.5 percent, while over 26 million people fell further into poverty, with about 30 million jobs lost. The trajectory of economic recovery from the pandemic is shaped by access to vaccines, and on this, the divergence between developed economies and developing economies is stuck. Developed countries accounted for 63% of the people vaccinated globally, Africa our continent have only 16 percent of these people fully vaccinated which is extremely low compared to 63 percent of North America, 69 percent for Asia and so on. “We must not be complacent. The next pandemic is just around the corner. Africa must build a Healthcare Defence System. This must include development of local vaccines and building quality healthcare infrastructure.”