Former Super Eagles captain John Obi Mikel has assured that all is now set for the maiden edition of his Back2Base talent hunt in Lagos on Thursday. Speaking at a press parley to herald the three-day event , Mikel revealed that a lot has been put into the programme, adding his Avianna & Harvey Entertainments team have been working round the clock to ensure the project  meets all the set objectives. “It is an opportunity for us to give back to the community, first of all, we have to realise that there is so much talent in this country waiting to be discovered. So with the Back2Base project, we are hoping to help showcase this talent,” the former  Chelsea midfielder said yesterday.  “The first edition is starting in Lagos but we hope we can take it around the country subsequently; t is going to be an exciting time for the children in football, basketball and tennis.” Mikel noted that as a Youth Ambassador , he was duty bound to create long-lasting innovations such as the  Back2Base project  in order  to help upcoming talents.   ICC honours Nigeria  Cricket Federation on developmental…     Ekevwo, Amusan arrive in Mauritius for AAC     Almeria’s La Liga return excites Sadiq Umar   “This means a lot to me because I remember growing up as a child in Jos, I was only lucky to be discovered,” he said.  “Our target is not just to ship the talent we discover abroad but to even see how they can be of good use even from the domestic scene.” As explained by CEO and Founder of Avianna & Harvey Entertainments, Ahmed Fadekemi both the Basketball and Football teams will be solely for the boys while the tennis will be for both boys and girls. “The Back2Base project is still a work in progress that is opened to changes as we deem fit, but for this edition, we only have boys of ages 17-20 taking part while the tennis is for both boys and girls,” she said. Organisers informed that  the three-day programme will be rounded off  with an exclusive dinner with Mikel  alongside the distinguishing athletes discovered during the exercise on the on the fourth day.