A major urban renewal project that will restore the aesthetic landscape of Falomo, the commercial suburb of Ikoyi in Lagos State, was finally kicked off by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, last Friday. This is coming after over 10 years of disagreements. The project is being championed by Afriland Properties, a subsidiary of Heirs Holdings, owned by the entrepreneur and banker, Mr. Tony Elumelu. At the event, the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC) sealed a redevelopment partnership with Afriland Properties Plc, to turn the former Falomo Shopping Complex to a premium sky-high real estate that will enhance the socio-economic outlook of the neighbourhood. The Towers will be a mixed property and will be developed on 11,950 square metres of land to offer a blend of green amenities that will promote quality living. Sanwo-Olu, at the sod turning, said the ceremony ended a decade-long discussion with the developer to revive the project and build iconic towers that would turn around the fallow land for the benefit of the public.  He pledged that the mixed development would be a place to live and work, especially for young people. He reiterated that it would be completed in 24 months. The governor said the project was another milestone achieved by his administration to renew urban amenities, stressing that the strategic implementation of the Lagos Masterplan had been dependent on the government’s ability to forge workable partnership between the public and private sectors. He said: “This is a phenomenal project that will bring back the lost ambience of Ikoyi. When this partnership was initiated 10 years ago, I was the Managing Director of LSDPC. It is interesting to note that we’ve all gone through arbitration but we didn’t throw a wrong punch. We agreed this project must not be thrown away. Today, we are making a transaction that is bigger and better than what was initially proposed 10 years ago. “This testifies to the uniqueness of public and private sectors in ensuring things can be made a lot better when we sit, discuss and agree. This is a clear example of what Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model is out to achieve when partnerships and collaborations are pursued and implemented with seriousness. When we put our minds of possibilities to ideas, great things happen. This aptly describes the story of today’s flag-off of construction of Falomo Towers.” Sanwo-Olu described Afriland Properties as a tested, trusted and reliable developer, saying the corporation had found the right partner for the redevelopment project.   We’ll fix Justices’ complaints on work…     Remaining kidnapped railway passengers must be rescued…     Sadio Mane in Munich ahead €41 million move from Liverpool   The governor reiterated that the state government would remain committed to ensuring the investors get full value for their money, while promising to continue to pursue business environment reforms, including automation of land and property records to scale up transparency and efficiency that catalyse sustainable investments. Elemelu said the partnership was another testimony to the state government’s belief in the private sector as a key development driver in the state, praising the Sanwo-Olu Administration for setting the pace of private sector inclusion in governance. For surmounting obstacles that delayed the take-off of the partnership, Elumelu said Lagos remained the most hospitable environment to investors seeking profitable return on their investments. He said: “Today, for us, is a celebration of the power of dialogue, peace, humility and hope. I commend Governor Sanwo-Olu and the political leaders of the state for believing in the private sector. What we are witnessing attests to their beliefs in the private sector as driver of development in the state “For the private sector to do well, the political leadership must create the right environment. Lagos has set the pace in this direction. This partnership is a celebration of dialogue and this makes Lagos remain the most hospitable environment for investors.” Earlier, Chief Executive Officer of Afriland Properties, Mrs. Uzo Oshogwe, noted that the redevelopment project was a revival of a landmark, saying: “With the project, we tend to give Ikoyi back its aesthetic landmark, creativity, beauty in the Lagos Skyline. She said the iconic project would enhance and beautify Ikoyi skyline, adding that the partnership would be creating economic opportunities and social wealth that would transform the state and the country. The project development is expected to be completed in December 2024. LSDPC Chief Executive Officer,  Mr. Ayodeji Joseph, said the project site evoked memories of a glorious past for Island dwellers in the 1970s, noting that the corporation took an informed decision to turn around the site by building residential apartments to provide additional accommodation to the growing middle class, business professionals and the swelling rank of young citizens. He added: “Over 40 years down the line, the corporation in its decision to renew some of its facilities has deemed it fit to redevelop the site of the shopping complex, taking into consideration the realities of today’s needs as well as the environmental impact implications. To achieve this purpose, we decided to mobilise finance from the private sector. This decision will free resources that could otherwise be tied down to this project, for other pressing needs. In addition, it will allow the project to benefit from the competitive efficiencies for which the private sector is better known.”