Elder statesman, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, is bitter. It is not without some justification. The former governor of Abia State and Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation in the Muhammadu Buhari administration protested that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which zoned its presidential ticket to the South, refused to micro-zone it to the Southeast, his region of birth. The socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has also raised an eyebrow over the refusal of the two major parties to shift power to the region. Onu, a notable APC elder, freely expressed the feeling of his ethnic nationality. But, delegates of his party were not similarly inclined. His colleagues in the APC National Caucus, who are from other zones, were also not so disposed. The reason is that APC has only registered a skeletal presence in the Southeast, despite the victory of Hope Uzodinma, governor of Imo State. With an abysmal numerical strength, APC has never really considered winning the Southeast votes as a priority, beyond getting 25 per cent at the poll. Indisputably, the Southeast has consistently remained the stronghold of main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Yet, PDP has never looked in the direction of the region in its presidential electoral calculation. Political parties have never played the roles of national unifier. But a government midwifed by a party can be, if the head of government has a national outlook and sees the entire country as his vast constituency. It has been a tall order. Therefore, there is the scramble for Aso Villa, the seat of federal power, by competing and antagonistic tribes locked in deep conflict and competition for federal power and resources. The tribes are not equally endowed, in terms of numerical strength, natural resources, strategy and bargaining power. More or less, the hallmark of Nigerian politics is primordial sentiment. The birthplace, ethnic root, and religion of candidates are projected over and above their educational qualification, competence, experience and love of the country. It may appear now that these factors can be displaced by money or “deep pocket” of aspirants. The racial factor in Nigerian politics is a big issue. To reduce tension, politics in the heterogeneous country is anchored on cross-racial balance. When two or three ethnic groups tend to form a formidable alliance on the platform of a major political party, the beneficiary standard bearer is most likely to secure federal power. The ethnic groups outside the parley are left in the cold. The historical antecedent of Nigeria tends to support the argument. There was never a time all the tribes collaborated or supported a common agenda that would lead to the installation of a pan-Nigerian president. The nearest to it was the June 12, 1993 presidential election. When it was annulled, the struggle for its revalidation nearly paled into an ethnic agitation. Experience has shown that an agreement between two major tribes has often secured the victory of either of the major parties at the poll. Nigeria has been and may remain for a long time a two-party state, the presence of other smaller parties notwithstanding. The question is: how have the two tribes who form partnership at a given time fared in power sharing? Has power distribution been equitable? In the First Republic, the alliance between the monolithic North on the platform of the Northern Peoples Congress (NPC) and Igbo’s National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) paved the way for the first coalition government of Prime Minister Abubakar Tafawa Balewa. Igbo had many ministers in the Balewa government. It was never envisaged that the North would yield the position of Prime Minister to an Igbo parliamentarian under that arrangement in the foreseeable future. Instructively, Yoruba’s request through the Action Group (AG) for an alliance with NCNC was turned down because of the friction between the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo and the late Dr. Nnamidi Azikiwe. The two leaders were still engrossed in bitterness over the struggle for the Western Regional Government House in Ibadan, eight years after. In 1964, when the crisis-ridden AG (Yoruba) and NCNC (Igbo) finally agreed to work together on the seemingly broader platform of the United Progressives Grand Alliance (UPGA), it was a cosmetic alliance. It was even suggested the alliance became easier because Awo, who was in jail, was not the targeted beneficiary. The two parties were no match for the Nigeria National Alliance (NNA), made up of stronger NPC (Hausa-Fulani)/Nigeria National Democratic Party (NNDP) of Samuel Akintola (Yoruba). Although an Igbo, the late Major-General Thomas Aguiyi-Ironsi, became the first military Head of State after Balewa was murdered in the nation’s first coup d’état, his policy of unification, nepotism and promotion of ethnic interest was infuriating to other tribes. His regime, which only lasted six months, led to ethnic suspicion, strife and rancour. It deepened the gulf between the North and the Southeast. There is a subsisting dilemma. Although the Southeast and the North have been political partners, there is no evidence that the North is ready to trust the Southeast with power. In the Second Republic, the scenario of “collaboration and suspicion” was enacted. The ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN), which was backed by majority of Hausa/Fulani, formed an accord with the Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP), led by Azikiwe, leader of Igbo. A Fulani, Alhaji Shehu Aliyu Shagari, was President. The vice presidency was conceded to the Igbo of the Southeast. Ahead of 1987, the NPN was never thinking of a succession plan that would lead to the installation of a president of Igbo extraction. Indeed, the NPN national chairman, the late Chief Adisa Akinloye, a Yoruba, was already warming up for the ticket. Since Shagari’s vice-president, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, left office, no other Igbo has either been president or vice-president. In the ill-fated Third Republic, the two-party system tended to close the wide cleavages. The country was only polarised into two divides – the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC). The national profile of the SDP candidate, Bashorun Moshood Abiola, was the issue. Yet, it was evident that the Southeast gravitated more towards the NRC, which fielded a candidate from the North, Bashir Tofa. Only the vice-president was conceded to the Igbo, a slot taken up by Slyvester Ugoh.   Rivers: Enter Fubara’s private army     APC sticks to Otu as governorship candidate in Cross River      Ngige seeks foreign support for Nigeria to achieve SDGs   Since 1999, the Southeast has embraced the PDP. Up to now, bloc votes have been delivered to the party from the five states in the region. But, unlike in the Second Republic, the presidential slot has never been zoned to the Southeast. When General Olusegun Obasanjo was the presidential candidate and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar was his running mate, the Yoruba of the Southwest, until 2003, rejected the PDP. But, the Southeast supported the party. The party also enjoyed the support of the Southeast when Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua was presidential candidate and Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, an Ijaw, was his running mate. Also, the zone supported the party when Jonathan was its candidate and Governor Namadi Sambo of Kaduna State was the running mate, the Southeast still supported the PDP. In 2019, PDP presented Atiku/Peter Obi ticket. It was said that the region had settled for the second fiddle. The recent nominations have confirmed that the Fulani-Hausa/Ndigbo collaboration is meant to shut the door to Aso Rock against the Southeast. While the APC zoned its presidential slot to the South, the PDP, against the run of popular opinion, refused. After 23 years of collaboration between the North and the Southeast in the PDP, the main opposition has given the impression that it cannot win next year’s presidential election with an Igbo candidate. The party is now trying to pick an Igbo-Christian running mate from either the Southeast or Southsouth for the purpose of ethno-religious balancing. While the Southwest vigorously agitated for zoning of the APC to the zone, and it eventually became its beneficiary, the Southeast seems to lack a coordinated agenda for 2023. Igbo politicians in the PDP only made a feeble scrambling for the presidential ticket. They lacked joint home support. Therefore, they failed in their bids. They are now struggling for vice presidential slot, which is constitutionally a spare tyre. Why did Igbo aspirants refused to listen to the advice of their elders who pleaded with them to step down and endorse a regional consensus candidate? Why did they not emulate Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, who jettisoned his presidential ambition and upheld his Northern regional interest? The Igbo have refused to put their house in order. While four APC presidential aspirants from the Southwest – Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Dimeji Bankole, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice and Senayor Ibikunle Amosu – stepped down for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu at the national primary, Igbo PDP presidential aspirants refused to collaborate. The result was split vote. While anxious, focused and patriotic Yoruba elders and leaders, including Elderstatesmen Chief Bisi Akande and Aremo Olusegun Osoba; Chief Pius Akinyelure, Senator Iyiola Omisore, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Governor Gboyega Oyetola, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and others, were sweating, keeping vigil, pleading with and mounting partisan pressure on Southwest aspirants to step down for the National Leader, up to the morning of the convention, what last minute effort did Southeast leaders make to get their scattered aspirants and delegates to build a consensus? Instead of putting their minor differences aside, the aspirants  went to the shadow poll as representatives of a divided zone. That Igbo aspirants refused to step down for a single aspirant from the zone meant that they allowed individual interests to displace the larger collective interest of their region. Many PDP delegates donated their votes to Atiku during the PDP primary. There was no protest vote against the rejection of zoning by the party. The Igbo are vital assets to Nigeria, for their spirit of enterprise, industry, business acumen, technological innovation, and resilience. It is the most travelled race. Igbo traders are found in the nooks and corners of the country, and beyond. But, according to observers, there is need for them to get their politics right. The Igbo have always complained about marginalisation. Although it once opted to secede from Nigeria, the bid, which was interpreted as a rebellion against the imaginary union, was aborted by the military government. Since 1970, the Southeast has been agitating for re-integration, a sense of belonging and relevance. It appears the region has embarked on a fruitless search. Is the strategy faulty? The late Chief Bola Ige, slain Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, once called for a collaboration between the Southwest and Southeast. Would that synergy not be a right step in the right direction? It is significant to note that a section of the pan-Yoruba socio-political group, led by Chief Ayo Adebanjo, even called for power shift to the Southeast. If Atiku wins and he does eight years, which means the North will be in power for 16 years, there will be a battle for succession in PDP between Southwest and Southeast. If Tinubu wins and he is in the saddle for eight years, automatically, the ticket is most likely to go to the North in the APC. While the Southeast is agitating for power shift to the zone, its youths are calling for secession and disintegration of the country. The two goals do not align. The protracted violence in the Southeast has sent dangerous signals to other zones, although the sit-at-home has affected the Southeast itself more than other zones. What is the focus of Southeast? Is it to produce an Igbo president or leave Nigeria? To observers, Ndigbo is not fighting to leave Nigeria. They only clamour for equity, fairness and justice, which seems to be elusive. But, other regions have their grievances too. Having been glued to the PDP, the Southeast has not looked back. It has not reassessed its strategy, which has failed to persuade the opposition party to trust the zone with the prized ticket. By 2023, the ultimate power would have eluded the Southeast for 34 years. Until the zone, after a realistic assessment, reviews its methods for forging political alliance and strategic bargaining, it may be difficult for it to realise its dream of producing a president in the future.