The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has advised political parties against undermining the Christian community in the forthcoming presidential election by running Muslim-Muslim tickets. CAN gave the warning on Sunday during the interdenominational church service to mark the 2022 Democracy Day celebration, at the National Christian Centre, Abuja. It stated it is the presidential candidate who works with the church that will win the presidential election . President of CAN, Dr Samson Ayokunle, who was represented by National President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) Bishop Francis Wale-Oke, said the party that favours fairness, equity and justice would in return receive the support and votes of Nigerians in the coming election. Rreacting to rumours the ruling party is considering a Muslim-Muslim ticket, the CAN President said: “While I congratulate the candidates, I must sound this warning, please do not fly a Muslim-Muslim ticket. It would not fly. It will not stand. Rather, it would set the nation against each other.   Kidnappers abduct four farmers in Ondo     IGP directs CP to investigate Lagos club shooting     Police to question Burna Boy over nightclub shooting…   “The candidate who will emerge is the one who works with the Church. Please, do not alienate the church. “If you embrace equity, fairness and justice, the Nigerian electorate will reward you with their votes at the polls and they will give you their support.” He urged candidates to exalt righteousness in their campaigns saying “You can only rule when there is a nation. In your campaigns, make sure you exalt fairness, justice and equity. If there is no righteousness, fairness and equity, we will remain divided. “There is no fairness if a certain people from a certain ethnic group are reduced to second class citizens who cannot aspire to the highest office in the land. “We pray for an end to killing people in their place of worship. We pray for a nation that is united and where justice, fairness and equity reigns. God bless you all and God bless Nigeria,” he said.