You have been in a long legal battle with the party. What informed your decision to withdraw the case you instituted against the party? I gave instructions to my lawyers to withdraw the case that was awaiting judgment. With this development, I can now call myself a former acting national chairman. The case was instituted to guard against an assault on the rule of law. But, with the emergence of Asiwaju as the APC presidential flag bearer for next year’s election, I had no alternative but to contribute my quota to his bid for a new Nigeria from the ruins of the old by withdrawing the case, so that we will now begin to celebrate these insignia of Jagaban Borgu, the Asiwaju of the universe who has always worn these insignia. What is so special about Tinubu’s insignia? What does it stand for? A lot of people are oblivious of the meaning of the insignia. It stands for the broken chains of poverty, underdevelopment, disunity and low standard. We have lowered the bar so much that I cannot find the bar anymore. The bar has been buried. Today, they have given us a champion who will break loose all of the things that constitute bondage of the Nigerian nation and will open up the potential of Nigeria. I bet you, from next year, the world will see a new Nigeria. The world is going to see a brand new Nigeria The APC National Chairman, Senator Abdulahi Adamu almost derailed the convention by declaring that Senator Ahmad Lawan has been anointed as the consensus candidate. How do you see the chairman’s declaration? The issue is that the chairman took a unilateral decision. Of course, we heard from other members of the NWC that he took a unilateral decision and the statement was disowned by the presidency and the northern governors. He stood on his own. Northern governors for the first time took a unanimous decision that the presidency must go to the south. It is the first time; it has never happened before. It signals that we are in a new Nigeria. So, we can only urge the national chairman to join the boat and join the train of new Nigeria led by a captain that is capable, competent, courageous and who has shown it all across the board, whether in private business, public service, political arena, that he is capable. He is the only one who has fought the kind of battle that he has fought in Nigeria and has emerged victorious. He is the only one, go through the history of Nigeria. Jagaban of Borgu, Asiwaju of the universe is the only politician. Some of us, politicians will look at him in awe; you cannot confine him to the definition of an average Nigerian politician; you cannot, if you do so, you will be doing a terrible injustice to what the man stands for. He is a force of nature. He is slight in built and yet larger than life. So, I urge the chairman to purge himself of those anti-democratic tendencies of the conservatives and come aboard the progressive thing. The convention has been won and lost but there is an acid test before Asiwaju and that’s the issue of his running mate. What is your comment on the controversy over the so-called Muslim-Muslim ticket?   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   What if we decide to settle for a Muslim-Muslim ticket? First of all, I do not predicate my politics on religion. I don’t even predicate my politics on ethnic consideration. If my politics was considered on ethnic considerations I would have worked and voted for Amaechi. He is from my zone; I don’t care about that kind of thing. Those are the things that have held Nigeria down. In any case, has anybody in the south looked at Asiwaju as a Muslim? Is he our definition of a Muslim? Please, Asiwaju represents the development and that is all. Whoever he chooses does not matter to people like me. So, I’m not the right person for that question. Asiwaju shows only love. Have you ever seen Asiwaju having a public spat with anybody? Even people that abused him; saying he uses pampers, he has never responded to them. He responds to them with love. That is, for me, far better than Christian pastors who stand on the pulpit and spew hate and violence. I don’t care about religion. I care more about the bread and butter issues of Nigeria. Amaechi and Wike from the Southsouth vied for the tickets of the two major parties but lost in the end. Where does it leave the region in the power equation? First of all, I must thank the nation for giving us the opportunity; we have presided over this country for the past seven years and we have absolutely nothing to show for it. You see, I have told you I am not the right man for the question that borders on religion, ethnic consideration or regional consideration. It does not matter to me. Those who have done politics with me, those who have been in the trenches, who stand shoulder-to-shoulder, will tell you that these considerations don’t matter to me. I want to see a Nigeria that is competing with Singapore. I want to see a Nigeria which will stop being the dumping ground for China. I want to see a country that will not be exporting jobs to China and importing unemployment. That is what Nigeria wants to see. I don’t care whether Wike is from Ikwere or whether Asiwaju is from Osun State. It doesn’t matter to me. If Asiwaju was a northerner, my head, my shoulders and my legs will be there. If he was from Katsina-Ala, I will be with him because I know what he represents. I’ve travelled far and wide and I have seen countries that do not have the kind of resources that God has blessed us with. I have seen them go far ahead of us because they do not consider the things that we consider. You go to Rwanda today, Rwanda is a success story. You go to Ghana, go to all of these places, you have countries that are less endowed than Nigeria doing the right things and are moving ahead. We keep pulling ourselves back because we talk of unnecessary things. The battle is now between Tinubu and the likes of Atiku, Kwankwaso from the north. What are Asiwaju’s chances of winning the presidency? Well, first of all, let me say that I do not see it as a race between the north and the south. People who saw this in 1993 were disappointed. Asiwaju has never lost an election before, not one. He has never lost an election. Atiku is a serial loser. We will compare all of this. For anybody who thinks that Asiwaju’s influence is restricted to the south, northerners gave us more votes in the primary than southerners. Go and find out how APC delegates voted. We had more support in the north than in the south. So, don’t ever think that Asiwaju cannot square up against Atiku or Kwankwaso. Kwankwaso is not even in the equation. Kwankwaso can take his Kano; if he can be able to do so, we welcome him. You cannot, for instance, put together Kwankwaso’s thoughts on Nigeria. Let somebody bring any document that you can this is Kwankwaso’s thoughts or Atiku’s thoughts on the Nigerian economy, except that he would privatise Nigeria and give it to his friends. But, I can give you a book that captures the thoughts of a deep-thinking man, a visionary, a courageous man, a man who loves his people with a very acute sense of history. We’re not going to be fooled. But, the masses that usually troop out to vote on the day of an election do they know about such issues? You see, do not assume that our people, because they cannot read or write, do not know their left from their right. Many of the people from some states who voted during the recent APC convention had to rely on their colleagues to write for them. Were they not illiterates? But, how come they chose Asiwaju over others. The Fourth Estate of the Realm must help us set an agenda; we must set an agenda for a new Nigeria and let people discuss it. Let people sit around the table on those ideas and ideals of a new Nigeria. In what areas do you think Asiwaju’s presidency will impact the nation? What can he do to unlock the economy? Two things will unlock the economy. Number one is education. We have to pay attention to it. We cannot be doing what we’re doing today. I must say this, on education, I will call the president out; he has done absolutely nothing on education and it is very upsetting for people who love Nigeria. We must dedicate ourselves to educating our youth. Can you imagine that if you carry out research today to find out where Nigerian youth get their information? You’ll be shocked that over 90 per cent of them depend on social media. I know that social media is not regulated; you know that you get all manner of falsehood from social media. The reason they do so is that they’re not properly educated. They’re not even employable. If you call for an interview today, you’ll be shocked at what to get as a Nigerian graduate. We have to pay attention to education. We have to lift that bar that we have buried. We have to lift it and give our children the best of education. Number two, we have to look at our trade policy. We cannot allow Nigeria to be a dumping ground for Chinese consumables. By doing so, we export our jobs to China and import unemployment. Take, for instance, we used to have car battery-making factories in Nigeria; we used to have about eight of them; Berec, exide, sunshine and all of that. In those days, thousands of people were depending on those factories. We used to have tire-making factories. We used to have ceramic-making factories. We have to go back. We have to use our trade policies to encourage indigenous entrepreneurship. We cannot pander to the wishes of the West. We cannot do so. We cannot also pander to the wishes of the Chinese. Do you know that the railway contract in Nigeria incorporates that the Chinese will build the walls; that is the parameter fence. Do you know? So, even in block making, the Chinese will come and make blocks here to build the parameter walls for Nigeria. So, where will our children now have jobs, where will they have the jobs? If we are importing toothpicks from China and we have Malaina in Cross Rivers State, aren’t we foolish? In 2022, we will be importing toothpicks from China?  If you go through this my house, I guess the only thing that is Nigeria here is sand; every other thing is Chinese. Why must it be so? So, if Asiwaju can focus on those two things, the potential of Nigeria will unlock. Obasanjo stopped the importation of juice. Today, Nigeria is the number one juice producer in Africa. If you stop the importation of all these things, you will see where we will be. Just give us four years. Asiwaju is talking about a 12 percent development of the GDP. I see it higher than that.