An unprecedented development took place in the Supreme Court of Nigeria about a week ago which should worry the country’s leadership. Fourteen justices of the court petitioned the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Muhammad Tanko, impugning his integrity and performance in office. A summary of the allegations include dereliction of duty, misappropriation of resources and abuse of power. In his response, the CJN denied the allegations, noting that the judiciary is affected by low budgetary allocation arising from the country’s economic challenges. We urge the National Judicial Council (NJC), which is empowered under the Third Schedule, Paragraph 21(g) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to: “appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over members and staff of the council” to discharge its constitutional responsibility over the allegations. Considering that the CJN is the statutory chairman of the NJC, and the next most senior Justice of the Supreme Court, the deputy chairman, is part of the accusers, the President of the Court of Appeal, who is the third in hierarchy, should preside. No doubt the allegations against the CJN are weighty and also deserve a discreet investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Of course such discreet investigation should cover the finances of the NJC, considering the far-reaching implications of the issues raised by the 14 Justices. Among other allegations, the CJN is accused of using the resources of the NJC for the benefit of his “spouse, children and personal staff,” while denying the justices their entitlements. The justices claimed that the vehicles supplied to them as new, were “either refurbished or substandard.” They demanded to know what has become of their training funds, asking whether it has been diverted. They also claimed that the justices sworn in on November 6, 2022,  were yet to be accommodated by the court. They alleged that their entitlement to qualified legal assistants to effectively offer their best, “has not been accorded any attention by the Honourable Chief Justice.” Furthermore, they claimed a neglect of their health care, stating that Supreme Court’s Staff Clinic has become “a mere consulting clinic” where “drugs are not available to treat minor ailments” and that “there is a general lack of concern for justices who require immediate or emergency medical attention.” The justices wondered why “despite the upward review of our budgetary allocation, the court cannot cater for our legitimate entitlements.” The words on consulting clinics sadly remind us of the reasons for military intervention in 1983.   Unending fuel conundrum      Right step     The boy child   The justices also complained of neglect of a fundamental tool of their work. They said the CJN has withheld his assent to the “Rules of Court for almost three years now.” Furthermore, the justices claimed they are compelled to work only between the “hours of 8am and 4pm daily, for lack of diesel.” Referring to a memo on the shutdown of power by 4pm, they noted that the nature of their work requires longer hours beyond 4pm. The justices claimed that the myriad of developments constitute “the peak of the degeneration of the court; it is the height of decadence and clear evidence of the absence of probity and moral rectitude.” They reminded the CJN that: “The Supreme Court is the seat of the Judiciary as an arm of government.” They vowed that they would not abandon their responsibility to call the CJN to order in the face of these sad developments that threaten their survival as an institution, noting that they have done their best to send a wake-up call to the CJN. The Supreme Court Justices who reportedly signed the letter are Olukayode Ariwoola, Musa Dattijo Mohammed, Kudirat Motonmori O. Kekere-Ekun, John Inyang Okoro, Chima Centus Nweze, Amina Adamu Augie, Uwani Musa Abba-Aji, Mohammed Lawal, Helen Moronkeji Ogunwumiju, Abdu Aboki, Ibrahim Saulawa, Adamu Jauro, Tijjani Abubakar, and Emmanuel Agim. Indeed, if the Supreme Court justices were a democratic assembly, the memo would amount to a vote of no-confidence on the CJN, and that should raise alarm. So, we urge relevant democratic institutions to rise up and deal decisively with these grave allegations made by Supreme Court justices against their leader. The judiciary must bear in mind that there are those who believe that corruption pervades the hallowed chambers of the courts, and it will amount to a monumental tragedy if the head is perceived as rotten. We therefore call on the NJC to immediately institute a probe, by ordering an audit of NJC’s account. Of note, the Body of Benchers has promised to intervene, even though they have limited statutory responsibility in that regard. The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has also called on the judiciary to put its house in order. We recall that the allegations against the immediate former CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen, for which he was edged out, were inconsequential compared to the allegations raised against Justice Tanko. To ignore these allegations will send a wrong signal to Nigerians and the international community.