A group, the Consolidation Ambassadors (TCA), has given reasons why former Lagos State Governor, Ahmed Bola Tinubu, should be the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate in 2023. The group, which has members across the 36 States of the Federation and FCT, said that the party needs a candidate that can give the main opposition party candidate a run for his money. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has nominated former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as its presidential candidate. The group, in a statement by Dr. A. O. Peter, National Secretary and Dr. M. S. Awwal, National Organising Secretary stated that only the former Lagos Governor fits that bill. The statement reads in part: “Partisan politics is not all about Pierre de Coubertin sport’s philosophy of participation or mere contest but it is all about WINNING!   CSOs to parties: conduct credible presidential primaries     Ekiti 2022: APC chieftain, Ogunlade defects to ADP     2023: APC, PDP and gale of defections   “Hence, The Consolidation Ambassadors’ National Organizing Secretary Dr. M. S. Awwal with the support of other national executive members, unreservedly with all our strength and might declare our unflinching support for the national leader of our party; Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. “Our collective resolve to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu emanates from the opposition People’s Democratic Party choice of their presidential candidate. It is a political development that needs careful analysis, consideration and realignment. “Without any iota of doubt, Tinubu is APC’S most influential politician. His mentoring of top politicians is legendary and his national acceptance is no doubt a nonnegotiable fact that can usher our party to success come 2023 election. “In order to achieve our collective resolve to sustain, renew, unify, reinvigorate and to consolidate President Muhammadu Buhari legacies bequeathed to Nigeria and Nigerians, we call on all rank and file of All Progressive Party Members and indeed, all Nigerians to support Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu in the coming 2023 Presidential Elections. “For Nigeria to consolidate on aw achievements of President Buhari, we need a bold, frank, independent, transparent, intelligent, smart-thinker, creative mind and above all, a man of Tinubu’s experience, sterling leadership qualities, a detribalised man, a man who treats everybody on equal, just and fairness, irrespective of religion, gender or age. “A man with the immeasurable leadership qualities known for Nigeria’s founding fathers – Ahmadu Bello, Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikiwe, and Tafawa Balewa. A man who can usher the country into a modern Nigeria – that man is ASIWAJU AHMED BOLA TINUBU!”