Delta State Governor  Ifeanyi Okowa says he knows that his Rivers State counterpart Nyesom Wike will not be disappointed with his emergence as vice-presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He described Wike as a good man and a true party man who has the interest of Nigeria and the PDP at heart. Okowa was responding to a question by reporters in Abuja on what he felt would be the reaction of the Rivers State governor to his being chosen by PDP presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar as his running mate. The governor said his joint ticket with Abubakar was the best to “rescue and rebuild” Nigeria, and added that he had no second thought that Wike would still work for the opposition party. His words  “I know Governor Wike is a very strong party man. He has a great love for our party, and I believe he is also a good democrat who understands that when several brothers are in the race for a particular position, only one person will be at the front at a time. “I want to assure you that Governor Wike is a very good man and his interest for this country and party is not in doubt. “He will be able to rise up to the challenge of the moment. I do not feel he is going to be disappointed.”.   International Award for 800 young Nigerians     How Southeast governors frustrated Igbo president, by…     Why Peter Obi can’t be president, by Mbaka   Admitting that there was a huge challenge before the PDP and the country, Okowa said that the opposition party was fully prepared for the problems. He said: “We understand what Nigeria is into at the moment. There is a huge challenge in our nation and PDP has continually said they want to rescue this country and rebuild it. “And to do that, you need a man who has the right experience. Our presidential candidate is in the best position to rescue Nigeria and rebuild it. “I am very grateful I have been asked today to join that ticket and going forward, to run with him as the vice presidential candidate. “Obviously, he (Atiku) has put forth documents to Nigerians and I would urge our press, I would urge Nigerians to please look at that document. “He has been able to touch all problems we face in Nigeria. He has been able to come up with a document that you can trust. “In the next few weeks, you would be hearing a lot from our campaign organisation. But rest assured that we are in the process of ensuring that Nigeria is returned back to its glorious days. “We will definitely go ahead to support that. I must thank the National Chairman of the party (Iyorcha Ayu) for bringing great life into this party. “You could see with the way our national convention was organised that we are prepared for governance, we are prepared to run a government that is based on integrity.”