Nigeria and Spain have canvased global action to stem the looming food crisis due to the war in Ukraine. President Muhammadu Buhari met with King Felipe VI of Spain at his palace in Madrid as part of his three-day state visit. The two leaders emphasised the effect of the war on the production of wheat, which is globally sourced from the troubled region. The King said Nigeria was important and looked forward to an opportunity to visit. President Buhari thanked the Spanish Monarch for the invitation and hospitality extended to him since his arrival and updated him on happenings in Nigeria especially as the country gears up for general elections. In a separate meeting with President Pedro Sanchez, President Buhari said his country looked forward to increasing bilateral relations.   N4m livestock rustled, killed in six years, Miyetti Allah…     APC crisis: NWC chair Abdullahi settles with aggrieved…     Nigerian heads African teacher’s union   The Nigerian leader commended his Spanish counterpart for his leadership qualities and contributions in the war against terror in Sub-Saharan Africa especially in Mali, looking forward to cooperation in the area. The two leaders discussed areas of cooperation in which Agreements and Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) were signed. President Sanchez emphasized that, as a major partner of Spain in Africa, Nigeria was a country that his people wanted to have a stronger partnership with going forward. He commended President Buhari for his leadership roles in Africa, especially in the area of strengthening of democratic ideals. Spain is the largest importer of Nigerian gas and the third largest importer of Nigerian crude, and with the visit, the two leaders hoped for bigger trade relations. Nine agreements and memoranda of understanding were signed, namely: Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in criminal matters, transfer of sentenced persons, extradition, economic and commercial cooperation, tourism, sports, health, COVID-19 and science and innovation.