The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has accused the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of masterminding a purported leaked document, titled: Leaked APC 2023 Election Document. Denying authorship of the document in a statement yesterday in Abuja, APC National Publicity Secretary Felix Morka alleged that the purported leaked document was a desperate bid by the main opposition to gain unmerited electoral advantage. Morka stressed that the “leaked document is the handiwork of very sick elements of the opposition PDP in a desperate quest for unmerited electoral advantage by attempting to smear our Party with wrong doing”. The statement reads: “The attention of the APC has been drawn to a document in circulation described as ‘leaked APC 2023 Election Document’. “Mischievously, the document alleged that our party has voted a whooping N6.5 trillion to fund schemes aimed at swaying the Nigerian electorate to support and vote for the party and its presidential candidate in 2023. “Ridiculously, too, the document alleged that obscene amounts of money have been voted for outright vote-buying, compromising INEC workers, security operatives, judicial officers and other officials. “The APC wishes to place firmly on record that the document is not of the party. We neither authored nor own any such document, and it certainly did not emanate from our party.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   “Indubitably, the document is the handiwork of very sick elements of the opposition PDP in a desperate quest for unmerited electoral advantage by attempting to smear our party with wrongdoing. “In their zealous attempt to mudsling, the document’s authors senselessly alleged that our party proposes to apply nearly half of the country’s entire 2022 budget to buy votes. “How in the world does a government operating a national budget of N17 trillion dole out N6.5 trillion to rig elections? It clearly betrays the authors’ extreme ignorance of the complexity of the systems and processes for the appropriation and utilisation of state funds.” Morka averred that the ruling “party is focused on delivering the dividends of democracy to Nigerians in the hope that they will reciprocate by supporting and voting for our candidates come 2023 elections”. He said: “We are a law-abiding party and have no need to engage in any fraud and electoral malpractice suggested in that worthless document. “Only a party that is a masterful looter of the national treasury, such as the PDP, can even imagine another capable of engaging in the kinds of atrocious acts the document suggests.” APC urged Nigerians to disregard the document, saying it is a product of sleazy propaganda for which the PDP has gained notoriety. The ruling party reaffirmed its commitment to building an innovative system of free and credible elections as witnessed in the recently concluded governorship election in Ekiti State.