Seventeen years after he joined the Supreme Court bench in 2005 and three years after he was appointed substantive Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) on July 24, 2019, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad quit his job yesterday. But it was not the first time the jurist would catch many unawares. Justice Muhammad’s resignation brought the curtains down on his interesting – perhaps in the Chinese proverb sense – times at the helm of affairs of the third arm of government It all began following his bid to wade through the cloud of his nomination by President Muhammadu Buhari as Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria in the wake of the controversial suspension of his predecessor Justice Walter Onnoghen in January 2019 over allegations of non-asset declaration. Justice Onnoghen was never returned to office following his resignation and conviction by the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT), but Muhammad’s appointment caused a storm with many Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), opposing his confirmation as substantive CJN. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) petitioned the National Judicial Council (NJC), demanding Justice Muhammad’s removal on the alleged ground of misconduct and breach of the constitution for accepting to be sworn in without NJC’s recommendation. Agbakoba said: “Hon. Justice Tanko Mohammed is fully aware of the state of law, yet presented himself to be sworn in by the President. “Incidentally, Justice Tanko Mohammed was a member of the NJC panel that removed Justice Obisike Orji of the Abia State High Court for accepting to be sworn in as Chief Judge by the Governor of Abia state without the recommendation of the NJC. “It is a matter of regret that Justice Tanko Mohammed who participated in this process will lend himself to this constitutional infraction.” As part of the process for his confirmation as CJN Justice Muhammad was drilled on July 17, 2019, by members of the National Assembly on several issues on the administration of Justice in the country. While he appeared to respond creditably to some of the lawmakers’ questions, Justice Muhammad’s remarks on ‘technicalities’ left many scratching their heads. Senate Minority Leader Eyinnaya Abaribe asked the acting CJN to explain if the Supreme Court under his watch would be more concerned with delivering judgments based on the merit of cases or technicalities of such cases. Responding, Justice Muhammad defined technicality, but his reference to the inability of a judge to effectively ‘drive’ an aeroplane, was seen by many as being off the mark, casting doubt about his competence for the job. Justice Muhammad, an authority in Sharia law, sparked a furore in December 2019 when he called for the amendment of the constitution to accommodate more aspects of the Sharia law. The jurist was between 1991 and 1993 a judge of the Sharia Court of Appeal, Bauchi State. “As we all know, there are sections of the constitution that allow the implementation of Shari’a personal law and apart from that, we cannot do more. However, we have the numbers to amend the constitution to suit our position as Muslims,” he said. Justice Muhammad chaired a seven-man panel of justices which presided over the appeal on the Imo State governorship election. Hope Uzodimma had argued that both the tribunal and the court of appeal erred by throwing out his petition against Emeka Ihedioha, then Imo State Governor. Uzodimma argued that Ihedioha did not score the highest number of votes in the governorship election — because results from 388 units were excluded from collation by INEC. The panel led by the CJN agreed with the appellant’s argument and affirmed Uzodimma (who came fourth in the election) as the duly-elected Governor of Imo State. Justice Chima Nweze disagreed with the ruling. He set aside the January 14 judgment that removed Ihedioha, describing it as a nullity and in bad faith. Centus said: “This decision of the supreme court will continue to haunt our electoral jurisprudence for a long time to come.” A businessman, Mr Tochi Michael, in May 2019 dragged Justice Muhammadbefore a Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court over alleged age falsification.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   The petitioner alleged that the CJN deliberately falsified his date of birth from December 31, 1950, as contained in all his official records, including that of WAEC, to December 31, 1953, upon his appointment as a judicial officer. But the court, on May 31, 2019, dismissed the suit, for lack of ‘’Locus Standi’’. The judge, Danlami Senchi, held that the suit ought to have been filed before the court by way of writ of summons and not originating summon. In 2019, the CJN was also alleged to be involved in bribery in a case involving Sani Dauda, owner of ASD Motors. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had arraigned Shehu Sani, a former senator, for allegedly taking money from Dauda, promising to pass it on to former EFCC boss Ibrahim Magu and influencing the outcome of some cases using his connection with the CJN and some other judges. The CJN, however, denied being involved in such unethical conduct, stating that he had never met Sani. Health challenges There were speculations and concerns over Justice Muhammad’s health, following, among others, his absence from several important functions, particularly in 2020. In December of the same year, it was learnt that he had been ill and was due to be flown abroad for treatment. But his spokesperson as well as the Supreme Court administration insisted that he was in good health. In what was seen by many as a major blow to the judiciary’s integrity, Justices of the Supreme Court accused Justice Muhammad, of corruption. In a protest memo signed by 14 Supreme Court judges, they called out Justice Muhammad over poor conditions of service in the judiciary and the welfare of its members. The main issues in their letter were; non-replacement of poor vehicles; accommodation problems; lack of drugs at the Supreme Court clinic; epileptic electricity supply to the Supreme Court; increase in electricity tariff; no increase in the allowances for diesel; lack of internet services to residences and chambers. “Your lordship received and ignored these demands since 24th March 2022.” They also claimed that while the CJN made provision for his personal staff and family members to travel abroad, only a few judges have had the opportunity under Muhammad. They demanded to know what had become of funds set aside for the training of justices since they were denied the usual two to three international workshops annually. In the letter which they described as a “wake-up call” to the CJN, the justices said: “It is either you quickly and swiftly take responsibility and address these burning issues or we will be compelled to further steps immediately.” The CJN replied to the judges, giving a breakdown of the expenses that the nation’s apex court made under him. He also explained that he refrained from joining issues with the judges until the letter which ought to be personal started spreading the society. “The Supreme Court definitely does not exist outside its environment, it is also affected by the economic and socio-political climate prevailing in the country,” he said. Justice Muhammad, who doubled as Chairman, Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC), drew the ire of the bar by excluding lawyers, including seven SANs, from Supreme Court appointment as Justices. None of the 23 lawyers who heeded the CJN’s January 19 invitation and applied for the job is on a 29-man provisional list seen by The Nation on Sunday. The list, sent by Justice Muhammad, to the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), was received by its Judiciary Committee Chairman Dr. Babatunde Ajibade, SAN, on May 27. It comprises 29 Justices of the Court of Appeal from five geopolitical zones. The FJSC‘s action was condemned by the NBA, whose president Olumide Akpata wrote a protest letter to the CJN on May 26.