Nigeria’s Under-17 national football team,  Golden Eaglets, will take on Burkina Faso in the final match of the 2022 WAFU B Under-17 tournament this evening in Cape Coast, Ghana. The record five-time world champions at the same time have qualified for the 2023 Africa U17 Cup of Nations scheduled for next year in Algeria, underscoring Nigeria’s prowess in youth football on the African continent. While Nigeria did the business in a three-team Group A that also included hosts Ghana and Togo, Burkina Faso were in the four-team Group that included Niger Republic, Cote d’Ivoire and Benin Republic. The Young Etalons dominated them all, and then pipped three-time world champions Ghana 1-0 in the second semi-final on Tuesday to set up a potentially explosive Final with the Golden Eaglets. The Eaglets, on the other hand, beat the Black Satellites 4-2 in their opening game before a 3-1 win over Togo to set up a semifinal clash with soon-to-be former defending champions Cote d ‘ Ivoire. Free-kick specialist Emmanuel Michael found the back of the net twice while Abubakar Idris Abdullahi headed home the third goal that condemned the Ivoirians to a 1-3 defeat to book a ticket to Algeria, from which Africa’s flag bearers to next year’s FIFA U17 World Cup in Peru will emerge.   Unveiled: Five teen stars tipped to shine at AFN trials     Revealed :Why Nigerian stars missing from big summer…     Gara Gombe sues for caution on NFF elections   Victory  this evening will mean Nigeria have swept the stakes in youth football in the seven-nation WAFU B within one month, with the U20 Boys (Flying Eagles) having won the WAFU B U20 Championship in Niger Republic just last month. For Michael, the final with Burkinabes would be a tough duel but believed Nigeria will  emerge victorious, especially as he and his teammates, under the tutelage of Nduka Ugbade, are optimistic. The Simoiben Academy product is on course to become MVP of the tournament after his brace on Tuesday, both brilliant free kicks, bagged him his third straight Man of the Match Award against the Ivorians. “First of all, I know it is going to be a tough game but I know we are going to win,” he said. “Our coach has been instrumental in our quest to qualify for the u17 AFCON and with his instructions I believe we are going to beat the Burkinabes” Coach Ugbade on his part said he has told his boys they still have grounds to conquer despite securing a ticket to Algeria next year. “We are going into the Final match, and we are up against Burkina Faso, a team that has won all its four matches in this competition. We have also won our three matches here but we must win the fourth and final one to clinch the trophy. Let us not allow Burkina Faso to play five matches and win all five matches. We must work assiduously to win all our four matches here to be the only undefeated team of the tournament,” Ugbade reportedly told the Golden Eaglets.