Blasphemy killings in Nigeria claimed another casualty penultimate weekend as a 30-year-old member of a vigilance group in Lugbe area of the federal capital got stoned to death by a mob and his body burnt. Ahmad Usman, a member of the vigilante group at Tipper Garage, Federal Housing Estate in Lugbe district, was mob-lynched for alleged blasphemy, reportedly at the instigation of a cleric who has been arrested by the police along with other suspects. Eye witness accounts said the late Usman was on security patrol at the garage on the night of Friday, June 4, and had invited trouble by attempting to arrest some followers of the cleric, named Malam Lawan, for wandering after 12 midnight. There was a standing security rule at the market settlement that no one should operate there beyond 12 midnight, and it was apparently the rule Usman was trying to enforce when he got in a heated argument with Lawan. It was in the course of that argument he was alleged to have made a blasphemous comment. Although the matter was laid to rest that night upon intervention by other vigilante group members, Lawan returned early on Saturday with a mob to tackle Usman for the alleged blasphemy. A vigilante group member was quoted saying: “We were all in our office around 8a.m. when (Lawan’s) people besieged the place. They were shouting that Usman abused Allah, and before you knew it, there were many of them at the front of our office throwing stones.” The eye witness explained that the mob overwhelmed vigilante group members to seize Usman and deal him instant jungle justice. Usman, who got married early this year, was buried same day in accordance with Islamic rites. The patrol commander of the vigilante group in charge of Lugbe/Airport axis, Abdulahi Umar, corroborated the narrative, saying the allegation of blasphemy against Usman was a frame-up by Lawan. Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, condemned the killing, saying no one had the right to take the law into their own hands no matter the circumstance or perceived level of provocation. The FCT Police Command as well confirmed having arrested Lawan and 14 other suspects in connection with the blasphemy killing. Commissioner of Police Babaji Sunday said the command would bring the perpetrators to book.   Solid call     Food for life     Exit of a priestess   It is welcome that some suspects of the Abuja killing have been apprehended. They should be made to face the full force of law as the police have promised, and considering that more than 200 persons were reported involved, more arrests indeed need be made. The Abuja killing came in the wake of similar killing few weeks earlier of a female student of Shehu Shagari College of Education (SSCOE), Sokoto, Deborah Samuel, whose body was also set ablaze by fellow students who accused her of blasphemy. Some suspects of that killing were as well arrested, but prosecutorial vigour in bringing them to justice is yet to be seen on the part of the authorities. In-between the Sokoto and Abuja killings, there were reports of another blasphemy killing in Bauchi. The Abuja killing was particularly instructive because whereas the Sokoto incident was condemned by many, including President Muhammadu Buhari and prominent religious leaders, the Chief Imam of the National Mosque in Abuja, Professor Ibrahim Maqari, justified the need for Muslims to defend Prophet Muhammad (SAW) without facing criticism. In a Facebook post intervention in the debate over Deborah Samuel’s murder, he wrote: “It should be known to everyone that we Muslims have some redlines which MUST NOT be crossed. The dignity of the Prophet (PBUH) is at the forefront of the redlines. If our grievances are not properly addressed, then we should not be criticised for addressing them ourselves.” Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, has since called for his immediate sack over the comment, which he said equated to the Islamic cleric directing his followers to take the law into their own hands in the name of religion. We cannot as a civilised people permit jungle justice, and neither should society tolerate instrumentalising vindictiveness in the guise of religion. Blasphemy killings must be stopped.