Two clergymen, three missionaries and two other persons have been abducted in Plateau, Oyo and Kogi states. Two weeks ago, the Prelate of the Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence, Samuel Kanu-Uche was abducted by gunmen in Abia State, alongside his companions travelling with him. They were released after the church paid N100 million to the abductors. In Plateau, Rev Father James Kantoma, Catholic priest of St Anthony’s Parish in Angware community of Jos East council, was abducted by gunmen from his residence yesterday Kantoma is the chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in the council, it was learnt. CAN chairman in the state, Polycarp Lubo, confirmed the incident. “Since the gunmen took the Reverend Father away, we have not heard anything either from him or the abductors up till this afternoon. This is so sad but we are praying for him that no harm will befall him wherever he is,” Lugbo said. A resident of the community, Paul Aware, also confirmed the cleric’s abduction. Joshua said, “When the gunmen arrived in the community in the early hours of the morning, they moved straight to the house of the Reverend Father. Some youths in the area, who were alerted, tried to stop them and even gave them a hot chase but the gunmen started shooting everywhere and eventually took the Reverend Father away.” Police spokesman Alabo Alfred said the Command was aware of the incident. “Our men are already working to ensure that the Reverend Father regains his freedom, and apprehend those behind the abduction,” he said.   Herders invade Niger Delta creeks, says IYC     Court rejects CBN’s request to withhold N8b awarded to…     Bandit killed, AK47, nine bikes recovered on Kaduna-Abuja…   In Oyo, police said gunmen abducted the Bishop of Jebba Diocese (Anglican Communion), Kwara State, Rt. Rev Aderogba Adeyinka Oluwaseun. The bishop’s wife, Mrs Oreofe Oluwaseun and his driver were also taken away by the assailants. The three persons were reportedly abducted on Sunday on New Oyo/Ogbomoso Expressway. Police spokesman Adewale Osifeso said the abductors may have seized the bishop and his companions when his car developed a mechanical fault in an isolated area of the road. Osifeso added, though, that the Command had launched a manhunt for the abductors. A source said the abductors have reached out to the family, demanding a ransom of N50 million before the three persons would be released. The church was yet to release a statement on the development at press time. In Kogi, police also confirmed the abduction of three missionaries by gunmen. The police identified the abducted missionaries as Evangelist Peter Adigidzi, Pastor Mike Baba and Pastor Sunday Abah, all working with Child Evangelical Fellowship (CEF) and residents of Lokoja. State Commissioner of Police Edward Egbuka, who confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), said they got a report from the Children Evangelism Ministry that three of its missionaries were on Friday abducted. “We are aware of the unfortunate and worrisome incident and have taken drastic measures to track down the suspected abductors to rescue the clerics,” Egbuka said. Egbuka said the police tactical team had been deployed to strategic places in search of the victims, and to arrest the kidnapers. The Kogi Coordinator of Children Evangelism Ministry, Evangelist Charles Esho, said the missionaries were on an assignment at Ejule community in Ofu council of the state when the incident occurred. Esho appealed to the security operatives to assist in searching and rescuing the missionaries to unite them with their families.