Bishops in Osogbo, the Osun state capital, have urged politicians and residents to embrace peace ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the State. The Bishops, mainly from churches in Osogbo, stated that they had already started observing triggers of violence around major cities such as the destruction of posters and symbols of candidates of various parties. The Bishops made their position known in a statement in Abuja at the weekend ahead of the election. The statement was jointly signed by Most Rev. John Oyejola, Catholic Bishop of Osogbo Diocese; Rt Rev Amos K. Ogunrinde, The Methodist Bishop of Osogbo Diocese; Rt Rev Dr Foluso Olugbenga Babatunji, The Anglican Bishop of Osun Diocese; Rev James O. Bamidele, The African Church Bishop of Osun Central Diocese and Rev Dr Paul Kolawole, Conference President, Osun Baptist Conference. The statement reads: “We also commend our politicians in Osun, who up to this point have significantly reduced verbal and physical assault of opponents in campaign activities. It is however disheartening that we already observe triggers of violence around our major cities such as the destruction of posters and symbols of candidates of various parties.   BREAKING: Late gospel singer Osinachi’s body arrive…     Terrorists kill three vigilantes, injure many in Niger…     Senate lauds Gbajabiamila at 60   “While we appeal to politicians to continue to use verbal and body languages that promote peace as we approach the election date, we encourage all young persons in Osun state to make personal commitment to contribute to the joint-effort for the fostering of peace and progress in Osun State. “We shall not also fail to mention with dismay, the worsening shameful ugly trend of money politics during the recently held primaries of various political parties. All citizens of Osun and indeed our nation Nigeria must in the spirit of patriotism and sense of common vehemently renounce the marauding beast of vote buying which makes our polity vulnerable to cowards in the political space who mean nothing good for our common existence. “We encourage politicians to enliven the pre-election atmosphere with issue-based campaign and demonstrate respect for the citizenry by ensuring that their manifestos get to the reach of the common man at the grassroots to prepare them for voting froma free and informed conscience. In this respect, we call on the media to manifest a high sense of professionalism as we appeal to all citizens to eschew fake news and hate speech and avoid their dissemination by whatever means. We must use social media conscientiously with respect for the dignity and safety of our fellow human beings. “We call on security agencies to be committed to the protection of all citizens of Nigeria and create an atmosphere of security most needed for the conduct of a participatory credible election. They must perform their duties with absolute sense of neutrality. We appeal to citizens also to be law abiding and cooperate with the security agencies to enable them serve everyone effectively. “We encourage victors during the election to be magnanimous in victory and constitute an inclusive government that would give everyone a sense of belonging that would foster collaboration in peace for the progress of our dear state. “We call on all religious communities to put our state in prayer and encourage all the faithful of their religions to work with their compatriots for a peaceful and progressive Osun State and Nigeria as a whole.”