Most Rev. David Ajang, Catholic Bishop of Lafia Diocese has called on Nigerians, especially the youths, to use the cyberspace for positive activities. Ajang made the call on Saturday in Lafia in an interview with newsmen shortly after a Mass to mark his one year ordination as the Bishop of Lafia Diocese. Ajang said given the challenges and influence of cyberspace, there was the need for it to be dominated with positive contents. He said, what is happening in the social media space is like events in normal day-to- day activities where a lot of competitions go on. “In normal day’s life, there is competition between the forces of darkness and forces of light which equally occur in the cyberspace. “There is a strong need for good people to dominate the space with positive contents in order to defeat the evil forces. “People are influenced by what they see or read. People with positive ideas should dominate the space with those ideas that would help build relationships and unite the society”, he said. He believes that negative influence from the cyberspace were contributory factors to the upsurge in violent crimes and other anti-social misconducts.   Voter registration will be extended, says INEC chairman     I have no third term agenda – Buhari     Abducted former Ekiti Chief Pharmacist freed after N4.5m…   Ajang urged Nigerians to be patriotic, adding that leaders and followers all have their problems which should be well managed. “The problem with some of our leaders is selfishness, because some of them set confusion in the system because they benefit from it. “On the side of the masses, there problem is sentiment in choice of who leads them Rather than electing people with competence they vote based on sentiment,” the cleric said. He used the opportunity to express gratitude to all the priests in the diocese and lay faithful for their support to him since he was ordained their Bishop. He promised to do his best to reposition and strengthen the faith of his flock and ensure that Catholic schools in the diocese maintained high education and moral standard. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ajang was ordained as the second Bishop of Lafia Catholic Diocese on June 25, 2021 following his appointment by Pope Francis.   (NAN)