The Managing Director, Lagos Commodities & Futures Exchange (LCFE), Mr. Akin Akeredolu-Ale, has expressed optimism that the economy is taking off on a good note, particularly with the development of a commodity trading ecosystem for the solid minerals sector. The move, he affirmed, would further diversify the economy. He spoke while welcoming participants at the virtual seminar on investing in gold. Dukia Gold & Precious Metals Refining Company Limited said it has completed arrangements for the trading of fully refined London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) investment grade gold bullion bars, its derivatives and related products on the floor of the Lagos Commodities & Futures Exchange (LCFE). The Managing Director, Dukia Gold & Precious Metals Refining Company Limited, Ms. Bose Owolabi, stated that the seminar was one of the many initiatives along with other partners conducted ahead of the introduction of the Dukia Gold Exchange Traded Certificate (DGETC). Minister of Mines & Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite said gold investments are said to be a unique, time-tested wealth preservation instruments, thereby creating a vehicle for Nigerians to build and preserve wealth over the long term. He noted that good delivery gold bars and their derivatives are unlike jewellery, ornaments or raw gold, are Investment grade precious metals (IPM), which are essentially financial assets that are actively traded, similar to financial instruments such as stocks and bonds. Adegbite said  it is such IPM product that a proudly Nigerian Gold and Precious Metal Refinery, the Dukia Gold and Precious Metals Refining Company Limited , one of the organisers of the webinar was introducing in Nigeria through the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange. He urged participants and the public, who are desirous of owning gold assets, to invest in the in Dukia Gold to add value to the precious metal value chain. Chairman, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Dr Oyindasola Oni, highlighted the wish of the industry to have more investment grade Financial Instruments which will offer more diversifications of available financial assets, necessary to improve the portfolio results of pension funds and asset managers. He noted that the demand for safe assets by investors following record-high global uncertainty on performance of the stocks and bonds market are well documented. He pointed out the requirements of investment grade assets as stipulated within Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the regulations on the Investment of pension fund assets. These sections, he said, specify the authorised markets, allowable instruments and minimum quality requirements for investment instruments/securities to qualify for pension fund investments.   Piracy inhibiting foreign investment, trade, says envoy     NBS: Nigeria’s Q1 trade surplus hits N1.2trillion     Airtel reaffirms commitment to environmental management   He said: “Investment of pension assets in Gold instruments, therefore, depends on compliance with these requirements.  Needless to reiterate that the safety of pension assets remains a fundamental objective of pension fund investments, always.” He said pension fund operators play a critical role as institutional investors in developing the financial market. He charged the PFAs to give serious considerations to investing part of the almost N14 trillion in their coffers in investment grade gold bullion bars, an investment option which Dukia Gold is promoting through its DGETC. Oni made this charge against the backdrop that the rapid growth of the pension assets has not seen corresponding increases in investment outlets within our domestic market, the government has been the largest beneficiary of pension funds investment with more than 61  per cent  of the accumulated assets devoted to it. Two key lecture presentations to enlighten participants on the benefits and implications of investing their assets in investment grade Gold were made by Mrs. Morohunke Bammeke, a former Managing Director of PAL Pensions and Mr. David Adeyinka, an investment analyst based in the United Kingdom. The two speakers made brilliant presentations on the benefits which investments in good delivery gold bars mean for investors in terms of wealth preservation, reliability and assurance of non-depreciation of the value of assets held in LBMA-grade gold bars even during turbulent economic times and many more advantages. Both speakers supported the view that gold was used by investors to hedge against inflation, currency risks and systemic risks that may affect entire financial markets such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the 2007/2008 financial crisis when gold returned over 31 per cent price appreciation. This is because gold investments have traditionally exhibited negative correlation with stock markets and tend to do better in times of financial crisis. The presentation of the DGETC was made by Mr. Seun Osomo of Vetiva Securities, who referred to this unique exchange-traded gold-backed product as a game changer. He listed the product features and its trading dynamics and emphasised for that the commodity to be traded on the LCFE, it will be sourced in accordance with global standards set by the LBMA and OECD. The trading features include settlement through CSCS. In rounding off the seminar, the investing public was urged to look forward to the formal launching of the Dukia Gold Exchange Traded Certificates, a gold-backed product exchange traded spot Gold that will soon be presented and traded on the floor of the Lagos Commodities & Futures Exchange.