Block moulders and artisans nationwide have been enjoined to adhere  to quality and shun acts that could compromise the standard of their products. They were also given hints on how to detect fake or adulterated cement. Against the background of  building collapse across the country, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) said block moulders occupy a strategic position in the industry and, therefore, should make quality their watchword. SON gave the advice in Port Harcourt, Rivers State during a workshop by Dangote Cement Plc, in collaboration with the regulator, for the block moulders and other artisans from Bayelsa and Rivers states. SON’s Assisitant State Director,  Lillian Gua, emphasised the need for the artisans to know the right mixes in blocks production so that they would  achieve the expected quality. The SON boss cited Dangote Cement as a certified product whose quality has been found to be accurate. Gua added that every certified product is issued a certificate by SON as a proof its quality. Gua thanked the management of Dangote Cement for the workshop, saying the participants need such sensitisation to keep them abreast of development, especially as it affects quality and standard of products. In his presentation, Technical Director, Dangote Cement Plc, Mr. Adeiza Aniki explained that the sensitisation workshop was meant to update and refresh the block moulders and artisans’ recent events in the industry, as much as standard and quality are concerned.   One dead as okada ban takes off in Lagos     2023 president: It’s South’s turn after Buhari, says Ayade     Army to invite Methodist prelate for linking soldiers to…   He stated that Dangote Cement hold the participants dearly as critical point in the cement value chain and has therefore made the workshop a periodic exercise so that the company could also get the feedback from the market and help in meeting the demands of the customers at all time. Aniki told the participants of the need to contribute to the efforts at stemming building collapse in the country and one of the ways they can do that is by adhering to quality and exposing bad eggs wherever they see any. He told the block moulders and artisans that they can rely on Dangote Cement at any time, and went ahead to give them hints on how they can ascertain the quality of cement as a major component in the block making process. According to him; “check the manufacturing date of cement because the strength of cement reduces with age, and also the cement expiry date should not be exceeded as at the time of use. Ensure batch codes are available on the bags found at the site. “Check for the presence of lumps in the cement. Check for hydration of cement by checking for the presence of lumps, which is a sign of absorption of moisture from air or environment, due to poor storage or damaged bags. “Check for excess amount of dust in cement, which is called float test. To do this, put a small quantity of cement in a bucket of water. If the cement floats on the water for some time before it sinks, the cement is of good quality. If the cement sinks immediately it touches the water, the cement is a bad quality cement. “Check for temperature. If it is cool inside the bag, the cement should be considered as good quality, but if it is warm inside, the process of hydration is taking place, hence strength will be affected. Make sure you keep the cement in a dry environment. “Check for cement adulteration, it makes the cement poorer in quality by addition of another substance. Rub the cement between the fingers and if it gives a smooth feeling, the cement is of good quality; but if it feels gritty or rough, it means other substances have been added. This is a sign of bad quality cement. It will lower strength. “And lastly, check for odour. This can used to evaluate the presence of clay or silt. If the cement contains too much of clay and silt as an adulterant, it will give an earthy smell,” he added. Aniki explained that Dangote cement has made available different grades and varieties of cement to suit the use of its customers in many ways, citing 3X, Falcon and BlocMaster as some of the varieties in the market.