Despite the enormous responsibilities on its shoulders, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has embarked on a major task: To remove wrecks from our seaways. This is not unexpected. The body is charged with ensuring the safety of navigation in line with the Wreck Removal Convention adopted at the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) conference in Nairobi, Kenya in 2007, which came force on April 14, 2015. Nigeria was the eighth country to ratify the convention. Investigation has shown that no fewer than 35 ship wrecks and vessels have been abandoned on Lagos waters by some shipping firms and individuals. The wrecks, derelicts and abandoned vessels’ litter the waterways and are being removed by NIMASA to stem criminalities on the territorial waters and around the port. During a tour of Lagos by The Nation, it was discovered that the back of Tin Can Island port in Lagos has become a dumping ground for shipwrecks and abandoned vessels. The people of Ogogoro Village at back of the port and along the coastline said these were making their lives miserable. The two Lagos ports are responsible for the highest concentration of shipping traffic to country. Findings show that before the efforts by NIMASA, the abandoned vessels serve as storage  for stolen oil as well as shelter for criminal activities. Safety and security of shipping business NIMASA said it had warned owners of abandoned ships/vessels to remove them or face sanctions, which range from forfeiture or removal by the agency at the owner’s expense. Deploying magnetometer NIMASA said it had started preparatory works to deploy high-resolution magnetometer to validate the removal of the wrecks along the Badagry Creeks in Lagos. Its Director-General, Dr Bashir Jamoh, who stated this during a review session on the wreck removal, also said the impact of the exercise on the marine environment was being assessed by the agency. “We shall also conduct a full bottom sweeping operation by deploying sonar imagery system to establish any natural or artificial obstacles lying on the seabed within the area of survey for this phase of the wreck removal exercise. NIMASA is also taking into consideration, the impact of the entire operations on the marine environment to ensure safety of marine lives. We are monitoring the entire exercise to guarantee total removal of all identified wrecks,” he said. Submerged barges removed Among those removed are a submerged barge, which was lying over 10 meters deep along the Badagry channel on coordinates 711006.1 Easting and 535294.9 Northing. NIMASA said it has also removed two others beneath the water at 530924.9 Northing and 710608.3 Easting. Another submerged barge, which has been lying along the channels on 711617.5 Easting and 533601.6 Northing has been removed and taken to the dumpsite in Kirikiri, Lagos. Collaboration with Navy NIMASA had worked with the Hydrography Department of the Nigerian Navy to identify these wrecks. “We worked with the Hydrography Unit of the Nigerian Navy in charting the waters and establishing these wrecks as critical for immediate removal. Some are completely submerged while others are partially submerged. This Badagry creek is a commercial route with passenger vessels plying and we place a premium on safety of lives and properties. We are confident that on completion, operations of the Navy in patrolling our waters will also be enhanced as the routes will be free of wrecks,” the DG also said. Jamoh told The Nation that it was instructive to ensure that our waters remained safe for navigation. He, therefore, warned that abandoned ships on the territorial waters would be declared as wrecks and the agency would ensure that nothing impeded safe navigation in the country’s waters by removing them. “In line with our mandate on the protection of the marine environment and safety of navigation within waters and our powers as the receiver of wrecks; owners of all abandoned ships, vessels and derelicts are sternly warned to seek removal plan permits from the agency and ensure the removal of these wrecks and derelicts from our waters and failure of which would attract appropriate sanction,” he said. He reeled out the sanctions to include removal of such wrecks at the owners’ expense as well as forfeiture of the vessels. He stated that the agency is empowered to do so in line with the powers vested in it by the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 and other enabling Acts and International Maritime Organisation (IMO) instruments. The Nairobi International Convention on the Removal of Wrecks (Nairobi Convention 2007) gives states the authority to remove wrecks. In the case of Nigeria, NIMASA is the receiver of wrecks. A resident of Ogogoro village, Mr. John Edward, said the areas most affected are Tin Can Island, Kirikiri, Navy Town and Badagry creek areas of the channel. According to him, the community has identified over 80 of such abandoned ships and wrecks, which were submerged along the busy Lagos channel,thereby constituting grave danger to ships and crew.   Emefiele lists benefits of e-Naira to trade, investments     Warning shots from kigali, by Femi Adesina     Solving Nigeria’s energy crisis with renewable energy   “The hazards associated with the wrecks are that, most often, especially during high water, they are submerged and hardly visible to boat operators; therefore, they pose the greatest threats during rainy season that is fast approaching. “Apart from endangering shipping, most of the abandoned vessels also constitute environmental pollution and hazards,” he said. Another resident of Imore, Mr Gbenga Owolabi, said the government has the responsibility to remove the wrecks. “It does not portray our port well. It also does not show that as a country within the global shipping community, there is respect for law and order. “In addition to these injury, there are navigational aids such as the boyle, markings, light that are not functional, missing or have shifted from their original positions based on the abandoned ships that needed to be fixed by the relevant government agencies. “The absence of navigational aids also constitutes risk to shipping, especially at night or during restricted visibilities. ‘’We are hoping that actions would be taken to clear our channel of those abandoned vessels so that patrol ships can easily move in and out of harbour to respond to emergencies,” he said. Edward and Owolabi are not alone. A senior official of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), who craved anonymity, also admitted that the Lagos coastline is littered with abandoned vessels and shipwrecks.The official said some of the abandoned vessels had been there for over three years, adding that they were being blamed for erosion that threaten homes and livelihoods of the people living in the riverine community. “They said the waves have eaten into their land at a rate of up to 20 miles a month. Because the ship is such a solid object being where it shouldn’t be, they said it causes an impediment to the natural flow of the current and stops sedimentation. “Worse still is that it causes these eddy currents that immediately start to chew up the entire shoreline. “It is terrifying when you listen to people living in those communities. In fact, at night, they complain that they don’t sleep because they are always thinking that the water could come in at any moment during the rainy season. The problem has been there for more than two years and it is caused by the abandoned ships,” he said. He said dismantling ships had become more complicated the longer they stay on the beach and blamed NIMASA for the number of wrecks and abandoned vessels on Lagos water. “NIMASA is is responsible for the quality of ship that operates in Nigeria’s waters.The agency should take action to remove the abandoned vessels,” he said. He said though NIMASA could not be blamed because most of these abandoned ships are owned by foreigners.“Foreigners are deliberately violating our laws and NIMASA needs to follow due process in removing these wrecks and abandoned ships because of litigation,” he added. Ship owners’ responsibility Under maritime law, it is the responsibility of the ship owner to remove their faulty vessel from the coast. But with many of the vessels having been bought cheap and barely seaworthy to work in the oil industry, when trouble strikes, they are often abandoned mostly when the owner gets to know that they are no longer serviceable. Experts said the abandoned ships act as groynes, halting the flow of sand down the shoreline and accelerating erosion. Lack of regulation? An expert, Mr. Roland Samuel, said lack of regulation on the waters has also helped illicit activity thrive, turning the abandoned ships into hideouts for sea criminals. “Copper and bronze and the brass from the ship’s propeller could be sold for as much as N20 million. People steal valuables that are still there because they are abandoned. “Section 381(1) of the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 empowers NIMASA on what to do. The Act has made it the duty of the receiver of wreck to remove or destroy the whole or any part of the vessel when abandoned. The implication of abandoned wreck is dangerous for the water and the environment considering that they are on the navigational routes. Floods and erosion are imminent in Lagos communities if they are not removed before the rainy season sets in, an expert warned. Parts of the duties as a member of IMO are to ensure the protection of the maritime environment and its security, among others. Therefore, it is important for NIMASA to clear the navigational channels of abandoned vessels that are hazardous to safe navigation. Challenges According to Jamoh, “one of the challenges the maritime industry has always faced is the issue of wrecks and relics in waterways – creeks, tributaries, rivers, canals, the high seas, or any route through which vessels of any size must pass to carry out day-to-day seaborne trade. “Some of the maritime accidents that occur in different parts of the world are traceable to wrecks that litter the waters. If such accidents do not involve human casualties, they come with huge costs to businesses or both. “There are basically three major consequences of wrecks on maritime transportation. Wrecks