President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday inaugurated and handed over a 118-kilometre road linking three local government areas of Nasarawa State to the state government. The local governments are: Lafia, Obi and Awe-Tunga. The inauguration took place in Lafia, the state capital, where the President was represented by Environment Minister Mohammed Abdullahi. President Buhari said: “The road is part of our many roads to prosperity because reduced journey time means reduced expenses on travel, because time is money. “The road has been built to the highest quality of design and workmanship. If well used and not abused, it should last for the designed services life.” The road was handed over to the state government through Deputy Governor Emmanuel Akabe.   2023: APC National Women Leader seeks China’s support for…     Wike hosts Orubebe, other high profile PDP visitors     Buhari to Nigerians: let’s tolerate one another   The 118-kilometre road links Lafia with Obi and Awe towns as well as the Tunga extension linking Taraba State. A statement by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing said President Buhari, while inaugurating the road, also said: “Our commitment to improve road transport infrastructure, our determination to improve the ease of doing business, create jobs and prosperity to lift people out of poverty brings us here today because the results of our investment are manifesting.” The President noted that the road is a testament to the economic efficiency and ease of doing business because travelling hours on the roads have been reduced. “Now that we have this new well-built road, we owe it as duties to ourselves and to other road users to ensure that we take responsibility for the good usage of it. One of such duties is to ensure that we drive in accordance with the laws of the highway codes,” he said. Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola, who was represented by the Director of Works for the Northcentral, Omonege Rugba, said the Buhari administration embarked on essential road projects to ensure economic growth and prosperity for the country. “These projects represent major investment in road transport infrastructure, which is a commitment of the Buhari administration as a driver for economic growth and prosperity,” he said.