Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has signed an Executive Order mandating all public and private institutions in the State to compulsorily install Close Circuit Television (CCTV) devices. Featured The signing of the Executive Order was first approved at last week’s State Executive Council meeting. Akeredolu lamented the absence of CCTV at the St Francis Catholic Church, Owo where gunmen murdered 40 persons and injured over 70 others. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Richard Olatunde, said the Order became imperative in the light of increased spate of insecurity across the country. The statement said there was the need to ensure security of lives and properties at all public and private institutions throughout the state. It said the Order was issued in “Pursuant to Section 176 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which vests in the Governor of Ondo State the Chief Executive powers of the state.   Female doctor arrested for battering maid     Olu of Warri hosts 3rd Ghigho Aghofen ceremony     INEC extends voter registration deadline   According to the statement: “The executive order shall be enforced at all religious places of worship, financial institutions (of all kinds), event centres, supermarkets, educational institutions (Schools), Hotels/Motels, Guest House, inns, Restaurants, Clinics and Health Centres, eateries (of all kinds), recreation or vehicular parks and other places regularly used by the public. “”Owners, occupiers, managers and operators of public/private institutions within Ondo State shall mandatorily install, use and maintain CCTV devices and other secret cameras to monitor and keep surveillance on the daily activities in their premises and especially monitor the ingress and egress of people/vehicles at the said places, venues and centres. “The installed CCTV devices apart from capturing all activities at the public/private institutions must also have data storage hardware and data stored therein should be made available to security agencies whenever it is required. “That public/private institutions shall employ and maintain well-trained security personnel who shall man the entry and exit points to their various facilities/premises. “This Executive Order shall be enforced by all security agencies particularly the Nigeria Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ondo State Security Network Agency (Amotekun) and the Department of State Security Services (DSS). “Violators of this Executive Order shall be prosecuted in accordance with Section 203 of the Criminal Code (Cap. 37) Laws of Ondo State of Nigeria.”