Former Lagos Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has clinched the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress(APC) ahead of the 2023 general election. He was the first in APC to declare his presidential interest. He reached out to delegates earlier than the others and covered more grounds. Tinubu is described as the “last man standing” among his peers after the Fourth Republic was inaugurated 21 years ago. The Nation had tipped Tinubu to win the ticket, which he did with 1,271 votes to defeat his closest rivals, ex-Minister Rotimi Amaechi and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. While Amaechi polled 316 votes, Osinbajo scored 235 votes and Senate President Ahmad Lawan polled 152 votes. 1. Last minute intrigues and horse-trading — The last-minute odds favoured Tinubu to win the ticket. The odds began to manifest after some of the aspirants started to stand down and declared support for Tinubu, urging their delegates to vote for him at the primary.   APC presidential ticket: Lawan, Omo-Agege congratulate…     Let’s join hands to beat PDP, Tinubu urges APC members     Why I was absent at APC primary, by Nwajiuba   Those who stepped down for Tinubu were former Minister for Niger Delta Affairs Senator Godswill Akpabio; former Ogun Governor Senator Ibikunle Amosun; Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi; Jigawa Governor Abubakar Badaru; former Speaker of House of Representatives Dimeji Bankole; Deputy Senate Chief Whip Ajayi Boroffice and the only female aspirant, Uju Ohanenye. 2. His antecedents — To many political observers, Tinubu boasts of successes in reforming the civil service, reducing corruption and improving state infrastructure as Lagos Governor. 3. Strategic network and nationwide alliances — Over the years, he has strategically positioned himself across States. In the South-west, Tinubu consolidated on his home front to win the party’s ticket. 4. Cult of followers — Tinubu’s cult of followers over the years has continued to spread massively. He still holds sway in scheme of political discussions. Many has described him as a strategic thinker who can adapt to changing circumstances. 5. Wealth of experience — Tinubu, according to his teeming supporters, possesses the qualities that can make a country great. He has mentored politicians across the country, many of who became Governors, Senators, House of Representatives members or appointed through his support.