Actress-turned-singer, Adesua Etomi-Wellington has explained why she prefers rocking a braided hair to wearing a wig. Stating the reasons behind her preference for braids also known as cornrows, Adesua insisted it makes her feel and look original as she’s a firm believer of ‘keeping it simple’. While she encouraged individuals to embrace simplicity by rocking their braids gracefully just like our ancestors did, she argued though many may interpret it in the negative thereby forcing others to feel it’s something to be ashamed of however, such an interpretation is erroneous. “I’ve been wearing cornrows a lot lately on purpose. I feel like my most authentic self when I wear braids, plaits or when I wear my hair out. If you’ve followed me closely, you’d know what I mean. You’d know this isn’t new. “In general, I believe in keeping it simple. Whether it’s from my clothes, to my hair, to my lifestyle. I’m saying this cause every now and then someone tries to turn the word ‘simple’ to mean something negative as though it’s something I should be ashamed of.   RMD’s daughter to men: allow me break your heart…     Grateful I was not part of RHWOL show-Ka3na     Rudeboy poses with Peter Obi, speaks on PVCs   “So I, Adesua Etomi-Wellington, am out here, holding it down for the simple girls. Or the ones who rock cornrows every now and again, the minimalists…,” She said. The mother of one continued: “I hope you look at me and feel pride KNOWING that these rows our ancestors wore are still a thing to be proud of. I hope you see me and rock yours with pride if you want to but above all, may you know that you are more than your hair no matter how you choose to wear it and more than your clothes, no matter what styles you choose to wear. “I do this for the girls deemed ‘too simple’. There is not a single thing wrong with simplicity. We may be ‘simple’ but there is not a single thing simple about us. Raise your glass if you are a SG. “This isn’t about style and hair as much as it is about being yourself. Saying this so you stop questioning who you are. Embrace it. It’s ok. It’s more than ok, it’s great. Despite her deep love for cornrows, the movie star added, “Ppps I will still wear wigs when I feel like it sha. Wigs are clutch.”