Whenever exercising is mentioned, the first thing people consider is the pain involved. Nevertheless, exercising should be part of the weekly schedule because of the many health advantages you get from it. People use exercising to get their dream bodies also and this is achieved through a consistent workout routine and proper dieting. **It helps to control your weight: Exercise is helpful for weight loss and maintaining good body weight. Exercise can increase metabolism, It can also help you maintain and increase lean body mass, which also helps increase number of calories you burn each day. For this, jogging, cycling and swimming is recommended. **Reduce your risk of heart diseases: Being physically active is a major step toward good heart health. It’s one of the most effective tools for strengthening the heart muscle, keeping your weight under control helps ward off the artery damage from high cholesterol, high blood sugar and high blood pressure that can lead to heart attack or stroke. Aerobic exercise, also known as “cardio” exercise, uses repetitive contraction of large muscle groups to get your heart beating faster and is the most beneficial type of exercise for your cardiovascular system. For this, Brisk walking, running and jumping rope is recommended.   NHEA: Our mission to stem medical tourism, rekindle hope in…     UTA scribe tasks Nigeria on HDI, meeting health-related SDGs     Mushin community benefit from Daily Need’s outreach   **Improve your mental health and mood: Exercise is a scientifically proven mood booster, decreasing symptoms of both depression and anxiety. Physical activity kicks up endorphin levels, a chemical produced by the brain and spinal cord that produces feelings of happiness and euphoria. Even just moderate exercise throughout the week can improve depression and anxiety. Exercising can be a good mood lifter if you give it your time. **Improves your sexual health: Regular exercise may lower the risk of erectile dysfunction (ED) in men. For those who already have ED, exercise may help improve their sexual function. In women, exercise may increase sexual arousal and flexibility during sex. For this, Glute bridges and jump squats are recommended. **Improves quality of sleep: Exercise contributes to more sound and restful sleep because physical activity means more time spent in deep sleep. exercising helps to increase the duration of your nightly rest. Being physically active allows you to expend energy and helps you feel more tired and ready to rest at the end of the day. There are many types of exercises for different ages and strengths. Hence, there are ways of dealing with the pain. Without pain, there is no effect so the pain is all part of the experience because the body eventually adjusts to it. All it takes it to find a routine plan that works for you and enjoy the health benefits of exercising