Reality TV star, Angel Smith has penned passionate message in remembrance of her lover, Victor, who died three years ago. The former “Shine Ya Eye” housemate in a lengthy post via her Instagram page, recounted precious moments shared with her beau before his untimely demise. Angel, who while in the BBNaija house, revealed how devastated she felt with her lover’s passing noted she still feels the pain even years after. The 22-year-old poet vowed to keep loving her late lover because he was the best thing that ever happened to her and swore that his memories would never die as she would tell everyone about him. Sharing a lovely video of beautiful times shared with her forever lover, Angel wrote: “It’s been three years without you, I’m 22 now, remember you used to call me small madam, guess I’m a big madam now. I will love you forever and I will tell everyone about what a phenomenal human being you were, so much so that I couldn’t believe you ended up with me. “I truly believe that you came into my life to show me that I could be loved; flawed and everything and your mere existence was fact that good people do exist; and I’ve never stopped believing.”   Why I fought fan in Ogun – Ogogo     Bob Em reminisces on journey, hints on new move     Obi’s presidential bid could lead to ‘bloodless…   Pondering on her late boyfriend’s allergy, coupled with all the love he imbibed in her, she continued: “I wonder if you’re still lactose intolerant up there? Not that you even cared; you consumed so much milk while complaining about your tummy hurting, I miss your jokes that were so unfunny I would laugh because of how dry they were, I miss mocking your British accent. “All the love I have learnt; I learnt from you, you’re all 19 years old Angel knew, and I’m 22 now; you’re still all I’ve ever known. I would choose the pain over and over again because experiencing you is far greater than any pain I’d feel.” Reassuring herself he is in a better place void of pain, she noted: “I hope the Angels Carry you safely on their backs but knowing you, you’re probably one yourself, I hope there’s no milk there for you to feast on, although I’m sure your tummy won’t hurt anymore; you’re in a place where pain is a fiction of our human imagination, I hope they don’t give you time out for how loud you laugh, cause God knows you laughed so loudly it lit up a room, so full of life. Still eulogising her late lover and friend, Angel added: “You were so much more than my first love; you were my friend, my laughing partner, my comedian and most importantly Victor; you were you. You were nice and sweet and kind and you had 12 birthmarks; I know because I counted them that time you got so tipsy, you told me you loved me and I froze up, that was the first time you said it. “Now I live not only for myself but for you, for my dreams as well as yours, for the echo of your laughter on a really bad day. My best friend, my Mayo boy, my first everything, you know it goes beyond the existence of time and even the confinements of infinity, I love you so much, keep resting and don’t be angry at me that I barely visit; If there’s one thing we both share in common; it’s that we’re both ghosts( I have laughed so hard at this joke; you’d have loved it)– your egghead Angel.”