A prominent support group for All Progressives Congress (APC) leading presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Nigerians Unite for Tinubu (NUT), has urged the party’s leadership not to miss the opportunity of the current political situation in the country to elect him as successor to President Muhammadu Buhari. The group made the appeal in a statement yesterday by it Convener Muhammed Mustapha Yusuf. The appeal is coming ahead of APC’s forthcoming special convention for presidential primaries, which is billed to hold on June 6 to 8. In the statement, titled: A Passionate Appeal: The Dire Need for APC Not To Bungle The Golden Chance, which was addressed to APC national leadership, NUT said the party must be careful in the choice of its presidential candidate. It advised the delegates to elect only the most popular and widely acceptable aspirant among the 24 jostling for the party’s ticket. The group emphasised that the party must watch and follow keenly the current highly sensitive political tune in the country, which borders on the zoning arrangement between the North and South since 1999. NUT advised APC to avoid the type of mistake the PDP has made by giving its ticket to former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, a northerner, when zoning of the seat is supposed to go to the South. “We can assure you that PDP is going to pay dearly by losing the 2023 presidential election to APC with wide margin majorly because of this flagrant affront it demonstrated against Nigerians,” it said. It described the current scenario as a “golden chance” for the APC to field a credible candidate that is widely accepted across the country. “APC should discard the false narrative that only a northerner candidate from it or another party can defeat Atiku Abubakar in 2023. This is blatant fallacy. For instance, Chief Moshood Abiola of (defunct) Social Democratic Party (SDP) defeated Alhaji Bashir Tofa of the (defunct) National Republican Convention (NRC) roundly in 1993 presidential election, worst still in his (Tofa) state. “Similarly, former President Olusegun Obasanjo won 2003 presidential election against his closest rival, President Muhammad Buhari, from the North.   How Nwaoboshi was returned unopposed     Gbagi dumps PDP, wins Delta SDP ticket     Fulani deserve a ministry like Niger Delta, says Gumi   “Also, ex-President Goodluck Jonathan defeated President Muhamnadu Buhari in 2011. “To this end, it has been clearly shown that the northern electorate are highly enlightened and sophisticated politically to the sensitive issues in the country at any given time and situation as to what is rational and sensible to do. “This has also been demonstrated as several groups and individuals from and/or in the northern part of the country have already been clamouring that the presidency must go to the South in 2023.” Also, the Nigeria Diaspora for Asiwaju (NDA) has said Asiwaju Tinubu is the only one qualified to be President Buhari’s successor. NDA’s National Spokesperson Ayobami Oyalowo said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Abuja. Oyalawo said it is only Asiwaju Tinubu, former two-term governor of Lagos State, that could consolidate on President Buhari’s achievements in the last seven years. The NDA spokesman noted that Asiwaju Tinubu’s loyalty and commitment to the APC could not be questioned. “It is only Tinubu that can consolidate on President Buhari’s achievements in the last seven years. “As a founding member of the APC, he had committed not only his time to building the party but his resources and energy. “Tinubu, in his political career, had never lost an election. We are, therefore, confident that with him on the ballot, it will be a sure victory for the APC in the coming 2023 presidential election. “He has vast knowledge in economic management and a perfect understanding of Nigeria’s political economy,” Oyalowo said.