Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has condemned the shooting of The Nation Correspondent, Toba Adedeji, and another citizen by those he called trigger-happy police officers yesterday at Olaiya area of Osogbo, the state capital. Adedeji and the yet-to-be-identified citizen were reportedly shot at by some “overzealous policemen” who were trying to disperse a group of people who had gathered to mourn a resident, Abiola Afolabi, who was allegedly killed by police officers last month. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, the governor, who is currently in Abuja for some pressing state and national matters, said shooting at unarmed citizens was completely unacceptable, irresponsible and condemnable. The governor stressed that the sad incident could have been avoided. He said it was unfortunate that the sad incident occurred while the citizens were mourning the death of a loved one. Oyetola noted that such unlawful act by the police could aggravate an already tensed situation that could lead to breakdown of law and order in the State. He called for a thorough investigation into the incident to ensure that the culprits are brought to justice in accordance with the law of the land. “Shooting at journalists and unarmed citizens is completely unacceptable, irresponsible and condemnable. The police officers have no justification for this unfortunate and unlawful act. They could have employed other means rather than resorting to deadly force to disperse the group.   Atiku to get Certificate of Return Wednesday     INEC: 4.5m youths completed online voter registration in May…     Church paid my abductors N100m to free me, says Methodist…   “The frequency of these unfortunate and avoidable provocative incidents is a source of concern to us, as a government. I have, therefore, directed the State Commissioner of Police to investigate the Tuesday shooting incident and ensure that his officers who are involved in it are identified and punished in accordance with extant regulations and law. “We must ensure that this kind of sad and barbaric incident does not occur again in our state. “I wish The Nation correspondent, Adedeji, and the other citizens whom I learnt are presently receiving treatment at the hospital, speedy recovery. “I am also calling on residents of Osun to remain calm and not take the law into their own hands. I assure that this matter will be pursued to a logical conclusion and the erring officers dealt with accordingly,” Oyetola said. Also, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has berated operatives of the Osun Police Command who shot The Nation Correspondent, Toba Adedeji, while covering a students’ protest yesterday at Orita Olaiya area of Osogbo. HURIWA, which described the action of the police as an act of aggression and misplaced terrorism directed against the media, said it was regrettable that the Nigeria Police Force had not learnt any positive lessons from the 2020 #EndSARS nationwide protests in which millions of Nigerians demonstrated against police brutality, aggression and human rights violations. The group noted that due to the ineffective leadership of the Police Service Commission (PSC), there has been a steady spike in cases of professional misconduct among policemen across the country. In a statement by its National Coordinator Emmanuel Onwubiko, it urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reorganise the hierarchy of the PSC, given that “the current leadership has become lethargic and unproductive”.