ABDULKADIR: Kudos to the National Pension Commission (PenCom). I retired in June last year but since then I have had a health problem such that I didn’t do the online registration. This was also because I was unable to get an introduction letter and record of service from my former employee.  Is there any way I could do the registration without these two items and is it true that I will not be paid because I have wasted time? I am looking forward to your response. My PFA is Trustfund Pension. Thank you. PENCOM: Please be informed that you can liaise with your employer to assist with the online registration.  Thank you. ABUBAKAR: Hello, my name is Abubakar, a next-of-kin. The president’s approval of outstanding pension said something about 2014 retirees. But my father died in 2013. Will his death benefit also be paid or not? How long does it take for you to do so? Thank you PENCOM: Please note that for your late father’s death benefits to be paid, you must submit some documents to his Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for processing. If you have done this, please forward to the commission the following details: his RSA PIN, name, name of PFA as well as other vital information to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. OZURUONYE: Good Day. My name is Ozuruonye. Please where is Stanbic IBTC Pensions in Owerri, Imo State. Thank you. PENCOM: The address with Stanbic IBTC Pension, Owerri, Imo State is Shirley Mall, 32, Ekwema Crescent, Ikemegbu Layout, Beside Kilimanjaro Fast Food, Owerri. IBRAHIM: Good day. My name is Hussaini Sani Ibrahim. I was a staff member of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation  and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC). I retired on February 1, 2021. I was verified on November 18, last year and was issued with Retirement Benefit Enrolement Slip. My questions are: When will I receive my lumpsum and start receiving my monthly pension? Will I be paid the monthly pension arrears from February, 2021  till date? And how long does it take before you transfer my accrued pension rights to my RSA account with my PFA? PENCOM: Please forward your RSA PIN, name as well as the name of your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you.   14,836 civil service pensioners overpaid, says PTAD     Pushing agric growth in West Africa     Institute seeks govt partnership to tackle environmental…   MNAME: Good Day, My name is Mname. Please can you help us intervene in retirees’ affairs with Premium Pension. Their desk officers seem not to be updated with the new regulations on retirement benefits. I was told the regulations haven’t been sent to them from PenCom. They said they were yet to be given the go-ahead to verify this year’s retirees. They are not advising the retirees on the documents to present as specified in the new regulation. Does it mean that this year’s retirees can’t verify? I will also like to know if retirees on the Programmed Withdrawal enjoys life pension and if it is the same for Annuity PENCOM: Mr. Mname needs to fill a form and send his PIN to enable us follow up. OJEBOLA: I retired on November 13, 2013. My documents were duly submitted to the Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC) on September 23, 2021. My Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) is Stanbic IBTC. My pension benefits is long overdue since then. I have made calls to LASPEC but it has not yielded any results. Kindly find out the cause of the delay. PENCOM: Please provide details- name, PFA, PIN ADESHINA: Good Day. I work with the NPF and was enlisted in 2016. I have not received my pension. Complaints have been made but to no avail. I transferred to NPF Pension Limited from Trustfund Pensions Limited and my balance in the later has been transferred to the former. However, no remittance from my employer has been made. Kindly assist. ADEOYE: Good day. My name is Adeoye. Since FCMB Pension took over my account from AIICO Pension, I lose about N2,000 in my account monthly. Kindly help me. IBITAYO: I am Ibitayo. My employer’s name is Superflux International Limited. I left employment in April 2012. I was 50 years old in October 2021. My PFA, Stanbic IBTC Pension said I could only take 25 per cent bulk payment and I applied for the payment. After documentation was completed, Stanbic IBTC Pension requested for bankers’ confirmation of my signature which l supplied. But they have refused to pay my pension, saying they were waiting for PenCom. However, I was informed that I could take more than what you offered me. I will like PenCom to tell me my status. Thank you. AYINDE: I am Ayinde from the University of Ilorin. I wish to request for remittance of my pension contribution from April 2016 to January 2020. However, I have earlier sent a letter of complaint with relevant documents to the commission, and was acknowledged on April 22, 2022. Thank you. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore ADESINA, ADEOYE, IBITAYO and AYINDE should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom1.