All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate and National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has congratulated Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola (SAN) on his 59th birthday. Asiwaju Tinubu hailed Fashola for his outstanding public service record as a former governor of Lagos State and on his current job as a minister of the Federal Republic. Also, the senator representing Lagos East, Tokunbo Abiru, saluted the ex-governor for his legacy of good governance. In a statement by his media office, Asiwaju Tinubu said: “I specially congratulate the Honourable Minister, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), for celebrating another birthday on earth. “It is particularly inspiring that he is still waxing stronger in the service of our country. Before his current national assignment, he had demonstrated his special talent as a leader, manager and outstanding public administrator as governor of Lagos State. “It is worthy of praise that since he joined the Federal Cabinet, the former governor of Lagos State has brought the same energy, creativity and uncommon passion to his job and Nigerians can see the results in the infrastructural revolution of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     2023 election: IGP approves retreat for senior police…   “On this occasion of his 59th birthday, I join his family, friends and admirers to wish him more grace and success in good health.” Abiru described Fashola as a gentleman, brother and boss. He said: “Lagosians remain eternally grateful to you for the enduring transformation you brought to Lagos. As the Executive Governor of Lagos, you demonstrated to the people of Lagos and Nigerians that the government indeed can provide sustainable quality, world-class public services to the people. “You spurred Lagosians’ patriotism and civic obligations in the payment of taxes and other civic duties as part of their fulfillment of the sacred social contract between the people and the government..” Also, Lagos State APC Chairman Cornelius Ojelabi has congratulated Fashola on his 59th birthday. Ojelabi said his time as a commissioner in Fashola’s State Executive Council (Exco) could be likened to “taking a course in leadership school”. He said: “The dedication, energy, selflessness and expertise you invested in the development of Lagos to fit into the coinage ‘The Centre of Excellence’ is well appreciated by the APC and residents. Your contributions to the nation’s development, as Minister of Works and Housing, are felt across the length and breadth of our dear country. “May God continue to grant you long life and good health so that you will still be able to serve him and be a positive role model to humanity.”