Sprinter Favour Ofili; 400m barrier runner Nathaniel Ezekiel and javelin thrower, Nnamdi Prosper will lead five other reigning Nigeria record-holders to Benin for the Commonwealth Games and World Athletics Championship trials which start next week. Ofili has been in inspiring form so far this year, setting new national records in the 200m indoors (22.46s) and outdoor (21.96s). Also set to be the cynosure of all eyes will be Nathaniel, the Baylor University freshman who has improved from a 51 seconds runner over the 400m hurdles at this period last year to 49.89 seconds two months later at the World U20 Athletics Championships in Nairobi. Nnamdi will also be in town as the reigning national record holder in the Javelin. Long jumper Ese Brume who was expected to have jetted in yesterday with her coach Kayode Yaya aboard Qatar Airways is also coming in for the second time as Nigeria and African record holder in the event following her 7.17m leap May last year in California.   Moses Simon donates to Benue     Edo ready for AFN trials, says Alli     Musa counsels youngsters on Super Eagles   Sprint hurdler Tobiloba Amusan is expected to arrive in Nigeria this weekend and the 24-year-old will be wearing two caps like Brume. She is reigning Nigeria and African record holder (12.42s) in the 100m hurdles. Shot Putter Chukwuebuka Enekwechi, the reigning African Games and African championships champion is not just the defending Nigeria champion in the event but also the record holder (21.80m). Triple jumper and silver medalist at the 2022 NCAA Championships, Ruth Usoro is also coming to Benin as the reigning Nigeria record holder in the event (14.50m). African Games and African championships champion Chioma Onyekwere will be defending her national discus title as the Nigerian record holder (63.30m). The 2022 Nigerian athletics championships will serve as selection trials for next month’s Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, United Kingdom and the World Athletics Championships in Oregon, USA.