My name is RTD Major/Gen. A. O. Aladenola. The journey of my diabetes started on a terrific Tuesday morning. I received an emergency call from my superior officer to attend a security briefing in Abuja the next morning which is Tuesday. I woke up early to catch up with the early morning flight; that 45 minutes journey was the beginning of my predicament. I visited the rest room 5 times which became very embarrassing. Ultimately I knew something was wrong and as I put a call through to my doctor, I was advised to immediately go to hospital. Immediately I managed to finish my meeting which was another embarrassing moment, I checked into our base hospital where a comprehensive checkup was conducted on me and it was discovered that I had diabetes and my sugar level was 385mg. I was admitted and placed on insulin. That was how the journey started and it has been a terrific one – injecting myself everyday with dosage of insulin. The situation got worsened when I had a wound on my leg which later became sore. At a point, my leg was considered to be amputated but I refused blatantly and I travelled to India, Saudi Arabia and UK, but all to no avail. The predicament led to my early retirement from the Military.                MY ENCOUNTER WITH NKHAMBI My Childhood friend Charles was in the know of my ordeal with diabetes. He called me one fateful day and informed me about what he saw on the page of a Newspaper concerning diabetes and sent a number to call but I didn’t bother till about a week later when my nurse came to the house for the routine treatment of my leg. Reluctantly I put a call through and explained my predicament to the fellow who assured me that I will be well and the sore will heal up. I was told that I will use the medication for 6 months for total cure, but within 2 months the sore will heal up. He sounded very convincing. So I ordered for 2 months’ treatment. The first thing I noticed when I commenced the medication was that it helped to free my bowel and anytime I visited to toilet, what comes out of me was unexplainable. After 3 weeks on the medication, the sore was drying up and my nurse was also shocked – all other symptoms like my blurry vision and tingling sensations on my feet were subsiding. But what shocked me to the marrow was that within 7 weeks of administering NKHAMBI the SORE totally healed up and my sugar came down to 115 – 120mg. I ordered for the complete dosage as advised, and after 4 months I started eating what I desired without restriction and all symptoms of diabetes had vanished; no more fluctuation of blood sugar. Now I am well and healthy after 18 years of battling diabetes which almost claim my leg. Thanks to NKHAMBI and I recommend it for anybody having any type of DIABETES.   NKHAMBI is a composition of carefully selected herbs across three (3) continents and is formulated into capsules under highly hygienic condition.This medication helps to rejuvenate the cells in the Pancreas that produces insulin in the body. Human bodies uses insulin to take the sugar from carbohydrates we eat and convert to energy that the body requires.                           ACTIVE INGREDIENTS  • TRIGONELLA FEONUM-GRAECUM • GYMNEMA SYLVESTRE • PANAX SPP • CINNAMOMUM CASSIA VERUM                        DIABETES INDICATION  • Frequent Urination • Blurry Vision • Weight loss • Numb and Tingly of Feet or Hands • Thirstiness and Hunger Thou there are cases when a chronic increases in blood sugar for a while may not have such typical for diabetes manifestation but early detection and treatment is always advised. • FOR ORDER PLACEMENT OF THIS DRUG: Call 09053333458 OR 07037318531