All Progressives Congress (APC) support group, Continuity In Governance Initiative (CIGI), has promised to turn in 50m votes for the party’s presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu in 2023. The group said it is embarking on a nationwide enlightenment and mobilisation campaign for APC members and supporters to participate in the ongoing voter registration exercise. It said Tinubu has set the template for good governance “which today, has remained a reference point for other states to copy”. The Executive Secretary of the group, Hon Nonso Ezedinma, stated these in a chat with reporters in Abuja. According to him: “The CIGI is a political support platform put together by so many APC support Groups, who believes in the philosophy of progressive governance as espoused by our principal, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu himself. “The CIGI Idea is to provide a robust platform for mobilising popular support for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential project and to enlighten the public on the philosophy of progressive governance. “The many legacies of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu are spread across nearly all sectors of the nation’s economy, spaning Banking, Oil & Gas, Real Estate, Media Management, ICT, Sports Etc and has left indelible marks in the sands of time. “His foray into politics began after he left a very lucrative job with the oil sector, to become a Distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic. As a Senator, Asiwaju showed his brilliance in politics, and quickly became a rallying point for his colleagues. “It was to his credit that the General Ibrahim Babangida’s administration succumbed to pressure to hand over power, after the annulment of the June 12, 1993, election won by Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory. “The Jagaban story in the struggle for the actualisation of that truncated mandate, has been well documented to warrant a recap here.   Omisore: APC will retain power in Osun     2023: Battle of Titans in Abia     Ekiti: Dress rehearsal for next general elections   “However, there’s a consensus, that what Lagos state has become today, as a mega city, was the result of the good governance template set by His Excellency, Asiwaju, when he was the governor of Lagos state for two terms, between 1999 -2007. “The Jagaban school of progressive politics has produced the largest number of governors, ministers and top-ranking members of the National Assembly, including Senate President, House of Representatives Speaker and even the current Vice President. “The All Progressives Congress, has no doubt put the square peg in the square hole, by fielding our Principal, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu as our Presidential Candidate for the 2023 election. Among the other contenders for the most important office in the land, Asiwaju stands shoulder high, in terms of experience, competence and popularity across Nigeria. “He is well respected in the international community for his good reputation, astute politics and business acumen We are proud to declare our support for his presidential project and CIGI is ready to mobilize Nigerians from all parts of the country. “In readiness for the task ahead, CIGI has constituted structures in all the 774 local governments, wards, States and the Federal Capital Territory. “Currently, we are embarking on a nationwide enlightenment and Mobilization campaign for APC members and supporters to participate in the on going INEC voter registration exercise. “We have a projection of turning over 50 million votes for our principal in the 2023 presidential election. The CIGI has an unshakeable confidence that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will triumph at the polls and become the next Nigerian president. “We urge all APC members to be resolute in their support for Asiwaju because, he will turn around the fortunes of the party, rebuild it and give it the proper focus in line with his progressive principles. “Nigeria, under an Asiwaju presidency, will experience both human capital and infrastructural development, equity, peace, justice and progress. An egalitarian, libertarian and plural society which we all desire. “Nigerians should have the confidence that Asiwaju has the capacity and the ideas to move our country forward and place her in the comity of respectable nations within the shortest possible time. “The Continuity in Governance Initiative Initiative, CIGI shall serve as the vanguard not only for the mobilisation of popular support for Asiwaju, but, also as a platform for the propagation of good governance under the Asiwaju presidency”.