Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Mele Kyari has the the Port Harcourt refinery would be ready by March, 2023. This was as the House of Representatives on Friday resumed its investigation of the state of the country’s refineries. Kyari, who was represented by the General Manager, Refineries & Petrochemicals, Mustapha Yakubu, said this when responding to enquiries by the lawmakers on when the ongoing rehabilitation exercise of the refinery will be completed. The House Adhoc Committee, chaired by Hon. Ganiyu Johnson, set up to conduct the probe said it was to ascertain the viability of the refineries in a bid to check the huge sums appropriated for subsidy in the budget.   APC ticket: President didn’t discuss consensus, zoning in…     I have high regard, respect for Buhari – Tinubu     From pulpit, Alia Hyacinth makes grab for power   Speaking at the resumed investigative hearing, a member of the Committee, Hon. Johnson Ogumah told journalists that Nigerians needed to know why the country had continued to import fuel when it can refine crude locally. The committee had engaged the Nigerian National Petroleum Company NNPC and Sapien engineering company handling the contract for the $1.3 billion rehabilitation exercise of the refineries. Ogumah said: “The facts are there. You know this exercise is investigative. We cannot conclude now. I cannot come to the conclusion now. At the appropriate time, Nigerians will know. This exercise came as a result of the oil subsidy money that we are supposed to appropriate for again. We now say with this huge amount of money, we need to know what is happening to our refineries. Also, another committee was set up to verify the number of litres that we consume per day. Everything is working to arrive at a solution that will benefit Nigerians.” Another member of the committee, Hon. Ibrahim Isiaka said the committee will embark on a physical inspection of the refineries especially the Port Harcourt facility, where a rehabilitation exercise was ongoing to ascertain the level of investment already made in them. He said “We need to put so many things in their right perspectives and allow Nigerians to know the challenges we are having and we put heads together to know how we are going to solve them. It’s so unfortunate that we have left what we are supposed to do undone and we have come to this level. But nothing is spoiled yet. We are on what we called damage control. The committee is a kind of fact finding so that we can have legislative input on how to assist the NNPC and the refineries managers on how we can come back on stream. “We want to assure you that whatever that is going to be our recommendation at the end of the day will be you on that side and we on the side as legislators have come to agree on the round table. We want to appeal by Thursday, June 9, 2022, we are going converge again here.”