Inspector-General of Police (IG) Usman Alkali Baba has warned thugs against disrupting the election. Baba said the police would give no room for violence and thuggery before, during and after, the election, saying anyone or group of people, irrespective of their status, who plan to foment trouble will be dealt with. The IG issued the warning in Ado-Ekiti yesterday during an election stakeholders’ meeting organised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with the 16 political parties and their governorship candidates. Baba said adequate security personnel had been deployed to ward off any threat, clarifying that heavy deployment of security agencies in the state was not intended to scare voters and cause apathy on election day. According to the IG, the deployment was geared towards protecting the sanctity of the ballots and make the election outcome credible and acceptable to all stakeholders. He said: “All the 16 councils, 177 wards and 2,445 polling units will be manned by appropriate manpower. Let me say this, the massive deployment is not to scare the people, but to protect the sanctity of the ballots and provisions of the Electoral Act. “Those who want to constitute a clog in the wheel of progress will face the consequences of their actions. National security should be prioritised and uppermost in our minds. Let us conduct this election in the most civil manner. “All the parties must embrace the virtues of democracy. We will not allow any person or group of persons to disrupt this election no matter how highly placed. Let all the contenders provide the moral leadership so that we can achieve success together.” INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu expressed the commission’s readiness to conduct a free, fair and credible election that would meet international standards. He assured the candidates that the commission will conduct the election with high-level of neutrality and professionalism ‘where the people’s votes will count’.   Tinubu, Adamu, governors drum up support for Oyebanji     No need changing winning party, says Oyetola     Stakeholders canvass better funding for NAPTIP   Yakubu said: “Let me assure political parties and voters that the task of electing a new governor will be left in the hands of Ekiti voters. We won’t take any action that would put any party and candidate in a vantage position. We are going to do everything according to the constitution and provisions of the Electoral Act. “To underscore our commitment to an inclusive, credible and transparent electoral process, the Commission is deploying assistive devices for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) to have a more pleasant voting experience. Magnifying glasses, Braille Ballot Guide and Posters for voters with hearing conditions will be deployed at polling unit level in areas of need based on data collected in collaboration with the PwD community. “We are not unaware that vote buying is a destroyer of electoral process. But to show how determined we are to stop this menace, we have changed the configuration of the ballot boxes in all polling units to prevent vote buying. We are also partnering the operatives of ICPC and EFCC to deploy their men and deal with vote buyers and sellers according to the law.” “I reassure political parties, candidates and the electorate that the choice of who becomes the next governor of Ekiti State is entirely in the hand of voters. INEC will not take any action to the advantage or disadvantage of any political party or candidate. Our focus is on the processes and procedures as provided by law. “In this regard, the election holding this weekend is historic, being the first governorship election the commission will be conducting based on the provisions of the Electoral Act 2022 which came into force on February 25, 2022. “It is also the first election to be conducted based on our revised regulations and guidelines anchored on the provisions of the new Electoral Act. We have also revised our training manual to reflect the provisions of the new Electoral Act as well as the Regulations and Guidelines. “For a more effective supervision of the process, we have deployed four National Commissioners, eight Resident Electoral Commissioners and many senior officials to support our state office State to deliver credible elections… “Of the 988,923 registered voters in Ekiti State, 749,065 (76 per cent) have collected their cards as at June 13. However, in the last few days, the commission has received several inquiries from citizens who are yet to collect their PVCs and are demanding to know when collection will be suspended before the election. “I wish to announce that the collection of PVCs will continue in all the 16 local government area Offices until June 16 (tomorrow) to allow us one day for movement to the Registration Area Centres. I appeal to all registered voters that are yet to collect the PVCs to seize the opportunity to do so.” Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Dr. Adeniran Tella said expectant mothers, persons living with disabilities and the aged, will be given priority on the election day. Tella added that safeguarding protocols relevant to the COVID-19 pandemic will be applied at polling units to prevent the spread of the disease.