It is of significant symbolic import that one of the initiatives of a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, Mr Fatoye Michael Seyi, who served in Batch B of the 2021 service year, was the provision of four street lights in Umagwu Eziora community, a village in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State, where he was posted. The solar street lights were commissioned by officials of the NYSC on May 27. As minuscule as the gesture may appear, it is a heartwarming ray of light in a state, and indeed region, from where the dominant news in recent times have been of gruesome murders, kidnapping and other forms of violence. There  is definitely a lot of positive developments and occurrences like this going on across the South East and the media must endeavour to give as much publicity to these as to the more disheartening, negative events that are now the order of the day. At least this gives some cause for hope that all is not lost; sanity and safety can be restored to the South East as well as unity and cohesion to Nigeria as a whole. Other initiatives undertaken by Fatoye in the course of his service year in the community included donation of first aid boxes, organising inter-school quiz competition with scholarship award, and facilitating an academic seminar on career talk  for students. This is obviously the case of a young, patriotic Nigerian doing the best within the limits of resources available to him to impact a community positively and add value to the lives of others. Such a selfless disposition contrasts sharply with the prevalent tendency of a sizable number of youths being preoccupied with amassing wealth by all means, including cybercrime, ritual killing or kidnapping for ransom, that do grave harm to the society at large. Ironically, it takes no less time and effort to perpetrate these criminal pursuits as it took Fatoye to conceive and actualise worthwhile projects in Umuagwu Eziora community. At the individual level, he has thus shone the light for his fellow youths to find the way to the positive utilisation of their time, skills and energy. This seemingly small but powerful example is coming at a time when Nigeria has never been more fractious, divided along primordial ethno-regional and religious lines, and her cohesion dangerously threatened. As large swathe of the country are caught in the throes of assorted forms of violence and separatist rhetoric and agitations; indeed, there have been calls in some quarters for the scrapping of institutions like the NYSC. But this cannot be the appropriate and desirable response to the crises of instability and disunity that confront the country. The Fatoye example shows that the NYSC, despite contemporary challenges, is still helping in diverse ways to promote the cause of a common nationhood, which was the prime reason for its establishment.   NNPC deepens efforts to address Africa’s energy poverty     Stamping out marijuana smuggling     A prelate’s portentous prognosis   That Fatoye is of the Yoruba ethnic group in the South West who served with obvious commitment and dedication in an Igbo community is noteworthy. He could not have gone to the extent he did to improve the lives of the community to which he was posted without a genuine love for the people. But for the one year compulsory service, he would probably have not had cause to travel to the South-East and obviously becoming a component part of the community in which he served. It is interesting that the word ‘Eziora’ is said to connote good neighbourliness. The community must also have demonstrated acceptance of and affection for Fatoye, which he reciprocated. It is logical to believe that this scenario is being replicated in various communities across the country. There have also been numerous other examples over the years of youth corps members serving meritoriously in those parts of the country to which they were posted and leaving fond memories behind after the exercise. For example, the Ebonyi State government, last month, rewarded Mr Abraham Owuto, an ex-corps member from Nasarawa State, with N300,000 for positively impacting the community where he served in the state. Also in February this year, the NYSC presented Letters of Commendation to nine outgoing corps members from Gombe State who executed viable community projects aimed at improving the wellbeing of rural dwellers. And in 2021, President Muhammadu Buhari offered automatic employment and scholarships for the pursuit of postgraduate studies up to doctoral level for their excellent performance in different communities during the service year. Many ex-corp members have told stories of how the service year opened their eyes to the country’s diversity, broadened their horizons and helped them to appreciate the values and culture of the people among whom they lived. Several others stayed back after the service year to work, raise families and live in those states. Mention must also be made of the certainly now innumerable cases where corps members have met and married colleagues from other parts of the country with whom they served. Of course, this is not to overlook the problems and challenges that have plagued the NYSC programme in recent years, particularly as security of lives and property have become more precarious nationwide. Some corps members have lost their lives when caught in the crossfire of communal and ethnic  clashes, religious conflagration or election violence. This has necessitated the non-posting of corps members to the most volatile and vulnerable parts of the country, and this is understandable for as long as peace remains endangered in such areas. However, while everything must be done to preserve the lives of those sent on posting for national service, as well as strengthen the functional efficacy of the NYSC, we must never lose sight of its continuing relevance in promoting nation-building and national unity, which remain worthwhile objectives indispensable to the attainment of peace, political stability, economic development and prosperity.