Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has reiterated his administration’s commitment to maintaining the religious harmony and peaceful co-existence in the state despite the religious diversity. The governor stated this while receiving members of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC), led by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, and President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Supo Ayokunle, at the Executive Council Chambers of the Governor’s Office. Makinde thanked NIREC for holding their quarterly meeting in the state in honour of Rev. Ayokunle. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Taiwo Adisa, reads: “What you stand for is what Nigeria needs, especially at this time that election is approaching. I know that conversation will take both ethnic and religious colorations. That is why we have been hearing of Muslim-Christian ticket, Muslim-Muslim ticket and all of that. “We need people like you to speak out in order to douse tension and nudge the nation towards progress. Well, so far, we are not evaluating the candidates on what they can offer Nigeria.   Oyo gets new police commissioner     CSOs hail Osun on good governance     Lagos spends N23b to upgrade education infrastructure   “Oyo State, just like the CAN President said, is diversified. Hardly will you see a family in which you would not find the two faiths, and for me as a person, the Makinde you see in my name is my grandfather’s name. He lived and died a Muslim. This is what you see in Oyo State, and we live together in peace. Despite our diversity, Oyo has remained a peaceful and welcoming state to all…” The Sultan hailed the governor for uplifting the state by taking it to greater heights. He said: “We want to thank the governor for his magnanimity and wish him all the best in his tenure as the governor of Oyo State. I thank him for hosting us and pray that peace will continue to reign supreme in Oyo and Nigeria at large. “I am not a visitor to Ibadan and Oyo State, but a bona fide family member of this state because as a young officer, I served from the remote areas of the state and I know Ibadan very well. I am also the Chancellor of the greatest University here in Ibadan. So, how can I come home and become a visitor? I don’t know whether the University of Ibadan will accept that. I am the Chancellor and very proud of the institution because of its position not only in Nigeria but West Africa. “…we keep telling our people to understand and tolerate one another, which is a better way to live as one big family. That is why the theme of this quarterly meeting is apt and widely chosen.” Rev. Ayokunle noted that there people had been living together in the atmosphere of peace and tranquillity. “There has not been religious crisis in Oyo State, and there will never be by the grace of God because all of us from different homes have the two religions. We have been existing together in the atmosphere of peace and tranquillity, and that is why we are the pacesetter state. We make progress because of mutual existence in this state…”