Kaduna Profile team, one of the emerging forces  of Nigerian polo , has set the  target of clinching top laurels at major tournaments  as this year’s national polo tour gets into higher gears. That much came to the fore recently when Profile swept the majors at the 2022 Sallah polo fiesta in a domineering campaign that left over ten strong oppositions in awe for their sportsmanship and their novel team chemistry. The commanding performance of Profile champions, who defeated arch rivals  including Kaduna Trappco Ranch and Sublime teams to clinch the high and medium goal prizes during the Sallah event, did not surprise keen  polo buffs with  smart money on the side as the team to beat this season. Incidentally and a month earlier, the Kaduna new polo kings who recently replenished their stable with  new Argentine ponies, finished overall  second runners up  behind  Abuja Dokaji and Sublime teams  during the 2022 Trade Fair tournament. “We are happy with our team chemistry and our recent results are putting us nicely for the season  that would expectedly be highly competitive and robust, and we are looking to win more laurels this season and reward our teeming supports across the country,”   Bello Buba, Profile and EL-Amin chief predator, declared. Buba agreed that they would have to take as much as they give oppositions this season as both Profile and EL-Amin are the teams to beat at the Minna tourney  justifying the fact as the defending champions of the Rubicon Tourney  while they   remain as one of the  hot favourites at other major grand slams in Kano, Katsina, Keffi, Bauchi, Yola and Kaduna . “Nobody is expecting an easy ride at all the majors that is why we are embarking on a comprehensive build up, and we are confident that with fitness and chemistry and our horse power, we would achieve our set objectives this season,”  Buba noted.   Ronaldo, Binance  sign  exclusive partnership     Eight doctors, nurses face homicide charges for Maradona’s…     FG reverses Nigeria’s ban from international basketball   Meanwhile, the Kaduna Profile Polo Team announced their arrival at the summit of Nigerian  scene last year, becoming the first team ever to win the inaugural Rubicon Polo Resort tournament in Abuja. The Babangida Big Boys rivals Kaduna Barbedos for the crown in a tense final decided before a full house in the capital city. The emergence of this offshoot of EL-Amin polo organization couldn’t have come at a more auspicious time than when the country was celebrating her 61st  Independence Anniversary. In their traditional all attacking game, Profile stunned four more experienced oppositions, Lintex, Malcomines, Barbedos and host team  Rubicon, to their Eldorado. The new polo kings defeated Barbedos in the opening match and dismissed Jos Malcomines, to qualify for the final without dropping a point. Lintex, Malcomines and Barbedos all ended the round robin stage with a win and a draw each and had to go into a toss that throw up Barbedos to face Profile in the finale. “We are happy we participated in the tournament, we are happier we emerged the overall champions, a feat that would go down in the annals of Rubicon Resort tournaments,” Team Patron, Mohammad Babangida explained. “It was a great honour; all our matches were huge games and no easy one. “As we all know, others have a high level of skill but as a team, we are willing to take that on the chin and show what we are capable of as well, ”he added .