This week, because of the recent discussion we had on the case of the man who complained that he was dirty and uninterested in s3x, I am going to write on the steps that a woman can take to make herself look s3xy. Ever since I published the man’s email, I have received others saying that a lot of men experience the same thing at present. This is a large field and I know one cannot exhaust it in a single article, but we shall dwell on some important points. First, I am going to talk about the importance of odour and s3xual hygiene. Actually, an odour is any smell. But because the word ‘odour’ is often associated with a repulsive smell, people tend to use ‘odour’ to denote an unpleasant smell. But not all odours are repulsive. Sweet odours can do wonders to your s3x life. On the other hand, offensive odour can be so repulsive that it may paralyse a couple’s s3x life. But it is not only women who have offensive odour that may paralyse a couples’ s3xuality, some male spouses are so disgustingly offensive that their wives easily get turned off when it comes to s3x. When it comes to s3xual hygiene, these areas are very important: oral hygiene, armpit hygiene and penis/vulva hygiene. If it is mutually acceptable, it is important that you shave your pubic hair for freshness and smoothness and the armpit hair for a good odour. One of the guiding rules for successful lovemaking is complete neatness. If not, the offensive odour from the genitals can easily turn off either of the spouses. Try to take a shower regularly and smell nice. In fact, I always advise a proper bath and the use of scented roll-on before lovemaking. Make it a duty to brush your mouth at least twice daily and use breath mint to freshen your breath. There are affordable peppermints available in local shopping malls. Bad breath is always a sure turn-off. In order to prevent infection, this is especially important for those who practice oral s3x. And if you are one of those who involuntarily salivate while sleeping please do something about it. You may even pray about it because this is a big s3x ‘turn off’ and if you fart, apologise. Some men like to say, “Well, but you also do the same to me!” Couples also need to know that it is always advantageous to cultivate the habit of putting fresh and fragrant flowers in the room. This isn’t about body or room odour: but women, especially, should learn to dress well at home. I am not saying that you should dress as if you are going to a party. But do your hair, stop wearing the same tattered pyjamas and T-shirt to bed (men should also not wear those smelly, sweaty singlets and boxers to bed in the name of “l want to be free in my own house”). Why do you think men get turned on when their wives are dressed for a party? The wife dresses and smells so irresistibly and alluring that the husband’s hunger for s3x rises. Women need to always remember that their men would always meet beautiful, well-dressed ladies, who also smell like flowers, in the course of the day. And a wise woman should make an allowance for this. For example, the breasts of a wife are the second objects of attraction after her face. Then why do women spend little time on this important endowment? For example, product manufacturers understand the power of good packaging, even when the product content is nothing to write home about. Manufacturers spend a fortune to give their products a befitting wrap because they know the power of good packaging. Even if the two breasts have gone pendulous, the use of good brassieres will help to bring them back to shape. The brassiere helps to display the breasts more prominently, emphasising its s3xual symbolism. It also prevents premature stretching of the fibrous supporting tissues. With a good brassiere, flat breasts become pointed when enclosed. While packaging the breasts, always put the nipple of your breast at the joining of the cup of the brassiere. Nursing mothers should always breastfeed by bringing out their breasts from the upper part of the brassiere near the chest and not from beneath the base of the bra close to the tummy. The odour of breast milk stains on brassieres can be extremely nauseating – they make s3x non-appealing. If your breast must satisfy your husband at all times as the Bible enjoins, then spice it up with a good odour, pack it well, keep it firm, and make it clean, shapely and appealing. The use of roll-on under the fold of the breasts to keep them dry and rash free is very good. Light-fitting, lacey cotton panties give room for fresh air and prevent candidiasis infection. Deodorants can also be used on the inner parts of the thighs as it keeps them dry, and rash-free and prevents friction and irritation. The hair on either side of the curve of the thighs can be shaved to prevent bad odour and repulsive moisture. If you prefer to keep your armpit hair, make sure that they smell well at all times. It is absurd to welcome your husband in a smelly ragged, faded old nightdress when your husband is coming back from work. Nor is it appropriate to ‘blow your nose’ on the edge of your dress when under stress or overworked; it is disgustingly irritable. Wives, be sensitive to the needs of their husbands. Cleanliness is next to godliness. A clean and well-groomed body is essential to keep your man asking for more.   QUESTION ONE If I have a good morning erection am I free from every s3xual health challenge? My friend once told me that if or whenever one wakes up with an erection it means the person is free from every penis and erection problem, in short, every s3xual health challenge in men. Please how far this is true?   ANSWER Hmm, this is far from true because some men with weak erection, premature ejaculation and erectile dysfunction still get erections when they sleep and even when they wake up. This is not because they do not have s3xual health challenge but because it is usually a sign that their weak erection, premature ejaculation and erectile dysfunction is caused by stress, the anxiety of performance, or some prevailing situation that they can’t fix on time. If you don’t have night-time erections, that usually means such a person’s erectile dysfunction has a physical cause. Anytime a man has a problem getting or keeping an erection on a few occasions, should not be considered a s3xual or erectile health challenge. As a matter of fact being tired, stressed, having problems with one’s wife, or drinking too much can make it tough to get an erection, and it’s normal for that to happen once in a while. However, men with diabetes have a higher risk of Erectile Dysfunction  (ED) because Diabetes can damage blood vessels and nerves, which can cause Erectile Dysfunction and other problems. Men who have diabetes are two to three times more likely to have s3xual health challenges than men who don’t.   QUESTION TWO I envy my children’s s3x lives and activities. My husband and I have hit middle age, and suddenly his erections seem less firm and his libido has dropped drastically. He says this is normal, but s3x is not just the same for me as before, this is the time I want it every now and then. Moreover, I am even ashamed to admit to myself that I am more active s3xually now than ever, and I sometimes even envy my children’s s3x life and activities. Sometimes, I secretly ask them to tell me about their s3xual activities [pretending to be interested in their relationship] only to get myself arouse and masturbate afterwards. Please be honest with me, is this normal?     13 ways to connect body-to-body, heart-to-heart     Four keys to good s3xual turnaround     Arousing your husband’s s3xual desire (2)   ANSWER Firstly, it is very normal for you to be more active s3xually now than ever because it is part of ageing for women and also you are more peaceful emotionally. Even though, there is no need for you to envy your children’s s3x life because you can experience the same. Most males after middle age experience changes in s3xual function. They may not develop an erection as quickly or as often as before. Their erections may not be as firm. They may not maintain the maximal erection as long. Ejaculation may not occur as quickly, and there is typically less volume of ejaculate, but still, s3x can still happen. Because these changes usually develop slowly and may not always occur to the same degree. In other words, the erect penis may be larger and firmer one day, but not the next. Sometimes other factors affect a man’s system: fatigue, alcohol use, some types of medications, dejection and anxiety, mainly “performance anxiety.” Actually, this problem of performance anxiety is a good reason for you not to express your concern about your husband’s erectile changes in derogatory terms or accusatory tones, but rather find a way around it. If you express your concern about your husband’s erectile changes in derogatory terms or accusatory tones, it will make him have low s3x-self-esteem which could make him worry more about the loss of potency and make normal s3xual function even more difficult. On the positive side, some couples find that the changes in a husband allow him to last longer in intercourse, which can potentially provide greater stimulation for his wife. Your husband is extremely interested in and perhaps anxious about your reactions to his problem. He’s also probably very sensitive about it. Be as reassuring as you can about your love, admiration and respect. Eliminate words that might be interpreted by him as rejection. A problem like this calls for teamwork, however, when changes in erectile ability are creating serious tension between spouses, it’s a good idea to consult a s3x therapist. Recently, I have in addition found some natural researched herbs with no side effects from Seychelles that can cure and also slow down erectile dysfunction to a very large extent. For more information about these herbs, please call me.   QUESTION THREE I am concerned it seems it gets worse by the day Why does my semen dribble instead of squirting out during orgasm, is this normal? I am concerned it seems to get worse by the day. Does masturbation have anything to do with this?   ANSWER Squirting or squeezing of semen during climaxing simply means the manner, mode or way the semen comes out during ejaculation. Squirting can also be called spurting, gushing or spewing out. While dribble or dribbling also means trickling salivating or dripping semen during ejaculation. Whichever way a man’s semen comes out during ejaculation depends on a lot of things.  It depends on how s3xually excited he is at that particular time, or when he ejaculated last, it depends on how old the individual is, or maybe even just how tired he is. Each man’s experience does not only differ, each man’s physiological make-up differs. It also depends long such an individual has been s3x-starved, a new wed s3x-starved man or generally s3x-starved husband will squirt over and over again and again while a regular s3x supply husband may dribble over and again. It also depends on the type of diet a man is on. Remember s3x is an exertion best performed by fit bodies eat well. Generally, men squirt farther when they are younger and the force diminishes as they get older and eventually just dribbles or drips out as they reach andropause. No matter which way it comes out, the feeling is usually the same and how far it squirts out has no bearing on how pleasurable the feeling of climaxing or s3x is.  As a matter of fact, wives who enjoy harmonious s3xual intercourse with their husbands always enjoy and loved the feeling of a loaded squirting inside them. Some categories of men squirt after prolonged stimulation or interrupted stimulation, for instance, a wife can make sure she gets her husband overstimulated, make him get extremely excited but not finish up then later after some distraction getting back on the job big time. The husband will squirt powerfully. This is a one-lifetime experience husband looks forward to, wife! You can make this possible. However, this may not be true for a habitual masturbator, instead of his ejaculatory pattern going from squirting to dribbling then drops of drips the ejaculatory configuration can just start dripping without remedy. Many masturbators argue that they can’t handle their s3xual tension and urges but the actually uncontrollable s3xual tension is a permitted myth. S3xual urges and tension can be easily controlled once one’s s3x addiction is eliminated. When the muscle contraction is not as strong as it should be it makes the feeling of squirting less intense. But an individual can actually strengthen his PC muscles so that he will probably squirt more often. And what you do to strengthen PC muscles is you squeeze as if holding back urine; hold that squeeze for three seconds. And repeat that exercise 20 times. Do this three times a day.