AJIA: Good day, I retired as a Nursing Sister in 1994 from UPTH University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH). I have forwarded the required documents after verification by the head of Pensions UPTH to Abuja. I also sent a letter through DHL to the Executive Secretary, Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD). Later, I received a call that I should be expecting a mobile capturing at Owo, Ondo State in October. But till date no one has come to me. Please note that I was last paid on September 30, 2020. PTAD: Kindly scan and send your service documents, medical certificate, bank statement and BVN slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng for further processing. AZUMI: Good day, I received message concerning, ‘I am alive’ screening. The message stated that I am selected. But on going to a cafe to update my record, it didn’t open. It will write ‘You are not selected. Please what do I do! PTAD: Please ensure that the location of the device you are using is turned on and the pensioner number you inputed is the one stated on your PTAD verification acknowledgement slip. ANNONYMOUS: My name is Umaru. I have not received my arrears up till date. Though others have got theirs. Thank you. PTAD: Kindly state the period of the arrears you are requesting for, so we would be able to investigate and take further action. POLYCARP: My name is Polycarp. I have been receiving my pension without problems. But in 2016, I was not paid in full. I was paid only two months leaving the arrears. I complained but up till no response. Kindly help me. PTAD: Kindly provide us with the hardcopy of your Bank Statement from January 2016 till date and attach a complaint letter addresed to the Executive Secretary. GEORGE: I received a text message indicating that have been selected for the “I am Alive” pilot scheme. But when I logged into the website and supplied my particulars, the computer responded that I was not selected for the scheme. Please help clarity the issue. PTAD: Please note that the pensioner number you quoted is wrong. Use the one stated on your PTAD verification acknowledgement slip. CHIDI: My name is Chidi. My mother, Mrs. Augustina has not been paid any dime as pension for over 15 years. Although it is a long story, which is partly not the fault of PTAD.   Anchor Insurance launches product for air travellers     Pension complaints and solutions     PenCom recovering pension liabilities, says DG   But PTAD has taken over payment of pensioners, including my mother’s as well as her group in the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Enugu District to be precise. I would like to know when the pensioners (Mrs. Augustina inclusive) in NRC, Enugu District that were part of the mass retrenchment in 2005 by the former president Obasanjo administration, start receiving their monthly pension like others? Many of her colleagues are dead and others incapacitated due to hunger, hardship, trauma, and sickness. That Mrs Augustina is still alive is only by the grace of God. More so, this is against the backdrop of the legal dynamics between her group and NRC, Enugu District, with excruciating pains and available financial support won the case. Please Mrs. Augustina (my mother) wants to know what is delaying them from receiving their pension. PTAD: If the pensioner has been verified by PTAD, advise her to scan and send her pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Pensioner should also provide her contact phone number to enable us contact her and advise her further. ANNONYMOUS: I am Iriogbe and a retiree. By virtue of Decree 42 of 1992, NIPOST is a Federal Government parastatal. The Decree has not been revoked. Thus it becomes embarrassing that NIPOST continues to pay its retirees and officers’ salaries paid to Federal Government’s ministries as against salaries being enjoyed by other Federal parastatals. The government should, therefore, make enough funds available to enable NIPOST pay the backlog of arrears to its retirees and staff. We are tired of the delay in implementing the parastatal status of NIPOST PTAD: Kindly write the Executive Secretary. ALABI: Dear Omobola, my name is Alabi. I wish to refer to The Nation of June 2, 2021 where I was requested to forward my bank statements from the time I retired up to the month of June 2021. Let me say that the documents were forwarded with a covering letter on June 19, last year via email. Since then, I have not got any response from PTAD to confirm the receipt of the documents and take action thereafter. I would appreciate it if I could be informed on the action taken on the matter  to put my mind at rest in view of my old age. God bless you all at PTAD. PTAD: Kindly check the inbox or junk email of the email address you used and refer to our response in The Nation dated July 2, 2021, requesting that you forward the hardcopy of your bank statement with an attached complaint letter. RAPHAEL: I am Raphael, retired from Jos Steel Rolling Company in 1993 on grade level 12/1. Thank God for this platform. I want to say that PTAD has been underpaying me. Several complaints lodged during verifications but no solution. My arrears are over 20 years. Help reach PTAD to take action on my issue. PTAD: Pensioner should please avail us with his account number or pensioner number to enable us review his complaint. DINNEYA: Good day, sir. I am a  JAMB pensioner. PTAD stopped paying me my pension since October. I did clearance in March, this year, yet my pension has not been paid.  My family and I are dying of hunger. My landlord has given me quite notice because I cannot pay rent. Help me on my pension before die in pains.