IKEJE: Good day. In 2016, I retired from Nigerian Customs Service (NCS). I want to complain to you about my accrued benefit, which was increased from 7.5 per cent to 10 per cent and sent to my PFA – Stanbic IBTC Pension. I went to their office but they said my money had not been sent to them. But when I showed the staff member a copy of The Nation, which reported  my case, he turned to say that they were paying it batches. Shortly, you pushed for me. Now I have been paid. I thank the newspaper. God will continue to bless the company. TAYO: Good day, my name is Tayo. My late mother had two Retirement Savings Account (RSA)  PINs with two pension managers. There are funds in each account. How do I process her benefits? PENCOM: You are advised to write a letter of complaint to the Director-General, National Pension Commission, Plot 174, Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, Wuse , Abuja. The letter should state your late mother’s full name, the two RSA PINs with the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and evidences of registration with the two PFAs. Thank you. CHRISTIAN:  Greetings Omobola. My name is Christian. I voluntarily retired from federal service as lecturer on December 31, 2019. Last November, I changed from Pal Pensions to Stanbic Pensions. But till date, I have not got a kobo from my PFA. PENCOM: Please be informed that your retirement benefits are being processed and you will be notified by your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) once payment has been made. Thank you. OTI:  OTI: My name is Oti, a former staff member of Skye Bank Plc. My complaint is on the ‘wrong doing’ of my PFA. I left the service of the bank since December 2009. Then I applied for my accrued benefit of 25 per cent since last November. But up till now, no response from them. My letter of non-indebtedness was sent to them from my former employer since January 19, this year. Kindly tell them to pay my 25 per cent. I am based in Calabar. The Calabar office manager refused to pick my calls or talk to me. I have health challenges. I need the money for surgery. PENCOM: Please be informed that the commission has approved your request since March, this year. You are pleased requested to liaise with your PFA for further enquiries. Thank you. AJALA: Greetings to the Director-General of PenCom and The Nation. My name is Ajala, a paramilitary officer. I retired in June 2009. My Pension Fund Administrator is Sigma Pension. My complaint is on the non- payment of 2.5 percent and arrears. Thank you.   PTAD to add 813 BoA retirees to its payroll     NEM’s assets hit N6.9billion     PenCom to sanction PFAs for misleading clients   PENCOM: Please be informed that you are not eligible for the 2.5 per cent differential as the Presidential approval took effect from July 2014 when the Pension Reform Act 2014 was amended for the increment in the rates of contributions. Thank you. IZUATA: My name is Izuata, a retired ASP. I was paid a pitiable amount as lump sum while a huge sum was left in my account. Meanwhile, junior officers who went to PenCom’s office were paid higher than l. I am bedridden. I am, therefore using this forum to appeal to PenCom management to pay me the accruing sum to enable me build a house for my children. PENCOM: Please be informed that your retirement benefits, which include your lumpsum and monthly pension, were computed based on your RSA balance as at February 2012. Furthermore, be informed too that the RSA balance is solely for pension. BROWN: Good day, I am D.S.C. Ukeje. I have been going to Stanbic IBTC to get the 10 per cent benefit okayed by Mr. President for pensioners.  But Stanbic IBTC has refused to give pay us. We plead with PenCom to order it to pay us. Even the Nigerian Custom Service, where we retired from in 2016 has forgotten us. Our rank mates that still serving are well paid. If this money is not paid, we will take laws into our hands. PENCOM: Please forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as well as other vital information to enable the commission to investigate further. Thank you. ADETUNJI: Good day. I am Adetunji, writing from Ibadan. My daughter, who has just got a job, was asked to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA). Please, how do we go about it? Thank you. PENCOM: Please visit the commission’s website at http://www.pencom.gov.ng for a list of Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and their contact details. Feel free to contact any of them so they can advise you of the nearest branch to you. They would assist you in opening  a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) for your daughter. Thank you. ANDERSON: Good day. I am Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Anderson Anzaku. For quite sometime, I have not been receiving my monthly SMS. I do not know what is in my savings account. Please help me. PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) so they can update your telephone number as well as your email address  for you to receive alerts and statements monthly. Thank you.