Some of the injured survivors of Sunday’s attack on St Francis Catholic Church, Owo in Ondo State yesterday recounted how the gunmen threw bombs and opened fire on them a few minutes before the end of service. One of them, Alex Michael, said he was shot in the leg while protecting his children by the gunmen. He explained that the attackers   operated for about 30 minutes before leaving the scene, Other survivors, who narrated their ordeal from their admission rooms  at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, were John Nwogwu, Margret Attah, Benjamin Ozulumba, Gloria John and  Victor Ugweze Michael expressed happiness that his children who attended the service with him were unhurt. He said: “They started shooting from outside and before we knew it, they began firing at people inside the church. Many people died. “I was with my children and I tried to defend them. We had to move under the pew when the shooting was going on but the place could not contain us.  They shot my  legs which  were outside but I  thank God nothing happened to my children”: Attah’s case was particularly saddening as she will no longer walk. Her two legs were amputated due to the severity of the damage done to them by bullets. The 43-year-old woman was writhing in pain and could only say she was yet to comprehend all that happened on Sunday.   Owo Church Attack: Governors condemn attack     Owo Church Attack: Police recover unexploded bombs     Owo Church Attack: Tinubu, NGF donate N125m to victims   Ozulumba, who said he escaped with a gunshot wound through a  ladder at the back of the church, lamented that his 70-year-old  mother was not as lucky.  She  lost her  life during  the attack Ozulumba said:: “When we were about to close, we just heard gunshots within the compound of the church. Before we knew it, they started shooting everybody and they threw dynamites. “I was shot in the leg. I lost my mother in the attack but the rest of my family is safe. My mother is over 70 years. “With blood already gushing out of my leg, I immediately summoned strength within me to move to the back of the Catechist when there was an explosion. On getting to the backyard, I saw a ladder and I escaped through the ladder. “When I was escaping  I saw many bodies on the ground.   I went to the church with my wife, children and my mother. But nothing happened to my wife and children.” Another survivor,  Nwogwu,  said he was able to join some lucky members of the church  who hid at the back of the altar His words: We heard a loud explosion and the ceiling fell on us. Even at that, they (gunmen) were still shooting at us and at the door of the place we are hiding. One of our choir masters was hit by a bullet. “Where I was hiding, I was able to see one of the attackers putting on Khaki material that looked like that of Man_O-war. He burnt the altar.” John said she went to the church alone and was shot in the leg. “I went to the church alone. My husband did not follow me. I was shot in the leg. It was when they left that I was brought outside and brought here(FMC), he explained.