The Lagos State Government is engaging the public to domesticate the National Building Code. At a  forum,  the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, stated that the move was aimed at producing the Lagos State Building Code and supplying the links in the regulatory framework by providing standards for buildings in the state as opposed to design standards. He said: “As a performance-based building code, the Lagos State Building Code covers aspects such as structural stability, durability, protection from fire, access, moisture control, energy control and services and facilities.” He said the code would complement the building 4x system in the state to address the challenges of land use, physical development and urban planning. Salako added that the code would provide the opportunity to address the peculiarities of the state. It would also address the localities with standard while minimising costs of disasters from flooding, building collapse and fire outbreaks, among others.   LSDPC gets executive director     10 years after, Falomo Towers resurrects     Quantity surveyors in public service pledge accountability,…   He said the domestication of the National Building Code and its launch as the Lagos State Building Code in the future would present another model from the state Noting the importance of information sharing, he urged reporters to support the government  by creating awareness for the code and the process leading to its domestication. The Special Adviser, E-GIS, Dr. Olajide Babatunde, said the domestication of the National Building Code would give adequate consideration to the peculiarities of the state. Also, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Abiola Kosegbe, said the state government embarked on the initiative, involving stakeholders’ engagements and contributions, with the support of the Nigerian Energy Support Programme(NESP). She explained that the Building Code would incorporate the Energy Efficiency Code and the Green Building Concept.