As the curtains closed on the 2021/2022 season across Europe, Nigerian players had a mixed season in their various clubs. Some players won titles; had brilliant runs in European competitions while others battled relegation with their teams. OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA looks at the Super Eagles stars that shone brightly across Europe in the season under review. Starting in the Scottish Premier League, Super Eagles stars Joe Aribo, Leon Balogun and newbie Calvin Bassey had a brilliant season for Glasgow Rangers. The players were instrumental to the Gers season run to a second-place finish in the Scottish Premier League (SPL), the Europa League finals, and a Scottish Cup triumph. Calvin ‘Bazooka’ Bassey was one of the revelations of the season. The 22-year-old made 50 appearances in all competitions, playing at left-back, left wing-back as well as centre-back in a back three and a back four. It is at centre-back where he has truly shone, putting in a man-of-the-match display in the Europa League final and the Scottish Cup Final a few days later. He was awarded Rangers’ best young player of the season. On the back of those performances this season, he has been linked with Wolves and Aston Villa, as well as Chelsea, Borussia Dortmund, and Bayern Munich. Bassey’s defensive partner at Rangers, Balogun had yet another brilliant campaign for Rangers. The 33-year-old made 37 appearances in all competitions for Rangers, scoring two goals, and has hinted he could remain at Ibrox beyond his current contract which is set to expire next month. Meanwhile, Aribo made the highest number of appearances for Rangers last season. The Super Eagles midfielder made 57 appearances in all competitions, scoring 10 goals and 10 assists. Aribo also became the second Nigerian to score in the finals of a major European competition after Alex Iwobi when he scored the opening goal in Rangers’ penalty loss to Eintracht Frankfurt in the Europa League finals last week. The 25-year-old showed great versatility, playing in different positions in midfield and attack for the Gers. And he helped his side claim the Scottish Cup after a 13-year wait. His versatility has made him one of Coach Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s most-trusted players. And while he may look thin and fragile, there is a lot of power in his sinewy frame. Despite a sub-par performance in the Europa Conference League finals, two-cap Cyriel Dessers has successfully etched his name in Feyenoord folklore with his scintillating displays this season. He left Genk last summer in search of more playing time, and it is a move that has paid off, as the Super Eagles forward has made a name for himself. Dessers became the first Nigerian player to reach the finals of the Conference League, a game the Dutch side lost by a goal to Italian giants AS Roma. Also, he has scored a record 10 goals in 13 appearances in the ECL, averaging just 62 minutes per game. Dessers was also decent in the league, with nine goals and two assists in 27 appearances, mostly coming in as a substitute. Yet Zaidu Sanusi is another Super Eagles star to win titles for his club. The left-back had a brilliant campaign for Porto in the Portuguese league, claiming the domestic double with the Dragons. The former Santa Clara star was the hero after FC Porto snatched a late win at Benfica to clinch the Portuguese league title for the 30th  time. He also proved his doubters wrong, as he had more game time than Wendell, who was brought to provide him with competition at left-back, scoring three goals along the way. Sanusi churned out great displays consistently, averaging one interception per game. He also had nine clean sheets in 24 League appearances. Eagle’s utility star Shehu Abdullahi and goalkeeper Francis Uzoho were both instrumental as Omonia Nicosia won their first title in 10years, the Cypriot Cup. It was particularly emotional for Abdullahi who had endured a not-so-fruitful time in the Turkish second division with Bursaspor. An elated Abdullahi hailed his teammates for their fighting spirit after a gruelling final which saw them beat EthnikosAchna on penalties after a goalless extra-time match. “It was an emotional night for me yesterday, a tough night it was,” Abdullahi tweeted on his social media Twitter handle. “The team spirit was unprecedented, and the fight was superb. Teammates fought for the badge and my sacrifice.”   Boxers battle for N1m at GOtv Boxing Night 25     Man City, PSG putting world football at risk     Ronaldo remains ‘very happy’ at Manchester Utd   “The fans were unbroken, they chanted all night. That was awesome from the fans, the support was massive.” In Turkey, one-cap Super Eagles forward Anthony Nwakaeme contributed 13 goals and 10 assists in 30 games as Trabzonspor won the Turkish Super Lig title for the first time in 38 years. The Istanbul-based club has been overshadowed by the biggest clubs in the city for decades. It was a hard-fought battle to get back to the top and Nwakaeme was a big part of their run to their first league title since 1984. This season’s tally is better than his seven goals and seven assists from last season. His statue in Trabzon also signifies the legacy he will be leaving in the hearts of those at the club when he finally calls time on his career in the small Istanbul club. That time may be soon, however, as the Nigerian may not be at the club next season to enjoy the thrill of defending the title with a deal already reportedly agreed to play for Fenerbahce next season. Still in Turkey, former Flying Eagles star Olanrewaju Kayode assisted the winning goal in the Turkish Cup final win for Sivasspor. Leke James was also in the Sivasspor team. In France, Moses Simon’s dizzy runs were instrumental as Nantes won the French Cup for the first time in 22 years beating Nice 1-0 in the final at the Stade de France. Nantes, who only avoided relegation in a play-off last season, lifted the French Cup for the fourth time and qualified for Europe for the first time in two decades. Moses scored six goals and had eight assists in 34 games for the 2001 Ligue 1 champions in all competitions for The Canaries. Still unknown to the national team handlers, Sunday Adetunji emerged as the top scorer in Macedonia and won the league title with FK Shkupi, and will be guiding his team to Europe next season. The former Plateau United, Rivers United, Lobi Stars, and Abia Warriors striker scored 20 goals and provided six goals in 28 games in his first season in Europe. He said: “I’m delighted to be part of this historic moment of the club. “To play for this family was an honour, and I will cherish this moment forever. “Winning titles must be part of us, we want the fans to be excited and be proud of us. We want to give more for the badge. “We are looking forward to next season, with amazing challenges ahead. We want to win the League title and achieve a season double. Our target is to get to the group stage of the UEFA Champions League. “It was a dream come alive for all of us. For the fans, THANK YOU!” Despite challenges with his fitness, former Golden Eaglets star playmaker Akinkunmi Amoo also won the Danish League title with FC Copenhagen and may be playing in the Champions League next season. “I am delighted to be part of this historic moment at Copenhagen,” Amoo tweeted after the title celebration which saw the 19-year-old bring his mother onto the pitch to celebrate with the rest of the team. “The experience at this iconic club has been interesting.” “I am looking forward to next season, to give my best for the badge, win titles, and be part of the club’s history.” In Austria, Samson Tijani, Amoo’s former U-17 teammate also won the Austrian Bundesliga with Red Bull Salzburg who won their 9th title on the bounce.