A GROUP, the Bola Ahmed Tinubu Vanguard (BAT-V) has hailed the 13 northern governors for their contribution toward the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the presidential flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the recent presidential primary of the party. A statement by the Imo State chairman of BAT-V, Teddy Akwari and the chairman of Southeast BAT-V, Nze Anyaehie Anayo Simeon commended the spirit of unity that was demonstrated by 13 of the 14 northern governors elected on the platform of the APC. They listed the northern governors as Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Aminu Masari (Katsina), Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa), Bello Matawalle (Zamfara), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Abubakar Bello (Niger), Yahaya Inuwa (Gombe), Babagana Zulum (Borno) and AbdulRahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara). It added that “their noble action in bearing witness to truth and equity that demands that power should be returned to southern Nigeria. History will be kind to you all’’. The group added: “Indeed to us, the action of June 6, 13 patriotic northern governors are in tandem with our understanding on the day of June 12 has distinguished June as a democratic month in Nigeria.”   2023: Why PDP is losing grip in Delta     Labour Party not a threat in Anambra — Stella Oduah     2023: I’ll work for Tinubu same way I worked for Lawan –…   BAT-V also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for providing a level-playing ground for every contestant that led the successful and peaceful conduct of the primary. It added: “We cannot over-emphasise our joy and gratefulness to the aspirants who volunteered to step down at the venue of the convention for our purposeful leader Alhaji Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. This they did for the future of Nigeria and Nigerians. “For the delegates that sacrificed their votes in favour of the man of the moment on discussion for the benefit and good of the country, we say thank you all. On this note, it is interesting to let this June 6 patriots (the 13 northern governors, the aspirants that stepped down for BAT, and delegates that cast their vote is his favour) should bear in mind that they have already invested in the Tinubu project for 2023 presidency. “Therefore, they have automatically become serious partners in the project. As such, they are expected to protect their investment so that it would not be wasted by hitting the roads, villages, regions, schools, and families to spread the goodwill gospel of BAT and his leadership qualities to convert the doubting Thomases by assuring everyone that the Tinubu we know has the good heart to accommodate anyone from any faction for the purpose of good work in progress as evidenced during his past quality administration in Lagos State. “Lastly, it is not as if we expected everyone to say yes at the same time in a democracy, therefore, we appeal to other notable politicians who may have in one way or the other for a particular interest best known to them have worked against the Emergency of our flag bearer to please join in the unity in the progress  of Alhaji Ahmed Tinubu 2023 presidency, to make the project a total success.”