The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has dominated Delta State politics since 1999. There are indications, however, that the party’s dominance may be threatened in 2023, Ifeonu Okolo reports Next year’s general election is fast approaching. In a way, it is a period of reckoning for political office holders who have been abusing their offices, believing that their tenure will never come to an end. In Delta State, for instance, where incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa reigns like an emperor, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has been at the helm of affairs in the last 23 years of civilian rule and appears to be taking the people for granted. As a result of the deteriorating relationship between the government and the people, observers believe the next general election is going to be a year of reckoning for the ruling party. For one thing, the poor performance of Governor Okowa has reduced the acceptance of the party among the populace. For another, the emergence of the speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori as the PDP governorship flag bearer ahead of the election has worsened its chances of retaining the state. This is due to the way he was foisted on the electorate by the Okowa-led party leadership. There was tension between stakeholders in Delta Central senatorial district, which is favoured to produce the governor and the Okowa-led administration over who should fly the party’s flag. While Oborevwori is the anointed candidate of Governor Okowa, Olorogun David Edevbie, a technocrat, is said to be the preferred choice of the Urhobo nation. Edevbie is the candidate endorsed by the Urhobo Progressive Union (UPU), a pressure group that has been echoing the views of the Urhobo nation. The UPU has been insisting on the latter as the best man for the job. The Urhobo have hinged their argument on the fact that since it is the turn of the Delta Central to produce the governor in line with the unofficial power rotation arrangement adopted since the return to civil rule in 1999, the zone should be allowed to pick any person that is considered as the best among the hoard of aspirants from the district. But, the insistence of the governor that the Urhobo nation should not have a say in determining who picks the party’s governorship ticket may work against PDP during the election. There is a question mark over Oborevwori’s educational qualification that may eventually mar his candidature. In spite of the attempts to douse the controversy, it has refused to go away. There are several court cases hanging over his neck on the issue. In one of the suits, FHC/ASB/CS/78/2021, instituted by Victor Ojei Obianuju, the plaintiffs questioned the discrepancies in the certificates presented by the first defendant. In another suit, FHC/ABJ/CS/631, filed on May 10, 2022, at the Federal High Court in Abuja, against the former speaker and the PDP by Messers Canaba Ovie Duke and others, the plaintiffs are asking the court to clarify if certificates and other documents attached to the PDP nomination form qualifies Oborevwori to contest the governorship primary and the next general election. But, the allegation does not appear to be weighty enough to compel the party’s screening panel led by Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri to disqualify him for the race. Governor Diri should know the implication of the controversy over the candidate’s certificate; he was a beneficiary of a similar certificate issue that denied the All Progressives Congress (APC) their victory at the poll in Bayelsa. Thus, it would be counterproductive for him to clear someone whose certificates may tomorrow become the subject of litigation. No fewer than three suits have been instituted against the candidate by members of the PDP, asking the court to disqualify Oborevworion the ground that his certificate is defective.   Four bandits killed, woman gunrunner held in Kaduna     Okowa: Secondus, Obaseki, Ekweremadu, Delta Speaker excited     VP slot: How PDP elders dropped Wike for Okowa   Besides, sources close to the Edevbie Campaign Organisation allege that the ballot papers used for the primary election were already thumb printed before they were handed over to the delegates. This, they added, may not be unconnected with the fact the accreditation of delegates was done at Cenotaph, at the centre of the capital, Asaba, while the venue of the primary was the Stephen Keshi Township Stadium. The Urhobo nation, which always produces the highest votes in any election in the state, is not happy that the emergence of Oborevwori as the party’s candidate, through Okowa’s insistence. Stakeholders within the axis believe it is an insult to the entire Urhobo nation. To them, the outcome of the court cases against Sheriff will be a factor that will determine whether to dump the PDP and support the APC. Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, who is of Urhobo extraction, is the APC candidate. With Omo-Agege as the flag bearer, the APC is likely to challenge the PDP’s dominance in the state for the first time since the return to civil rule in 1999. There is also a growing sour relationship between the government and workers within the state’s civil service. Close watchers of Delta State politics say the refusal of Governor Okowa to pay promotion arrears of civil servants since 2018, as well as the non-payment of pension and other retirement entitlements to teachers and other civil servants may undermine the chances of the ruling party this time around. This viewpoint is buttressed by the series of protests in recent times by retired primary school teachers whose retirement benefits have not been paid for the past six years. As a way of defending the latest N150 billion loan facilities taken by the government, Okowa recently indicated that part of the loan would be used to defray the accumulated pension arrears owed to the school teachers and for the completion of projects started by him. Many discerning observers, however, believe that Okowa’s explanations do not justify the huge amount the Delta State House of Assembly headed by Oborevwori approved for him at the twilight of his administration. Besides, the explanation is coming in the wake of a petition by a legal practitioner, Frank Tietie. The legal practitioner had through his agency, Citizen Advocacy for Social and Economic Rights (CASER), queried why a government that is on the last stretch of its eight-year tenure should take such a loan. The petition, which was directed to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFC), against the government called on the anti-graft agency to probe the reason behind the loan facility. Critics of the administration say the loan is meant to prosecute the next general elections, particularly the imposition of Governor Okowa’s preferred candidate on the people of Delta. Another advocacy group, the Concerned Nigerians has similarly petitioned the EFFC over the Delta State government’s bogus facility. In the petition, its convener, Deji Adeyanju alleged that the purpose of the loan was to fund the governor’s vice-presidential ambition. The group also wondered why the loan was approved by the Delta State House of Assembly a few weeks before the governorship primary. The way and manner the loan was approved, it added, suggests that there might be a rob-my-back and I-will-rob-yours agreement between the leadership of the House of Assembly and the governor. Several thousands of dollars, it is said, were allegedly given to each delegate to induce them to vote for Oborevwori during the party primary. The petition Edevbie forwarded to the Election Petition Appeal Panel in Benin City, Edo State suggested that the ballot paper used for the primary was already thumb printed before they were handed over to the delegates.