Senate President Ahmad Lawan and his Deputy, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege have congratulated the newly-elected presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Lawan and Omo-Agege made this known in separate statements in Abuja in reaction to Tinubu’s landslide victory at the just- concluded presidential primary election of the APC in Abuja. Lawan, who also contested the presidential primary of the APC but lost, said in the statement the emergence of Tinubu as the presidential flag bearer of the APC for 2023 has reassured the party of winning the presidential poll. In a letter of congratulation he personally signed, Lawan said the outcome of the election process had shown that Tinubu was the popular choice of his party. Lawan’s letter titled: “Felicitation” reads: “The Presidential Primary of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the 2023 General Election has come and gone. “I am elated and proud that the Presidential primary was manifestly free and fair, and conducted within our APC Family under a most convivial atmosphere. “The success of the event again demonstrates the capacity of our great party to run its internal affairs smoothly and devoid of rancour. “As Your Excellency is aware, I offered myself alongside your good self and other patriotic members of the party to fly its highly coveted flag in the 2023 presidential election. “I did so in the belief that I have the knowledge base, ideas, experience and desire to provide leadership for our dear country at these most trying times. “However, the outcome of the election process has shown that Your Excellency is the popular choice of our party for that assignment. “I do not have an iota of doubt in the wisdom of that decision by our Party’s delegates from across the country.   Let’s join hands to beat PDP, Tinubu urges APC members     Why I was absent at APC primary, by Nwajiuba     Atiku congratulates Tinubu for winning APC presidential…   “Your glittering track record of public service, foresight and grit in party building and administration, as well as the courage you continue to demonstrate in fighting for the entrenchment of democracy in Nigeria make you worthy of the high esteem and trust of our party members everywhere in Nigeria as exhibited at the National Convention. “It is on this note that I heartily congratulate you on your well-deserved victory at the primary. “I have no doubt that with your credentials, experience, antecedents and political sagacity, our great party will go into the 2023 contest confident of victory. “As a loyal party member, I remain committed to the party at all times and will always be available to work for its success. “Once again, I congratulate Your Excellency on your well-deserved nomination as the standard bearer of our party and, insha Allah, next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” On his part, Omo-Agege, the standard bearer of APC in the 2023 governorship election in Delta State, expressed optimism that Tinubu would emerge victorious in next year’s presidential election. He particularly lauded President Muhammadu Buhari and the governing APC for giving all aspirants a level-playing field, according to a statement by the Director, Communications and Media Strategy, Delta APC Gubernatorial Campaign Organization, Ima Niboro. He commended the 2022 APC Special Convention Committee for successfully conducting the primary, even as he showered glowing tributes on APC Northern Governors for setting the pace by zoning the Presidency to the South. While calling on Tinubu to be magnanimous in victory, Omo-Agege stressed the need for all presidential aspirants to join hands with the APC Presidential candidate and the party in ensuring victory. “Not everyone gave APC a chance to conduct a free, fair, credible presidential primary. With the undercurrents in the buildup, some had predicted that our great party would go into extinction after this Convention. “But with the transparent process that saw the emergence of Asiwaju Tinubu as our party standard bearer, I am confident more than ever before that this is the beginning of even greater tidings for our party. “We proved our critics wrong. We have shown that with unity of purpose, the sky is our starting point,” he said. The Deputy Senate President called on Nigerians to support Tinubu and other APC candidates at all levels in the forthcoming polls.