Jaiz Charity and Development Foundation yesterday said it has been complementing the efforts of the three tiers of government in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Chief Executive Officer of the foundation Imam Abdullahi Shuaib, said the foundation was able to do it through the support of partnering organisations, media and other stakeholders. Shuaib, a PhD holder, said Jaiz “is contributing its quota in the areas of poverty alleviation; banishing hunger; assisting people with health challenges; providing quality education; promoting gender equality; providing clean water and sanitation; ensuring decent working condition and economic growth among others. He spoke during the 7th Zakat Distribution Ceremony at Beleke Smith Memorial Central Mosque Hall, Surulere, Lagos.   Senate seeks trial of prison officials over illegal remand…     Host communities occupy Agip flow station in Rivers     PRP will repeat MKO’s 1993 feat, son boasts   “From the foregoing, it is gratifying to note that Zakat which is one of the instrumentalities of Islamic social finance, which is a subset of Islamic finance, is a potent tool to mitigate poverty, reduce inequality gap in the society and economically empowered the poor and needy people. Today’s event is a manifestation of the assertion that Zakat is a tool for financial inclusion and shared prosperity. As we are all witnesses at this gathering, Jaiz Foundation is walking the talk that Zakat is working and it has the potentials to eradicate poverty when it is administered efficiently and effectively by Zakat professional organisations on the tripod of solidarity, collaboration and synergy,” he said. Chairman of the foundation Mallam Adamu Bello, said N9 million would be disbursed to beneficiaries in Lagos. “Prior to this day, we have already disbursed over N3.7million for urgent surgeries such as Kidney transplant and hyperthyroidism among others which could not be delayed in order to save lives. Today, we are disbursing N5.2million to 39 beneficiaries who are suffering from the adverse economic situations. We are committed to improving the precarious situation of the have-nots among us, by giving voice to the voiceless, hope to the hopeless with a view to inspiring them to the path of financial independence and shared prosperity,” he said. The items distributed include industrial sewing machines, blood pressure machine, deep freezer and Laserjet printer. Apart from medical and economic empowerment supports, Bello said other thematic areas covered by the foundation include education, accommodation, debt-relief and humanitarian supports. He urged the beneficiaries to make the best utilisation of the materials to raise the bar of their dignity and self-importance.