The Ekiti election, won by Biodun Oyebanji in a state of 3.3million population in 2016 and with approximately 989,244 or nearly one million, 1/3rd of the population as registered voters. 360,753, 1/3rd participated and were accredited and approximately 351,865 000+ voted validly with 8,888 void votes. The winner receiving approximately 187,057+ votes, 50+% in an election. So approximately 18-20% of registered voters won the election and only 1/3 of the registered voters exercised their voting rights. Dismally poor electoral participation, apathy or fear of violence, all of which must be addressed for a value-for- INEC-budget-election and higher voter participation in future elections. This assumes that the 989,244 registered voters were legitimate. Making the results available at the polling booth empowers election monitors and protects INEC from fraudulent inducement and coercion. Sadly, the corrupt monster of vote buying, overt and covert, remains as some Nigerians do not believe promises of politicians – good governance – and therefore prefer immediate financial rewards as the election is misconstrued as  a buy-sell business commodity. Those steeped in this corruption aka ‘stomach infrastructure’ say that there is no immorality involved, just normal political business. But the care of human beings’ lives is not just political business. They are life itself. This mindset is an affront to common sense in a country with so much poverty, hunger and disillusion among most voters who contrast their situation with the disgusting opulence associated immediately with ‘Candidate Success’ characterised by an almost uniformly hyper-consumptive and unapologetic political office-holder class in general and the huge sums which several political office holders have been accused of misappropriating, some say for ‘Election War chests’. It must be repeated ad nauseum that INEC has nothing to do with security at elections. Violence is strictly a political party precipitation, plan and activity directed and funded by party members and executed by thugs etc.  Note that there is nothing like ‘Political Violence’. This is to trivialise and normalise murder, mayhem and arson. A person planning to murder or maim a politician must face attempted murder and attempted GBH, Grievous Bodily Harm, just like any other accused. Even if it takes place in a political environment and has political goals, the perpetrators remain vicious, common criminals. The US is investigating the January 6, 2022 Washington attack. No one is mentioning politics as an excuse for illegality. A crime is criminal. Period. Nigeria must follow and start prosecuting perpetrators and their backers. Only the certainty of getting caught, disgraced and jailed on quick efficient-court-process conviction will get this menace of ‘violence during elections’ not ‘political violence’ behind us.   June 12: Voter victory 2022?  Owo; 61-11=50+1 Baby      N100m Lost? Delegate job; Crushing Okada epidemic     Corrupted ‘Richest Poor Country’ or ‘Poorest Rich Country’   Sadly, worldwide, especially in Africa and particularly in Nigeria, the world’s politicians and political leadership have mostly failed to set aside any credible part of the countries’ cumulative assets as collective inheritance and patrimony. Instead, they corruptly diverted such funds to family and cohorts. The progeny of one political office holder thief now ‘inherits’ the inheritance stolen from hundreds and thousands of an entire slum, nearby. But there are hundreds charged loudly by EFCC, ICPC, Police etc for stealing N2-80 billion and probably hundreds of thousands of other government/private sector beneficiary  thieves, common criminals in flowing garments and tie and suit, admonishing the press on how to avoid corruption. Constituency projects in focus and being reviewed in Abuja. A conduit for trillions of naira ’to waka’  with next to nothing to show for it and a failure to thrive and develop measured easily by the yardstick of the UN-SGDs. Nigeria is groaning under spirally people’s sachet water cost because governments abandoned their responsibility to continue to provide potable water for the citizenry. Imagine how many pure water bags are used daily nationwide 60m/day. Bottled water statistics are out there somewhere. All plastic is imported but the plastic waste is not recycled but dumped. There are too few places to get clean water to fill a reusable bottle, therefore a high dependency on bottled and sachet water creates environmental mountains varying in size from Olumo , Zuma and Shere Hills quantities of plastic waste daily probably reaching Mount Kilimanjaro’s volume, a ‘Plastic Mountain’ in each country. This is an environmental time bomb primed to explode under our children when perpetrators of this ‘Nigeria without tap water’ have died. The neglect of all infrastructural has never been for lack of funds but always because theft takes official precedence over the citizens’ collective wellbeing. Other countries with oil have huge Sovereign Wealth Funds because they stop hyper-corruption. Google ‘SWF List’. The SWF has ensured a stable currency in times of adverse economics  and guaranteed development strides which Nigerian politicians, who have diverted or pocketed the SWFs,  travel to admire but do not replicate ‘back-home’ for slum dwellers. That attitude will destroy us all. The political class seeks a mandate for 2023-2027, but did it examine the 1960 -2022 score card to realise that Nigeria is at maybe 20+/-5% of expected achievement. It is planning to rescue Nigeria or financially rape us again. Are we to expect nauseating mega-theft revelations in 2026/7 after the 500th -1,000th time of stealing yet another N1-80,000,000,000 undetected from the poorly educated brains, open hungry mouths and empty stomachs and bad water caused typhoid-ridden and worm-infested emaciated bodies of Nigeria’s  50-80,000,000 youth? A state government is giving a one week ‘PVC REGISTRATION AND COLLECTION’ holiday for civil servants to obtain their PVC. Imagine the cost to state and work expectancy of government.