It is no longer news that some chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, who contested various primary elections, have been grumbling and accusing the party of not giving them fair chances during the nomination processes. Some openly accused the party of imposition and demanded to be compensated. The agitation led to protest marches and media outbursts by the aggrieved chieftains and their supporters. While all these lasted, some concerned members feared for the APC ahead of the general elections. But it appears the prayers of the agitators may have been answered following the decision of Governor Dapo Abiodun to address their demands. Offering respite to the ‘losers’ during the week, the governor said those who picked forms for elective positions but did not receive the nomination would be compensated, adding that his administration would continue to see them as stars of the party. “There are no winners or losers. We must consider all of us as winners because we are all members of one great party. We had about 182 aspirants aspiring to go to the House of Assembly of just 26 seats; over 85 were aspiring to go to the House of Representatives of just nine seats. It further underscores the fact that our party has done very well. It is only in a party that has done very well that you find so many aspirants. “I can assure you that for all those that did not emerge, you remain our stars and our winners, we will find ways to compensate, to appreciate you and ensure that you remain relevant in the scheme of things politically. I do not want you to be discouraged,” he said.   Moghalu: Abrupt end of a dream     Rivers: Enter Fubara’s private army     Delegates, beware   With this, it may eventually turn out a win-win situation for winners and losers.   In a move that seems to confirm the age-long belief that after a hard-won victory, relaxation and celebration is next, members of the Tinubu Support Group (TSG), in Enugu State, under the leadership of the immediate past chairman of the All progressive Congress (APC), Dr. Ben Nwoye, staged a lavish party in celebration of the nomination of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as presidential candidate. The celebration, which held at a serene location in the state capital, according to findings by Sentry, was carnival like, with all the trappings of an Owambe party. “Guests and passersby were left wondering if the event was just a victory celebration or a wedding ceremony,’ an eye witness said. Nwoye, a serving Federal Commissioner representing the Southeast in the Federal Consumer Competition Protection Commission (FCCPC), while explaining the reason for the celebration said “the various groups you are seeing here today are supporters of our leader and presidential candidate, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, (the Jagaban) the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the special grace of God. Asked why the group threw such a party, Nwoye said Tinubu’s supporters worked hard for his victory, so there was nothing wrong if they partied hard to celebrate.