Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has admonished journalists and information officers to be wary of sensational reportage that can undermine democratic rule. Oyetola, who acknowledged the role played by the media in the entrenchment of democratic rule in Nigeria, harped on responsible reportage and spirited defence of civil rule in the country. He added that the starting point to achieving this is to avoid issues that undermine the credibility of electoral processes. The governor spoke at the opening of a two-day political communications workshop for journalists and information officers in the state. It was organised by the state, through the Ministry of Information and Civic Orientation, in conjunction with Korki and Associates. Oyetola also urged media professionals to continue to engage the citizens with information that can help them make informed decisions at the polls. He added: “We have seen a government steady at work, a government that is responsible to the people, a government that is accountable to them. It is part of the media’s duty to keep the people informed about developments in the state until they approach the polls.   Tallen, Falana, for women’s conference     Navy takes waste disposable campaigns to littoral…     Ekiti APC Elders’ Forum congratulate Tinubu   “It is our duty to inform them that workers are receiving their full salaries as and when due, and pensioners are also receiving their pensions. Please remind them that 1,000 teachers were recruited despite paucity of funds, and we have been able to re-engineer our schools. “Also, let them know that the social protection of citizens has continued unabated under this administration, and that the social and physical infrastructure are not lacking as most part of the state are now synonymous with construction sites.” Chairman of the House of Assembly Committee on Information Kunle Akande admonished media professionals to be wary of the factualities of information shared before, during and after the election. Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation Mrs. Funke Egbemode said one of the most critical goal to be accomplished with election reportage, especially in the July 16 election, is to keep the state safe. She said: “It is our job as professionals to ensure that things work, that things that are working are reported, and even the things that are not working are reported. “This explains why we have organised this workshop to analyse the facts, contexts and impacts of election reportage. As we all know, election is a mix of order and chaos, the expected events and surprises. “So, this workshop is necessary to equip media professionals on how to cope with chaos, how to stay safe within the limits of professionalism, the safety of journalists on election day and how to report the surprises. It is necessary to know how to relate with other agencies and stakeholders involved in election…”