Super Eagles coach Jose Peseiro and his three assistants are yet to  be issued work permits in line with stipulated guidelines and regulations, NationSport can exclusively report. The Portuguese coach is being assisted on the Super Eagles job by the trio of Maykel Moreira (fitness coach), Acacio Santos (assistant coach), and Vitor Hugo (analyst). NationSport gathered yesterday that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) are  still in the process of seeking  application for the mandatory Combined Expatriate Resident Permit Alliance (CERPA) card otherwise known as Green Card, for the Portuguese and his assistants.   Ekevwo, Onwuzurike seek first national title at AFN trials…     Benin trials: AFN  targets multiple qualification for Oregon…     WAFU U17: Dare  lauds  Eaglets for picking U-17 AFCON ticket   Sources at the Federal Ministry of Interior said it was  compulsory that expatriates that move to Nigeria solely for work purposes must obtain the CERPA card  lest Peseiro and his foreign assistants would be  working illegally. “The NFF will as a matter of fact apply for the CERPA card  in the coming weeks and  I think the process of getting work permits for coach Peseiro  is already on-going but the coach is expected  to do something  in Portugal first before they commence the process here, ”a top NFF official told NationSport. Further checks at the Federal Ministry of Interior explained that an applicant for the Nigerian CERPA card is expected to pay as much as  $2,000 but Peseiro might be exempted since he is directly employed by the NFF to fill its expatriate quota. “Usually, an expatriate through the employer, is requested to apply for the CERPA card from the Comptroller General of Immigration but this takes time as such expatriates are issued  with a Temporary Work Permit Visa (TWP) as such  Peseiro  and his assistants have  valid papers  to work in Nigeria pending  when they are issued the CERPA card ” a decent source at the Federal Ministry of Interior further explained. “From what I know,  each applicant  will pay nothing less than $2,000 for the Green Card but Peseiro is most likely going to get his own gratis (free) as he was directly employed by the NFF.”