The South-South Zonal Organising Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Dr Blessing Agbomhere, has demanded the resignation of the Akwa Ibom Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mike Igini, over the alleged roles he played in the controversy rocking the governorship and Senatorial primary elections in the State. He also asked the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu to sack Igini if he fails to resign. Agbomhere accused Igini of “biased, partial and reasonably show the act of a man who is indebted, compromised, and running higgledy-piggledy to appeal to his pay-master.” Reacting to Igini’s comments on the governorship and senatorial candidates in a statement in Abuja, the APC chieftain said it is not in the place of the REC to dispute the primary election that produced the candidates forwarded by the party but the members of APC. “My attention has been drawn to the vituperation and grandstanding by the Akwa Ibom State Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr Mike Igini, regarding the Governorship and Senatorial primary elections for the Akwa Ibom state.   US hails INEC for Ekiti Gov poll     Ekiti: Dress rehearsal for next general elections     Oyebanji: A new chapter opens in Ekiti   “As far as the APC primary elections in Akwa Ibom states is concerned, the role played by Mike Igini so far is biased, partial and reasonably shows the act of an indebted man, compromised, and running higgledy-piggledy to appeal to his pay-master. “The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), by its statutory obligation to Nigerians, ought to be a neutral umpire in the electoral process. Parties who participate in primary elections and who are members of a political party are in the best position to disagree over the outcome of an election, not INEC. It is not in the place of Igini to dispute the primary election, except he is a member of the APC and a contestant in the said primary election. “Let me further emphasise that the political party must send names of their candidates to INEC and not Igini. If Igini has personal issues with Senator Godswill Akpabio, he should avail himself of a different forum to sort the issues out with him, as we will not allow him to stand as an impediment to the imminent victory of APC in Akwa Ibom and the South-South of Nigeria. And having done what he has done, Igini is no longer fit to be INEC Resident Commissioner in Akwa Ibom State. “I, therefore, call on Igini to, without further delay, resign his position as Resident Electoral Commissioner in Akwa Ibom State. If Igini refuses to resign, I call on the INEC Chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, to sack Igini without hesitation to ensure that the political atmosphere in Akwa Ibom State does not degenerate into anarchy.”