Nigerian female musicians have continuously raised the bar in ensuring their songs gain international recognition. Here are five Nigerian female artists with international recognition: Asa Bukola Elemide, professionally known by her stage name Asa, is a French-Nigerian singer best known for her hit songs “Fire on the Mountain” and “Eyé Adaba.” Fortunately, her debut record was well-received around the world. Her albums after that received a lot of worldwide radio. She was awarded the coveted Prix Constantin Award in 2008. Tiwa Savage Tiwa Savage earned a record deal with Universal Music Group after leaving Mavin Record due to the expiration of her contract. She’s been nominated for a number of international awards. She has collaborated with several local and international stars including Patoranking, Flavor N’abania, Waje and several others. Yemi Alade   Owo terror attack: Ohanaeze begins preparations for burial     PDP youths attack EFCC officials, foil attempt to arrest…     I’ll relocate to Ghana if Atiku or TInubu becomes…   Yemi Alade is a Afropop singer famous with her song “Johnny,” which was favorably welcomed. Yoruba-Igbo artist has made a significant impact on the Nigerian music scene and internationally The singer has a long list of accomplishments, including BET, MTV African Songs Award, and MOBO honors, Grammy nomination as well as shifting narratives with her music far beyond Africa’s borders. Seyi Shay   At the age of six, Seyi Shay began her musical career. Her late mother, as well as her siblings, who were all active in music and belonged to various musical groups, provided her with motivation and support. Shay’s first record deal was with No Apology Records, a George Martin-affiliated label. Boadicea, a girl band, was created in 2006. Seyi acquired an international record deal with Universal Island Records UK in July 2015, which will release her songs globally. Her musical prowess and expertise led her to collaborate with some of the world’s most well-known artists, including Justin Timberlake. Waje Waje is known for her distinct vocal range. Before entering the music industry, she was a member of a choir and had been singing since she was a teenager. Waje has also had the honor of performing alongside worldwide acts such as Wyclef Jean and Kerry Hilson. Waje has worked in a variety of musical genres with great success. Her career began when she joined the Dome record company, which is headquartered in the east.