Ekiti State Governor-elect Biodun Oyebanji yesterday disputed the allegation of vote buying during weekend election. He said his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), was not involved in any unruly behaviour. Oyebanji spoke with State House Correspondents after he was presented to President Muhammadu Buhari by APC National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu. Candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) Chief Segun Oni alleged vote buying in the election and vowed to challenge the outcome at the tribunal. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) also said they arrested some politicians trying to pay for votes during the election. Also yesterday, the British High Commission described the trend as worrisome and alien to democracy but it hailed Ekiti voters for their peaceful conduct. Oyebanji was led to Aso Villa, Abuja by party leaders, led by Adamu, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru and Minister of Trade and Investment Niyi Adebayo. President Buhari, who said he keenly followed the poll, expressed delight with the orderly conduct. “I loved how the APC governors mobilised, and supported you”, the President told Oyebanji, adding: “I think the party is very lucky, and things are getting better. I congratulate the Chairman, and I pray you sustain it.” On the allegation of vote buying, he said: “Well, where I voted, I did not witness anything like that, but people are entitled to their opinion, but not to their facts. “I will speak for myself. I canvassed for votes, I had a manifesto that I unveiled to Ekiti people and I canvassed based on that manifesto. I’m a part of a government that has done so well. The last time I was here, I said that if performance will be an indicator for electoral success, we have nothing to fear. “So, as far as we are concerned in APC we did not involve in vote buying, but we’ve done so well and we have a manifesto that pleases our people.”   Abdulsalami stable in UK, says Presidency     Atiku/Okowa ticket: Orubebe resigns from PDP     Buhari congratulates Ize-Iyamu at 60   Adamu ascribed the victory to God, and pledged that the feat would be replicated in Osun State next month. Chairman of the Campaign Council for Ekiti, Badaru congratulated President Buhari on the successful outing, saying; “Your unending effort to reposition the party is paying off. If we combine the votes of the candidates that came second and third, our candidate still beat them by a wide margin. APC is being daily endeared to Nigerians. Our gratitude goes to you, Mr President.” The Governor-elect, who thanked the President, said the election was a referendum on the party, “and a clear, positive signal to the election in Osun, and the national one next year. APC is still the party of choice.” Oyebanji lauded the President for the leadership and the level playing field he provided,” adding that he would be magnanimous in victory, as earlier advised by President Buhari. Oyebanji said his victory was as a result of the work done by the APC-led administration in the state, adding that he campaigned effectively and presented a reasonable manifesto to the people. Adamu said that the allegation of vote-buying was raised by elements who were losing at the poll. He said: “I have noticed that over the last maybe four or five general elections in this country, this issue of vote buying has taken a center stage. One can only evidence what he saw, what he did and I’m sure his excellency the governor-elect, responded in very good faith. “Some of you asking this particular question did not go Ekiti. You were not there. Somebody who is losing the election flied a kite. ‘Oh no, they are buying votes and all the kind of money they have, we don’t have. That’s why I’m losing,’ and you are helping to market that opinion.” The British High Commission congratulated the people of Ekiti State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, the civil society partners and other stakeholders for the successful conduct of the poll under the new legal framework. In a statement yesterday, the high commission stated: “Our team of observers on the ground noted commendable improvements in the electoral process, including the timely opening of polls, better functioning of the Biometric Voters Accreditation System (BVAS) devices for accrediting voters, and the transparent and efficient electronic transmission of polling unit results to INEC’s results viewing portal.” The high commission, however, expressed concern about reports of vote-buying and called on the relevant authorities to hold any persons involved accountable. It said: “The buying and selling of votes has no place in a democracy. “We urge any party or individual who is dissatisfied with the process to seek redress in a peaceful manner and through the appropriate legal channels.”