Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative has trained almost 300 church leaders drawn from different denominations and organisations. It was at the Next-Generation Leaders Summit (NGLS) organised by Anchor International Outreach Ministry. The church leaders got a copy of the Africa Study Bible, book and workbook valued at N35,000. This gesture, according to the President/National Coordinator of Anchor International Outreach Ministry, Dr Bolarinwa Omotosho, was to equip them for ministerial effectiveness. The beneficiaries, he said,, include priests of the Nigeria Army Chaplaincy Protestant Services Lagos, priests of the mainline churches, Organisation of African Instituted Churches(OAIC), Pentecostal churches, seminarians, school leaders and youth workers, among others. Omotosho explained that the free Bible distribution was made possible with the co-funding by Anchor International Outreach Ministry and Oasis International Limited through a project called God’s Word for Africa (GWFA). The Regional Director, West Africa, also coordinator of God’s Word for Africa (GWFA) Sola, Onifade, expressed gratitude for the good coordination and success of the summit without his presence.   Christians must be more involved in politics – Pastor…     Baptist Press transforms to BP production     How to stop killing of Nigerians on basis of religion, by…   Lt Col Very Rev J. Njoku of the Nigeria Army Chapliancy Service Protestant, said: “The training programme organised by Anchor International Outreach Ministry is indeed a step in the right direction. It dealt squarely with the urgent need to raise the next generation of leaders today, and the call for all who hold the position of trust in raising those leaders to rise to the occasion. “We sincerely appreciate Oasis International and other kingdom partners who made this programme and the study Africa Bible and other materials available for the participants.” Rev Moses Ayando of Evangelical Church Winning All(ECWA) said: “When you are looking for a soul-lifting and life transforming message release at the right time, then being part of the leadership summit of yesterday, organized by Anchor International Outreach Ministry, is just it.” What a wonderful time in God’s presence. To cap it up, the presentation of the Africa Study Bible, which was presented to 250 people, was the height of it all. In fact, the excitement and joyful mood of receiving the Bible was inexplicable.” President Hephizibah Ministry, Rev Tosin Olapo, said: “The training at the New Generation Leaders Summit was refreshing and educating. The topics and focus of the training were well aligned to current perspectives and challenges in ministry, with concrete steps to handle them for a more effective performance of participants in ministry. “The faculty was carefully selected to give adequate experiential knowledge to help the ministers. The free Africa Study Bible given to participants was the icing on the cake of the well packaged program. On behalf of all participants, I wish to register our appreciation to Oasis International for this valuable resource given to us. We look forward to other future programs by Anchor International Outreach Ministry.” Omotosho commended all the speakers and said indeed the participants had drawn biblical leadership and administrative experience from them. Among all are Rev. Dr. Michael Abodunrin, chancellor of Bowen University and past convention chairman of the Nigeria Baptist Convention; Pastor F.O Olotu, National Leader and Area Superintendent at The Apostolic Church, Nigeria and Dr. Mrs. Priscillia Omotosho, trustee of Anchor International Outreach Ministry