Digital banking witnessed a huge surge in 2021, the World Bank has said in a report titled: “Global Findex 2021 database”. The report, which was released yesterday, attributed the sharp rise in the use of digital banking services to the COVID-19 pandemic. It said Nigeria and other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa, experienced a continued rise in mobile money adoption, with 33 per cent of adults now having mobile money accounts – three times larger than the 10 per cent global average. World Bank Group President David Malpass said the digital revolution has stimulated increases in the access and use of financial services across the world and transformed the ways in which people make and receive payments, borrow and save. “Creating an enabling policy environment, promoting the digitalisation of payments, and further broadening access to formal accounts and financial services among women and the poor, are some of the policy priorities to mitigate the reversals in development from the ongoing overlapping crises,” Malpass said. The Co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Bill Gates, one of the supporters of the Global Findex database, said the world has a crucial opportunity to build a more inclusive and resilient economy and provide a gateway to prosperity for billions of people. In his reaction to the survey’s report, Gates said: “By investing in digital public infrastructure and technologies for payment and ID systems and updating regulations to foster innovation and protect consumers, governments can build on the progress reported in the Findex and expand access to financial services for all who need them.” The database, which surveyed how people in 123 countries use financial services and fintech, unveiled the narrowing of the gender gap in account ownership. The report indicated that “as of 2021, 76 per cent of adults globally now have an account at a bank, other financial institution, or with a mobile money provider, up from 68 per cent in 2017 and 51 per cent in 2011. Importantly, according to the report, growth in account ownership was evenly distributed across many more countries, while in previous Findex surveys over the last decade, much of the growth was concentrated in India and China, pointing out that this year’s survey, found that the percentage of account ownership increased by double digits in 34 countries since 2017.   Inmate graduates with 2nd Class Upper from Open University     Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties   “The pandemic also led to increased use of digital payments”, adding that “in low and middle-income economies (excluding China), over 40 per cent of adults who made merchant in-store or online payments using a card, phone, or the internet did so for the first time since the start of the pandemic. “The same was true for more than a third of adults in all low- and middle-income economies who paid a utility bill directly from a formal account,” saying, “ in India, more than 80 million adults made their first digital merchant payment after the start of the pandemic, while in China over 100 million adults did.” According to results gleaned from the database, two-thirds of adults worldwide now make or receive a digital payment, indicating that the share in developing economies grew from 35 per cent in 2014 to 57 per cent in 2021. The report said 71 per cent of developing economies have an account at a bank, other financial institution, or with a mobile money provider. It said mobile money accounts drove a huge increase in financial inclusion in Sub-Saharan Africa. The survey also found that the gender gap in account ownership narrowed from seven to four per cent globally and from nine to six percentage points in low- and middle-income countries. However, despite the advances, many adults around the world still lack a reliable source of emergency money. It said in Sub-Saharan Africa, the lack of an identity document is a barrier holding back mobile money account ownership for up to 30 per cent of adults. ”Over 80 million adults with no account still receive government payments in cash – digitalising some of these payments could be cheaper and reduce corruption. Increasing account ownership and usage will require trust in financial services providers, including confidence to use financial products, tailored product design, and a strong and enforced consumer protection framework.” The Global Findex database is produced by the World Bank every three years in collaboration with Gallup, Inc. In Nigeria, the need to streamline payments and deepen financial literacy, has led the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to introduce series of measures and policies aimed at enhancing financial inclusion by encouraging people to open bank accounts rather than keeping cash at home.