Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi has declared the February 25, 2023 presidential poll is almost a done deal for the candidate of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Fayemi, who boasted that Tinubu will win with a wide margin, said that he has no doubt with his strong political network, cut- like followership, national appeal, massive supports and commitment of APC members, the party remains unbeatable. The Governor, who was given an heroic welcome to Ekiti after his participation in the just- concluded APC Convention, said he stepped down for the former Lagos Governor in the interest of Yoruba’s unity and cohesion. Fayemi, who was welcomed from Ondo-Ekiti border town by APC members, was cheered by mammoth crowd at Igbara Odo, Ilawe, Odo and Ado Ekiti. Addressing the party supporters at the Fajuyi Pavilion in Ado Ekiti, Fayemi said the APC would use the forthcoming June 18 Ekiti and July 16 Osun governorship polls to open the windows of victory for Tinubu ahead of the presidential election. The Governor added that the party was irrevocably resolute to secure victory for its governorship candidate in Ekiti, Biodun Oyebanji as well as send a strong signal that 2023 election is a forgone conclusion for Tinubu. According to him: “From next week Saturday, we will continue to see the effect of my action. Asiwaju’s winning will begin from Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. Before 12noon on June 18, news will be filtering out that Biodun Oyebanji has won. Those who hate him are now getting weary.   Democracy Day: Buhari addresses Nigerians Sunday     Kachikwu beats Moghalu, others to clinch ADC Presidential…     Amaechi congratulates Tinubu, pledges full support   “By Tuesday next week, the presidential candidate of our party and incoming President, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and President, Muhammadu Buhari, Governors and bigwigs in APC will be in Ekiti during the grand finale of our party to mobilise for Oyebanji. “In this battle, we are going, don’t fear anything. There is nothing to fear. Those who are threatening will do nothing. Let me assure you of this, those pretending to have what it takes to govern Ekiti will meet their waterloo on June 18”. Fayemi applauded Ekiti delegates and members across the country for demonstrating support for him during his consultation tours, saying the success of the convention had proved wrong the naysayers and bookmakers who predicted doom for APC. Justifying his presidential ambition, the Governor stressed that he decided to join the presidential race with the belief that he possesses qualities to be President and not out of over-ambition or unbridled propensity to seek for elective positions. He added: “In Nigeria today, they knew that good things can come out of our Nazareth in Ekiti. Some of our people were not really happy with the way things went but God knew about it. “The most significant thing there was that, God sent us on a journey that we should ensure that Yoruba witnesses no disunity, so that we can have progress, peace and development . “It was also part of our mission for Nigeria to be united and prosper and that was what I went to do in that presidential convention and we did the job and the accolades are coming. “I thank all party members and the entire Ekiti, including our royal fathers for their support for me. I wanted the Southwest to bring home something. We didn’t want a blockade and I didn’t t want the name of our state to be mentioned in a negative way in Yorubaland,” he stated.