The Rector, Federal Polytechnic Oko, Anambra State, Dr. Francisca Nwafulugo, has warned new students against indulging in vices at its 38th matriculation (virtual). Dr. Nwafulugo said a lot of things made the institution the cynosure of eyes in the country. Such things, according to her, include having zero-tolerance for cultism, superb internal security network and checkmating indecent dressing among the students. Others, she said, are no-room for examination malpractice, which attracts immediate expulsion, and respect for the school constituted authorities. The matriculation was held via zoom as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic,  as few students and the full complement of the management staff were in attendance. The rector said: “Our internal security network is working effectively and has kept cultism at bay. I will like to inform you that by the grace of God, cultism is extinct here. “This has given our students the peace of mind and energy to focus on their studies without fear of intimidation or molestation. “My young ones, I want to assure you of the goodwill of my administration to provide all the necessary framework that will guarantee your academic excellence. “However, I want to ask for your co-operation. There are ethics and codes you must as a matter of necessity imbibe in order to excel.   Enugu gets NUC’s nod for Medical, Applied varsity     LASTVEB, others train youths     School owners, educators urged to prioritise pupils’…   “We demand respect for constituted authorities. No student is expected to take matters into their hands. Every grievance should be directed to appropriate channels. “We seriously frown at unruly behaviour, violence, inappropriate and indecent dressing, etc. In order to checkmate this, we established an ethics and dress code department, which has helped in maintaining decency among our students population. “You need to understand that your admission here is not only aimed at equipping you intellectually, but also to develop you in character and morals. You must, therefore, shun hooliganism, misconduct and all forms of vices and imbibe good morals. “Avoid examination malpractice.  It attracts expulsion. If you give due diligence to your studies, I promise, you won’t have any cause to regret,” Dr. Nwafulugo said On the matriculation, she said: “The Federal Polytechnic Oko exists because of the students that are being groomed in it. My dear matriculating students, we are delighted to have you as part of the polytechnic community’’. “Your choice of Federal Polytechnic Oko is indeed a wise choice. Be rest assured that your interest for a quality and reliable education will be adequately catered for. “My administration never compromises on excellence and quality. Moreso, we do not condone the exploitation of students and have put measures in place to checkmate this.” Speaking with The Nation, one of the matriculating in the Department of Business Administration, Onyinye Ferdinand, said it had always been her dream to attend the Federal Polytechnic Oko Also, Chijioke Ndulue, told The Nation that he would not disappoint her family by delving into any form of act that would bring shame to the family or the Institution.