At a meeting of the Attorneys General of the 36 states, held in Lagos, last week, some burning challenges of our tottering federation came to the fore. Unfortunately, the chief protagonist for the maintenance of the doddering status quo of a false federalism that Nigeria has been practicing since 1999 was the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, SAN, while the antagonists wh#ere led by the inimitable governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN. Regrettably, despite the glaring inadequacies of the 1999 constitution (as amended), particularly with regards to the centralisation of police and economic activities in the hands of the federal government, her officials still prefer the maintenance of a status quo that has almost torpedoed our national stability. The evident debilitating national crisis as a result of the overconcentration of power at the centre was eloquently captured by Governor Akeredolu in his presentation. In his keynote address, the governor captured the twin challenge of insecurity and debilitating economy, which he rightly laid at the altar of the quasi-unitary system we practice in the name of a federal republic. On security he said: “The current spate of insecurity in the country leaves us with no room for equivocation on the right of the states to maintain law and order through the establishment of state police.” This column like other patriotic Nigerians has made similar interventions in the past on the need to de-centralise the police, if the country hopes to stem the security challenges facing it. Indeed, it is strange that despite the challenges faced by the underfunded federal police, those at the helm of affairs are hell bent on keeping the centralised police structure with all the challenges. Even more benumbing is the fact that most of the 36 state governors, have at several instances called for state police to alleviate the grave insecurity that has made most of them inefficient, without any positive result. As far back as 2018, Governor Nasir El Rufai, one of the most influential northern governors in the ruling party, the All Progressive Congress (APC), argued in support of state police. In his remarks to members of Course 40 of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, he observed that “the current number of policemen in the country is grossly inadequate, there is need to double the number of police personnel.” He stated that nine of his colleagues were strongly in support of state police. The APC government in fulfilment of its electoral mandate set up the El Rufai committee on federalism in 2018, and among the recommendations was the establishment of state police. It is shocking that barely a year to the end of the second tenure of the Buhari presidency, Governor Akeredolu is still arguing with the AGF over the same issue. Only last year, during his independence broadcast, the president made a promise to recruit 10,000 policemen annually, when he has not resolved the dispute between the Police Service Commission and the office of the Inspector General over who has the right to recruit.   Agents provocateurs     Undelegated delegates     Rich sound of music   Of course, the president has not fulfilled the 2018 promise on increase of salary for policemen, perhaps because of the economic challenges facing the nation. So, when states demand for the decentralisation of the police, the argument is sound, considering the challenges faced by the centralised police managed by the central government. One wonders why despite these glaring challenges, those in authority are determined to maintain the status quo. The other issue raised by Governor Akeredolu is the overconcentration of economic activities in the hands of the central government, which again this column had railed against on many occasions. The governor lamented: “the federal government getting 52 per cent of the country’s revenue allocation is the main cause of the problem. There are some funds at the federal level that they don’t know what to do with. And the states and local governments are being starved. This is a direct consequence of long military rule.” Again Akeredolu is right in the above assertion, but the bigger challenge is that the central government’s dominance of legal rights over economic activities, have made it impossible for states to engage in any meaningful economic activity. With 68 items in the Exclusive Legislative List reserved for the federal legislature, spanning all spheres of economic activity, the states are left with little of value, to deal with. Of course, the result is massive unemployment and grave insecurity across the land. Interestingly, one of the main discussions at last week’s conference is the issue of Value Added Tax (VAT), which a Federal High Court has ruled should accrue to states, and not the federal government which has been reaping what does not belong to her. The judgment by Justice Stephen Dalypop Pam that Rivers State government and not Federal Inland Revenue Service is entitled to collect VAT had left the federal government squirming in conceit, and boast, to overturn the judgment on appeal. Of course while the federal government is entitled to pursue its appeal, it should pause and think of the debilitating effect of its excessive dominance of economic activities across the country. One of the commonest effects of the lopsided Exclusive Legislative List is that many states which sit on huge mineral resources squirt in poverty and overdependence on the hand-outs from the federal government. The AGF is from one such poor state, Kebbi, which generate only about N4 billion annually in internal revenue despite its rich potentials. Of note, the AGF purchased the form to run for the governorship primary of APC in Kebbi State but chickened out, when he was asked to resign before participating in the election. One wonders whether he would have changed his position on state police and devolution of economic powers to the states, if he succeeded at the primary and the main election. After all, former president Olusegun Obasanjo, who treated call for state police with contempt as president, has recently become an agitator for state police. Perhaps, there are glad tidings for the twin debate over state police and devolution of powers to the states with the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as presidential candidate of the APC. As state governor, Tinubu was a strong advocate of true federalism, and he fought several battles with his then attorney general, and now vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. So, it is expected that if he wins the presidency, he will introduce executive bills to start our country on the march to modernity. Our dear country cannot make any meaningful progress with the unitary structure imposed by the military in the name of a federal constitution, in 1999. Why AGF Abubakar Malami, SAN, cannot understand that fact, rankles this column.