The trial of the convicted kidnap kingpin, Chukwudimeme Onwuamadike, alias Evans, charged with attempted kidnap, was on Friday stalled due to a fire incident which affected his transportation to an Ikeja Special Offences Court. Evans is standing trial alongside Joseph Emeka for attempted kidnap of the chairman of Young Shall Grow Motors, Chief Vincent Obianodo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the court had on June 15 fixed Friday to hear the evidence of Obianodo, via zoom. At the beginning of proceedings of Friday, Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo said that there was a fire incident which affected the transportation of the defendants. “I was informed by the Officer in Charge of legal (OC) that there was fire incident which affected the transportation of the defendants “For security reasons, the defendants can not be present in court,” the judge said. Oluwatoyin adjourned the case until July 25 for trial. NAN reports that the court had on March 11 ordered Evans to engage a lawyer before the next date of adjournment or be ready to defend himself. Frank Udeme, one of the co-defendants of Evans had been sentenced to five years imprisonment on March 11. Udeme had pleaded guilty to selling firearms to Evans.   We’ll unite Southeast for Tinubu – Enugu support…     Why we stopped protests over ASUU strike, by NANS     UPDATED: Supreme Court overrules Lagos on hijab ban in…   According to the prosecution, Evans and Emeka committed the offence on Aug. 27, 2013, at Third Avenue in Festac Town, Lagos. Evans and his accomplice are alleged to have killed one Ngozi Chijioke and attempted to kidnap and kill Obianodo. The defendants pleaded not guilty to a seven-count charge of murder, attempted murder, conspiracy to commit kidnapping, attempt to kidnap and sale and transfer of firearms over the attempted kidnap of Obianodo. NAN also report that the sister case before Taiwo has also been adjourned until July 25 for the second defendant to open his defense. The court had on June 15 rejected the submission of the new counsel to Evans, Mr Amobi Nzelu to postpone the trial. Evans is standing trial along Victor Aduba, an ex-soldier for allegedly kidnapping a businessman, Mr Sylvanus Ahamonu, and collecting a 420,000 dollars ransom from his family. Evans had on Feb. 4 opened his defence and denied kidnapping Ahamonu and collecting 420,000 dollars ransom from his family. NAN also reports that the judge expressed dissatisfaction at the absence of the defendants on March 28 which stalled their the trial. Evans is facing four kidnapping charges at various high courts of Lagos State. Justice Hakeem Oshodi on Feb. 25, sentenced him and two other to life imprisonment for kidnapping Mr Donatius Dunu, the Chief Executive Officer of Maydon Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (NAN)