Enugu catholic priest, Rev. Fr. Ejike Camillus Mbaka, has apologised to the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP), Mr. Peter Obi, hours after he accused the former Anambra State of being extremely stingy Father Mbaka had declared during his latest ministration at his Adoration Ground that Obi would never be President for as long as God exists because of his austere disposition, adding that the presidential aspirant was cursed. His comments had drawn a serious backlash from many members of the public who felt that the views he expressed about Obi were in the extreme. But turning the full circle in an apology letter, the clergyman retracted his comments and asked the presidential aspirant for forgiveness, saying that it was not his intention to malign him but to pray for him. Mbaka’s letter reads: “I am grateful to God for His unquantifiable and favourable blessings, miracles, love and life for the Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria. “I assure the people of God and Nigerians that I am praying for Good Governanace and Good Leadership in this country and that God will give us leaders after His own Heart. “As it stands right now, it is obvious that Nigeria is passing through an indescribable insecurity, inestimable unemployment, massive corruption, heinous crimes and unbearable suffering engendered by bad leadership. “I bear with my fellow country men and women in whatever we are passing through in this trying time. I call on the adorers and the entire people of God to join hands in praying that God will deliver us from the plans of the devil and its wicked agents.   UK shuts down Nigerian-owned church for alleged fraud     What next for Kingsley Moghalu?     Running mates: Worry less about religion, NPSA urges…   “I am a servant of God and my intention is not to malign His Excellency, Peter Obi’s image, but to pray for him. May God’s will be done in his life. I pray to God whom I serve to give our beloved people good and excellent leaders who will take care of them and lead them to the promised land. “Anyone who God wishes to make our Leader is my choice. In this vein, I give my blessings to the supporters of His Excellency Peter Obi. In any way they feel offended by my utterances or however I was misunderstood by them, I ask for their understanding and forgiveness. “As a servant of the Most High God, I pray that it shall be well with my people. I am an ardent supporter of Good Governance, Justice, Equity, Love and Godliness. “At this time our people are passing through the valleys of shadows of death (Ps 23.4), I pray for peace, love and anything that will bring blessings and favour to our people and to our suffering teaming youths. I will always stand with you in all your ordeals. God will take care of you and bless you miraculously for me. “My intention is not to fight or malign Mr Obi. May God bless him and his good supporters. God’s will be done in his political endeavours (Mk.14:36). The followers of Peter Obi are the same youths I am praying for, sacrificing for, fighting for, speaking for and working for their integral well being. What the youths are passing through and their conditions give me sleepless nights. “It is for this reason that I yearn for good governance and worthy leaders that will take care of them. We are passing through indescribable, unbearable and undeserved hardship in this country. I pray for Divine intervention.”