The Senator representing Osun East Senatorial District, Chief Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi, has urged politicians and other public office holders to always put the welfare of the masses first in decision making. Yetunde Oladeinde reports. A Senator Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi is the member representing Osun East Senatorial District of Osun state in the red chamber of the National Assembly. The federal legislator has assured supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) across the state that the party is ready to take over the administration of the state. He made the statement during an empowerment programme he held for his constituents at Ilase-Ijesha during the week. According to Fadahunsi, the opposition party will win the November gubernatorial election in Osun. The Osun East Senator’s enthusiasm about the forthcoming governorship election was also shared by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state, who was the special guest of honour at the event. The duo then urged the people of the state to support PDP and vote for the party’s candidate in subsequent elections across the state. According to Fadahunsi, who is the PDP Senator in the state, his decision to carry out the empowerment programme is as a result of his conviction that there is need to assist the people with life-changing tools and opportunities. He gave out 150 brand new commercial buses, popularly called Korope, 300 motorcycles, dozens of sewing machines, scores of welding machines, wheelbarrows, hair dryers, clippers, agricultural inputs, and more than 1,000 bags of fertilizers to the beneficiaries. “Naturally, I’m not an emotional person,” Fadahunsi declared. “But today, I shed tears of joy seeing how what many may consider as little things are seriously appreciated by the people. What I saw here today, the expression on the faces of the beneficiaries, has made me to appreciate God more, and will surely spur me to do more. I urge the people to keep supporting the PDP. When we take over government in Osun, we will do more for the people,” he said. Other farm implements like hand sprayers, cutlasses, safety aprons and boots, shovels, iron sponges, were given out to jubilant beneficiaries. The event was witnessed by many chieftains of the opposition party including Governor Makinde who was the special guest of honour and the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Osun State, Senator Ademola Adeleke, the National Vice Chairman (South West) of the PDP, Mr. Soji Adagunodo, state party executives and numerous other party bigwigs. Makinde lauded the programme, which he described as another in the series of Senator Fadahunsi’s empowerment programmes for his constituency. He praised the Senator for delivering on his campaign promises and keeping the PDP in the mind of the people with his performance as a federal legislator. Makinde, who flagged off the trail-blazing event by presenting the keys of one of the mini-buses, popularly known as Korope, to a constituent, Taofeek Olanrewaju, from Ward 8 in Ife South Local Government, said the PDP will triumph at the governorship election. The empowerment programme by Senator Fadahunsi, Makinde added, “is one of the great initiatives of the PDP aimed at ameliorating the sufferings of the people.” Governor Makinde then appealed to the people of Osun State to support PDP in the upcoming July 16, 2022 governorship poll in the state, as well as in the 2023 general elections. According to the Oyo state helmsman, Osun people are yearning for the PDP to come and lead the state. Like Makinde, Senator Ademola Adeleke, who lauded Fadahunsi for the massive empowerment programme, solicited the support of Osun people for him to become governor because he had the interest of the state at heart and had what it takes to make the citizens smile. Adeleke noted that his family had invested so much in the state, providing jobs for many people across various demographics. He promised to do more should the people of Osun elect him as governor.   Let me share ‘sagacious’ Jagaban with you     Bayo Osinowo: Two years after, associates still grieving     Ekiti 2022: Three prominent candidates to watch   In his address, Senator Fadahunsi thanked Governor Makinde and Senator Adeleke for gracing the occasion and boosting the confidence of his constituents in Osun East Senatorial District, and PDP in the state. Fadahunsi enjoined the people of Osun State to vote massively for Adeleke during the July 26 governorship election for the “all-round transformation of the state.” He offered profuse praises to God Almighty for helping him to fulfill his promises to his constituents. “To the glory of Almighty God, I have jealously kept to my campaign promises,” he declared. “In less than three years, my mid-term projects, programmes, and activities aptly showcase my fidelity to the social contract we signed with the people. “It is an eloquent testimony to the fact that my ultimate priority in office is to transform the living conditions of my constituents through sound leadership, empowerment programmes, entrepreneurial trainings, facilitation of modern social amenities, such as solar-powered streetlights, boreholes and food pantry initiatives. “Others include: provision of working tools for artisans, provision of mini-buses for transportation, construction and rehabilitation of educational facilities, electrification project, women and youth development, promotion of sporting and recreational activities, as well as the creation of employment opportunities for graduates and young school leavers.” Fadahunsi expressed his profound gratitude to his constituents for their “continued and unrelenting support in the face of varying challenges and difficulties.” “But like Olive Twist,’ Fadahunsi said emphatically, “I will ask for more. I still need your fervent support, understanding, cooperation, collaboration, your interventions and policy inputs to enable me deliver bigger and better dividends of democracy. I will continue to rely on you for prompt information to my constituency office, as well as your assessments and objective criticisms on our projects, programmes and activities. “You have been doing this, and they have helped me greatly. I crave for more.” Fadahunsi roused the enthusiastic crowd at the event in Ilase-Ijesa, when he declared that PDP would not only win the July 16 governorship poll in Osun convincingly, it would also regain the presidency come 2023. And what is his basis for such optimism, our correspondent asked? He pointed at what he termed the “gross ineptitude and incompetence of the APC administration which has brought untold hardship and hunger to the people.” In his welcome address, chairman of the Senator Fadahunsi Empowerment Committee, Prof. Sola Ehindero, told the audience that the day’s event was a culmination of good thinking and profound consideration for the people’s scale of preference on their important needs in the senatorial district. “It all began about 10 months ago,” Ehindero recalled, “when Senator Francis Adenigba Fadahunsi, set up a 10-man committee to assess the contemporary social, economic and political challenges facing the good people of Ife-Ijesa zone as a result of the bad governance and poorly articulated policies of the APC administration. “An important component of the committee’s consideration was to implement the empowerment programme in ways that justify PDP’s focus on ‘Power to the People’ and to propagate both the ideals and ideas of the party members in the constituency. This phase of non-partisan constituency project, like the previous ones, focused on giving of grants, loans, mini buses, tricycles, motorcycles, solar-powered boreholes and streetlights; infrastructural developments – road construction, building and equipping of schools, classrooms, laboratories and health centres. It also provided for the provision of fertilizers and agricultural inputs for farmers, grinding machines, sterilizers, hair/head drying machines, clippers and shovels, wheelbarrows and other materials that can alleviate poverty, hunger, insecurity in all ramifications, through entrepreneurship, vocational educational engagements training and economic self-reliance.” Ehindero, however, stated further that the empowerment programmes would take place in phases, promising that “those who did not benefit from this phase will be given priority in subsequent phases.” Some of the beneficiaries of the empowerment programme included Mr. Taofeek Olanrewaju from Ward 8, Ife South Local Government; Mrs. Funmilayo Ayoola from Ife North; and Deacon Aofolaju Wole. They thanked Senator Fadahunsi for the gesture and pledged their support and continuous loyalty to him and their party.