The Supreme Court has overruled Lagos State on its restriction of the use of head covering (hijab) by female Muslim students of public schools in the State. In a split decision of five to two on Friday, a seven-member panel of the Supreme Court affirmed the July 21, 2016 judgment of the Court of Appeal, Lagos, which set aside the October 17, 2014 judgment by Justice Grace Onyeabo of the High Court of Lagos State, which upheld the hijab restriction. Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, who wrote the lead majority judgment, which was read on Friday by Justice Tijani Abubakar, dismissed the appeal filed by Lagos State against the 2016 judgment of the Court of Appeal, Lagos, on the grounds that the appeal was without merit. “The issue before the court is narrow. It is on the wearing of hijab to school by muslim children. The appeal is against the decision of the lower court. “My learned brother, Justice Kekere-Ekun JSC prepared an elaborate leading judgment, spanning close to 80 pages…,” Justice Abubakar said before proceeding to read the concluding part. Justice Abubakar quoted Justice Kekere-Ekun as saying: “In conclusion, I hold that the appeal is devoid of merit. It is hereby dismissed in its entirety. “The judgment of the lower court, delivered on the 21st day of July 2016 is affirmed. The parties shall bear their respective costs in this appeal.” Justice Olukayode Ariwoola, who headed the panel, along with Justices Uwani Abba-Aji, Mohammed Garba and Abubakar agreed with the lead judgment. Justice Emmanuel Agim wrote and read the lead minority decision with which Justice Inyang Okoro agreed, to the effect that the appeal was meritorious.   ASUU, SSANI, NASU strikes causing irreparable damage to…     Enugu Catholic Diocese disowns Mbaka over attack on Peter…     LIVE UPDATES: Ekiti Decides 2022   Justice Agim allowed the appeal and set aside the July 21, 2016 judgment of the Court of Appeal, Lagos. The judgment was on the appeal marked: SC/910/2016 filed by the Lagos State Government and others against Miss Ayisat Abdulkareem (minor) and others. Two pupils of the Atunrashe Junior High School, Surulere, Lagos State and the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN) had gone before the state’s High Court to challenge the decision of the state government to restrict the use of hijab in public schools in the state. The pupils, who were minors, sued through their fathers – Owolabi Abdulkareem and Suleiman Oyeniyi. Defendants in the suit were the Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, the Commissioner for Education and the Commissioner for Home Affairs and Culture. In her October 17, 2014 judgment, Justice Onyeabo held that the restriction placed on the use of the hijab in primary and secondary public schools in Lagos was not discriminatory and did not breach Sections 38 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution as claimed by the plaintiffs. Justice Onyeabo noted that Section 10 of the Constitution makes Nigeria a secular state, and that the government was required to strive to preserve that secular nature. She added that public schools were owned and funded by the government which, therefore, had the responsibility of issuing guidelines and dress codes for students. Justice Onyeabo held that the uniformity sought by the Lagos State Government, in issuing the dress code, would be destroyed should the prayers of the plaintiffs be granted. Upon appeal by the plaintiffs, a five-member panel of the Court of Appeal, Lagos, in its July 21, 2016 judgment, set aside the decision by Justice Onyeabo. The panel, headed by Justice Abubakar Gumel, held among others that the use of hijab is an Islamic injunction and also an act of worship, adding that it will constitute a violation of the appellants’ rights to stop them from wearing hijab in public schools. It resolved all the five issues, raised for determination, in favour of the appellants and proceeded to hold that the High Court of Lagos erred in law when it held that the ban on hijab was a public policy of the state government.