The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted illicit substances in Adamawa, Borno, Kogi, Ogun, Zamfara and Taraba states respectively. The Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Mr Femi Babafemi, said this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. Babafemi said a notorious drug dealer, Abdullahi Musa, a.k.a Yerima Uding, wanted for some past attacks on officers and men of the agency was in the early hours of June 16 arrested in Hong town, Adamawa. He said the 53-year-old suspect was caught with 57 blocks of compressed cannabis sativa, concealed in the boot of his ash coloured Toyota Corolla car with reg. no. GMB 185 MF. He also the suspect had been fingered as the mastermind of the mob attack in Hong on Oct. 6, 2020. This, he said, led to the death of an NDLEA operative and another officer now bedridden due to incapacitation. “In Borno State, another drug dealer, Umar Musa, was arrested in Tashan Kano, Gwoza LGA on June 17 with 8,000 capsules and tablets of Tramadol weighing 4.550kgs.   Ekiti election: Oyetola congratulates Oyebanji, APC leaders     Corps member, pregnant woman, five others drown in Bayelsa…     15 things to know about Ekiti Governor-elect Oyebanji   “32.182kgs cannabis were seized by NDLEA operatives along Okene/Abuja highway, Kogi state from a commercial bus travelling from Lagos to Abuja,” he said. Babafemi said operatives also arrested one Nwanbunike Chibuike, 22, with 19,576 tablets of Exol-5, Diazepam following credible intelligence in Ogun. He said tramadol and Rohypnol as well as 7.9 litres of Codeine were also seized at Ogere, Ikenne LGA, Ogun, on June 15. “In Zamfara, a consignment of 11,660 tablets of Hyponox and 6,000 ampoules of pentazocine injection was recovered from a drug dealer, Success Amaefuna, at Tsafe area of the state on his way to Sokoto State. “5,000 tablets of Tramadol were seized from Darius Mbugun, 33, who ordered the consignment from Onitsha, Anambra. “The drug exhibit was concealed in a bag of garri for distribution in Gembu, Sardauna LGA, Taraba,” he said. Babafemi quoted the Chairman, NDLEA, retired Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa as commending the officers and men of Adamawa, Borno, Kogi, Ogun, Zamfara and Taraba commands of the agency for the seizures and arrests of the past week. Marwa encouraged them and their compatriots across other formations to remain vigilant and intensify their offensive action against the drug cartels in all parts of the country. (NAN)