A RETIRED university lecturer and food safety expert, Prof. Dele Fapohunda has hailed the recent announcement by Osun State’s Governor Gboyega Oyetola that the College of Education in Ilesa, Osun State has been upgraded to a university. Prof. Fapohunda, who is also the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Mycotoxicology Society of Nigeria, said the development was facilitated by a 28–year-old recommendation by the National Universities Commission (NUC). The statement said a five-member committee was set up in 1993 to come up with the modalities of upgrading the college to a state university. A statement by the food safety expert reads: “The report by the committee, which comprises Ayo Obiesan Abetesola, Dr. Femi Adewunmi, Prince Ade Oginni, Prince Victor Adebiyi and Dr. Ayo Fatubarin as chairman, was presented to the then Minister of Transport, Chief Ebenezer Babatope, who promptly detailed one of his aides to commence interaction with the NUC to ensure a hitch-free verification by the commission. “The NUC team, headed by Dr. A.U. Kadiri visited Osun State on June 27, 1994, and recorded in its visitation report that the college was very qualified to be upgraded to a university. It also recorded that the ‘college had a total of 1, 565, 583 hectares out of which only one-third was built upon. The land was gazetted in No 24 Volume 12 of June 11, 1987’. It also has an impressive and ambitious master plan. The report noted that ‘the Dr. Lawrence Omole Library has a sitting capacity of 1000, holds 100,000 volumes and that there are bindery and reprographic sections in the library’.   Oko Poly gets new registrar     FESTAC Grammar School, Command Day, others shine at Brain…     New curriculum for overage out-of-school children adopted   “It said the physical facilities at Ilesa are more than what can be found in many existing state and federal universities. The committee advised the state government to concentrate on the following courses for which adequate and solid foundation already exist: Pure and Applied Sciences, Humanities, Law, as well as Social and Management Sciences.” Prof. Fapohunda said between then and now, there has been tremendous improvement in the quality and quantity of the assessed parameters. Four major criteria, he added, are to be assessed by the NUC, in a university already in operation. He said: “These are physical facilities and libraries, staffing, curriculum and funding. These will be presented at the next stage of resource verification and subsequent accreditation of programmes when the university is fully in operation. He said prominent Ijesa sons and daughters, including the late Chief Lawrence Omole, have pledged to donate buildings and funds. “The era of failed expectations is finally gone in Ijesaland. The 28-year-old pregnancy is about to result in multiple deliveries. With the current political will, running its full course, and the putting in place of a credible implementation committee headed by Prof. Olu Aina, it is hoped that the 1994 recommendations and many more will be put into operation without delay.”