The National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) has rejected the newly inaugurated Board of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) for allegedly lacking representation from electricity workers. The union made its position known in a statement by its General Secretary, Joe Ajaero on Thursday in Abuja. The electricity workers noted the Minister of Power who is supposed to supervise the Board, since his appointment, has not had any interface with their representatives to appreciate the challenges facing the sector and proffer solutions to “these perennial crises.” The statement reads: “Our attention has been drawn to the recently inaugurated Board of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The Board as currently constituted lacks representation from the workers and does not enjoy robust composition required to bring about desired positive changes in the Transmission Sector.   Lawan appoints Kalu campaign DG, others     We lost 10,000 herdsmen, four million cows since 2015…     We pay N100 each at 98 bus stops, say Badagry drivers   “The Honourable Minister of Power who is supposed to supervise the Board; since his appointment has not had any interface with Workers representatives with a view to appreciating the challenges facing the Sector and proffering solutions to these perennial crises. “In inaugurating a Board for TCN and the need to revamp the ailing Power Sector, it is pertinent to enquire what the terms of reference issued to them are. “Several failed/ uncompleted projects in the past, one of which is that of Siemens; despite the alarm raised by the Union has remained one that did not yield positive impact till date notwithstanding the enormous resources thrown into it. “This brings to bear numerous questions begging for answers concerning the composition of the TCN Board. Is this a Professional Service Board or Political Reward? Can they deliver in terms of investment attractiveness, economy of scale, and effectiveness? Is there any academia with specialisation in Electronic movement design on this Board? “The Power Sector has to be salvaged and in doing so, we must put square pegs in square holes.”