A community leader in Birnin-Gwari local government area of Kaduna State and former Managing Director of the Kaduna State Media Corporation (KSMC), Alhaji Zubairu Idris Abdulra’uf, has said that the farming communities in the council have in the last two years paid more than N400 million as taxes to bandits in the last two years. This was as he said that, the people of Birnin-Gwari Emirate have already been pushed to the wall by the bandits and the people have welcomed and adopted the self-defence option directed by the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Mattawalle. Abdulrra’uf in an interview said that the incessant attacks on his people had completely paralyzed economic activities in their rural communities and made traveling in the area so difficult or even impossible in some places. According to him, “we have reached the point of no return. People are being pushed to the wall. “Yesterday, the people of Randegi confronted these bandits who tried to overrun Randegi, a farming community, and they succeeded in dislodging these bandits. So, I think our people are now ready if the government cannot perform its constitutional function. “Randegi is one of the areas where these bandits have their routes through Zamfara State to Niger State.” The community leader who is a former broadcaster with DW Radio said the bandits have for over two years, imposed tax on the Birnin-Gwari farmers, “yes, N200 million was paid to bandits in Randegi district alone. “When you talk of Birnin-Gwari Local Government as a whole, it is between N300 million to N400 million paid to these bandits.   We’re trailing attackers of Enugu checkpoint –…     Amotekun seeks installation of CCTV in Ondo     5 die, nine injured in Lagos-Ibadan road crash   “There are three stages of paying these types of taxes to these bandits. You have to pay pre-season and mid-season when the crops are about to start yielding. You will pay these bandits because they will not allow you to have access to your farm. “Then, at the end of the season when you are harvesting, you will give these bandits money before you access your farm. “And when you access your farm after paying these taxes, they will now tell you that apart from giving them money, you will give a ratio of two bags of every 10 bags of all the assorted grains you harvest. “For the past three years, this is what Birnin-Gwari people have been enduring and we are now in a state of hopelessness and frustration. When people are frustrated, they will now look for the best option for themselves which is to arm themselves if the government cannot protect them. “We are living in a situation where people can no longer work or even travel one kilometre from Birnin-Gwari town to other areas and it is the same thing that we have in all the districts in Birnin Gwari. “If something is not done, we are going to have food crisis. Birnin-Gwari Gwari used to produce at least 700 metric tonnes of assorted grains but now people cannot access their farms. “There are many cases, since the beginning of this rainy season, that people are being abducted on their way to the farm and even the cattle they use for farming are being collected from them.” The Nation recalled that the State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan had during the presentation of security report in 2021 confirmed that, bandits were taxing farmers in parts of Birnin-Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local government areas to grant them access to their farms.