The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) has upgraded Skyway Aviation Handling Company (Sahco) Plc from a low-priced stock to medium-priced stock following recent appreciation in the share price of the aviation handling company. In a regulatory circular yesterday, the Exchange stated that the reclassification, which took effect yesterday, was after a review of share price of Sahco over the most recent six months. According to the NGX,  review of Sahco share price and trade activities over the most recent six-month period provided the basis for reclassifying the security from the low-priced stock group to the medium-priced stock group. The reclassification also necessitated the attendant change in the tick size change from 1.0 kobo to 5.0 kobo – in line with Rule 15.29: Pricing Methodology, Rulebook of The Exchange, 2015. ”Sahco stock price appreciated above the N5 price level on January 4, 2022 and traded above N5 up till close of business on May 25, 2022. This indicates that Sahco stock price has traded above N5 in at least four months out of the last six months. Resultantly, Sahco has been reclassified from the low-priced stock group to the medium-priced stock group with effect from today June 14, 2022,” NGX stated.   Nestlé Nigeria empowers more rural women     West African capital markets to harmonise frameworks     VFD Group seeks cross-border expansion   The NGX classifies quoted companies into three categories-high-priced, medium-priced and low-priced stocks, based on their market price. A company must have traded for at least four out of the most recent six month period within a stock price group’s specified price band to be classified into the category. The high-priced stocks consist of large-cap equities that are priced at N100 per share or above for at least four of the last six trading months, or new security listings that are priced at N100 or above at the time of listing on the Exchange. The medium-priced stocks consist of medium-priced equities that are priced at N5 per share or above but less than N100 per share for at least four of the last six months, or new security listings that are priced at N5 per share or above but less than N100 per share at the time of listing on the Exchange. The low-priced stocks, where majority of listed companies fall, consist of equities that are priced at one kobo per share or above but below N5 per share for at least four of the last six months, or new security listings that are priced at one kobo per share or above but below N5 per share at the time of listing on the Exchange.