Their Lordships were livid and they did not mask their anger. It was something that they had kept to themselves for long, waiting and hoping that things would be better. Perhaps, things will get better now that they have exploded. As Justices of the Supreme Court, they sit at the apex of the Judiciary. It is a position that many judges crave, but only a few attain. As the chosen ones, they know that much is expected of them because much will be given to them. They believe that they are fulfilling their own part of the bargain, but no corresponding response from the government. To them, such arrangement is faulty; the chicken should not come before the egg, but the other way round. Here they are, giving of their best when they are not provided with the best. ‘What can we do to draw attention to our plight?’ They must have asked themselves, knowing full well that it is a taboo for people in their position to go public with their case like other class of workers. Judges are conservative by nature and none is moreso than Justices of the Supreme Court. Their rules of engagement are full of many ‘thou shall not…’ and one of these is that they must maintain sealed lips in good and bad times. This is to say that judges must be seen and not heard. But what should a judge do when he is not provided with the working tools that he requires? Keep quiet and suffer in silence or buck the system? Their Lordships went for the latter and opened a Pandora’s box. Through their letter of protest to their brother-judge, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, the Justices reeled out their complaint. All is not well with the highest court in the land, they told him as if he did not know. The thrust of their complaint borders on poor welfare and dearth of working tools. Some of their grievances are non-replacement of bad vehicles, epileptic power supply at the Supreme Court, lack of drugs at the court’s clinic, sudden stoppage of foreign workshops and trainings, no provision of qualified legal assistants and lack of Internet facilities. The list is endless. It was a shocking revelation to many who thought everything was well inside there when the matter hit public domain. ‘If things are this bad at the Supreme Court, how will they be at the lower courts?’ People wondered. It was bad publicity for the apex court and CJ Muhammad is not happy with his fellow Justices for washing their dirty linen in public. If he were not the CJ, won’t he have signed the petition too? He should not think that he is insulated from the court’s larger problems which were made public by his colleagues. He should be grateful to them for taking that step, no matter how bad he may feel about it. His reaction on Tuesday was a reflection of how he feels about it all. The CJN reminded his colleagues that judges everywhere are to be seen and not heard, accusing them of doing something “akin to dancing naked at the market square with the ripple effect of the said letter”. With due respect, he seemed to miss the point there. His Lordship should not see this as a personal matter between him and his colleagues, but something that touches on their collective interest.   Numbers, faith and ability     On his mandate, they stand     APC’s consensus war   As CJN, he should appreciate that such complaints would be addressed to him because he wears two caps. First, he is a manager and then, an arbiter like his protesting colleagues. His duty is to take the complaint up with the appropriate authority so that it can be properly addressed. It is not in any one’s interest for the Supreme Court to work at cross purpose, not now and certainly not in the future. It is better for the Justices to remain united and not be divided by the petition. And the CJN must lead in this regard. May the matter end well.   Salute to bravery FORTY-SIX year-old Ejiro Otarigbo won the people’s heart with his heroic act of driving a burning fuel tanker from a populated area to the bank of a river in Delta State on June 10 to avert a disaster. For 15 minutes, he manoeuvred his way through traffic to get to the bank of Agbarho River where he eventually jumped out of the burning tanker. It takes a lionheart to do what Otarigbo did. Any other driver would have long jumped out of the tanker to save his own life, leaving the hundreds or even thousands of others on the road that day, to their own fate. Otarigbo put his own life at risk to save others. He should be celebrated by his country for his calm disposition in skilfully driving the tanker through heavy traffic and safely steering it into the riverbank. His action showed rare courage in the face of danger, just the same way an illegal Malian immigrant climbed the balconies of a highrise Paris apartment in 2018 to save a boy from falling from the fourth floor. The French government immediately honoured him, and offered him a job and the country’s citizenship. This is how it should be. Otarigbo deserves that kind of honour and more. His feat should not go unrecognised by the Federal Government. Recognising him will encourage other Nigerians to rise above self and be of help and service to others always no matter the inherent danger. As this hero said in a newspaper interview, “whatever situation you find yourself in, make the best of it. I took that decision because I don’t want to be described as a ‘killer’. I don’t want to be called a name that is not mine”. How many of us think that way?   What a name! Another word has entered the nation’s political lexicon. The word, placeholder, was used by a paper to describe the running mate of All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential candidate Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. What makes Alhaji Kabiru Masari a placeholder when Tinubu did not call him that? Masari’s name was duly submitted before the expiration of the June 17 deadline for doing so. Just because it was done quietly, the paper tagged Masari a ‘placeholder’. In a fitting response, Tinubu’s media aide Tunde Rahman said his principal followed the law in submitting Masari’s name. The running mate, he added, is at liberty to withdraw, if he so wishes within the timeframe allowed by the electoral umpire. So, why the fuss?