First stage of the prestigious 2022 Access Bank  UNICEF Charity Shield polo tourney climaxed with  sensational triumphs for first timers, Jos AM&C and Afden teams as the international charity event enters its second weekend, with five teams jostling for honours. The Murtala Laushi-powered  debutants   who turned their  outsiders rating to pure gold as Jos AM&C handed a thumping 10-31/2 defeat to former winners, Kaduna Sublime, to clinch the glittering Access Bank Cup, just as Afden petroleum team  overwhelmed their  8Twenty8 opponents for their first UNICEF Cup title. Both finals that were decided before a capacity crowd at the foremost Fifth Chukker & Country Polo resort in Kaduna, saw the history making Jos warriors scoring three quick goals in the opening chukka and going all the way to clinch their Charity Shield major title, the Access Bank Cup. In contrast, the UNICEF Cup finals was a tense back and forth clash with lead changing by the minutes in the first three chukkas, until the mercurial Asharaf Yahaya and the hard heating Aliyu Dahiru  pulled away Afden with five late goals against their resilience 8Twenty 8 opponents  to separate the winners. The grand finale stage of the international that has raised has raised over 200 million in funds to support UNICEF projects for vulnerable children and the HIV/AIDS pandemic in Kaduna State and its environs, promises to be more exciting as four regulars are lining up for the Usman Dantata Cup.   ROAD TO DANKARO HOUSE: Peterside promises sweeping reforms…     Qatar 2022 miss affected me at Rangers, says Aribo     Frills from Lagos’  festival of table tennis   The event’s biggest title, the Charity Shield is expected to go to the wires with defending champions, Fifth Chukkers facing the ambitious last year’s runners up , Jos Malcomines tomorrow in a make or mar finale. One of the major highlights of the opening stage of the annual charity event this year was undoubtedly the cheering crowd of local children and the passionate appeal made by Sarkin of the Maraban Jos community, Alhaji Zakariya Adamu who pleaded with corporate organizations to come to the aid of Nigerian children. The Traditional ruler who was the Father of the Day as the pupils of the local primary school gathered for the UNICEF Cup final, lauded Access Bank and its partners for supporting UNICEF intervention work in the rural communities in Kaduna state. “There is an important need for both private and public sectors to do a lot more in support of the Nigerian child, particularly the orphans and vulnerable children to enable them look forward to a better tomorrow,”  Adamu told  Nationsport. The  Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield polo which Inaugurated in 2003, as a platform to raise funds for UNICEF projects aimed at alleviating the plights of the underprivileged children in Kaduna State and its environs. The polo fiesta which is hosted in phases traditionally gallops-off in Kaduna State, Nigeria and climaxes with pomp and pageantry in Europe with the Access Bank Charity Shield Polo Day at the prestigious Guards Polo Club in London.