Stakeholders in the veterinary sector are worried. They are not happy with the slow growth of the sector caused by many factors. And they made this known at a forum organised by the Lagos Ministry of Agriculture where they canvassed the need for more manpower, essential medicines, instruments, diagnostic facilities, and Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and compulsory registration of their members The stakeholders called for continuing education to enhance standards. They noted that it was important for animals to have access to basic veterinary health care. Also, placement for veterinary technologists, standardising regulations and providing a framework for a coherent approach to veterinarians were discussed. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Lagos State, Ms. Abisola Olusanya, noted the shortage of vets, saying it was not good for the industry. According to her, that more people are consuming meat is an indication that animals are important to human existence, adding that this is generating growth at its market in Lagos and other places. She stressed the need to work with stakeholders to regulate the industry. She said the state government was determined to enforce stricter meat rules to prevent pandemics in abattoir. Ms. Olusanya said the state consumed over 1.8 million cattle and about 1.6 million sheep and goats yearly, which made the industry a big ecosystem. It was good news for vets when she announced:. “The state government is working towards increasing the number of veterinary doctors in the state. We have made recommendations in that regard and nothing should stop Lagos from having more than 500 veterinaries.” She said the government sought to give residents improved access to veterinary services when and where they needed it, especially in rural area, to better support animal health, the livestock subsector and strengthen food supply. According to her, the ministry will overhaul abattoirs by increasing the number of veterinarians allocated to food inspection in each modular slaughterhouse.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     Sultan directs Muslim to look out for new moon of…   She said the government was working on an industry policy to modernise the food sector, including the red meat value chain through animal identification to husbandry, slaughtering, processing and transportation to final consumers to ensure sanity in the system. She said the government was putting in place measures to protect the health of animals and ensure a consistent, high-quality supply of food, and support initiatives to strengthen public confidence in agriculture. Olusanya said veterinarians were not given due regard due to lack of coordination in the profession. “The regards and respect is not be giving to the veterinary doctors because of lack of coordination within the profession. Animals are therapeutics, especially dogs and cats. Our veterinary doctors need to be promoting this to the public,” she said. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs. Olatokunbo Emokpae, is concerned about the development in the sector. She said the government was determined to protect the animals, help ensure secure food supply, and support the crucial role of veterinarians. According to her, the government seeks to address the challenges faced by veterinarians and improve access to services to keep livestock healthy. She said the purpose of the forum was to ensure a strong livestock sector and have a positive impact across the agri-food supply chain. President, Commonwealth Veterinary Association, Dr Olatunji Nasir urged the government to support experts to tackle quackery in the industry, describing it as an albatross that has caused financial losses and integrity damage to the profession. He said the activities of non-professionals have become a threat to the practice. He emphasised that animal owners also need more awareness on the importance of regular veterinary care and willingness to pay for that medical expertise. According to him, health and welfare of animals were of concern because their owners often lack the knowledge or expertise regarding safe handling and animal husbandry. The President, Small Animal Veterinary Association of Nigeria (SAVAN), Dr. Kunle Abiade, who described quackery as a serious problem, said some people are impersonating veterinarians, thereby damaging the image of the profession.