Olubukola Bolarinde, the CEO of Yellow Dot scored a first with a public event that married royalty with fine music, art, architecture, and fashion. The event, which was themed 106 Expressions, had a roll call of entertainers, fashionistas, art curators, building experts, comedians, and royal fathers. The Nation’s ASSISTANT ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR GBENGA BADA writes. Art meets Architecture THE art collection co-curated by Yellow Dot’s CEO, Olubukola Bolarinde, made a splash at the ‘106 Expressions’ with over 100 art pieces displayed to dozens of art enthusiasts and collectors who convened at the A&A Towers, Eko Atlantic City, Lagos. Clearly an unusual site for exhibition, the A&A Tower — which is still under construction — was the finishing stroke to Bolarinde’s vision of fusing two of her passions – Art and Architecture. Speaking on her feat, the graduate of the Bartlett School of Architecture, University College London, said the move was to make guests appreciate both in their truest form. “I wanted to do something that nobody has ever done before,” Bolarinde revealed. “There has never been an art exhibition staged on a construction site nestled in a safe, clean environment with a rustic feel to it. I wanted to bring those two worlds together that represent who I am.”   Zinoleesky puts hope in God over Headies nomination     Nigerian singer Akinwande features British actress Naomi…     Summer money greater than summer body – DJ Cuppy   Music meets royalty Guests at Bolarinde’s ‘106 Expressions’ couldn’t have asked for more in entertainment at the first-of-its-kind event. While the evening had a long roll call of dignitaries led by Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, and Oba Saheed Elegushi, it was further lit up by the pulsating beats of the cultural dance group who ushered in guests. However, as the evening progressed, dancehall star Patoranking, Oritsefemi, and Goya Menor took turns in thrilling the royal fathers, dignitaries, and art curators with their performances. Just as finger foods littered the table of guests, Macallan, Schweppes Nigeria, Billecart Salmon Champagne savoured their taste buds with choice drinks while Artsplit held sway as the preferred online auction platform. Fashion show and roll call Another part of the show that caught attention was the fashion show which showcased 20 dresses that infused Bolarinde’s artistic insight through the help of two creatives Vonnemac Couture and Isi Atagamen. All ensembles were showcased by models on a makeshift runway flanked by guests. Each fabric on the runway was made in Nigeria by Nigerians. In attendance were Chief Samuel Olaniyi Bolarinde and his wife, Olufunke; Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Oba Saheed Elegushi; Alan Davies of James Cubitt Architects; founder of Elizade Group of Companies, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo; Managing Director of VFD Group, Nonso Okpala; General Manager Corporate Affairs, MTN Nigeria, Omasan Ogisi; Managing Director Arkland Group, Jide Olumodimu, former Minister of Health, Dr. Abimbola Ogunkelu, Nollywood actors Judith Audu and Omowunmi Dada, among others.