5,800 recruited soldiers would be posted to various theatre operations to tame persistent insecurity bedeviling some parts of the country, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen Faruk Yahaya, has said. The COAS disclosed this during the Passing-out-Parade (PoP) of the 82 Regular Recruit Intake on Saturday in Zaria, Kaduna State. Yahaya, who was the Special Guest of Honour and Reviewing Officer of the Po, said the exercise aimed to strengthen the Nigeria Army would translate into more food on ground. He said the new soldiers would be posted to more relevant areas where they are required, warning that “it is a clear message to all criminals, whether they are bandits, kidnappers or terrorists.” He, therefore, urged the new soldiers to maintain a high standard of professionalism and remain good ambassadors of Depot Nigerian Army and the Armed Forces of Nigeria. “As for the passing out recruits, you are all aware, Nigeria is currently facing numerous security challenges such as the activities of Boko Haram Terrorists, armed bandits, kidnappers, secessionist agitators and other criminal elements.   Minimum Wage: Compel debtor-states to pay, NLC urges FG     Ebonyi PDP gov primary ‘winner’ petitions panel over…     Owo attack: South West Speakers condemn incident   “I wish to state that these security challenges can only be surmounted by the collective resolve and effort of every officer and soldier of the Nigerian Army, including those of you passing out today,’’ he said. Yahaya, therefore, enjoined the new soldiers to apply the mental, physical and moral training acquired over the past few months as well as those “you will be exposed to at your respective units, formations and corps”. He added that the army expected them to uphold the Nigerian Army Core Values of Loyalty, Selfless Service, Courage, Discipline, Integrity and Respect for Others, which are sacred to all personnel. “These values along with other cherished ethos of the Nigerian Army, if well imbibed and upheld, will help you attain great heights in your chosen career,” Yahaya said. The army chief also advised the soldiers on the importance of the Oath of Attestation they have sworn to.