It was its maiden yearly conference – and stakeholders in the pharmaceutical sector believed it lived up to its billings. One year after its inauguration, the Pharmaceutical Wholesalers and Distribution Association of Nigeria (PWDAN), a group which fosters and promotes best practices in the pharmaceutical supply chain, gathered the crème de la crème in the pharmaceutical industry to brainstorm on the best ways to sanitise the moribund drug distribution environment. The conference, with the theme, “Pharmaceutical supply chain in Nigeria – Quo Vadis,” aimed at bringing sanity to the drug supply chain. For years, stakeholders in the health sector have advocated for a holistic sanitisation of the pharmaceutical supply chain as well as proper regulation to enthrone a consistent flow of safe and affordable medicines across the country. This position, experts have often insisted, is anchored on the belief that the growth of the wholesale distribution sector of the pharmaceutical supply chain in Nigeria is perpetually hampered by poor infrastructure, lopsided regulations, and lack of political will on the part of the government as well as unprofessional conducts on the part of the practitioners. In other words, an unending chaotic drug distribution system has promoted the circulation of fake and adulterated drugs, leading to treatment failures and other aberrations. Applauding the birth of PWDAN and expressing their desires to work with the group to enable the country to have a more robust system that is devoid of ugly practices plaguing the pharmaceutical supply chain in the country, dignitaries from various subsectors of the industry that attended the conference said the time has come for Nigeria to evolve a new order where sanity rules. In his keynote address, Dr Solomon Aigbavboa, a renowned expert in global drug distribution chain, asked  stakeholders to commence action to re-shape the supply chain system in Nigeria. He asked his audience: “Where are we going with our pharma supply chains in Nigeria?” His presentation, based on theme admitted that the pharmaceutical supply chain is beleaguered with many challenges, which are impacting negatively on the performance of the healthcare delivery as a whole. Aigbavboa listed some of the woes of Nigeria’s pharmaceutical supply chain: stock-outs and product shortages; fake and counterfeit products; product expiration; corruption; poor Infrastructure; weak regulatory system and other disruptions. According to him, the supply of medicines in Nigeria is largely dependent on imports, with estimated 70 per cent of medicines supply imported; while the balance from local production. Despite the purported good news that this figure has risen to about 40 per cent for local production, he lamented that this is not sufficient to guarantee national drug security aspiration; given the fact that the critical take-off point (the inbound segment) is largely vulnerable.   MTN Foundation calls for collaborative fight against…     What you probably didn’t know about monkeypox outbreak     One dies as Nigeria records 21 cases of monkeypox –…   “The configuration of our pharmaceutical supply chains is linked to the organisational structure of the country both at the public and private sectors. This results in multiple layers of decision points both for stock storage and distribution along the supply chains. The public sector supply chains are  managed by the Ministries of Health at the three tiers of government who operate through the various Central Medical Stores and sometimes, a pool of motor vehicles, whether owned or outsourced. “As a result, they have remained weak and ineffective, threatening the overall success, efficiency and effectiveness of the various chemotherapies and outcomes of the healthcare delivery systems. Ultimately, the overall health system fails in its ability to adequately cater for the healthcare essentials of the population. To varying degrees, these challenges negatively affect the effectiveness and efficiencies of the countries’ pharmaceutical supply chains and pose a big risk to medicine security, among other factors,” he said. To move forward and achieve a resilient, efficient, and effective supply chain system in Nigeria, Aigbavboa said there must be political will and commitment from the government, pharma supply chain education, regulatory harmonisation and cohesion, IT-driven channels’ integration as well as collaboration. Describing PWDAN as a child of necessity, which has come to redress the putrid chaos pervading the pharmaceutical product distribution,  President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PCN), Prof Cyril Usifoh, promised that efforts were afoot to perfect the drug distribution system. He was represented at the event by the national treasurer of the society, Gafar ‘Lanre Madehin. While the Chairman of the event, Prof Lere Baale, urged PDWAN to address drug distribution, which he said is the most important challenge in the marketing of pharmaceutical products; the National Chairman of PDWAN, Ernest Okafor, said the group  was ready to collaborate with  stakeholders to correct the chaotic drug distribution. Also, in her address, Clare Omatseye, Managing Director of JNC International, a pharmaceutical company, called for a functional pharmaceutical supply chain to ensure consistent flow of affordable medicine in Nigeria. Decrying Nigeria’s chaotic drug distribution, Omatseye said the process should not be allowed to remain porous as it is poses serious threat to drug security. “We should be able to streamline our drug distribution, and make sure people have access to quality medicines, vaccines and other pharmaceutical consumables. In my opinion and based on other reports, our drug distribution in the country is under a serious threat due to the porous and chaotic ways things are being run. The objective of what we are talking about today is access to quality healthcare that is affordable, efficacious and effective. “The only way we can overcome these challenges of chaotic drug distribution is to be self-sufficient through local production. Our healthcare system was exposed during the height of COVID-19 pandemic, and it shows our fragmented system as it is, because there was shortage of pharmaceuticals consumables. We should not be dependent on other nations for drugs; we need to have our raw materials, packaging materials and other needed essentials. Any nation that is import-dependent cannot talk about drug security. As a country, we have suffered from two types of drains, because, prior to COVID-19 pandemic, every week, about six doctors left the country to look for greener pasture. We also have patient drain, because people travel abroad to seek medical care, and this amounts to a lot of money every year. If the money is spent on the country, it will be a major boost to our healthcare system,” she said. Also, former PSN president, Dr Ahmed Yakasai, urged PWDAN to work assiduously to achieve the association’s objectives. “We know the problem of drug distribution in Nigeria, and I think now is the time to put an end to the problem. I expect PWDAN members to remain committed to their objective and goals in everything they do, and they must work with other bodies to achieve their aim. We cannot shy away from block-chain technology; we have to go through the rigours to learn about block-chain technology from manufacturers to end-users. We must be IT-driven in whatever we want to do as practitioners in this field or we will remain in the analogue stage,” he said.