The Lagos State Government has paid N70 million compensation for  the land it acquired for farming in the last two years. The compensation was paid to the  families who owned the land in Igbodu Village of Epe Local Government Area. Speaking yesterday during the presentation of cheques to the beneficiaries, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Abisoye Olusanya, said N38 million was paid last year, while N37. 5 million waa paid this year. According to her, this was done to ensure greater food security and enable the government provide infrastructure for food processing and distribution and to increase farmers income. The Commissioner said there were plans to establish mega projects consisting of various food processing and distribution infrastructure to bring economic benefits for the farmers in the state and also support rural development. She explained that the acquisition was part of the state government’s strategy on the Five-Year Agricultural and Food Systems Roadmap, launched recently. She stated that by acquiring the land for agriculture, the government sees it as a way of creating jobs and infrastructural development to the area, as businesses set up within the communities would require the expertise and the workforce of the residents of Igbodu. She maintained that  the vision was to create ‘farm to fork’ infrastructure that will connect the food processing industry and farmers. The key components of the clusters, she indicated, would provide infrastructure facilities for value addition of produce.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     Sultan directs Muslim to look out for new moon of…   According to her, the government, through the Agricultural Land Holdings Authority (ALHA), acquired  agricultural land from the traditional land owning families of Igbodu in Epe for  agriculture. According to the commissioner, the government recognises the importance of  land to the people, hence its decision to pay for crops to the affected families, bearing in mind that most of the landowners make their livelihood from the acquired land. She noted that the compensation exercise further reiterates the synergy that exists between traditional landowners and the State Government, thereby reinforcing the peaceful co-existence among all stakeholders, which is a key factor towards bringing development to rural areas of the State. The Commissioner, therefore, reiterated the government’s commitment to the welfare of its citizenry. She commended the beneficiaries for their patience and understanding. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs Olatokunbo Emokpae, reaffirmed the government’s commitment to investing in the sector to increase food production She said the state government would continue to push the food agenda to boost the sector.