It was battle of wits and intellect recently as 63 schools in Amuwo-Odofin and Apapa axis battled for honours at this year’s Young Talent Brain Quest. The event, in its 11th edition, is organised annually by Ose Brain Quest Foundation. It was held at the Magnificent House of Grace Church Auditorium, Grace Land Estate, Alakija, Lagos. According to the foundation’s founder, Aiwanose Aidanmwosa, the dream of the foundation is a Nigeria and indeed Africa, where academic competence and excellence would be given appropriate recognition and examination malpractices. Opening the proceedings, Aidanmwosa said the aim of the annual one-day event is to help develop youngsters’ academic and self-esteem, as relate to excellence in school work. Participating schools competed in categories such as Impromptu Speech (senior and Junior secondary school Categories), Speech on Invention (Junior and Senior school categories), Debate (primary category), Mathematics Quiz Junior and Senior secondary school categories, and Thinking Skills in Mathematics (primary and secondary schools categories).   Oko Poly gets new registrar     Don lauds Babatope, Oyetola for Ilesa university     New curriculum for overage out-of-school children adopted   About 77 schools registered for this year’s competition. But, 65 attended while 63 participated, with two schools on hand to observe. The senior secondary schools category had 26 schools competing in the different segments; 22 schools competed in the Junior secondary schools category and 16 schools battled in the primary schools category. In the Impromptu Senior Secondary Schools Category, FESTAC Senior Grammar School came first, S-Tee Schools came second and Nodos International School came third. In the Speech On Invention category for Senior Secondary Schools, King’s High School came first, S-Tee School came second while St. Jude’s Private School came third. The Primary Schools Debate had Winning Edge Montessori winning the top position. Dreamville School came second and St. Jude’s Primary School came third. Imoye Secondary School took the first position in a very tough and brain testing Mathematics Quiz category for Senior Secondary Schools, followed by Command Day Secondary School, Ojo, and Radiance High School, which came third. In the Mathematics Quiz for Junior Secondary Schools category, Command Day Secondary School, Ojo came first; St. Jude’s Private Secondary School came second while FESTAC Girls Junior Secondary School came third.