Sadio Mane returned to his childhood village in Senegal to take part in a muddy local football match as speculation surrounding his Liverpool future continues to rumble on. Mane, who looks set to leave Jurgen Klopp’s side and seal a move to Bayern Munich this summer, went back to Bambali to play in the local kick-about alongside some star names. The 30-year-old was joined by former Newcastle striker Papiss Cisse and ex-Liverpool forward El-Hadji Diouf, as well as international team-mate Mbaye Diagne and Beninese star Desire Segbe. In a video posted on his Instagram, Mane can be seen playing on a muddy pitch alongside the aforementioned players and friends from his village. He wrote alongside the post: ‘Back to the source with a gala match on the Bambaly pitch where it all started!!! A big thank you to my brothers @papissdembacisse @mbayediagne909 @desire.segbe and without forgetting my lifelong idol, sacred @elhadji_diouf11_officiel’. Mane was seen playing alongside his friends in Bambali as talk of a potential move to Bayern Munich continues to gather pace.   Full 2022/2023 EPL fixtures     2023: Lady dumps boyfriend for not supporting Obi     Why Peter Obi can never be president, by Father Mbaka   Football journalist Fabrizio Romano claimed on Wednesday that Bayern have agreed personal terms with the Liverpool winger, who will put pen to paper on a three-year contract at the Allianz Arena. All that’s left to iron out is a transfer fee between the two clubs, and German outlet Bild are reporting that Bayern hope to make it third time lucky with a bid of £34.6million. Liverpool are said to have placed a £42million price tag on Mane, but despite falling £7.4million short the German champions believe that offer will be enough to get their man. It is believed the deal would see them fork out an initial £30.3million with another £4.3million to come in add-ons. Mane only has a year to run on his current contract at Liverpool, where he has developed into one of the best attackers in world football over the past six years. Since joining from Southampton in 2016, the Senegal international has scored 120 goals in 269 appearances while winning the Premier League, Champions League, FA Cup and League Cup.