The summer’s transfer bid  for Nigeria international  Victor Osimhen has yet again  assumed a new dimension with Manchester United  now  reportedly leading the race to lure away the in-demand  striker from  Italian Serie A side, Napoli. Following a spectacular 2021/22 season  with the Serie A side that saw him scoring 18 goals and providing a further six assists in 32 outings across all competitions, Osimhen  has caught the attention of several  EPL clubs including Newcastle, Arsenal and Manchester United. Napoli’s €100 million ( about £86m) price  tag has turned away   the likes of Arsenal  and Newcastle.  But leading Italian  news outlet, Gazzetta dello Sport, claimed te Old Trafford giants  are still in the hunt  for the 23-year-old forward  with further suggestion  that Bayern Munich might also joined  the fray should their prized striker  Robert Lewandowski take a walk as widely speculated. “Manchester United is a strong name, but we cannot exclude the very rich Newcastle and the always attentive Arsenal,” Gazzetta dello Sport reported. “In Germany – not mentioned by the player – Bayern Munich could [be interested] in case of Robert Lewandowski’s farewell: anything can happen.”   2023 AFCON: Peseiro picks  positives on  Super Eagles     Brume, five African champions hit Benin for AFN trials     Sadiq may replace Numez at Benfica   Yet Osimhen seemed unperturbed with all the speculations  surrounding a  potential summer move away from Napoli. “I know there are many people that would like me in Spain or England, but I don’t think it’s the right time to talk about it now that I’m with the national team,” the player  reportedly said  while on  international duty with Nigeria. “I don’t know my future, I know anything can happen, but now I just want to go on holiday with my family, clear my head and recharge my batteries. Then we’ll take care of everything else.” In the meantime, London Gunners have all but ruled out in the race  for Osimhen  claimed Goal’s Arsenal correspondent, Charles Watts via  his YouTube channel. He said: “It’s going to be a very difficult one to do: A – he’s going to be really expensive, B – Napoli are not an easy club to deal with, we know that,” he told his YouTube channel. “So in terms of how good are Arsenal’s chances of Osimhen, I wouldn’t say they’re great. “But I can’t rule it out at all. And the fact that they have held talks shows that he is a target. But it’s going to be a very difficult one to do,” he added.