Lagos-based socialite, Mike Eze-Nwalie Nwogu aka Pretty Mike has been subjected to intense bashing by social media users following his recent appearance at an event. The controversial media personality well-known for making odd appearances during events went overboard over the weekend as seen in a viral video. Pretty Mike, who was one of the many guests that graced Funnybone’s wedding, was seen in the company of five ladies, four sparingly cladded with their bare backsides in full display and the fifth barely covered with a white cloth holding a cross depicting ‘Christ’ who was being led to be crucified. While the lady holding the cross which leaned on her shoulder walked, the other four holding black pieces of cloth as whips behind her, kept ‘flogging’ her. The ‘supposed’ Saviour kept making faces like one in pain as the others continued to ‘whip’ her lightly. At some point, the controversial media personality assisted his ‘Saviour’ to hold her wooden cross in a bid to make the burden lighter for her. Captioning the video on his Instagram page, the nightlife connoisseur posed an ‘atypical’ question while praising women. He wrote: “What if the savior of mankind was a woman? I honestly think this world would have been a better Place…… “women the most undermine secret weapon given to us, by the almighty one.” Social media users condemned the display, terming his display ‘blasphemy’. They noted it was a mockery of Christianity and Christ’s sufferings on the cross and dared him to reproduce a Muslim version. skizzyofficial said: “Totally unacceptable.. looks like an act of mockery. Only few will relate to this comment. iam_naya1 wrote: “This is very wrong and why the fuck is people finding it funny and laughing this is like taking the sacrifice of Our Lord Jesus Christ to be in vain if the show isn’t to enlighten people about the sacrifice of Jesus this is very Wrong. If it is Muslim they will find him and he will pay dearly, this is trash   Erigga asks about ‘Yahoo’ rulers’ penalty over EFCC’s…     Debate over Tiwa Savage, Tems as Afrobeat queen heats up     Regina Daniels impressed by son’s rapid growth   coolly_signature stated: “God will surely judge you for everything you are doing.” ericmoore_mpr said: “Mike you just lost a fan … Christ can’t be mocked.” kingfuvwe12 wrote: “You make a mockery of a religion and you call it showbiz…smh ricchly_brandon stated: “Man you not gonna disrespect Christianity like that, you act like clown.” sisiadaski said: “God have mercy … You wonder why Muslims won’t take of of this. I find this totally disrespectful helen_c_obi1 wrote: “REALLY THIS IS NOT FUNNY AT ALL. PEOPLE ARE ACTUALLY LAUGHING. YOU CAN’T TRY THIS WITH MOHAMMED OR ALLAH. HOW CAN YOU PLAY WITH THE CROSS LIKE THIS.” ayoolaolabs stated: “Dare you to do Muslim own.” blacketihad said: “If nor be see finish wey u see Christianity finish, fear go let you try dis nonsense with Muslim religion? You are so disgusting.” rosegagadickson1 wrote: “This is a mockery of Christ’s suffering.” like_loveth stated: “This guy thinks he’s creative he should try this with the other religion and see if he’ll get away with it.” rity1211 said: “Blasphemy. U get luck we ain’t like the Muslims else by now we for don stone you to death. Don’t play with Christ crucifixion.”