The National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) have moved to block loopholes that have hindered the enforcement of the Local Content Act in the insurance sector. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo writes. TWELVE years after the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act was enacted in the insurance industry, practitioners are yet to fully comply with law, thereby leading to capital flight in the sector. They are rather ceding over 70 per cent of the business abroad as against retaining 70 per cent stipulated in the Act, established by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), which came into effect on April 22, 2010. The Guidelines for the oil and gas business, among others, stipulates the roles and responsibilities of insurance institutions in ensuring compliance with the local content law. This was done with the primary consideration of ensuring that in-country insurance capacity is fully filled before any foreign consideration. Prior to the NOGICD Act 2010, the Insurance Act 2003 made far-reaching provisions for the domestication and domiciliation of insurance service. In particular, Section 65 (7) of the Insurance Act 2003 made it compulsory for any property in Nigeria, whether moveable or immovable, to be insured by a Nigerian insurer. Section 67 requires that insurance of imports  must be insured by insurers registered in Nigeria. In addition, Section 72 prohibits any person from transacting insurance or reinsurance with foreign insurers/reinsurers except with the written permission of the Commission. But many insurers and reinsurers fail, neglect or refuse to consider and fully utilise in-country capacities of insurance and reinsurance institutions such as pools, reinsurers and other approved local or recognised insurance capacities, prior to applying for approval to cede certain proportion of some risks offshore, according to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). To end this menace, NAICOM and the NCDMB last week launched  Guidelines on Submission of Insurance Programme by Operators, Project Promoters, Alliance Partners and Indigenous Companies in the oil and gas industry at the headquarters of the NCDMB in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. The Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas said the aim of the guidelines is the development of indigenous content through increased indigenous participation.   ‘Robust insurance key to growth’     Wanted: Sustainability in insurance     Allianz Nigeria hits 43% females on board   He said: “The NOGICD Act 2010 was, therefore, applauded by the entire insurance industry as it greatly complemented the National Insurance Commission roles and responsibilities in performing its regulatory and supervisory oversight function. In similar vein, Sections 49 and 50 of the NOGICD Act specifically relate to Insurance & Reinsurance and Approval for Offshore Insurance respectively. The Act also contains a Schedule with recommended minimum levels of Nigerian Content Level measured by percentage spend. “The historical synergy between our agencies has, therefore, necessitated a veritable platform for inter-agency collaboration to give effect to the requirements of Section 49 and 50 of the NOGICD Act 2010 by providing guidance to Operators in the Oil and Gas necessary for satisfying the provisions of the law in relation to insurance transactions. “The joint guidelines, which is issued with the objectives of enforcing and strengthening compliance with the provisions of the referenced sections of the NOGICD Act and relevant provisions of the Insurance Act with respect to companies carrying on insurance business in the oil and gas industry is to also enable the Board monitor utilisation of in-country insurance capacity.” He implored operators, project promoters, alliance partners and  indigenous companies engaged in any  business, operations or contract in the  oil and gas industry to note that the sighted relevant laws have demanded adherence and continued compliance, hence the issuance of the guidelines. He expressed optimism in relation to the realisation of the benefits of increased local content. “I express optimism in relation to the realisation of the benefits of increased local content which are but not limited to; increased retention, growth in in-country technical capacity. Job creation and employment generation, increased penetration and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth, human capacity development, and many others. “While we note the need to secure domestic supply chains through strong backward domestic integration, which has the potency of protecting economies from imported contagion of a health and economic variety, we are also mindful of the capacity gap of the supply side. “Consequently, the National Insurance Commission is committed to creating an enabling environment that will consistently enhance increased capacity of the Insurance Institutions both financially and technically,” he added. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Simbi Kesiye Wabote, said the event was the culmination of consistent, persistent and rigorous engagement between the Board and NAICOM in the last year. “I am delighted to announce that this insurance guidelines addresses loopholes that have been identified by the Board in implementing the provisions of the NOGICD Act, particularly sections 49 and 50. “As we are aware, the combined provisions of sections 49 and 50 require all operators engaged in any form of activity or project in the Oil and Gas industry to ”insure all insurable risks related to its oil and gas business…with an insurance company, through an insurance broker registered in Nigeria.” “The NOGICD Act provides that where an operator seeks to place an insurable risk offshore, a written approval of NAICOM must first be sought and obtained and that NAICOM, prior to the issuance of the approval, must first determine that local capacity has been fully exhausted”, he noted.