A lot is expected of the Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, Olukayode Ariwoola, who was sworn in yesterday by President Muhammadu Buhari. He is coming when confidence in the Judiciary is at its lowest ebb and Justices of the Supreme Court, for the first time, openly complained of neglect and criticised a CJN. In addition to addressing the issues at the apex court, he must work to restore confidence in the Judiciary, improve the welfare of judicial officers at all levels, enthrone a culture of accountability and carry out holistic reforms towards speeding up justice administration. He must also bring an end the era of technical justice over The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), as well as senior advocates of Nigeria (SANs), including former NBA President Dr Olisa Agbakoba, Mike Igbokwe and former Lagos State University (LASU) Vice Chancellor Prof Lanre Fagbohun, urged him to hit the ground running. Others who spoke include a former NBA Vice President Monday Ubani, activist-lawyer Debo Adeleke; a former member of the Ogun State Judiciary Service Commission, Abayomi Omoyinmi and judicial watchdog Access to Justice. The NBA urged the Judiciary to prepare to reform itself in the wake of the resignation of Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad as CJN. Its President, Mr. Olumide Akpata, said there was an urgent need for “cleansing the Augean Stable” following recent concerns about the welfare of Supreme Court Justices and dwindling public confidence in the third arm of government.  Akpata thanked the outgone CJN for enabling a smooth relationship between the Bar and the Bench. NBA said: “It is, however, impossible to consider His Lordship’s retirement in isolation of the recent unprecedented developments at the Supreme Court where 14 Justices of the court censured the outgone CJN over His Lordship’s handling of their welfare and related issues. “Beyond this, there is near universal agreement that public confidence in the Judiciary and indeed the legal profession is at an all-time low.” The association demanded immediate judicial reform by Justice Ariwoola. Akpata said: “There is now more than ever the need for urgent reforms in the Judiciary and to rebuild the almost dissipated confidence that Nigerians have in the Judiciary and the wider legal profession in Nigeria. “These should form the immediate first tasks for Justice Ariwoola. “The NBA welcomes his appointment and pledges its readiness to work together with His Lordship and the Judiciary in cleansing the Augean Stable and addressing the ills that have continued to plague not just the Judiciary but the entire legal profession.” Dr Agbakoba expects a reform of the justice administration processes. “I know Mr Justice Ariwoola and a lot will be expected of the Acting CJN to turn around the justice administration process as it is clearly at a very low point,” he said.   Prof Fagbohun identified key issues the Acting CJN must address. He said: “I heartily congratulate my Lord CJN, Hon Justice Ariwoola. The reality confronting Nigeria’s justice sector is such that the new CJN must hit the ground running. “Achieving autonomy in ways that will bring self-respect is critical. Entrenching discipline must be at the core of his agenda. “The Supreme Court must be able to deal with the cynicism that the court is leaning more in favour of technical justice and rigorous adherence to inordinate legalism. “Let us have a Supreme Court that will push form over substance. “History indeed beckons on my Lord CJN to work with other Lord Justices in ensuring that our apex court is no longer perceived as sabotaging justice.” Igbokwe urged the Acting CJN to focus on welfare. He said: “I congratulate him and wish him well. Against the background of welfare issues raised by Justices of the Supreme Court recently, I believe he is already aware of those welfare issues.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   “So, I expect that he will immediately tackle them not only at d Supreme Court but as the head of the Nigerian judiciary, tackle them also at the Court of Appeal and trial courts as the problem is not limited to the Supreme Court. “Such issues should not be allowed to raise their ugly heads again and distract the court. “It is very important because the judiciary cannot be independent and fully perform its role as an arm of government and in excellent justice service delivery unless its welfare is well taken care of and it is financially independent. “He must wear the hat of an adept administrator of the judiciary and justice also in order to successfully manage its various problems to make it stronger, more reliable and to occupy its pride of place in the common law countries. “From his antecedents, I believe he will not fail Nigerians who are looking up to him and that he will leave the office better than he met it.” Ubani said Justice Ariwoola has a duty to implement some of the reforms he knows that are necessary for the Supreme Court. “The long delay experienced in the Supreme Court to have dates must be looked into expeditiously,” he said Adeleke and Omoyinmi urged Justice Ariwoola to respect the demands of 14 justices. They said the demands were a pointer to the fact that all is not well with the apex court and that there is an urgent need to fix the problems to save the judiciary. Adeleke urged Justice Arinwoola to address all issues raised by his colleagues. “I expect him to justify the confidence reposed in him by addressing those issues. The fact that they voice them out means it has gotten to an alarming stage. “The judiciary is the only institution that has not been balkanised by political parties and politicians. “He should do the right thing and return normalcy  to the judiciary.” Adeleke believes the appointment of Justice Ariwoola was a good omen as due process was followed. Omoyinmi agreed with Adeleke on the need for Justice Ariwoola “to look at the demands of the 14 Justices in all its ramifications in respect of funding, allowances for diesel to fuel their generators and other issues raised in their letter.” Omoyinmi urged the Acting CJN to ensure full autonomy for the judiciary. “If he fails to do this, those issues raised by his colleagues would rear their ugly heads again in the nearest future. “He should work towards ensuring that those issues are addressed. Something urgent must be done about them. “He should hit the ground running and put things right in the apex court. He should set an example for others to follow,” he advised. A2Justice, in a statement by its Convener Joseph Otteh, said Justice Muhammad’s resignation draws the curtain on his illustrious career, having risen from humble beginnings. “Although circumstances of his emergence as Chief Justice remain controversial, Access to Justice commends Justice Muhammad for the decision to step down following reported health concerns. “A decision to give up an office with so much influence, prestige and power cannot come lightly, and a less forthright person may have chosen a different course of action. “By this action, he has shown utmost responsibility of office and personal integrity.” A2Justice said Justice Ariwoola’s emergence “offers a new opportunity for rebooting the Judiciary and resetting it on a path of renewal and re-energization”. It added: “Nigeria’s Judiciary has, for too long, been hung over by dark clouds and has performed poorly across a number of performance indices. “Public confidence is at low thresholds, and the Judiciary’s transparency and accountability have come under increasing question. “All this is taking place while the welfare of judges is dwindling, and the independence and autonomy of the judicial department are increasingly undermined by the government. “Justice Ariwoola must declare a state of emergency in the Judiciary and take every step necessary to restore the health, efficiency, authority and accountability of the Judicial arm of government.”