When too much money is going after too few goods and services, we call it in layman’s language inflation. This is the current situation all over the world. The reasons vary from country to country. In the Western world, the reasons vary from too much money in circulation as a result of governments’ reaction to current problems of the coronavirus and scarcity caused by interruption in the global supply chain especially in a globalised world where several component producers are spatially located be it in the production of industrial components or food. In Nigeria, we are victims of several reasons chief among which are the same disruptions in global supply chain as it relates to our imports, insecurity arising from poor governance and incompetence. We import substantial amount of food such as wheat from Russia and Ukraine and possibly from India which has now forbidden Indian wheat farmers from exporting their wheat. We also import rice despite the noise about home-grown rice. We import vegetable oils from several places particularly from Ukraine and some Asian countries like Indonesia and Malaysia which also stopped selling to outsiders in order to satisfy domestic demands and needs. Our vastly deprecated national currency cannot buy much because of the unpatriotic actions of our politicians who have driven the value of our currency down because of their mad rush to acquire for political use the little foreign exchange that should normally go to the productive sector of the economy. Our most serious problem is our importation of refined petroleum while our four refineries remain idle while at the same time our government continues to pump financial resources into their so-called rehabilitation. The situation of making refined petroleum available is killing the economy because refined petroleum is costing much in the international market because of the rising cost of crude oil. Yet our government continues to be forced to sell to the driving public at prices vastly below the cost of its purchase and transportation. The situation is so bad that all our revenues from crude oil exports in addition to non-oil exports do not suffice to buy the refined petroleum we are consuming.  The result is that while all OPEC countries are being asked to increase production so as to lower the global price of our kind of crude oil which is selling over $100 per barrel, we are not even able to produce the 1.8 million barrels of our OPEC quota. We are exporting currently about one million barrels or less a day because vast amount of our production is stolen thus discouraging the oil majors from further investment in Nigerian oil sector. This sounds crazy but it is the truth and we are having to borrow money from abroad and raising federal bonds to finance oil imports. On top of this is the general insecurity in the country leading to farmers not being able to go to their farms because of Boko haram/ISWAP and Fulani terrorism creating local supply chain disruption even when the food is available because only intrepid businessmen and women dare travel. The few imports substituted industries still existing have their levels of production reduced because of the cost of imports of raw or semi-finished materials which the exchange rate of the dollar to the Naira has forced on them. Unfortunately in our case, we don’t have the resources to splash on workers to cope with all these challenges and even if we have, the question of how many Nigerians are in salaried employment will arise. Our economy is so undeveloped that we cannot begin to talk about universal credit to all adults to cope with daily exigencies. Yet we must begin to think out of the box to solve our economic and political problems which are intricately interwoven with our security problems. This is why I find some of the ideas of Pastor Tunde Bakare in his bid for the presidency very attractive. He was talking about turning the six geo-political zones of the country into production zones with each zone demonstrating its unique character and comparative production advantages in relation to the others, so that this can then be added to leapfrog the country beyond our current pedestrian possibilities. This is an idea worth pursuing instead of our burying our heads in the sand of North/South political rotation of presidential power and sharing of offices.   The joke of primary elections in Nigeria     Unintended consequences of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine     Nigeria’s image: Need for national awareness   The “economy stupid” as President Bill Clinton said when he was running for the office of president of the United States. His approach to the economy based on building a larger market of the USA and its neighbours, Canada and Mexico and increased domestic production and larger share of the tax burden by the rich, led to the phenomenal growth of the economy and success of the Democratic Party in the USA. We can borrow from this by encouraging trade with our immediate neighbours and creating a co-prosperity neighbourhood. I am not talking about ECOWAS which for now seems remote. Inflation as I have said is a global problem. Its rate in the USA is currently 8.5 percent and is over nine percent in the United Kingdom. Europe is not doing much better. In Nigeria, it is over 15 percent. Perhaps the way out for us will be found in what happens in the rest of the world combined with what happens locally in Nigeria. Lending rates in the USA, Great Britain and Europe are going up incrementally. Governments there are trying to find a way out of the cost of energy by cutting down rates in other areas of the economy such as housing, health, insurance and so on. This may not be enough as long the war in Ukraine continues which has led to the high cost of energy particularly in Europe and tangentially in the United States. An hungry man is and angry man, the cost of food particularly in Europe would have to come down so also the cost of energy and the way these can come down is the end of the war in Ukraine. Germany the power house of the European economy is particularly hit because of its almost total dependence on Russian gas and oil which the EU sanctions have affected. Although the Americans are the loudest in crying about inflation and the cost of fuel and food because they are the least ready to bear any burden, but any visitor to American groceries and shops cannot but be impressed about the variety and abundance of goods on their shelves. The solution to the disruption in the supply chain of goods caused by the closure or reduced production at the plants of many suppliers due to the coronavirus pandemic is patience.  The end of the war in Ukraine and gradual lifting of the trade sanctions on Russia will also help. This may not be immediately but there is no doubt that the world will witness bottled up economic growth once there is no longer a disruption to global trade, renewed growth in China whose economy has stalled because of the Chinese penchant for locking down huge areas of the country as a strategy of total elimination of coronavirus, in contrast to the rest of the world that seems to want to tolerate and live with the virus while economic development and life continue. Once the Chinese economy starts growing again, it will lift the world economy and that of Africa up again. There lies the hope of Africa and Nigeria. Once the war in Ukraine ends, then we should be able to import wheat and vegetable oils. But we must tackle our domestic terrorism so that we can release the pent up force of economic and agricultural production which will be aided by peaceful mobility in the country. There will hopefully, be growth in the hydrocarbon sector of the economy if the amount of stolen oil can be reduced so that we will not only meet our OPEC allocated quota  but also reap from the vastly increased price of our oil products. Perhaps there is a need for better management of oil receipts and the huge amount coming in from diaspora transfers by young hardworking Nigerians living and working abroad. If we have a totally independent Central Bank unlike the present one whose governor is a politician and if the governor is not from any commercial bank but an economist very vast in international finance, then we may have a respected national currency that is not reduced to mere coloured papers as our currency has been reduced to by the current regime. Unfortunately the time for hope may be forlorn because of the politics of electioneering and political transition. Whoever takes over from the Muhammadu Buhari government would have a lot of job to do to return the country to political and economic normalcy.