The Federal Government has reaffirmed its resolve to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty by 2030. It identified the Federal Ministry of Water Resources’ irrigation sub-sector as one of its key policy thrusts to help the government achieve its desired goals. Minister of Water Resources Sulaiman Adamu spoke in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, at the opening of the Southwest Regional Workshop on Establishment/Strengthening of Water Users Associations (WUAs) for Management of Public Irrigation Schemes, organised by the ministry, in collaboration with the Ogun-Oshun and Benin-Owena River Basin Development Authority. According to him, the President Muhammad Buhari administration is committed to increasing food production through irrigation agriculture, the sustainability in the operation and management of the public irrigation schemes in the country, and to ensure greater efficiency and equity in the distribution and use of the resources. Adamu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Didi Walson-Jack, said the workshop was timely and appropriate to strengthen some of the ministry’s reforms that were ongoing to address the vicious cycle of tension and distrust between farmers and government at all levels.   APC primary: Kosofe constituents seek rerun     APC chieftain lifts loyalists      Foundation holds 10-million women march   He added: “One of such laudable reform is the collaborative effort between the Federal Ministry of Water Resources and World Bank in carrying out TRIMING Project’s intervention in selected irrigation schemes in the country as models for other schemes to address rural poverty through progressive management transfer to regulated bodies in the form Water Users Associations, WUAS. “The TRIMING model proposes a lesome change to the irrigation institutional and management framework, including the re-organization of sector WUAS and formation of water user group along hydraulic infrastructures through a joint operation and management of irrigation schemes by irrigation users and relevant government agencies, for all inclusive growth and sustainable national development…” The minister explained that the project has recorded laudable achievements which include ‘over 8,000ha of land rehabilitated/improved and handed over to farmers for agricultural production; over 800 operational water users associations have so far been created and/or strengthened across the schemes; about 84 extension agents, 12 rural institutions development officers, 11 M&E officers and 15 supervisors have been deployed to schemes from the states ADPS…” Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, who was represented by Chairman of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (RUWASSA), Najeem Omirinde, promised that the government will continue to partner relevant government agencies on adequate provision of water for domestic, industrial and agricultural use. Director/CEO Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority Olufemi Odumosu said the huge turnout of all relevant stakeholders at the workshop shows that ‘we are ready to unlock the irrigation potential by treating it with the seriousness it deserves’.