Afriglobal Medicare, a diagnostics services company, has been issued ISO 15189:2012 certification, a standard intended to improve the quality and reliability of medical laboratories. This represents an essential milestone in a long-term strategic journey in providing much-needed, quality, and affordable diagnostics services to a broad demographic in Nigeria. This accreditation demonstrates Afriglobal Medicare’s commitment to quality. The Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria Accreditation Service conducted the audit of Afriglobal Medicare.   2,000 benefit from TREM medical outreach     Nigeria launches tobacco control website     Things to know about your doctor before cosmetic surgery   The certificate presentation ceremony took place on June 7, 2022. The company offers cardiology, pathology, radiology, and wellness services using state-of-the-art technology. ISO 15189:2012 is the world’s most  recognised quality standard for a medical laboratory in developing quality management systems and assessing competence. It guides companies in developing a quality management system that aligns quality with their global business strategy. Registrar MLSCN, Dr Tosan Erhabor, noted that Afriglobal was joining the big leagues of medical labs in Nigeria with ISO certification. The Chief Executuve Officer (CEO), Afriglobal, Tani Fafunwa, stated the organisation’s goals at inception were simple. “First, build labs around globally recognised systems using operations structured on best practices. Secondly, ultimately, to ensure that the labs operate the highest quality standards for their customers and the society at large.” The General Manager Operations, Afriglobal, Bisi Akinjide said: “Our customers have put their trust in our diagnostic systems. Achievement of ISO certification in Afriglobal demonstrates our commitment to a consistently high-quality standard in every aspect of running our laboratories. It gives credence to our core value of putting patient care first.” A member of the Afriglobal Group, Afriglobal is one of the foremost medical laboratories in Nigeria. Over the last seven years, Afriglobal has helped over one million Nigerians enjoy access to world-class diagnostics services catering to individuals and corporates. Its services include radiology, pathology, cardiology, endoscopy, wellness, and COVID-19 testing.