President Muhammadu Buhari has celebrated Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), the Ekiti State capital, for being listed as the best university in Nigeria and among the best 400 universities globally. President Buhari was reacting to the Times Higher Education World Rankings on the university’s institutionalised qualitative and functional education. In a statement yesterday in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President also congratulated the Chancellor of the institution, Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), for the feat. The statement reads: “President Buhari joins Founder and Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, management and members of staff in celebrating the favorable rankings, which placed the institution as the Best in Nigeria, and 400th in the world.   Direct flights between Nigeria, Miami likely soon, says U.S…     Unity schools: Lagos, FCT, Anambra lead in common entrance…     INEC loses bid to stop voter registration June 30   “The President notes the visionary and scholarly leadership style that continues to shape the curriculum, operations and results of ABUAD since it was established 12 years ago with the guiding principles of discipline, industry, determination, service, integrity, sound education and quality leadership. “As the university scores another national and global record for excellence, President Buhari affirms that the Times Higher Education World Rankings further validates the resourcefulness of hardworking academics, particularly in research, and diligence of students, who continuously stretch their bodies and minds to make history. “President Buhari affirms that the interesting fact that the ranking analysed more than 108 million citations across over 14.4 million research publications and included responses from almost 22,000 scholars shows the depth, acceptability and influence of the ABUAD placement, the best out of 197 universities in Nigeria and one of 400 out 31,097 universities in the world. “The President appreciates the honour brought to the country by ABUAD, urging management, lecturers and students to explore same focus and doggedness to lift the university to be among the top 50. “President Buhari congratulates the Chancellor for facilitating resources, channeling the energies and assembling an exemplary staff in ABUAD.”