Multi-talented hit record producer, Daniel Williams, professionally known as Yung Willis, has launched a record label ahead of the release of his debut single and album. Yung Willis has worked with some artists, including Falz, Timaya, Wizkid, Kizz Daniel, Davido, Niniola, Waje, BNXN, Zlatan, Yemi Alade, Patoranking & Ice Prince producing hit record after hit record. Renowned for his signature tagline, ‘Wi Wi Wi Willis Give Dem’, Yung Willis has always prioritized giving back balue, which is one of the inspirations behind one of the biggest producer taglines in the World. He said: “Today marks the beginning of something groundbreaking for the future of Talents discovery, Artistes, Music Producers, Sound Engineers, Song Writers & Creatives or Entertainment Professionals generally. “One person that always inspired me is Don Jazzy, with how he has shown through Mavin, that music can be structured by Nigerians at a global standard. Kanye West has also always been a big inspiration for me, both musically and entrepreneurially.   Timaya dumps ‘gal friends’ to acquire Ferrari…     Kizz Daniel sets to headline youth vote count mega concert…     Women who love making long nails not wife material –…   “I’m still that young boy from Abuja, still learning and trying to navigate through the entertainment industry but strongly believes in structure and I’m passionate about getting It right. “I believe that it’s time for me to start small. With the launch of Royals Music, I can take the next phase in the evolution of my art & brand and by God’s grace, I can still Give Back to the creative society that has helped me thrive over the last few years.” The launch comes just before the release of his debut single fittingly titled Givin Dem which is the first single off his upcoming album LOTP (Life of The Party). For this album, Yung Willis partnered with Mr Eazi powered international label, emPawa Africa. He is assured what he has in store to Give Us is set to “Blow our Minds” and everyone should be on the lookout.