When he returned to Lagos on Sunday , June 19, for the first time after his emergence as presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 elections, it was only natural that former governor of the state, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, would pay a courtesy call on the Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, in his palace. As Tinubu’s convoy departed the palace at the Adeniji end of Isale Eko, some of the vehicles were attacked by hoodlums armed with stones, cutlasses and other weapons. Particularly affected were the vehicles that conveyed journalists as well as a security car, which had their side glasses and windshields smashed. One of the reporters injured in the attack, Adeola Ogunrinde, gave an account of the harrowing experience she and her colleagues went through: “It happened at the Oba’s palace. The thugs, armed with cutlasses, attacked the convoy and our bus was on the tail end of the convoy, and shattered its windows with stones. I was seated beside the window and some of the broken glass entered my eye. Our bus was damaged, so most of us sustained various injuries. One of us even had his phone stolen. It was a terrible experience. We have been given medical and tomorrow, I will be at the hospital”. Even though they were not necessarily attacked because of their profession, this unsavoury incident illustrates the kind of hazards journalists are routinely exposed to in the course of carrying out their responsibilities. The governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, must be commended for ensuring that those injured were given prompt medical attention in addition to personally visiting the correspondents at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre at the Alausa Secretariat, and promising a thorough investigation into the incident as well as punishment for perpetrators. But then, it could easily have been much worse, with the possibility of more serious injuries and even loss of life. It thus becomes imperative to ensure adequate security cover for journalists assigned to cover the governor’s beat, and indeed other eminent citizens across the country before, during and after events. However, if this could happen to a convoy of vehicles conveying important dignitaries, we can best imagine what would be the plight of ordinary citizens in that area on a daily basis.   Fail to plan?     Unending fuel conundrum      Right step   Those who are familiar with Isale Eko and the menace hoodlums and ‘area boys’ have posed in that vicinity over the years would most likely be tempted to dismiss this incident as just another example of what has become a normal occurrence. This would be most unfortunate and unhelpful. There is no way this kind of atrocious and barbaric behaviour can be expected and tolerated as the norm in any society with a claim to being decent and civilised. It is particularly unacceptable because the vicinity hosts the palace of the illustrious throne of Oba of Lagos, which makes it a prime centre of attraction and, necessarily, a major tourist destination. There is no doubt that the notoriety Isale Eko has come to be known for on account of the rampant activities of the ‘area boys’ is depriving the entire neighbourhood, the Lagos monarchy and the state as a whole of the several benefits that ought to accrue from the location of a palace of such traditional and historic import. Quite apart from the need for the state government as well as local government councils in the area to focus renewed attention and effort in getting rid of the ‘area boys’ menace in Isale Eko, the palace also has a responsibility to leverage on its traditional authority and influence to mobilise support for the upgrading of its environment. A fundamental causal factor of the ‘area boys’ menace in Isale Eko and beyond is pervasive poverty and the attendant youth unemployment. This is compounded by the prevalent destructive culture of drug addiction, alcohol and substance abuse, as well as mindless hedonism. These will require the concerted effort of parents, governments, the traditional institution and the private sector to address, in order to redeem those already caught in the throes of destructive addictions.