He returned back to Lagos in swagger last  Saturday after a justified hiatus from the Centre of Excellence. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu was at the forefront of the battle for the coveted Presidential primaries of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the revered National Leader of the party. Sanwo-Olu proved himself a worthy prodigy of the Lion of Bourdillon and the strong man of Lagos politics. He totally sold himself out for the lifelong ambition of his political benefactor and mentor. It was a selfless agenda in the national interest for Sanwo-Olu. Many who thought he was junketing Abuja and Lagos meeting power brokers in the ruling party for the sake of Asiwaju were surprised when the zeal of the performing governor did not wane even when rumour mills were agog that he won’t get a second term ticket. He was unperturbed. He fired on. Like a Boy Scout, he was ever ready for the Tinubu Presidential ambition. Sanwo-Olu, who had worked with Asiwaju Tinubu as a member of  the executive council  before he became governor knows the leadership and administrative capacity of Jagagban Borgu. In a state of near ruins and utter darkness that currently envelopes the nation, Sanwo-Olu knows that Tinubu has the courage, vision and capability to rescue the nation from the cliff.He was a living witness to what Lagos looked like after the years of plundering of jackboot military junta. Lagos, a former Federal capital which was also the theatre of action of pro-democracy and political struggles bore the brunt of the military dictatorship. Public infrastructure was in comatose. Schools, waste management, public hospitals and other public services were in a sorry state. Tinubu came with a clear vision of rescuing Lagos and positioning the state on the path of continuous growth trajectory. Difficult decisions were taken for the Development Master Plan Blueprint envisioned by Asiwaju Tinubu to fly. Public  finance and taxation systems and processes were restructured in line with global best practice. Without unnecessarily adding to the burden of Lagosians who had been badly dealt with by military guys, the state revenues were ramp up, human involvements with cash reduced, wastage plugged and funds were freed up for unprecedented, monumental development. Governor Sanwo-Olu as one of the students in the Asiwaju Leadership School saw all these mind blowing feats and how the man creatively swell the Internal Revenue Generation(IGR) from paltry N600 Million to billions of Naira before leaving government in 2007. This rare capacity to inspire and lead people to greatness are the greatest attributes that make Asiwaju Tinubu exceptional.  So, these among others are the driving forces behind the quest for Asiwaju Tinubu presidency which Governor Sanwo-Olu among other close associates of the Lion of Boudillon had been championing. When the prized ticket appeared like a tall order, In February 2022, Governor Sanwo-Olu had rally political weights in Lagos and beyond who had benefited from the benevolence and large heartedness of Tinubu. He declared in unequivocally that it was a  time for payback: Sanwo-Olu said: “Let me stress the importance of working together as one family, especially as we approach 2023, which is an all-important election year. There is a whole lot we can achieve together as a united bloc. I enjoin all of us to come together and rally round our leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as he gives the nation’s presidency a shot. “He has given himself to the good people of Lagos, and now he wants to replicate his progressive ideas at the national level. It is time to pay him back with our unwavering support.  He is, no doubt, the right and best man for the job. He knows the issues plaguing our nation like the back of his hands and he has the magic wand to fix it.”   Council boss signs N1.95b Appropriation Bill     Edo Deputy Governor turns ‘altar boy’ on Father’s Day     Funmi Iyanda returns with Public Eye show   That was months before Tinubu spilled the beans in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. The then Presidential aspirant now candidate spoke of his sacrifices for his proteges to rise in sub and national politics. It was tedious service spanning over 25 years according to him. For the first time, he counted revisionism on how the serving Vice President of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo emerged as the running mate to General Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. He disclosed that he surrendered his Vice President slot for the overall interest of the party, Yoruba land in particular and Nigeria in general. It was my turn, Asiwaju roared in the ancient city of Abeokuta. Sanwo-Olu, who was a leading campaigner for the APC presidential ticket for Tinubu, was in Abeokuta the same day. They had earlier visited Ibadan, Oyo State capital. As the D-Day drew near, Sanwo-Olu was in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja to perfect the game plan for Asiwaju Tinubu. He stood till the very end until victory was delivered. Sanwo-Olu was the eyes of Tinubu among the governors elected on the platform of the APC. The commitment and pledged support to the Tinubu candidacy must be kept under close watch. Sanwo-Olu ensured that the agreement remained sacrosanct. They believe the governor because of his antecedence. He keeps to agreements. Sanwo-Olu didn’t jet out after the declaration of the well-deserved victory of Tinubu on Wednesday.  He stayed back in Abuja to receive well meaning Nigerians who thronged Asokoro residence of Tinubu who had come to felicitate with him and pledge support for his candidacy. The governor was also on the entourage to pay thank you visits to co-presidential contestants and leaders of the party including President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Osinbajo. So, when APC members and Excos members in the Lagos State Cabinet stormed Lagos Airport, it was understandable. He was a hero who deserved a heroic welcome. Trust Sanwo-Olu, he is not resting until Asiwaju is crowned the President, Commander In Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. The real task is here. Selling Asiwaju across ethnic, religious divides and mobilising votes that will deliver the presidency to him. Trust, Sanwo-Olu will lead from the front as he did in the keenly struggle for the APC Presidential ticket.