Cyriel Dessers is optimistic that Super Eagles have the quality to silence the visiting Leone Stars of Sierra Leone in Thursday’s  2023 AFCON qualifiers in Abuja. The Feyenoord striker who was listed in the European Conference League Team of the Season is excited about his debut goal for the national team while hoping to net more goals for his country. “I think, automatically we must get the victory because in Super Eagles, we always try to win every game even against a top team like Mexico, we were closed as we played a good game,” Dessers declared. “At least if we can get the same level we got against Mexico in the second half, then we will be close to winning against Sierra Leone as well. “It is our duty actually and we will do everything possible to get the victory,” Dessers said. He described his debut goal for the Eagles as special: “It is a special moment and this is the thing you dream of, and to finally get the first goal was an amazing feeling and I hope there is so much to come.”   Back2Base Talent Hunt excites Mikel     ICC honours Nigeria  Cricket Federation on developmental…     Ekevwo, Amusan arrive in Mauritius for AAC   The European Conference League’s highest goal scorer said the outgone  Dutch season  was inspiring . “It has been a beautiful season for sure and there have been a lot of highlights, especially with a lot of competition especially getting to the final of the European Conference league final against AS Roma and now with the Super Eagles. It is a really nice feeling,” he said. Yet  Dessers was not happy over  Feyenoord’s failure to sign him permanently from Genk of Belgium sighting financial difficulties at the Dutch club. “The financial situation at Feyenoord is complicated and they need to sell players to buy new ones especially when the price of such players is high. For now, not all doors are closed. But at the moment anything can happen because in football you can never say never. I am open to anything as it could be Feyenoord or Genk or move to somewhere else, we will see what happens,” Dessers said. Though  awarded the highest goal scorer of the European Conference League ,Dessers said he would have been overjoyed if his side  had beaten Jose Mourinho’s Roma. “You want to lift the trophy but this award is a nice small price and it is not the objective and the objective for me was to win the Conference League.”