With the emergence of governorship candidates for the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, OKUNGBOWA AIWERIE, examines the weaknesses and strengths of the two gubernatorial flag-bearers and writes that the race will be a close contest. The stage is now set for the face-off between the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the opposition All Progressive Congress (APC) in what will obviously be a two horse race for the governorship position of Delta State in the 2023 general elections. With the winners of the gubernatorial primary elections of both parties decided last week, the battle for the top job in Delta State is now clearly between incumbent Speaker, Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori and the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori, compared to his more illustrious opponent, Ovie Omo-Agege, in the politics of Delta state, may be the underdog in this contest given the political antecedents of both candidates. But a further consideration of the duo’s political parties, will even the score given that Oborevwori is contesting on the platform of the ruling party in the state. The PDP has never lost control of Delta state since 1999. Aside his stint as a supervisory councilor in Okpe LGA in 1999, and serving as aide under past PDP governments, until his election as legislator representing Okpe State Constituency in 2014, leading to his elevation to the speakership position in 2017, Oborevwori’s political achievements are modest. Despite this shortcoming, Oborevwori has shown himself an upwardly mobile politician that boasts a strong party support base, and among his Okpe ethnic group in Delta Central. He has been able to establish a deep connection with the grassroots in a manner that makes him a formidable opponent. This may stands him in good stead during the forthcoming elections. Although his “street boy” image, having survived the rough and tumble of street life to reach his present position, may find resonance among some youths, it has also drawn flak from women’s group.   The group, Association of Delta Women Professionals, in a statement, faulted the Speaker’s campaign message that appears to proclaim street life over education. Part of the statement reads, “That we object to Sheriff Oborevwori’s campaign message in which he said what counts for him is not his First Degree or Masters Degree Certificates but his “street credibility. We observe that such message does not inspire our children to take their education seriously seeing that a Governorship aspirant is saying that education does not matter in life and leadership. That, while as mothers and models for child education, we are working round the clock to ensure that our children take their education seriously and get off the streets, such statement from a Governorship aspirant proclaiming street life over and above education is misleading and uninspiring for our Delta State children and youths. We are concerned that if Rt. Hon Sheriff Oborevwori did not buy his certificates or obtain them through certain compromises of the educational system, he would value the certificates and would not send such destructive message to our children and youths.” A tough battle He enjoys the backing of incumbent Governor Okowa who has used his immense political clout to coral the party’s hierarchy to support Oborevwori’s bid. A move other aspirants have attacked Okowa for. They accuse him of “unfairly” mobilising support for Oborevwori. Two major themes that may define Sheriff Oborevwori’s ambition is his Okpe ethnic heritage and the legal challenge on his ambition. Oborevwori hails from an ethnic group that has never tasted executive power, whether in the defunct Midwest region, Bendel State or in present Delta State. This factor may either tilt voting dynamics in his favour , or work against him given that Delta Central is Ovie Omo-Agege’s stronghold. And Omo-Agege, an Urhobo, is incumbent lawmaker representing Delta Central at the NASS. Regardless of longstanding ties with the Urhobos in Delta Central, the Okpe ethnic group has begun to clamour for recognition as a distinct ethnic nationality. The Okpe Union (OU), the apex socio-cultural group of Okpe people, contend that despite their huge land mass, numerical strength, and contributions to the Urhobo cause; they have benefitted little from their political union with the Urhobos. So, Oborevwori’s emergence will serve as a litmus test on whether or not the Urhobos will rally support for an Okpe candidate or an Urhobo candidate. Urhobo Progressive Union (UPU), the apex Urhobo social cultural group, had in the run-up to the PDP primaries endorsed the aspirations of David Edebvie, an Urhobo over Sheriff Oborevwori. The legal challenge bordering on alleged discrepancies in his academic credentials may well go all the way to the Supreme Court.   The Okowa factor Could Governor Okowa’s  support of Oborevwori be in keeping with his promise to ensure equity, fairness and justice for all segments of society or out of enlightened self interest? An aide, who pleaded anonymity, admitted that while his ethnicity may have been a factor in his emergence, Oborevwori’s loyalty and popularity within the party, was the clincher.   I have no regret working with Makinde – Olaniyan     Police rescue three scavengers from mob justice over alleged…     Three siblings found dead inside parked car in Lagos   His words, “The fact that he comes from a region in Delta Central that have not produced a governor before now may have contributed to his emergence…..but I am sure Gov Okowa has studied him for sometimes now having worked with him in the last five years. He has supported the governor to a great extent. It was easy for Okowa to make the choice. Besides, talking about loyalty, about someone who will continue his vision and projects….A lot of Okowa’s supporters like him. He is friendly and not elitist like his opponent.” Despite his immense popularity, Oborevwori faces many hurdles. Presently, two suits at the Federal High Court, Asaba over alleged discrepancies in his academic credentials submitted to INEC are pending. The presiding judge, Justice F.A Olubanjo, last week, recused herself from the governorship litigation involving Sheriff Oborevwori, citing personal reasons. The matter billed for ruling 27th May, was referred back to the Chief Judge, Federal High Court, Abuja for reassignment. Both cases marked FHC/ASB/CS/78/2022 and FHC/ASB/CS/79/2022, has Engr. Ojei Victor Obianuju, as plaintiff and Sheriff Oborevwori, PDP and INEC as defendants.   Omo-Agege Senator Ovie Omo-Agege is no less formidable. He is a lawyer, businessman and astute politician. He is the Deputy Senate President and an APC lawmaker representing Delta Central Senatorial District at the NASS. He came to political limelight in 2002 when he contested and lost the PDP House of Representatives primaries for Udu/ Ughelli Federal Constituency. Omo-Agege was appointed Executive Assistant to Gov James Ibori in 2003-2005 and was Commissioner, Special Duties 2005-2007 under ex-Gov James Ibori. He was Secretary to Delta State government in 2007, a position he resigned from to contest the Delta governorship election against ex-Gov Emmanuel Uduaghan, in 2007 and 2011 Omo-Agege is a combative and battle hardened politician with a large support base amongst the Urhobos in Delta Central Senatorial District. In 2014, he clinched the All Progressive Congress (APC) ticket in Delta Central Senatorial District, which he subsequently won. With strong structures across the State having participated in two governorship elections, Omo-Agege is poised to provide true contest to the PDP in the 2023 Delta State governorship elections. Shortly after clinching the APC ticket, Omo-Agege acknowledged that wresting power from the PDP is not going to be a stroll in the park, remarking that dislodging PDP will not be a tea party and urged unity amongst a factionalized party. His words, “I come for peace; I come to unite Delta State, because we are all Deltans before we are APC or PDP. We say enough is enough! Moving forward, we know it is not going to be a tea party by any means.So, it needs all hands to be on deck to meet the challenges. The people of Delta are tired; they know the PDP-led government in the State has failed.” Political observers opine that the 2023 Delta governorship election will be a battle of wits between ex-Gov James Ibori and Gov Ifeanyi Okowa. Following the loss suffered by his ally David Edebvie during the PDP primaries, some analysts believe Ibori may join forces with the APC to wrest power from the PDP in a bid to spite Okowa. They believe Ibori can leverage on his relationship with Omo-Agege, who cut his teeth under Ibori, to political stardom. Dr. Hyke  Odikpo, a public affair analyst, believes the APC can spring a surprise despite the fact that the PDP has been in the saddle for about 23 years. He said the PDP in Delta State was not well loved but clung to power through massive rigging, adding that with the introduction of bi-modal authentication system rigging will be minimised resulting in a fair, transparent contest. He said while the PDP governorship candidate will be bogged down with the many legal challenges to his eligibility, the APC candidate has no such problems. His words, ” With the series of pending court cases over discrepancies in his academic credentials, it seems a bit of a clog if we take a cue from the last governorship election in Bayelsa State. But going into an election is not only about personality. The party with the more entrenched structures will have the edge. The PDP has stronger structures. PDP has rooted structures having been in power for 23 years. But PDP is not popular with the masses and have only won elections through rigging. The use of the BIVAS by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will minimise rigging and the party will be exposed.” Continuing,  “In the last three years, a lot of people have moved to APC. The party realising it has weaker structures have gone on a recruitment drive and can spring a nasty surprise in 2023”. The Delta governorship election will be full of intrigue, violence and high-powered politicking as both candidates make the final push for the ultimate goal: securing the governorship position in 2023.