Eleven years after the privatisation of the power sector, the hydra headed problems of electricity in the country remain unabated. From 1999 to date, over N6 trillion combined has been spent by various administrations on power improvement, yet, there is very little to show for it, MUYIWA LUCAS and JOHN OFIKHENUA write. Alloysius Iheanacho, Chief Executive Officer, Sahara chicken and Royale International Limited, a hospitality outfit in Akute, Ogun State, is worried over the continued parlous state of electricity supply in the country. His worries stem from the crippling effect the commodity is having on his business. According to him, with the poor state of electricity supply in Akute, Ifo Local Government Area of Ogun State, he has had to incur higher cost in providing alternative source of power for his hospitality business. The development, he lamented, has further been compounded with the rising cost of diesel to power his business outfit. For instance, over the last five months, Iheanacho watched helplessly as the cost of diesel rose from a moderate price of N170 per litre to N820 per litre. He said: “It is a difficult situation and we are running at a loss presently. I wonder when we will have an improved or steady electricity supply in this country.” For those wondering like Iheanacho, a silver lining last week appeared on the horizon. The Chairman, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Sanusi Garba, raised Nigerians hopes for an improved power supply when he disclosed that Nigerians will begin to enjoy improved power supply from July 1. He based his submission on what he called “renewed efforts by industry stakeholders”. These “renewed efforts” Garba explained to be that NERC had facilitated a contractual agreement between the Gencos, TCN and the 11 DisCos that would guarantee the generation, transmission and distribution of an average of 5,000MW of electricity daily to customers effective July 1.” But for several Nigerians and electricity consumers, Garba’s assurance may not hold water as it is seen as another empty promise from government. This is because notwithstanding the several efforts of government in times past and at present, there is nothing really impressive to show for it. For instance, between 1999 and 2021, government was said to have spent over N5.6 trillion on power, but the country has still remained in darkness. Although the country was said to have generated nearly 36.4 gigawatt hours of electricity last year up from around 35.7 gigawatt hours in the previous year, the situation is on the decline this year.   Challenges Regrettably, 20 years after the 40, 000MW target, the power sector is bedevilled with several challenges. Even the target of the government’s Economic Growth and Recovery Plan to deliver at least 10,000 MW of operational capacity by 2020 did not materialise. The crumbling transmission network, marred by distribution losses has weakened the electricity value chain. It has also hindered the maximum operations of Generation and Distribution companies. The World Bank blames the inability to meet the target on the absence of an accountability framework. Regardless, the Nigerian government has spent more than One major concern is the state of power infrastructure. Reports alleged that the national electricity grid has collapsed more than 200 times in the last nine years, resulting in widespread blackouts.  This year alone, the grid has collapsed more five times. Factors responsible for this are said to include poor utility performance, theft of grid equipment, weather, gas supply, insufficient funding and the age of grid infrastructure. The electricity grid is a network of generation companies (GenCos), distribution companies (DisCos) and the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). The Federal Government is solely responsible for transmission of electricity generated by the GENCOS to the DisCos at a standardised voltage of 330kV and 132kV. Technically, the grid trips off like a circuit breaker in the face of excess load. This is where the nation’s weak and obsolete transmission line has remained one of the drawbacks in the power production chain. Multilateral donor agencies multi – billion dollars intervention seem to have gone down the drain for higher propensity of outages. The Nigerian Consumer Protection Network, President, Barrister Kunle Olubiyo a power sector advocate, who is opposed to the management of power sector fund, especially in the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) argued that the finances are mismanaged in the procurement process.  According to him, the fund that the Federal Government releases for grid expansion and reinforcement are being misapplied. Olubiyo told The Nation : “It is a re-curing decimal of weakness of the grid, obsolescence and decadence of infrastructure  and absence of system protective devices. If generation is low beyond the capacity of the threshold that is supposed to be taken: lower string of generation can all result in grid collapse. It is a collapse that is one too many. The issue is not lack of funds; it is more of misplaced priority and misapplication of funds. Our emphasis should have been on how to improve on technical investment of the grid and not application of high capacity transformers that will be a quick win. We have so many generations that are being stranded. We have many of these transformers that are to put money in individual’s pockets. But the grid itself is obsolete and needs to be tidied up. There is no way you have equipment you don’t service. If you have a generator you don’t service after sometimes your current will be low, it’s not because government is not releasing money, but we are not getting our priorities right. And for as long as we remain in that vicious circle, we will continue to have these issues of collapses.” But for the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, the national grid collapse that brought the energy generation in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) to the abysmal low level and nationwide outage can be blamed on factors including vandalism of gas pipelines, power lines and other equipment. “On the recent collapse of the national power grid, a lot of factors caused the repeated crashes in the electricity system. The causes of the incessant grid collapses; include the vandalism of gas pipelines, power lines and other equipment, also inadequate water levels had also contributed to the disturbances to the national grid,” he explained.   Capacity / Performance According to Kayode Oyedele, a public affairs analyst, between late February and this month, electricity generation has been erratic, primarily due to low rainfall feeding Nigeria’s major hydropower plants. He noted that there had been shortage of gas supply to power thermal gas plants. This is due to gas pipeline vandals and supply chain issues, including the fire outbreak at Egbin power plant. Aliyu added: “Both Kainji and Jebba hydropower plants with combined capacity of about 1,300MW, were producing only 130MW to the national grid. We are just coming into the rainy season and the dams need flood and if we don’t have flood the water level will go down. Once the water goes down, it doesn’t have that energy to turn the turbines. “Let me give you an example. Kainji and Jebba (hydropower plants) have installed capacity of over 1,000MW. Kainji has 700MW+, while Jebba has 500MW to 600MW. “But right now, Kainji is only giving us 50MW to the grid because of some forced maintenance. Only one unit out of eight units is working in Kainji. So also is Jebba, which is giving us only 80MW, which has an installed capacity of close to 600MW.” According to the minister, the  Presidential Power Initiative (PPI) is one of the key initiatives of President Muhammadu Buhari in partnership with Siemens and German government to improve and upgrade the power value chain so that Nigerians can enjoy stable electricity. A look at the system performance since the previous Sunday when the system collapsed and its marginal restoration gives an insight to where the problem actually lies and the solution. The Nigerian Electricity System Operator (SO) of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) sent out 78,202.37 MWh on June 15, 2022 to the 11 electricity distribution companies (DisCos). The output rose marginally from the 66,398.84MWh (2,766.5MW) and the 67,790.10MWh (2,833.08MWh) that was sent out on June 13, 2022 and June 12, 2022 . Similarly, lowest energy generated  on June 14, 2022 was 2,973.2 MW, rising marginally from 9Mw on June 12, 2022 to 1,490Mw on June 13, 2022. The SO stated this in its Operation Report of June 15, 2022. The report noted that onJune  14, 2022 peak generation was 3,497.1Mw, while energy generated was 79039Mw, which is an average of 3,293.3Mw.     Forces against manufacturing     Lagos CJ bars magistrates from indiscriminate arrest, search…     Naira hovers at N606 per dollar   Govt in TCN The continued ownership and running of the TCN by government has not come under scrutiny. TCN is managed by the government. According to a 2019 White Paper report by PwC, the TCN continues to incur losses due to deteriorating collections from DISCOs. Specifically, the report states that TCN recorded net losses of N107 billion  from 2011 to 2014. Still, between 2015 and 2020, the Federal Government allocated N141,660,144,289 to TCN. Apart from budgetary allocations, TCN also received funding and loans for capital projects from donors and international organisations such as the World Bank. In 2018, the International Development Association (IDA) also approved a $404 million facility to strengthen the country’s transmission network capacity. Given these funding and others to TCN, should it be surprising that the DisCos have continued to blame TCN for the erratic power supply even as the the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED) also alleged that TCN had not recorded an improvement in the energy generated and wheeled since 2015? In its 2020 second-quarter report, ANED did not spare the TCN when it noted that “uncertainty over wheeling capacity from TCN continues to hurt performance and improvement plans of DISCOs.” It is worthy of note that the Federal Government still owns the TCN 100 while the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), which the Federal, States and Local Government Areas jointly own is vibrant and formidable in its operations. It was incorporated to manage the power projects dubbed “National Integrated Power Projects.” Today, it has executed and completed several projects in gas, generation, transmission and distribution chain of the industry. This implies that the NESI can have a recourse to it for a possible solution.   Corruption A source told The Nation that the why the situation may not improve any time soon, another source noted that the company has the largest power generation share in Nigeria from which 10 plants are functional. In Benin-City alone, said the source,  NDPHC has four turbines, but according to a power sector insider, only one of the plants can work because of Azura Power Plant. The source expressed concern that “Azura has taken over the facilities of NDPHC. I don’t know how they worked it out that it is only when Azura has problem that NDPHC will be able to produce. Meanwhile, it is the NDPHC that built the evacuation facilities but I don’t know the kind of arrangement that the Federal Government now  uses to cede NDPHC facilities to Azura. This means that it is only when Azura has a fault that NDPHC will produce from more than one turbine. So, if a company has four facilities and only one can work because the others are ceded to a private company, this kind of thing will continue to happen.” Being a government company, the NDPHC ought to have an edge over the private energy generating firms but the reverse is the case. She noted that the NDPHC can produce an aggregate of 3,000Mw but the other private firms which have a total output of about 2,000Mw are favoured. She said the National Control Centre (NCC), Osogbo prefers wheeling power from the private ones to the government’s NDPHC that produces more. Calling on the NERC and other relevant stakeholders to investigate the anomaly that has permeated the electricity market, she submitted that there is more to it than meets the eye. The source said: “What about pricing? If NDPHC is allowed to work as it should work, it should be able to produce about 3,000Mw. Of all the power plants we have in this country are producing about 2,000Mw right now. And we have a company that can produce more than that. Why is it producing less? It is producing less because there is also what is called favouritism. This is because we also need to bribe people at the National Control Centre (NCC), Osogbo. What happens is that most of those private companies bribe the control centre people so that they can ask them to come up neglecting the poor ones. NDPHC is a government company that has to open its books to the National Assembly. If you are bribing, where do you put it in your subhead? But the private companies can bribe as they are the owners of their companies.” Another source, who condemned the essence of having Nigeria Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) in the payment chain insisted there is no need for an intermediary. Since corrupt practices are the major drawbacks in the sector, superintendents in the industry such as NERC and the National Assembly must quickly investigate the market and apply the necessary solution to quadruple the nation’s power supply.   Going forward Experts say there is the urgent need to optimally generate electricity if the country intends to have steady power supply. This is why there is the urgent need for the TCN to upgrade and increase transformer capacity. The DisCos  are said to be improving their facilities with the aim of taking up more demand from consumers; this is achieved, will reduce the issue of load rejections. Also is the need to improve on revenue collection and wider spread of prepaid meters. Importantly, a modern smart grid would enable data to flow between consumers and electricity retailers. This will enable grid operators to match electricity supply with demand, understand consumer behaviour and plan grid expansion. Whereas the power purchase agreements provide payments for unused power, the NDPHC does not enjoy such leverage. This, according to the power sector critic, inhibits its competitiveness. Her words: “There are idle facilities. If you are not on the grid, you cannot stop your plant from running. It is expensive to bring it back so you have to continue to run it. It is running and you are not collecting money for it. It means it is your own loss. Although the government has agreement with the private GenCos for payment for unutilized power, it does not have it with the NDPHC. All the time that the plants run in that manner is unpaid for.” Yet, experts insist that there should be legislation to allow state governments generate and transmit their own electricity. This presents an opportunity to investors and industries to participate in the energy market. Also, the states or businesses can transmit excess supply to the national grid. Micro-grid projects could also expand to send excess power to the national grid.   Upgrades   Last year, the NERC gave approval to Ikeja Electric (IE) Plc to invest N121.92 billion for infrastructure upgrade across its network within a period of five years and also approved N93.76 billion for Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) to upgrade infrastructure across its network within the same period. I approving this, the regulator said the purpose was to boost power supply and distribution by the electricity distribution companies to their customers. NERC said the funds would be invested on initiatives in the distribution network to upgrade existing network capacity, technological enhancements to reduce outages and acquisition of tools to enhance network performance.   Cankerworm Sabotage is another bane of the power sector. Over the years, both transmission and distribution installations have been at the mercy of vandals. They are suspected to have the backing of a higher syndicate as those without the technical no how, sophisticated equipment and funds cannot attack gas pipelines as recorded recently in Akwa Ibom State. “Another issue is that for no reason people vandalise gas pipeline. If they do so they can’t aggregate the gas but just deliberate sabotage. You can recall what they did in Akwa Ibom. It shows that mighty people are involved,” she said. According to her, consumers and customers in the sector have devised means of compromising their payment systems. Perhaps in connivance with DisCos’ technical staff, they contribute to commercial losses via energy theft. She cited a case of the Eko DisCo, stressing “For instance, Eko DisCo said earlier this week that majority of those who got those prepaid meters have not recharged in six months. If people are are not recharging it means they are bypassing meters. And if you are bypassing meters, it means there is no way DisCos can pay GenCos. And if GenCos don’t have money how would they produce.”