Bandits have kidnapped the wife of a military officer and six others during an attack on Keke ‘A’ and Keke B areas of New Millennium City in Chikun local government area of Kaduna State. The incident, according to residents, started around 11 pm and lasted for an hour before security operatives resisted the gunmen. A resident of the area said three persons were kidnapped by the bandits at Keke ‘A’. According to the source, who is a primary school teacher, the bandits were suspected to have targeted a big house at Keke A in their abduction mission. According to her: “The bandits came around 11 pm. I think their main target was a house at Keke A. The house belongs to a military officer. But at the time of the attack, the officer was not at home. So, the kidnappers broke into the house and picked up his (military officer’s) wife. “They also kidnapped another man who is the immediate neighbour of the military officer. “In fact, the neighbour was picked with his eight-year-old daughter but they eventually dropped the daughter when her mother was shouting at top of her voice.   Borno Assembly screens, clears 19 commissioner nominees     Ripples over 72 missing trafficked children from Taraba…     Fight killer-hersdmen back, Ortom tells Benue residents   “I think it was at the point they started shooting sporadically to scare away people who might think of coming to their aid. “While all that was happening, another man who was just returning home in his car at that time ran into the kidnappers. He was the third person that was taken away.” She also said many people who were still outside, including neighborhood shop operators scampered for safety. A resident of Keke ‘B’ told The Nation he just returned home and was taking his shower when he started hearing gunshots. He however said a man, his wife and their two house girls were kidnapped in Keke ‘B’. “I was so terrified. I just got out of the bathroom abruptly and switched off all the lights inside my house. The gunshots were so close, it was like the bandits were inside my compound. I later discovered one man, his wife and their two house girls were kidnapped,” the resident said. When contacted Kaduna Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) DSP Muhammad Jalige confirmed the incident, saying that, efforts were on to rescue the kidnapped victims. DSP Jalige explained men of the Millennium City Division got a distress call when the bandits struck but were misled to another location by the direction of gunshots from the bandits.