Lionel Messi turned 35 yesterday, which brings him closer to his inevitable retirement ahead of a season wherein he is facing some enormous challenges with Paris Saint-Germain and Argentina. The former Barcelona captain celebrated his birthday in Ibiza, where he is enjoying a family holiday, one which will come to an end shortly, as PSG are facing Nantes on July 31 for the Trophee des Champions. PSG will play their first friendly game on July 20. It will be part of their preseason tour in Japan, where they will face three local teams in the space of five days. Given that Messi signed a two-year deal last summer, this could be PSG’s last opportunity to compete for the Champions League title with the Argentine star in their squad. However, Messi’s most important challenge in the upcoming season will be nothing other than winning the 2022 World Cup in Qatar with Argentina. The Argentine will look to be in top form in November, as well as in March, in his bid to be ready for the World Cup and the Champions League knockout stages, respectively. His fifth World Cup could be his last, as many expect Messi to retire from the national team after this year’s tournament. The next edition will take place in 2026, when Messi would be 39 years old, but no player has ever featured in six World Cups. His first participation was back in 2006, when Argentina were knocked out by Germany.   Milan begin title defence against Udinese     City Football Group to buy Palermo     Ronaldo rules out Old Trafford exit   Messi’s side reached the final in 2014, but they lost to the Germans in Brazil. The PSG forward has registered 19 World Cup appearances and he aspires to break the record of the most games played set by Lothar Matthaus (25). After winning the Copa America in Brazil and the Finalissima against Italy at Wembley, Messi wants to lead Argentina to World Cup glory for the first time in his career. Meanwhile, he has a few more challenges left, such as becoming the World Cup’s top scorer, overtaking Cristiano Ronaldo as the Champions League’s top scorer and winning the major European trophy with PSG. Both Messi and Ronaldo are close to joining the ridiculously exclusive 500 League Goals club, according to the records kept by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics (IFFHS) Heading into the 2022-23 campaign, Messi has 480 club goals to his credit, which puts him 17 goals behind Ronaldo. The 37-year-old Portugal international, with 497 goals, is poised within a hat trick’s width of joining Ferenc Puskas (514 goals), Josef Bican (518), Romario (544) and Pele (604) in the grandest of goal-scoring pantheons. In all competitions, Messi has 787 goals and is only 13 shy of joining Ronaldo (821)  as the only two players in history to have scored 800 or more goals in official matches. At international level, Messi still has some way to go to catch his adversary, having scored 86 goals for Argentina in comparison to Ronaldo’s 117 goals for Portugal — which is the current world record in men’s football. Iran’s Ali Daei (109) is the only other male player to break 100. When it comes to the Ballon d’Or, Messi was the second-oldest player ever to win the award in 2021 aged (34 years, 158 days) and tops the all-time table with seven gongs to his name. Ronaldo is his closest rival (5) on that front in much the same way he trails Messi in the all-time list of European Golden Shoe wins (6 vs. 4.) Given that Ronaldo is two years older than Messi it is unlikely that the former will be able to close the gap before he calls time on his career. That said, Sir Stanley Matthews was 41 years and 320 days old when he won the inaugural Ballon d’Or in 1956, so perhaps there is still time after all!