Is there not some peculiar way in which, not just the Political Science discipline, but also the academic political scientists as its practitioners in particular, are implicated and stand largely condemned by the grossly derelict and decrepit state of post-colonial Nigeria 61 years after what the late Professor Bade Onimode derisively described as the attainment of ‘flag’ or ‘nominal’ independence? For, no matter what our leaders may grandiloquently pronounce as her (perennial?) potential as the fabled ‘giant of Africa’, Nigeria, relative to her population and resource endowment remains, in her abysmal failure, an embarrassment to Africa and the black race. But then, why single out Political Science and its scholarly devotees for special indictment for the sorry state of a country which, one of its brightest minds, the late Professor Chinua Achebe, looking back in part nostalgia to its colonial past, bemoaned the disappearance of a country that once thrived at least to a relative degree of satisfaction before it’s much-vaunted independence? The answer is simple. The discipline’s classical masterminds, Plato and Aristotle, perceived and described, directly or indirectly, Political Science as the ‘Master Science’. Its disciplinary focus is the study of the art and science of the principles of organizing a well-ordered state and deploying its compulsory and over awing power to ensure that all other ‘partial’ associations and groups within its jurisdiction – the professions, economic entities, the arts, culture, academia, sports, culture, etc – exist and flourish. In his immortal ‘Grammar of Politics’, one of my favorite political scientists, Professor Harold Laski, notes at least two senses in which politics, as the art and science of the organization and management of the state as well as deployment of power, constitutes the master, all-encompassing and most critical vocation. First, in one aspect, to Laski, “it becomes an organization for enabling the mass of men to realize social good on the largest possible scale”. Secondly, Laski posits that the state “exists to enable men, at least potentially, to realize the best that is in themselves”. In other words, the justification for the state’s existence, its legitimate monopoly of the machinery of coercion, and the willing submission of the society over which it superintends to its authority is its ability to create and maintain the environmental conditions for the maximization of human potential individually and collectively. In neither of these senses has the Nigerian post-colonial state justified its existence and legitimacy either under dictatorial or, supposedly, democratic rule. The late Professor Billy Dudley, in his Presidential Address at the 1974 Annual Conference of the Nigerian Political Science Association (NPSA), at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, also alluded to the ultimate responsibility of the political organization of the state, impliedly on a democratic basis, as inevitable for the attainment and promotion of the common good of society. In his words, “To return once more to Aristotle, politics is also civic education, an education in the way by which a people, in the words of Oakshott, attend to the arrangement of the society. To deny a people of politics is thus to deny them a civic education. It is, in brief, to deny that man can be human and conversely, to assert that we are but a herd of animals to be shepherded and guarded”. Does the visionless, inept, venal, and democratically denuded character of our politics, a function, largely, of the moral bankruptcy of our political elite across the board, not shorn us as a people of our defining human essence by forcing us to exist vulnerably in an anarchic and amoral society in which life has become the Hobbesian ‘solitary, nasty, brutish and These were some of the central concerns of foremost political scientist and public sector reform advocate, Professor Tunji Olaopa, of the Nigerian Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), at a public lecture  he delivered at the Department of Political Science, the University of Ibadan, on Thursday, June 25, 2015, titled ‘The Legitimacy of Political Science as a Discipline in Nigeria”. Professor Olaopa’s point of departure was a column by the noted political scientist, Professor Ayo Olukotun, in the Punch Newspaper titled: “Elections: where are our political scientists?” It was an article in which Professor Olukotun “lamented not only the glaring invisibility of the Political Scientists in Nigeria on the national conversation about national development and progress but also about the role of public intellectuals in the national discourse.”  Professor Olaopa cited the near moribundity of the Nigerian Political Science Association (NPSA) and the virtual comatose state of its once illustrious journal, ‘Studies in Politics and Society’ to support Olukotun’s contention.   APC primaries and PMB’s legacy     Campaigns, ideas and 2023     PYO’s impact assessment   Incidentally, Professor Olaopa, easily the brightest and best mind in my political science class at the University of Ibadan both at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels, delivered his lecture in honour of Professors Bayo Adekanye and John Ayoade, who had just been appointed as Emeritus Professors by the Premier University. This piece is to commemorate the 80th birthday of one of these star scholars, Professor Adekanye, which is coming painfully and embarrassingly well after the date of the event on August 19, 2021. Then better late than never. The eminent political scientist, diligent researcher, meticulous analyst, and rigorous methodologist has been deservedly widely celebrated by the political science and academic community in Nigeria and beyond for his attaining the 80-year landmark this side of eternity. But again, why celebrate such an accomplished, prolific, and prodigiously productive scholar with a piece that, impliedly, laments the seeming failures of contemporary political science in Nigeria? The reason is that I partly agree with the submission of Professor Olaopa that the discipline of political science, while it remains solid and robust across institutions, is not living up to the standard set by the generation of Professor Adekanye at least in terms of contributions to public discourse on finding enduring solutions to the country’s protracted political problems. The distinguished professor has made indelible contributions particularly in his area of specialization, civil-military relations, conflict containment and resolution as well as peace remediation. I can still picture the young then Dr. Adekanye as he taught us in an undergraduate course titled ‘Insurgency and Counter-Insurgency’ in the early 1980s. It was a course in which we studied, among others, the burgeoning anti-apartheid insurgency in South Africa, the insurgency in Algeria at the end of the Second World War, and the Mau-Mau uprising in Kenya. Who knew at the time that Nigeria would herself have to contend with an insurgent uprising that has lasted for more than a decade? His collection of selected essays published in 2007 and titled ‘Linking Conflict Diagnosis, Conflict Prevention and Conflict Management in Contemporary Africa’ is an invaluable legacy to students and an invaluable resource for policymakers in conflict-ridden and post-conflict challenged societies. Earlier, in 1999, Professor Adekanye published his seminal and prescient book, “The Retired Military as Emergent Power Factor in Nigeria”; a book in which he offered a scholarly and systematic analysis of the growing power and influence of retired military officers in contemporary Nigeria with a specific focus on the second republic and the latter Babangida years. His central contention in this book was that the traditional concept of civil-military relations in Nigeria that portrays a rigid demarcation between the civil society and military realms has become outmoded with the retired military elite becoming a growing cohesive power bloc playing key roles in the economy and other commanding heights of civil society. Surely, the investigations and findings of this work have to be extended by further studies that encompass the last two decades of this dispensation. *This article was first published October 16, 2021