Presidential candidate of Labour Party (LP) Peter Obi on Sunday evening declared 70% of politicians in Nigeria is lunatic. He said mad people have taken over politics and governance in the nation. He spoke at the Men of Valour Conference, organised by the Revival House of International Church (RHOGIC) in Abuja. Speaking at the Conference with the theme: “Navigating the corridors of power: The Church and politics,” Obi said what he described as the current ‘gangsterism’ should not be allowed to continue. He said only a lunatic in government will steal N80 billion of public fund for personal use. He stressed most of the politicians in the corridors of power have no reason to be there, describing politics in Nigeria as a case where lunatics have taken over the asylum. Obi warned unless these “lunatics” are flushed out and competent people voted in, the country will continue to suffer. According to him: “We can’t allow this gangsterism to continue, Nigerians should take back their country. “70 percent of those who are in politics today should not have any reason to be there. I have said it, politics in Nigeria is a case where lunatics have taken over the asylum.   2023: Jack-Rich canvasses indigenous capacity development     Kaduna sacks NUT President, 2,356 teachers after competency…     Kwankwanso won’t be running mate to Peter Obi-NNPP   “This is the only country where the worst is leading. I was a trader and gradually entered into politics. When you take far more than you need you are sick. “How do you explain that one person took N80 billion? It is not greed it is sickness. When you take N1 billion that is greed but when you take N80 billion that is sickness. Mad people have taken over our politics. “If we get young people with the competence and capacity to be there, things will change.” On whether a third force can wrest power from the powerful duo of All Progressive Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party( PDP), the former Anambra Governor said the people will decide. He said it has been a two-horse race for 24 years and nothing has changed as the number of people pushed into extreme poverty has doubled from 60 million to 120 million in 24 years. Obi stated: “It is about the people. When I contested as Governor in Anambra I did so in a small party. People told me that I had no structure. People are the structure. When I was a Governor in Anambra, my party had no state or federal lawmaker. “When I left as Governor no state was financially stable as Anambra. We were not owing anybody. The people will decide who will rule them. Luckily we have eights months, let people come and tell you how they have started. Come and tell us, don’t use people or glossy paper, tell us from your mouth so that we can hold you to account.” The national secretary of the Young Peoples Party( YPP) Hon. Vidiyano Bamaiyi, also said 75 percent of politicians in Nigeria are political bandits. “Political bandits that have taken over Nigeria, most of them have no business being there. Political bandits and brigands have taken over the political space,” he added. On his part, Senator Albert Bassey said only through direct primaries will the country eliminate money politics saying “going forward, Nigerians should vote for candidates and not party.”