The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) and the Institute  of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) have reiterated commitment to deepen their collaboration to further foster the development of the Nigerian capital market. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange, Mr. Temi Popoola, who spoke at the digital closing gong ceremony to mark the completion of Mrs. Comfort Olu Eyitayo’s tenure as the 57th President of ICAN, noted that since its establishment in 1960, ICAN has been producing world-class chartered accountants, as well as regulating, and continuously enhancing their ethical standards and technical competences in the public interest. According to him, the institute is committed to equipping individuals and its members with knowledge and skillset through seminars on economic, tax and other accounting-related issues as part of its proactive efforts to create awareness and raise compliance levels of economic agents to universally accepted standards and statutory regulations. He noted that NGX  was pleased to host Eyitayo who during her tenure, made several impressive achievements which include; leading the rebranding of the Institute with the change of its identity to reflect the new market dynamics; the improvement in the Institute’s digital presence; establishment of the Practical Entrepreneurship Initiative called the ICAN Entrepreneurship Development Centre (EDC) which graduated two streams of participants from the Centre; and collaboration with the Bank of Industry in establishing the ICAN-BOI Innovation Plus Hub.   MTN Nigeria raises N127b short-term capital     Honeywell Group, Flour Mills highlight benefits of merger     Nigeria’s policy environment not conducive for investors,…   NGX CEO pointed out that “As you may be aware, we have recently completed a restructuring from the Nigerian Stock Exchange to Nigerian Exchange Group, and our restructuring has positioned NGX to intensify key initiatives such as; our government advocacy efforts for listed companies such as Tax Incentives among others. “Increase Retail Investor participation in the capital market aimed at building a market for the future and addressing the issue of financial inclusion in the Nigerian capital market; capacity building of market stakeholders through our X-Academy; technology advancement and digital innovation for the capital market; and collaboration with key stakeholders including ICAN to develop and push for disruptive, out of the box ideas that will dimension the next curve for the capital market.” He added that “We are open to collaborating with ICAN for mutually beneficial outcomes. At NGX Group of Companies, we take pride in the caliber of people we employ and continue to encourage continuous professional development. We are privileged to have 19 chartered accountants who work across the group. They are continuously supported with necessary training and development programs.” Eyitayo said it was an honour to have the once in a life time opportunity to execute the closing gong ceremony at the Exchange. “It is indeed very symbolic as this event coincides with my last day in office as the 57th president of the Institute. On behalf of over 57 thousand members of our great Institute, I appreciate this landmark gesture of the Exchange. I wish you more resounding success in years to come,,” Eyitayo said.