Registration for the eNaira hackathon, geared towards providing solutions for the new digital currency, has started. It opened on Monday, and would end on July 21. It is being organised by the African Fintech Foundry (AFF), an innovative hub established to accelerate startups in Africa, in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). A statement by the organisers said the main event, billed for August 4, was part of efforts to drive financial inclusion, facilitate macroeconomic growth and integrate economy to the world-leading economies through innovation and cutting-edge emerging technologies. It, therefore, urged interested participants to visit the eNaira Hackathon to register.   Lagos pays N70m for farmland     Better life for animals     CBN, exporters, importers dominate I&E FX window   With the theme “eNaira – Africa’s gateway to a digital economy”, the hybrid hackathon will bring together entrepreneurs, developers, designers, solution developers, problem-solvers, out-of-the-box thinkers, and code magicians from Africa to develop innovative solutions that will drive improved adoption of the eNaira. Te Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, said: “We cannot deny the fact that the newly introduced CBDC (eNaira) would be necessary in the future to ensure Nigeria is competitive as the world becomes increasingly digital.’’ “We have seen in the past few years how digital currencies have opened international economies to individuals who wield them and how seamless they have made trading, buying, investing and other economic activities. “We desire to achieve this and more with the eNaira with the underlying goal to boost Nigeria’s economic outlook. Innovators at the hackathon will develop solutions in the areas of international remittance, trans-border payment, blockchain, financial inclusion, and trade (AfCTFA),” he added. The statement issued by the organisers said the hackathon will address the strategic points to eliminate possible glitches that could hamper smooth transactions being carried out with the eNaira.