A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Dan Asabe Kakanda, has called on the party’s presidential flag bearer Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to intervene and checkmate a looming crisis in the Adamawa chapter. He said the crisis is allegedly due to the emergence of Senator Aishatu Dahiru Binani as the gubernatorial candidate. Dan Asabe urged Tinubu to institute a process for engaging parties to come together in a roundtable discussion in order resolve any disagreement ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a statement, Dan Asabe stated that some people are conniving to foment trouble claiming there was cheating in the exercise which produced Senator Binani as the flag bearer for APC, reiterating the election was one of the freest, fairest, and most peaceful party primaries ever. While congratulating Tinubu on his recent victory, DanAsabe called for urgent interventions warning that the crisis situation currently being hatched by some elements in the state, would not urgur well for the party both at the gubernatorial and the presidential levels. “As a party stalwart and a stakeholder in Adamawa state, I must confess my joy without bounds on the outcome of the APC gubernatorial primaries. I state clearly that it was one of the freest, fairest, and most peaceful party primaries ever. “The product of that exercise was the Senator Hajia Binani. She was overwhelmingly voted for as the most popular candidate and the choice of the Adamawa people in that contest polling 430 votes against her closest rival, Nuhu Ribadu who polled 288 votes.   Why Ekiti should vote Oyebanji, by Ehinlanwo     APC and the search for running mate     APC primary: Emerhor lauds Tinubu’s tenacity, hardwork   “I wish to reiterate here that our great party, the APC has to put its acts together at this sensitive time and period. “There are already rumours that certain elements in the party are conniving to put wedges and throw spanners in the works already completed by raising unfounded issues of cheating or rigging in that transparent exercise in Adamawa state. “What this entails is that agent provocateurs and disgruntled elements want to begin a crisis situation that would not urgur well for the party both at the gubernatorial and the presidential levels”. The Adamawa-born APC stalwart pointed out that any mistake in Adamawa, home state of the presidential flag bearer of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, would trump up a series of disorder that could snowball into uncomfortable and unfavorable circumstances for APC. “While I am sounding this warning timely to call such elements to order, and to dissuade further fanning of such disastrous ambers, may I call on Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to use his wealth of experience, leadership acumen, and political sagacity to nib this ugly trend in the bud. “He has a duty to call the parties to order by means of a roundtable discussion so as to resolve the matter amicably as an in-house issue. “It would be too early and dangerous to start court cases in a gubernatorial contest which was judged transparent, fair, clear, and which was witnessed by the best seasoned political minds in Adamawa state. “If urgent steps are taken now in the right direction, we may be saving our great party grave situations of likely imminent colossal politico- electoral disaster come 2023” he added.