The importance of affordable and ubiquitous broadband penetration cannot be over-emphasised in economic development. A World Bank report said a 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration would result in between 2.6 per cent and 3.8 per cent growth in gross domestic product (GDP). Realising this, the Federal Government unveiled the Nigeria National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020-2025, with the ambitious targets of delivering data download speeds of about 25 megabits per second (mbps) in urban areas and 10mbps in rural areas. It also targeted covering at least 90 per cent of the population and penetration rate of 70 per cent by the end of the plan’s lifetime. The pursuit of a digital economy informed the Federal Government‘s decision to rename the Federal Ministry of Communications as the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy in October 2019 as well as the unveiling of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) 2020-2030 in November of the same year. As the implementation of the country’s NBP, which started in 2020, subscriptions had declined steadily for months as a result of the Federal Government’s policy on subscriber identity module (SIM)-National Identity Number (NIN) regulation. From a peak point of 45.93 per cent in October 2020, broadband penetration in Nigeria slipped to 39.79per cent in July 2021. Between November 2020 and last October, the service providers had lost a total of 9.9 million broadband subscriptions. Before the ban on new SIM in 2020, the country had been recording a one per cent increase each month, as the mobile network operators continued to push for the deployment of 4G service across the country. Between January and October 2020, broadband connectivity in the country increased by 15.5 million. Growth drivers The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) occupies the driver’s seat in the implementation of the government’s digital economy drive. Its CEO, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, was appointed a member of the 27-member Presidential Council on Digital Economy & e-Government (PCDEeG). His appointment into the Council, chaired by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, is a testament to the leading role the Commission has been playing as the country’s chief telecom regulator in implementing the various digital economy policies of the Federal Government. NDEPS unveiling was followed by the launch, in March, 2020, of the NNBP’s 2020-2025, among several other digital economy policies, one of which is the National Policy for the Promotion of Indigenous Content in the Nigerian Telecommunications Sector (NPPIC). As a justification to the key role of the Commission in the entire spectrum of digital economy drive, the implementation offices for the NNBP and NDESP are placed under the watch of Danbatta, while a lot of regulatory initiatives are being emplaced by the NCC to implement the NDEPS and other related digital economy policies. The Executive Commissioner, Technical Services at NCC, Ubale Maska, was appointed the chairman of the Broadband Implementation Steering Committee (BISC) while the Nigeria Office for Developing the Indigenous Telecoms Sector (NODITS), saddled with implementing the NPPIC, is domiciled within the Commission also. It is being led by a Deputy Director in the Commission, Babagana Digima. Danbatta has put in place the Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 and the Strategic Vision Implementation Plan (SVIP) 2020-President Buhari inaugurated the PCDEeG on June 9, this year with the main purpose of meeting regularly to provide strategies on how the government will continue to take advantage of digital technologies to transform every sector of the economy. The Council is also tasked with the responsibility of ensuring improvement in Nigeria’s ranking on Ease of Doing Business.   We’ll fix Justices’ complaints on work…     Remaining kidnapped railway passengers must be rescued…     Sadio Mane in Munich ahead €41 million move from Liverpool   With the inauguration of the Council, it is expected that far-reaching measures and recommendations shall be made to the Federal Government, from time to time, on how the various challenges affecting the Information Communications Technology (ICT) industry can be tactfully addressed towards ensuring faster growth and reaping the multiplier advantages of the nation’s digital economy. Pantami told the global digital community that Nigeria has been witnessing phenomenal growth in its Information Communication Technology (ICT) industry, thus enabling socio-economic development in Nigeria and across the African continent. Pantami stated this at a tea break hosted by Nigeria on the sidelines of this year’s International Telecommunication Union’s World Telecommunications Development Conference (ITU-WTDC) which was in Kigali, Rwanda. The tea break was attended by senior officials of the ITU, including the Secretary General, Houlin Zhao, representatives and heads of delegations from different countries attending the annual conference. Addressing delegates on behalf of the Minister, Maska said Nigeria had continued to record impressive growth in its ICT sector and acknowledged the support of the ITU in these strides in the sector. ”Nigeria has utilised ICT as a driver of socio-economic development not just for herself, but also for the benefit of the sub-region and continent, given its role as a founding member and strategic sponsor of the West Africa Telecommunications Regulators Assembly (WATRA),” Maska said. Providing latest growth statistics in terms of the telecoms segment of the Nigerian ICT industry, Maska said in the last 20 years, Nigeria has achieved robust growth in its telecoms industry where it went from less than half a million connected telephone lines to over 200 million active mobile lines as at April, 2022. Importantly, the broadband penetration in Nigeria is now 42.79 per cent. ”As a country, we have grown from Second Generation (2G) to 3G, 4G and now the 5G is about to come on board after conducting a globally-acclaimed transparent auction and awards of two 5G licences. Also, the country has implemented vigorous financial inclusion initiatives riding on robust digital infrastructure,” he had said. Maska said many achievements of Nigeria in the area of ICT development have been possible through the successful launch and implementation of policies that foster the use of ICTs across all sectors to enhance a digital economy. As a long-standing member of ITU Council, Maska said Nigeria has been playing remarkable roles in ITU, such as its chairing the World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS); chairing the World Radiocommunications Conference (WRC) 2015; and chairing of ITU Council Standing Committee on Administration and Management (SC-ADM) from 2019 and 2022. He said Nigeria has also chaired the Ad-hoc Committee on ITU Regional Presence, served as chair and vice chair of several study groups; and provided financial support to the ITU headquarters. Maska assured the participants that Nigeria hopes to have the privilege and honour to continue to serve in the forthcoming ITU Council cycle (2022-2026). While commending the government of Rwanda for hosting this year’s conference on behalf of the African continent, Zhao extolled Nigeria’s role and contributions as a member of ITU Council. He used the opportunity to seek the support of the other member countries for Nigeria’s membership in the next cycle, 2022-2026. Maska, who participated as a panelist at the Partner2Connect Development Roundtable High Level Panel 8, which took place on Wednesday, appreciated the ITU officials and delegates from other countries for honouring Nigeria’s invitation to the tea break to have important deliberations at the development conference. Focused on “Connecting the unconnected to achieve sustainable development”, WTDC is a unique opportunity to develop innovative approaches and new models of collaboration for connectivity and digital solutions in this final ‘Decade of Action’ to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The WTDC, which took place in Kigali, Rwanda, from June 6 to 16, this year, featured the Partner2Connect Digital Development Roundtable earlier.  It was preceded by the Generation Connect Global Youth Summit from June 2 to 4. The ITU, through its Telecommunication Development Bureau (BDT), organises the WTDC in the period between two Plenipotentiary Conferences (the supreme organ of ITU which takes place every four years), to consider topics, projects and programmes relevant to telecommunication development. The WTDC sets the strategies and objectives for the development of telecommunication and ICT, and provides future direction and guidance to the ITU Telecommunication Development Sector (ITU-D).