The Lagos State Government is working with the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for the construction of a cargo airport at the Lekki Free Trade Zone. The state Head of Investment, Private-Public Partnership (PPP), Mr. Akinyemi Olajuwon  stated this yesterday on the sidelines of the Miami-Dade County Mission  Business  Meeting organised by FAAN in Lagos. The Miami – Dade Mission Business delegation is the largest trade mission to Africa seeking partnerships in transportation, trade and industry, aviation , culture and tourism as well as maritime sectors. Before coming to Nigeria, the delegation had visited Morocco, Ghana and Kenya to explore government to business relationships on how to deepen bilateral ties for the growth of emerging economies. Describing the visit to Africa as historic, the delegation said exchange of information between the team and African countries will offer opportunities to examine commonalities in infrastructure, bilateral ties and investment dialogue to extend economic footprints on the continent. Olajuwon noted that though the cargo airport is still on ground level, as the state government is doing a feasibility study to woo prospective investors and organisations seeking buy- in into the project. He said: “We are partnering the FAAN that oversees aviation development to ensure we achieve this project in no distant time. “The cargo airport falls under the purview of the exclusive list of the federal government, so we need FAAN to guide us through the process.”   We’ll fix Justices’ complaints on work…     Remaining kidnapped railway passengers must be rescued…     Sadio Mane in Munich ahead €41 million move from Liverpool   The state government is under the concurrent list. That’s the position for now. “We are at a level where FAAN has been carried along. We need massive collaborations as the state government cannot do it. At the end of the day, it is going to be a PPP project.” Speaking at the meeting, the Managing Director, FAAN, Capt Hamisu Rabiu Yadudu, described it as an opportunity for collaboration and growth. Yadudu spoke through the Director of Finance and Accounts, Mrs Nike Abodurin, who noted that the airport authority is excited to be associated with any  initiative that would boost its drive for the harnessing of its aeronautical and non – aeronautical sources of revenue. She said: “As an authority, we are excited to deepen conversations with organisations that would further our drive to optimize avenues for expansion. This meeting provides another avenue for interaction with organizations that could trigger partnerships, and possible signing of memorandum of understanding and technology transfer. We welcome ideas that will push for how to deepen our sources of revenue.” Leader of the Mission’s delegation, Jean Monestime said the team has offered an open invitation to the Nigerian government and its agencies to visit Miami-Dade for investment opportunities to drive business growth. He urged FAAN’s team to visit the airport in Miami-Dade to explore opportunities for cargo and passenger throw put. He said the team would explore market access opportunities to drive direct flight services between Miami and Lagos. He called for improvement of customer services at the airports in order to attract visitors and would be investors.