The wife of a military officer and six other persons have been abducted in Kaduna. The attack place yesterday in the Keke ‘A’ and Keke B areas of New Millennium City in Chikun council. The gunmen came around 11pm and left about an hour later with the captives. A resident of the area said three persons were kidnapped by the bandits at Keke ‘A’. “The bandits came around 11pm. I think their main target was a house at Keke A. The house belongs to a military officer. But at the time of the attack, the officer was not at home. So, the kidnappers broke into the house and picked his wife. “They also kidnapped another man, a neighbour of the military officer. In fact, the neighbour was picked alongside his eight-year old daughter, but they eventually dropped the daughter when her mother was shouting on top on her voice. “While, all that was happening, another man who was just returning home in his car at that time ran into the kidnappers. He was the third person that was taken away,” the source said. She also said that, many people who were still outside including neighborhood shops operators escaped the bandits, as they had to run to safety. “As at this morning, we saw many shoes on the ground and we became scared that, those must be the shoes of the people kidnapped. But, one of the people who escaped the attack told us the shoes belong to those who ran away.”   Bandits demand N150m to free Plateau monarch     Army intercepts carload of explosives in Cross River     Court orders Mompha’s arrest in N6b laundering suit   A resident of Keke ‘B’, told our Correspondent that, he just returned home  and was taking his shower when he started hearing gunshots. He however said that, a man, his wife and their two house girls were kidnapped in Keke ‘B’. Police spokesman Muhammad Jalige confirmed the incident, saying that efforts were on to rescue the kidnapped victims. Gunmen yesterday abducted a retired Chief Pharmacist with the Ekiti State Ministry of Health, Mr Israel Bamisaye in Orin-Ekiti, Ido/Osi local government areas of the state. Bamisaye was reportedly kidnapped by seven gunmen from his farm. A community source told our reporter that the  former Chief pharmacist was kidnapped around 4pm while working on his farm. The source said: “The man was asked about the whereabouts of the white men working at the farm settlement, but he replied that he didn’t know where they were. “They ordered him to lie face down. They ransacked his car that was parked nearby and took away a sum of N4,500 they found inside the vehicle. Police spokesman Sunday Abutu, could not be reached to confirm the incident. But the Commander, Ekiti State Amotekun Corps, Brig Gen Joe Akomolafe, confirmed the incident.