Nigerian musicians recently stormed the Opebi branch of Access Bank Plc to demand payment of their funds from the Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) account with the bank. This is coming following the directive of Justice Yellin S. Bogoro of the Federal High Court, Lagos, to immediately unfreeze the bank accounts of COSON at the bank and to pay N70 million in damages for unlawful freezing of accounts. Led by the chairman of COSON, Tony Okoroji, musicians like Righteousman, Kenny Saint Brown, Koffi Da Guru, King Wadada, and Candy Sea took turns to sing and demand their money. It was also gathered that written instructions given to the bank by COSON to pay earned specific royalties to several musicians have also been disobeyed by the bank.   Adeyemi launches book     Saidi Balogun emerges president TGMAAN     How mom’s death influenced my music –Youngwiz Global   Speaking on the development, COSON Chairman, Chief Tony Okoroji, said “That this is happening in a supposed democracy, is crazy! We have been patient with Access Bank, and very patient. They seem to have a corporate culture of never keeping to their word. You have meetings with them, and reach agreements, but by the time you leave, the agreements have changed. For almost four years, for no justifiable reason, they have traded with the money belonging to their customer at no cost and inflicted untold hardship on our members, their loyal customers. Two Federal High Court Judges have delivered clear judgments requiring Access Bank to release the funds of their customer who has not borrowed any money from them and is not owing them one naira and they have chosen to disobey the orders of the court. “Rather than pay us our money, they use our money to hire expensive lawyers who come to court, file incoherent motions, and make juvenile arguments to hold on tenaciously to money belonging to an Access Bank customer. They acquire luxury estates in Banana Island and their customers whose funds they have brazenly ceased, die in penury. This is what banking seems to have turned into in Nigeria and many Nigerians are going through this hell. “Can you imagine that a member of the Access Bank staff told me that they can use court processes to hold us down for 25 years and that by the time they are done, our money will no longer have any value and most of the people who are involved would have died? Somebody should tell Access Bank that we are not playing their game anymore! We are not going to wait for 25 years. We will not wait for 25 months or 25 weeks or 25 days. This appears to be what they do to many of their innocent customers.”