President Muhammadu Buhari has joined family and friends of former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (Rtd), on behalf of Nigerians, to celebrate him at 80. The President, who acknowledged the sacrifices and contributions of the former Nigerian leader, especially in entrenching democratic values and culture, noted that Nigeria owes him a debt of gratitude for always putting the interest of the country first. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, Buhari lauded Abubakar for staying humble, despite his achievements and the historic roles he has played to sustain the unity and peace of the country. “On behalf of the government and his family, President Muhammadu Buhari sends warm felicitations to Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, former Head of State and Chairman of the National Peace Committee, on his 80th birthday, June 13, 2022.   APC Yobe aggrieved aspirants threaten court action     Pastor to members: no PVCs, no assistance, scholarship     JUST IN: Gunmen abduct Anglican Bishop, wife, driver in Oyo   “The President joins family members, friends and associates of the former Head of State in celebrating the milestone, taking into full cognisance the historic roles he has played in the unity and peace of Nigeria, and in laying the building blocks of democracy. “The President notes the meritorious service of the former Chief of Defence Staff, sacrificing for the country and African continent by participating in peace missions and negotiating for the upholding of democracy across the continent. “President Buhari extols the humility and humanity of the Army General, who chose the noble path by ensuring transition to democratic government in 1999, and midwifed a peaceful handover process in 2015. “On his 80th birthday, the President believes the nation owes Gen. Abubakar debt of gratitude for always putting the interest of the country and its citizens first, and working for the greater good of Nigeria and a better Africa. “President Buhari prays that the Almighty God will continually bless the former Head of State with good health, strength and wisdom,” the statement reads.