A coalition of Observers that monitored the just concluded governorship election in Ekiti has asked the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate Segun Oni and other candidates to accept defeat in good faith. The coalition specifically appealed to Oni who had threatened to challenge the outcome of the poll, to embrace the winner and All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate, Biodun Oyebanji in the overall interest of peace and development. A communique in Ado Ekiti, the state capital on Tuesday by the leader of the Coalition, Com. Victor Kalu, adjudged the election free, fair and credible, noting that the exercise adhered strictly to the best international practices. While commending the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission for their exceptional display of neutrality and professionalism during the election, Kalu said the duo performed their jobs without fear or favour. Kalu said: “We, the accredited civil society election observers for the just concluded Ekiti Governorship election, therefore, adjudge the election to be free, fair, credible, and transparent.   Oyo Reps member Shina Peller joins Accord Party     Ekiti election: Another Buhari legacy on credible poll…     Ekiti Election: Lawan congratulates Oyebanji   “The exercise met the required international standard for a credible democratic election. The result should therefore be accepted by all as a true reflection of the will of Ekiti people. “Since INEC had announced a clear winner, the rest of the candidates should see themselves as co-winners and toe the path of peace by congratulating the clear winner for the good and progress of the state”. Saluting the INEC and security agencies for displaying professionalism, Kalu said: “We observed during monitoring that the security agencies and INEC were duty conscious and performed their jobs dispassionately without fear or favour. “They indeed saw the election duty as a national assignment and acted accordingly. “To improve our electoral process, INEC and political parties and other stakeholders especially the civil society groups should engage in civil voter education and mobilisation before election and encourage impressive voter participation during elections”.