Youths in Kaduna State, under the aegis of Save Southern Kaduna Group, have appealed to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate Isah Ashiru Kudan to choose his running mate from among the youths. The group argued that there are “credible and competent” individuals among the youths, who can contribute immensely to the development of the State. In a communique by its Director General, Mr. Istifanus Audu the group noted that choosing one of the young ones as a running mate to the PDP candidate will enhance the chances of the party in the 2023 election. According to the communique which was issued at the end of an emergency meeting the group”condemn in strongest terms, obvious schemes by the forces behind the independent will of Rt. Hon. Isah Ashiru Kudan to impose a good man whose age is highly not suitable in the preparation for our agenda for the governorship election. “It is crystal clear that we have credible and competent individuals within the youth demography to be running mate for the PDP Candidate. Youths who have proven themselves nationally in democratic governance, knowledge and social consciousness. Qualities that have enhanced their ability to hold any suitable political position. “However, the ability to utilize these assets effectively to drive PDP chances in the 2023 gubernatorial and Presidential victories is being overlooked. “We therefore call on all Southern Kaduna voters and true lovers of democracy, as a sacred obligation, to appeal to Rt.Hon. Isah Ashiru Kudan, our PDP Candidate, while we firmly reiterate our stance on the Principle of Zoning and power balance regarding the issue of an old or young running mate.   Man arrested for raping 75- year- old woman in Anambra     ‘Tinubu’s emergence guarantees victory for APC in…     Bishops sue for peace ahead of Osun Gov election   “We state this based on the fact that majority of our voters prefer that someone below the age of 60 years be considered for that supportive office as premised. “As representatives of our people from Kaduna South , Chikun, Kajuru, Kagarko, Kachia, Jaba, Zango, Jama’a, Sanga, Kaura, Kauru and Lere with over 1.5 million votes, unequivocally and fundamentally request that our political demography be re-considered for the office of the running mate in preparation for the office of the governor after eight years of your supposed administration of two terms”. The group added: “Truth be told, the choice of Dr John Ayuba is indeed a signal that Southern Kaduna voters are considered valuable by the PDP and Rt. Hon. Ashiru Kudan for the victory in 2023. However, all this hope could be jettisoned due to the lack of fairness, equity and justice to the youth. “We therefore refuse to allow unhealthy interference divide our unity in Southern Kaduna. Dr. John Ayuba is considered one of our finest elders and also a mentor for many young politicians. It is on this note that we appeal to Rt. Hon. Ashiru Kudan to, by use of diplomatic persuasion and honest disposition, kindly appeal to Dr John Ayuba to voluntarily withdraw or resign his nomination to give room to accommodate someone from our demography. “We want Rt. Hon. Isah Ashiru Kudan to know that our resolution to work and support his aspiration will increase without stress or reconsidering another candidate from another alternative political party who might be willing to offer such an opportunity to our demography. “In conclusion, we want to reaffirm our total commitment to the PDP as she remains the traditional party of our parents, a better place of negotiation, and a place we can enhance our democratic development”.