1. Ousmane Dembele – Chelsea are reported to have taken the lead in the race to sign impending free agent Dembele from Barcelona and he could even become the first signing of the Todd Boehly era at Stamford Bridge. Chelsea are quietly confident of capitalising on the uncertainty surrounding Dembele’s future by making an agreement to take him to Stamford Bridge. Chelsea intend to re-open talks with Barcelona forward, providing he is still available once the club’s takeover has concluded 2. Josko Gvardiol – RB Leipzig are battling to retain Gvardiol amid mounting interest from England, led by Chelsea and Tottenham Chelsea have drawn up an eight-man list of defenders, including Sevilla’s Jules Kounde and Leipzig’s Gvardiol, in a bid to move as quickly as possible to solve the club’s centre-back crisis once the Todd Boehly-led takeover goes through. 3. Raheem Sterling – Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid are all in the market for Manchester City striker Sterling, whose contract expires in the summer of 2023. 4. Marc Cucurella – Chelsea must pay at least £45m to win the race for Brighton defender Cucurella and will have to see off competition from Manchester City and Tottenham to land the Spanish left-back. 5. Richarlison – Richarlison has told Everton he wants to leave the club this summer and move in a £65m transfer to either Chelsea, Paris Saint-Germain or Real Madrid (The Sun, June 9); Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham are interested in Everton forward Richarlison, who has admitted he is considering his future on Merseyside.   WAFU B U17: Golden Eaglets  through to  2023 AFCON     Beach Soccer : Sand Eagles know  AFCON qualifying foes…     Police raid Napoli, Lille over Osimhen’s deal   6. Jules Kounde – The Sevilla defender is stepping up his efforts to become part of Todd Boehly’s revolution at Chelsea and will be ready to step straight into a new-look defence under Thomas Tuchel, His Plans are in place to make Sevilla defender Kounde one of Chelsea’s first signings once their takeover of the club is complete Kounde was blocked from a move to Chelsea last summer but he remains their top defensive target ahead of a summer of change in London. Gleison Bremer – Leicester and Chelsea are fighting it out for £40m rated Torino centre-back Bremer 7. Aurelien Tchouameni – Chelsea have fallen behind Real Madrid and Liverpool in the race for the Monaco midfielder Two thunderous goals from Tchouameni for Monaco against Lille could have done his hopes of a big-money transfer some good, with reports that scouts from Manchester United, Chelsea and Real Madrid were all in attendance. 8. Christopher Nkunku – Chelsea have been dealt a huge blow in their quest for Nkunku as RB Leipzig have no intention of parting ways with the player this summer. 9. Sergino Dest – Chelsea are ready to renew their interest in Barcelona full-back Dest and could use the Catalan club’s interest in Marcos Alonso and Cesar Azpilicueta to get a deal over the line as they will need to make significant room for those players on their wage bill. 10. Wesley Fofana – Leicester City are attempting to fend off interest from Manchester United and Chelsea in their centre-back Fofana.