To combat the shortage of skilled workers, private organisations are grooming young Nigerians to fill job vacancies. One of the areas is the built sector were professionals expect good pay in return for physically-challenging work. The President, Universal Learn Direct Academia (ULDA), Chief Olawumi Gasper, said Nigeria had been hit by skills shortage, adding that this was threatening the economy. According to him, skills shortages are a result of the industry’s failure to invest in the future, noting that only significant investment would unlock the talent that the economy needed to succeed. Gasper said not having enough trained personnel was becoming a problem, especially in building and services. He said to solve the problem, it was partnering the Germany firm Grohe. Co-founder, ULDA, Gbola Oba, said the organisation souhgt to inspire young people to develop a passion for skills and pursuing excellence through global training standards, and enhance industry engagement. He said Grohe was a leading brand for bathroom solutions and kitchen fittings. Oba said: “Skills sell anywhere in the world. One of the major problems in Lagos is the low quality of jobs by plumbers in homes. The richest plumber I know in Nigeria went to Germany as an economic immigrant from Lagos. When he got there because he was barely literate, he was fortunate to be trained in basic plumbing and he is a multi-millionaire in Nigeria because he earned the skill, which is what Grope is bringing to Nigeria.”   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Hollandia excites Northern market     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   He said the partnership was part of Grohe’s efforts to address the shortage of skilled installers, adding that the company has set up a facility where students could benefit from the brand’s vast expertise. The Dean of School, ULDA, Babatunde Faleye, said raising productivity was the only viable route for Nigeria, if the construction industry is to up the ante of its game. Given the shortage of skilled installers in the sanitary industry, he said the company launched its “Grohe Installer Vocational Training and Education” (GIVE) Programme at ULDA at Mafoluku, Oshodi to help young generation of plumbers build the foundation for a prosperous future. Leader, GIVE Programme, Lixil Emena, Christopher Penney, noted that the programme’s curriculum is practical-oriented. He said: “This will ensure that they are capable of installing and maintaining our expanding product range before they embark on their future careers in the plumbing industry.” He added: “It gives me great pleasure to see our GIVE Programme in operation in Nigeria – a testament to our commitment to countervail the shortage of skilled installers in the sanitary industry while also giving back to society and offering young people an exciting start to their careers.” According to him, GIVE follows a uniformed approach with modern equipment, training material and an examination that will set new industry standards. Leader, Lixil Emena, Renu Misra, reiterated that the company was committed to making a positive impact on plumbing industries around the world, including Nigeria hence, the development of its programme, to  share knowledge in sanitary and bathroom solutions. “Besides initiatives like ‘Lixil goes Zero’ and ‘Less Plastic,’ where we advocate resource conservation and sustainable consumption, the social dimension is an integral part of our sustainability strategy. As the programme’s name implies, giving back to society is vital for us at Grohe,” he said. As part of its programme, the bathroom and kitchen fittings manufacturer has said 12 new facilities have been opened this year, with a centre in Accra, Ghana, where, over 75 students recently started their training, supported by five teachers who will guide them through the curriculum, thereby enabling an easier start to a more prosperous vocation and lifestyle. Additional GIVE training centres in West Africa are being planned in Nigeria, Cameroon, Benin, Togo, and Ivory Coast. For several years, Grohe has also been committed to supporting young people from underdeveloped countries and collaborates with strong partners such as the German non-governmental organisation Don Bosco Mondo, by offering educational opportunities and career prospects. Inspired by its success, the company is working on cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages International. The first school of this project will be located in Benin Republic.