Governors are taking drastic measures to battle worsening insecurity in their states. Terrorists, bandits and other categories of criminals are unrelenting in their nefarious activities. To stem the tide, Governor Bello Matawalle gave the directive to Zamfara residents to obtain guns and defend themselves against invading insurgents who threaten their peace and tranquillity. He also mandated security agents to shoot motorcyclists on sight to remind them that the ban on commercial use of motorcycles is still in force. Some Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) gave their support to the Zamfara governor’s action, but retired Assistant Inspector-General (AIG) police Hakeem Odumosu described it as a recipe for more crisis. In Ondo State, as a follow-up to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s order for the installation of Closed-Circuit Television (CCTVs) in public and private institutions, including schools, churches and mosques, the House of Assembly has unfolded plans to tighten the law setting up the security outfit, Amotekun. On June 5, terrorists invaded Owo, killing 40 worshipers in St. Francis Catholic Church. Sixty-one others were injured. In Oyo State, Governor Seyi Makinde ordered the recruitment of another 500 operatives to strengthen Amotekun. Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma issued a 10-day ultimatum to bandits to embrace amnesty or face bombardment. Two weeks ago, Akeredolu, while speaking on the security situation in the country had alerted that governors cannot fold their arms or rely exclusively on the distant federal police to adequately protect the lives and property of residents. He also said the Federal Government should brace up for a situation whereby citizens will take their destiny into their hands and carry guns to defend themselves against terror. Zamfara State Information Commissioner Ibrahim Dosara, who spoke on the state’s new security measures, said: “The government has henceforth directed individuals to prepare and obtain guns to defend themselves against the bandits. “Government has directed the state commissioner of police to issue a licence to all those who qualify and are wishing to obtain such guns to defend themselves. “Government is ready to facilitate for people, especially our farmers, to secure basic weapons for defending themselves. “Government has already concluded arrangements to distribute 500 forms to each of the 19 emirates in the state for those willing to obtain guns to defend themselves.” The commissioner said the government had resolved to deal with the recent escalating attacks, kidnapping and violence unleashed on communities by bandits. He said: “This act of terrorism has been a source of worry and concern to the people and government of the state. “Therefore, to deal decisively with the situation, the government has no option but to take these measures.” The commissioner, however, cautioned that residents must obtain from the Commissioner of Police a licence to own guns and other basic weapons to be used in defending themselves. Dosara said: “A secretariat or centre will be established for the collection of intelligence on the activities of informants. “Residents are strictly warned and advised to make sure that any information or intelligence about an informant must be true and nothing but the truth. “All information on such informants must carry correct data on the suspects, including their pictures, correct names, address, occupation and witness to testify on the facts of the information given. “The government will take punitive measures against anyone found as an informant. Any person who gives wrong information against anybody will be served the same punishment as an informant and will be treated as such.” He said the government had requested the State House of Assembly to pass, as matter of urgency, the Informants Bill before it to enable the government to take the drastic measures on informants as contained in the bill. He said the government had ordered the recruitment of 200 additional Community Protection Guards (CPGs) in each of the 19 emirates, bringing it to 500 per emirate.   Buhari returns from Rwanda after 26th CHOGM     Taming petrol scarcity menace     Onnoghen’s ghost   The state government had also constituted an 11-man special committee to receive intelligence on the activities of informants, with Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Bello Bakyasuwa Soja, as chairman. He also announced an additional para-military unit to support control and command, to properly and effectively reinforce the operations of the CPGs. The new unit has eight members with retired Commissioner of Police Mamman Anka as Commandant–General. Dosara said the state government had reconstituted an 11-member committee on the prosecution of banditry-related offences with Dr. Sani Abdullahi Wanban Shinkafi as Chairman. Also yesterday, Governor Bello Matawalle ordered the immediate closure of all markets, including livestock markets in Mada, Wonaka, and Ruwan Bore Districts of Gusau Local Government Area and Yandoto Emirate in Tsafe Local Government Area. “The governor has equally banned riding of motorbikes and selling of petroleum products in Mada, Wonaka and Ruwan Bore districts, as well as Yandoto emirate. “Henceforth, all filling stations in the affected areas are hereby closed with immediate effect. “Anyone found riding a motorbike within the areas is considered a bandit and security agencies are thereby directed to shoot such persons at sight. “Security agencies are by this announcement directed to ensure strict compliance. “Anyone found violating this order should be dealt with according to the rule of law. The government would not condone any act where innocent people are being killed. “The government hereby directs the Military, the Nigeria Police, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), and other security agencies to mobilise their operatives and take the fight to the enclaves of the criminals with immediate effect.” Uzodimma issued a 10-day ultimatum to bandits to surrender themselves and their arms to their traditional rulers for unconditional pardon or face bombardment. The governor, who spoke at the Government House Chapel, Owerri, after Sunday Service, said the government has decided to rid the forests in Imo of bandits and procured the necessary equipment for the purpose. Uzodimma urged the bandits to take the advantage of the amnesty and be reintegrated into the society. The governor also said Imo State will be hosting the annual Army Day Celebration from June 30 to July 6, 2022. Uzodimma said from June 27, “Imo State will take delivery of military equipment that will be used to clear the remnants of bandits hiding in various bushes in the state.” He, however, gave 10 days to bandits in the forests to come out of their caves, “where necessary, report themselves to their traditional rulers or their council chairmen so that government will grant them amnesty”. He said the period of grace will not be extended, warning that those who fail to take advantage of it will have themselves to blame. Makinde spoke on the recruitment of additional 500 men for the Oyo State Western Nigeria Security Network (WNSN) at a security meeting with local government chairmen, vice chairmen, heads of security agencies and traditional rulers among other stakeholders at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat, in Ibadan. He described security as a collective responsibility requiring the participation of all stakeholders. He said: “Security is everyone’s business and if we all play our parts well, we will have a safer and more secured environment. “As far as the operation of the Amotekun corps is concerned, we have perfected the process of employing 500 more hands to enhance their performance and further deepen the security architecture of our state.” The Ondo State House of Assembly said it has commenced the review of the law establishing Amotekun to tackle the rising insecurity in the state. Assembly’s spokesperson, Gbenga Omole, said this on the sidelines of the Oka Security Summit organised by Oka community in Akoko Southwest Local Government Area at the weekend. Omole, who is a member of the House Committee on Security, said the reviewed law, would give the Amotekun corps power to have access to improved technology and more sophisticated weapons to tackle security challenges.