SIR: On May 28, a humble invitation was addressed to needy Nigerians within and outside Rivers State. The priestly invitation which became public knowledge emanated from the popular King’s Church Assembly, a religious and charity organisation. The invitation to feast was apparently not new in the area. The venue, Port Harcourt Polo Club, is usually filled up on each occasion the call to the less privileged citizens is made. On this fateful day, what used to be a philanthropic gesture became a formal invitation to mass transmigration to the other side of this divide. A total of 31 persons died and 40 persons were injured in the stampede which resulted from the initially locked gate being suddenly flung open. The tragedy is not just a clear attestation to the Hobbesian state of nature set upon the country; it is a reflection of the daily struggle by Nigerians for crumbs to eke out an existence. Unlike the Biblical five virgins believed to be foolish, these were truly not. They became foolish because the government of the day chose to hoard the oil and so they had to go far to wake sellers to get oil! The irony is that this happened in Rivers State under Governor Nyesom Wike – a governor notorious for denying eligible civil servants promotions and retirees’ their pensions. Like Santa Claus, he sees his achievements as defined by the level of his handouts to far more comfortable states.   Unutilised constituency projects littering the Okeho…     Parties and gale of defections     APC presidential candidacy and PMB’s unedifying demands   Recall that in February 2018, the governor released the whooping sum of N200 million to the Benue State government to procure relief materials, medicine for displaced persons. Around the same time, Radio Nigeria reported that he also released additional N400 million to victims of fire disasters at Katsina Ala and High Level Main market in the same Benue. All these were voted to curry political favour from the governor of the state perhaps in anticipation of his presidential run. However, it was not only Benue alone that tasted of his generosity; Sokoto State would also have a taste of unsolicited donations from Wike when in January, he donated N500 million to rebuild a market there. Next, he moved to Kaduna where he pledged N200 million to aid the victims of violence. As if those were not enough, he splashed N5 billion to Yenagoa Campus of the Nigerian Law School. Later, he added N500 million to the Bayelsa State Medical Sciences University in Yenagoa. This and so many other heavy donations are merely pointers to how Rivers people are being led into poverty and immiseration.  Those who trooped down to the disaster venue in search of freebie should not be blamed. They were merely victims of poor governance foisted on them. Governor Wike is enjoined to wake up to the yearnings of Rivers people. A state with blessed with so much resources should utilize such to the advantage of the people and not outsiders. Assuming the role of Santa Claus by throwing out cash to different states isn’t part of meaningful governance. It makes the irresponsible government an enabler of such avoidable disasters.