Our state is at the heartland of the northern parts of this country, in every sense of history and culture, economically and politically. But we do not belong to the retrograde north of feudalists, slave-holders, crooks, parasites and foreign agents. We are of the cultured north of democracy, liberation and social progress for all the people of Nigeria” – Alhaji Abdulkadir Balarabe Musa, Tuesday, 22nd June, 1981. When he made the assertion above, Alhaji Balarabe Musa was the governor of the old Kaduna State, which included the contemporary Katsina State. The uncompromisingly radical and progressive Balarabe Musa identified two ‘Norths’ – the reactionary and retrogressive North, resistant to change and the enlightened and modernizing North committed to the accelerated transformation and modernization of their region and Nigeria as a whole. There is also among the southern political class, a conservative, retrograde and reactionary elite faction, concerned only with their personal aggrandizement as individuals and as a group and a more progressive, forward looking strand who, despite their weaknesses and foibles, are dedicated to the liberation of the potentials of Nigeria in the interest of the vast majority of her impoverished people. Even as the debates and controversies raged as regards the desirability or otherwise of respecting the informal zoning understanding among the dominant factions of the political class and ensuring the rotation of presidential power back to the South in 2023 after President Muhammadu Buhari’s eight-year tenure, the northern governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) stepped up to be counted in favour of equity, justice and fairness by insisting that the party’s presidential ticket be zoned to the south. The northern APC governors could have easily discounted the considerations of equity and fairness to peddle the argument of crude electoral arithmetic to facilitate the perpetuation of control of the presidency by the north after the expiration of Buhari’s tenure. But they said a firm no. Their ability to take this enlightened stand for justice in inter-regional power sharing was also no doubt enhanced by the existence in the party of an aspirant from the South, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who had invested considerable time, energy, steadfast focus and resources over the last three decades in building bridges across regional, ethnic , religious and partisan divides as well as nurturing trust and confidence among a wide cross section of Nigerians. But the northern governors are the undisputed heroes of the moment. As a block they are largely responsible for the direction of the historic APC presidential primaries. Of course, President Buhari also deserves plaudits for refraining from utilizing the considerable influence and power of his office to impose a ‘consensus’ candidate on the party even when key members of his inner caucus were undisguised supporters of the northern power perpetuation agenda. It is unfortunate that the ceaseless acts of mindless violence such as banditry, terrorism, kidnapping and herdsmen-farmers’ conflicts, which have crippled large swathes of the north, have also distracted attention from the enlightened leadership, which a number of bright lights in the region have offered their states in this dispensation. For instance, one of the key actors who influenced the position of the northern governors on power shift to the south is reported to be the fiery Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir’el Rufai. Despite the controversies arising from his style and the seeming concentration of insurgent attacks, banditry and kidnapping inhis state, el Rufai is widely acknowledged as having offered modernizing and transformative leadership in his state. Those familiar with the state refer, for instance, to his accomplishments in infrastructure provision, healthcare, education and human capital development. His administration’s urban renewal programme has reportedly changed the face of Kaduna city, Kafanchan and Zaria and apart from completing phases 1 and 2 of the long abandoned Zaria Water project, he has since commenced work on phase 3 of the facility designed to extend water supply to extend water supply beyond Zaria and Sabon-Gari. It can only be hoped that the over $2.8 billion of investments, which his administration has attracted into the state will not ultimately be jeopardized by the state of insecurity. But some of these investments include the largest hatchery project in sub-Saharan Africa by Olam, the steel plant and iron ore mining complex in Gujeni, Kargako Local Government Area, the Tomato Jos farm and tomato processing plant in Kangimi, the OCP fertilizer plant and the Dangote Peugeot vehicle assembly plant, which have no doubt expanded job and business opportunities. His far reaching public sector reforms have contributed to the phenomenal increase in the state’s Internally Generated Revenue from N13 billion in 2015 to over N52 billion in 2020. But then, el Rufai’s albatross is his famed short temper, sharp, unsparing tongue and seeming intolerance for opposing views.   Politics, religion and 2023     Emeka Nwosu’s perspective on media, politics and…     Are political scientists too not to blame? (1)   Perhaps this is why his critics are all too ready to dismiss el Rufai as an unrepentant northern irredentist, religious extremist and inflexible defender of Nigeria’s flawed structural status quo.  I personally do not agree with such categorization of the governor even though, if he is to progress in his political career beyond Kaduna State, he should realize that tolerance, moderation, restraint and empathy are virtues in politics. Let it not be forgotten that el ‘Rufai was Chairman of the APC Committee on restructuring, which recommended far-reaching decentralization of powers, resources and responsibilities in Nigeria as well as the introduction of statepolice among others. The committee’s recommendations have been ignored for inexplicable reasons. He has also been firmly opposed to open grazing of cattle, advocating modern ranching as the indispensable way forward. It is unfortunate that when the name of Alhaji Abdullahi Ganduje, governor of Kano State is mentioned, what almost readily comes to mind are certain corruption allegations against him even though they still remain unproven despite alleged video evidence. This is a moral burden he must bear. But it is beyond dispute that he has offered transformational leadership in Kano in several sectors. For instance, his administration settled the state’s counterpart funding to the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), thus facilitating the initiation of several projects in the sector to enhance the quality of education. In addition to the construction of a 400-bed hospital in each of the four emirate councils in the state, his administration is currently constructing a N7 billion ultra-modern cancer treatment center with the pledge that, when completed, it will be the second to none in the sub-region. Those familiar with the state capital testify to the transformation of the city’s landscape through the modernization and expansion of infrastructure. Ganduje has never opposed power shift to the south and has been one of the most fervent supporters of Tinubu’s presidential aspiration. He is also known to support inevitable aspects of progress such as the provision of ultra-modern ranches for cattle breeding. Two other names that readily come to mind with regard to the purpose of this essay are the former governor of Borno State between 2011 and 2019, Senator Kashim Shettima and his no less dynamic and achievement –oriented successor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum. Shettima holds B.Sc. and M.Sc. degrees in Agricultural Economics from the universities of Maiduguri and Ibadan respectively. Before his foray into politics and governance, he acquired invaluable experience in the private sector as head of accounts unit at the Commercial Bank of Africa Limited in Ikeja, Lagos (1993-1997); Deputy Manager and later Manager at the AfricaInternational Bank Limited, Kaduna, (1997-2001) after which he moved to the Zenith Bank as head of its main branch in Maiduguri in 2001. At Zenith Bank, he rose to become Senior Manager/Branch Head; Assistant General Manager/ Zonal Head (North East); Deputy General Manager/Zonal Head (North East) and General Manager at the bank before his appointment in 2007 as Commissioner of Finance in Borno State. Before he became governor in 2011, he had served as Commissioner in the Ministries of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Education, Agriculture and Health. He was governor at the height of the Boko Haram insurgency in Borno State and he is widely acknowledged as effectively managing the security crisis for instance through the establishment of the Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF) made up of young volunteers to combat Boko Haram and supplying large numbers of patrol vehicles and giving other logistics support to the military and other security agencies. The Shettima administration rebuilt over 30,000 homes spread in Gwoza, Bama, Mobbar, Damboa, Nganzai, Mafa, Konduga, Kaga and Maiduguri among others. In the health sector, the administration built seven new General Hospitals, overhauled 18 others and established diagnostic and kidney dialysis centres. It increased the number of medical doctors from the 65 inherited in 2011 to 152 as at 2019 while also increasing the number of nurses and midwives from 980 to 1,850. In the education sector, the Shettima administration constructed 1,711 new classrooms and other school buildings in over 256 primary and junior secondary schools, established 16 new secondary schools, renovated more than half of the state’s over 80 secondary schools and built 44 Mega primary schools equipped world class infrastructure to cater for over 50,000 orphans whose parents were killed by Boko Haram. Perhaps the crowning achievement of the administration in education was the establishment of Borno’s first state university. In his farewell speech on May 29, 2019, Shettima told the people of Borno: “I have done my modest part,  I am bowing out. I am happy that the stage is shifting to a great and worthy son of Borno. The stage is shifting to a man who made himself out of a low estate, a man who drove a taxi and sold firewood to pay his school fees, a man with an uncommon touch, a dynamo of a worker. Professor Babagana Umara Zulum is very well prepared for the task ahead”. Zulum has more than justified the confidence reposed in him by his predecessor and the people of Borno State. Though in his first term, he has quickly established himself as one of the most industrious, committed, visionary and passionately development-oriented governors in this dispensation. While some would want him to step up for service at a higher level in 2023, others believe that he should run for election for a second term as governor and carry further the great work he has done thus far. Kashim Shettima has been one of the earliest supporters of and most committed and articulate advocates as well as defenders of the Tinubu presidential aspiration project. As he ponders who will be his running mate for the critical 2023 election, presumably in consultation with President Buhari and other stakeholders particularly the northern governors, these among others will surely be on the APC presidential candidate’s mind. As this newspaper’s columnist, Jide Oluwajuyitan, pungently put it on Thursday, “The solution to our current challenges is not going to come from a northern vice presidential candidate from the northern 5% Christians but the 95% Hausa/Fulani Muslims and their leaders with pan-Nigeria outlook”.