The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare has charged the new coach of Super Eagles, José Santos Peseiro to make the squad a blend of the very best of professional players based at home and abroad. Dare said the Super Eagles were in a rebuilding process and urged Peseiro to ensure discipline and regain fans’ confidence in the team. The Portuguese coach was officially received at the Minister’s Conference Room by Sunday Dare yesterday, and Dare assured the coach that the new crew will enjoy the support of the Ministry through the NFF, to ensure the team succeeds during his time in charge of the Super Eagles. “We welcome Peseiro to Nigeria and we have seen that you have hit the ground running to help restore the confidence in the team, especially after the World Cup ticket loss. “This is the start of a rebuilding process. We are a football-loving nation. We love to win all the time, even though we know it’s not possible. “We urge you to ensure consistency and discipline in the team on and off the pitch. It is a critical instrument for the success of the team,’’ he said.   2023 AFCON Qualifiers: Rohr alerts Eagles on  ‘invading’…     USA’ 94  exploits made me love  Super Eagles, says  Peseiro     2023 AFCON Qualifiers: Peseiro sweats on Eagles’ fitness   The minister said Nigerians would like to see the hunger, aggressiveness and commitment in the team which Peseiro leads. “We also ask you to love Nigeria, live here, enjoy the food and use the opportunity to make a mark and difference in the national team,” Dare added. He also urged the coach to give opportunities to talents in the country’s domestic league. “We are rebuilding our national team to create a competitive and strong team by giving opportunity to the raw talents that abound in our domestic league. “Let it be a blend of the best that we have at home and abroad. This is the DNA of Nigerian football. “We will support you through the NFF and the Super Eagles,” Dare added. At  the occasion were the Chief of Staff to the Minister, Alhaji Abba Abdullahi Yola; NFF’s Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire; Special Assistant to the Minister, Mary Onyali; Super Eagles Team Administrator, Dayo Enebi Achor; SA (Multimedia) to the Minister, Toyin Ibitoye and; Media Assistant to the Minister, Kola Daniel.