Ikogosi, a rustic Ekiti town, is on the world tourist map due to its natural endowment, the warmspring. At the weekend, the ancient community achieved a major political leap. It produced the governor-elect, Biodun Oyebanji, who ran on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Victory is sweet. Success has many fathers. The town in Ekiti West Council was aglow with festivities. Even, indigenes abroad reconnected with home, rejoicing and thanking God. In the same mood of elation were members of the alumni association of Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, who were happy that one of their esteemed colleagues was about to assume as the captain of the ship of state. The 55 year-old Ekiti patriot defeated his rivals-Bisi Kolawole of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP)-in a poll that has been adjudged to be free and fair. Reporters had stormed the town, a stone throw from Erinjiyan, Efon-Alaaye/Ipole-Iloro, and Igbara-Odo, to cover the historic occasion. From sunrise, many people had trooped out. The large turn out underscored the effective mobilisation by the APC, the PDP and SDP, which were the major participating parties. At Ado-Ekiti, voters were ready as from 7 am for what can be described as a special festival of choice. There was no tension in town. What was observable was the eagerness of the electorate to exercise their franchise. Before the arrival of the polling officers, voters have organised themselves on long queues in many polling units. The same atmosphere of tranquility pervaded in Ilawe, the political base of House of Representatives member, Yemi Adaramodu, who will be contesting for the Senate in next year’s general election. Voters conducted themselves peacefully. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officers met a community of enthusiastic voters willing to vote and protect their votes. Igbara-Odo is a few minutes’ drive from Ilawe. Voters, old and young, welcomed INEC staff and the national youth corps member on electoral duty with their characteristic warmth and rural gregariousness. There was no complaint as they checked their names on the list of voters already pasted on the walls across the units. Townspeople were in a mood of excitement. There was no cause for alarm and apprehension. Security agents were in a relaxed mood. There was no unruly behaviour. At Ikogosi, the crowd was surging. Many indigenes had returned home to cast their votes for the son of soil. Ahead of that day, it appeared they had transfered their voting cards. It was as if the indigenes have returned home for Christmas and new year celebrations. As early as 9am, townspeople have been celebrating the anticipated victory of their son and congratulating one another. Old men and women, and youths were in one accord. Ikogosi is about five minutes’ drive from Ipole, a smaller town presided over by a former politician, Oba Babatunde Asaro, the Olupole. The crowd was huge. There was no disturbance. Also, in Efon-Alaaye, which is also about 10 minutes from Ipole, APC and PDP supporters were set. There was no acrimony, strife and rancour. People voted freely for candidates of their choice. Oyebanji, who voted around 10.40pm in his home town, exuded confidence as he hailed the huge turnout. He had left his hill-top residence in a convoy, along with some aides and security agencies. But, he had to alight from his sport utility vehicle, some two hundred metres to his polling unit. Of course, he was the cynosure of all eyes. Old women started chanting the cognomen of his forebears. A Yoruba man, it was possible that his head had swelled by the traditional effusive praises. The former Secretary to Ekiti State Government was decked in a white buba, with his trademark green Awoist cap to match. It is not a phoney cap. He is a believer in the creed of ‘Freedom For All, Life More Abundantly.’ His activities in government, particularly his contribution to the welfarist cause of regional integration, cast him in the mould of a Southwest progressive. Many hugged him. More shook hands with him. He was free with the villagers, many of whom had watched him grow into a big man. The man of the moment was, nevertheless, calm, as he alighted from vehicle. His presence was electrifying. But, he never lost his balance. He is polished. A homeboy, he walked majestically, with charisma, carriage and dignity, bowing to elders and shaking hands with youths. Accompanied by security agents and aides, attention focused on him. He trekked the populist path, waving his hands at the crowd of rural dwellers. As he exchanged banters with excited natives, shouts of ‘Bao, Bao’ filled the air. Oyebanji beamed an infectious smile as he advanced to the polling unit in front of the residence of a local legend, the late Chief Ejisun Oyebanji, described by people as elder brother of his illustrious father, Pa Ezekiel Oyebanji, a foremost educationist. He had to be on the queue for few minutes, waiting for his turn. He never disrupted the line. Although some people yielded their positions on the queue to him, he politely declined. It is democracy. Everyone is equal. Although it rained heavily in some parts of Southwest on that day, Ekiti was spared. It was dizzling in the morning. But, heaven withheld the rain. Indeed, nature was kind and the weather was benevolent. It was cool in the hilly Ekiti towns throughout the exercise until evening when the state savoured sunshine. Electoral officers came very early in Ikogosi. The machines never malfunctioned. There was no moment of anxiety. Security agents policed the polling materials. But, nobody was even attempting to cause trouble. There was no report about unruly behaviour. It appears Ekiti is coming of age. The struggle for power is being conducted with decorum. Politics with bitterness is fading. Ballot hijack, vandalism, rigging, compromise by polling officers, aiding and abetting by security agents, thuggery, violence and killing on poll day are becoming a thing of the past. Reflecting on the desirable attitudinal change, Governor Kayode Fayemi observed that there was no tension. He praised the electoral agency for a job well done. Former Governor Adeniyi Adebayo agreed with the observation. He said if the 2003 poll had been credible, he would not have lost his bid for a second term. In major towns, commercial activities were put on hold. There was transient economic disruption. But, in other towns and villages, people voted and returned to their shops. Also, people had confidence that their votes will count. Party agents were not hostile to one another. Many even were said to have cracked jokes and shared drinks. They know themselves in the communities as brothers, political differences not withstanding. But, there was vigilance. Oyebanji did not return home immediately. On his return from the polling booth, he was joined by his beloved scholar-wife, Dr Olayemi. Reporters swarmed him as he embarked on a long walk in the town, stopping intermittently to grant interviews. He expressed satisfaction with the process, saying there was no cause for apprehension.   Federal lawmakers and irony of Electoral Act 2022     NEITI: subsidy removal will free economy     Why Atiku didn’t pick Wike as running mate, by Babangida…   He hailed the performance of the electoral agency, noting that polling officers prepared well for the exercise. Oyebanji dismissed allegation of voting buying in some locations, saying that APC members were not involved. He berated those peddling the falsehood. Asked to assess the exercise, he said:”I cannot assess the entire exercise. I can only assess the exercise in my polling unit. It has been seamless. I must commend INEC for a job well done.” Oyebanji urged his supporters to remain orderly and avoid unpatriotic behaviour. He said:”I will encourage them to be orderly, to be non-violennt, to persevere, to cast their vote and defend it.” Oyebanji said he expected total compliance with the Electoral Act. Asked to clarify if there is a case in court, Oyebanji said:”I am not aware of any case in court.” Many people in Ado Ekiti said they voted for APC because of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whose intervention in the electioneering motivate them to rekindle faith in the ruling party. The disposition of Ekiti to APC was assisted by the bigger picture of Tinubu’s involvement in 2023 polls as a presidential candidate. Charity begins at home. Oyebanji was highly honoured at home. He won his Unit 003, Ward 6, Ikogosi, with 296 votes. Two people voted for the PDP while three votes were voided. The poll signalled a new dawn in Ekitiland. APC broke the jinx of governance alternation. Fayemi now has the privilege of handing over to a worthy successor on the progressive platform. Also, the outcome of the poll has boosted the morale of voters in Osun who expect the trend of victory and indeed, the Southwest political faithful who are warming up for next year’s general election. The governor-elect is conscious of the weight of responsibility on his shoulders. “It’s a new dawn in Ekiti,” he said while accepting the result of the election. Oyebanji won in 15 of the 16 local government areas. The PDP candidate won in one, but Oni who scored the second highest number of votes, did not win in any local government. In October, he and his deputy, Monisade Afuye, will assume the reins. Savouring the joy of victory, he promised to build on the legacies of his predecessors and accelerate socio-economic and political development of the state. He promised to preside over a government of inclusion that would tap from the talents of the vast stakeholders. APC national leaders said the poll symbolised the greater acceptance of the party by the electorate. On Sunday, Fayemi led Kebbi State Governor Bagudu and his Jigawa State counterpart, Abubakar Badaru to meet Oyebanji at Ikogosi. Minister of Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, who Oyebanji described as his political grandfather, joined them. Also there was APC National Women Leader, Dr. Betta Edu. Naturally, many party leaders outside the state had asked for a load down on Oyebanji, who Fayemi had endorsement as successor. Fayemi told them that he is competent, dynamic and a good team player who understands the vision and mission of the progressive party. He said he has been in the corridor of power for 11 years; loyal, resourceful, talented and goal oriented. Bagudu was armed with these details when described Oyebanji as a humble, experienced and hardworking technocrat, urging him to sustain the tempo of performance which has become the legacy of Fayemi. Bagudu, chairman of Progressive Governors’ Forum,  also described the victory of the governor-elect as a reward for character. He urged him to keep it up. Bagudu also praised Fayemi for his achievements, saying his feats made it easy for Oyebanji to win. Fayemi begun the last phase of tutoring by admonishing  Oyebanji to move close to other progressive governors for training and tutorials. He said under Oyebanji, there will be no abandoned project. He also said the governor-elect would reposition the Ikogosi Tourist Resort. There will be more grand training sessions during the transition period. The transition Committee will be the bridge between the Fayemi and Oyebanji administrations. This implies continuity. The governor-elect said he was greatly humbled by the victory, describing Fayemi as his benefactor and godfather. He told the story of his political tutelage and rise to stardom. It has been a life of discipline, obedience and loyalty. Oyebanji said while he held three positions – Special Assistant, Special Adviser, and Chief of Staff – under Adebayo, he also held three positions under Fayemi, which are Commissioner, Director of Office of Transformation and Secretary to the State Government. But, he could also be described as a young founding father of Ekiti State. He was the Secretary of the Committee for the creation of Ekiti State under the leadership of Chief Deji Fasua. Oyebanji is still willing to learn. He has been in power for a decade. But, being a captain is a different ball game in the far flung Ekiti. He said although Fayemi will be leaving the Progressive Governors’ Forum in October, he will go to Bagudu, Badaru and other members for training and tutorials. This is necessary because of the task ahead. Ekiti is a poor state. Its meagre resources have to be judiciously applied. Hailing the governor-elect, Tinubu advise him to “take urgent actions aimed at redressing the plights of our people when you fully assume the mantle shortly.” Oyebanji said his victory signalled the beginning of a new dawn for Ekiti, adding that the state will witness socio-economic growth and development. He promised to build on the legacies of his predecessors, run a people-oriented administration that would accommodate all, irrespective of their religious, ethnic and political inclination, and sustain the trust reposed in him by the electorate “In the course of time, we would set-up a transition committee and ensure a seamless transition, and demonstrate our preparedness and clarity of vision with the effectiveness and efficiency with which we will hit the ground running on assumption of office,” Oyebanji said.