Senate President Ahmad Lawan has appointed Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu as the Director General of his Presidential Campaign Organisation, it was learnt yesterday. Lawan, who is also the Chairman of the National Assembly, is running for the office of President under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He equally announced the chairmen of eight committees of the campaign organisation at a meeting he held with them yesterday in Abuja. The campaign team was said to have met behind closed-doors to “fine-tune strategies and consolidate on the gains made so far”. Lawan’s team, led by Kalu, is expected to “strengthen the campaign organisation and build a stronger cohesion that would deliver APC ticket to the Senate President during the presidential primary, and ultimately lead him to victory in the general election,” according to a source in the campaign organisation.   Showing the light     NNPC deepens efforts to address Africa’s energy poverty     Stamping out marijuana smuggling   The names of chairmen of the eight committees include: Finance and Budget – Auwal Lawan (Chairman) and Senator Sani Musa (Co-Chairman); Strategy and Planning – Senator Ikechukwu Obiora (Chairman); Contact and Mobilisation – Senator Barau Jibrin (Chairman) and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (Deputy Chairman). Senate Deputy Chief Whip Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi was appointed Chairman of the Media and Publicity Committee with Femi Fani-Kayode as the Deputy. The Security and Intelligence Committee is chaired by Mallam Lawal Daura with Commodore Mohammed Barau (retd.) as his Deputy. Transport and Logistics Committee has Senator Bello Mandiya as Chairman and Hillary Bisong as the Deputy Chairman. Prince Mustapha Audu is the Chairman of the Youth Groups Committee and the Women Groups is headed by Aisha Ismail. Even though Senator Betty Apiafi was said to have been appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Strategy and Planning Committee of the campaign organisation, she described the report as “fake news” when contacted by our correspondent.