Buga crooner Kizz Daniel is set to headline the second edition of Youth Vote Count Mega Concert, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced. The Lagos Resident Electoral Commissioner of INEC, Mr Olusegun Agbaje announced this in Lagos on Tuesday. Agbaje said INEC, in collaboration with the European Union Support to Democratic Governance (EU-SDG) and other implementing partners, is prepared to host over 25,000 registered voters of youth age bracket at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) on Saturday, June 11. “The event is totally free but permanent Voters Card (PVC) or temporary voters card (TVC) is needed for access,” he noted. The Commission flagged off voters registration exercise at TBS on Monday which is to end with the concert. Agbaje said: “The number of registered voters who are youth is not where we want it to be yet that’s why INEC and other organisations felt we could do something to spur this category of the population. “INEC does not have any intention of extending the voters registration exercise beyond June 30. “At the flag off of the exercise at TBS on Monday, we registered over 1,000, and expect to register 15,000 to 20,000 by Saturday when we are having the concert which we expect 25,000 attendees.   Women who love making long nails not wife material –…     Lateef Adedimeji bags int’l award for…     I miss Prophet T.B Joshua, says Yul Edochie   “The youth have the capacity to ensure a rancour-free election. “They must tell political parties that this is the time to get it right. “If we get it right in Lagos, other states will follow suit.” EU-SDG Programme Manager, Laolu Olawunmi, lamented the substantial youthful population has not translated to meaningful impact on the electoral process. Olawunmi noted voter apathy among the youth affects the political process. She called for more creation of platforms like the EU-SDG where the youth can mobilise, connect and engage, including interaction with the government. “Providing platforms we can interact with centres of power and the government will change a lot. “Interest in governance and political process will benefit the youth a great deal,” said Olawunmi. Popular rapper, MI Abaga, including Samson Itodo of Yiaga Africa, Executive Director of International Press Centre (IPC), Lanre Arogundade; Executive Director, Institute of Media and Society (IMS), Dr Akin Akingbulu, and Bimbo Oladunjoye and Paul Eze of INEC were also at the event.