Nigeria lies prostrate before homicidal maniacs sowing death from north to south. Every day, every week, brings some new outrage and we are becoming well-nigh unshockable. It’s hard to estimate the numbers of those consumed monthly by the wave of mindless killings, but suffice it to say they would be in the hundreds. It’s not just the statistics that are scary, but the sheer depravity and the brazen manner in which lives are taken by killers who have lost every claim to being called human. In spite of what we’ve witnessed in the last couple of years, it’s still hard to come to terms with how gunmen calmly walked into a church service in Owo, Ondo State and shot more than 30 worshippers over yet to be identified grievances. The perpetrators remain at large while a deeply traumatised community is left to deal with its grief. A weeping Governor Rotimi Akeredolu at the funeral service for the victims acknowledged official helplessness in protecting the populace. We failed our people, he declared. In the Southeast, an intersection between the activities of Independent Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) militants and those conveniently christened “unknown gunmen” keeps producing a harvest of corpses and circumscribed freedom. These non-state actors ensure that in most states in the zone, residents remain indoors on Mondays. Now, there’s a darker dimension to the bloodletting. The killers aren’t just content with terminating life, they are now doing so in a statement-making way. In the last couple of months two prominent people were not just murdered, they were beheaded. Anambra State Governor, Chukwuma Soludo, whose state has become epicentre of the killings has vowed to confront the gunmen. But his fighting talk is often followed by another mindboggling homicide. It’s almost as if the merchants of death are calling his bluff. The governor says that’s what they are – just merchants, not people driven by any sort of political agitation. At a recent briefing he spoke of how a security raid at one of the forests in his domain unearthed the accounting books of the killers, detailing revenues and expenditures of their gory business. Still, all he could offer the people was hope of deliverance down the road. Large parts of the Northwest have accepted that government as we know it – state or federal – isn’t about to rescue them any time soon. So, they’ve wisely surrendered to the reign of bandits who levy protection taxes on their communities. Everything that the government has thrown at them – from disruption of communications to targeted military operations – haven’t stopped the killers. It only seems to make them beat a strategic retreat, only to return for business as usual. Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, caused a stir a few days back when he called on his people to acquire arms to defend themselves. He wasn’t saying anything new. His colleague in Benue, Samuel Ortom, has made similar calls in the past after presiding over many funerals for victims of killings in his state. Matawalle’s statement has triggered criticism from some who pointed out he was standing on shaky legal grounds. His is only just the latest in a stream of kneejerk solutions that haven’t made a dent on the problem. Remember how after a particular mass killing President Muhammadu Buhari gathered his security chiefs and charged them to shoot on sight anyone found carrying an AK-47 in the bush. We know how many people have been shot arising from that order. Again, Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, perhaps out of frustration, has called in the past for the security forces to bomb known locations of terrorists and bandits. This has been tried a couple of times. Again, the tactic may have caused them to scatter for a while, but they always regroup to carry on from where their activities were disrupted. No matter how seductive these kneejerk actions may appear; they can’t provide long term solutions that bring peace to communities. Indeed, some of the suggestions are not just problematic, they are downright impractical.   2023 Presidency: Early predictions and scenarios (2)     APC: From consensus to electoral calamity     APC’s 2023 Options: Facts and Fallacies   The call for people to arm themselves appears attractive on the surface because it supposedly provides some sort of balance of terror. However, we’ve seen from societies like the United States that the constitutional right of citizens to own and openly carry guns hasn’t shielded them from the havoc of mass murderers. Hardly a month passes without news of some gunman going on a murderous rampage against unarmed people. The upshot is that a country with hundreds of years of laws permitting people to own arms, has just been dragged kicking and screaming into enacting a modest gun control legislation. Still, some want to believe that if we all have guns, life would be ever so peaceful. Not so! The easy part in a country whose people have developed a keen taste for lawlessness is liberalising the acquisition of weapons. The harder part would be ensuring their lawful use – such that minor disagreements between neighbours aren’t resolved by shootouts. Again, allowing people to acquire weapons isn’t going to make communities more secure, rather it would exacerbate the gulf between the rich and poor. While the former may be able to afford nuclear warheads to defend their islands of opulence, the lesser privileged would remain at the mercy of organised criminals who can muster the resources to buy the most sophisticated weapons in pursuit of their enterprise. The idea of citizens arming themselves is in reality just the latest example of the state abdicating its responsibilities to the people. It bears restating that it is the constitutional duty of governments to ensure the security of citizens. That is why in most jurisdictions it’s only law enforcement agencies and the armed forces that can legally carry weapons. In some instances, not every member of those agencies – depending on their assignment – is permitted to carry deadly weapons. Yes, people can apply to own guns for ‘good reason.’ But in the United Kingdom and Norway, for instance, self-defence is not accepted as a valid reason for obtaining a gun licence. Despite the high visibility of guns in the United States, its crime rate is far higher than countries like Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Japan and New Zealand. Yet, some of these countries have the most restrictive gun laws in the world. This shows that having more weapons isn’t necessarily the route to a more peaceful society. Rather, there would be a turnaround when we begin an honest national dialogue that interrogates what’s driving the killings and we understand how serious the insecurity problem is across the country. Motives are certainly not the same across zones. Take the Owo church massacre. Federal agencies were quick to blame ISWAP but the state government vehemently disagreed. Something just didn’t sit right. What would be the propaganda advantage to Islamic State of an attack on an anonymous Catholic Church in Owo? For the bandits in Zamfara and other parts of the Northwest, their motivation isn’t ideological but economic. It is the same for the kidnappers making killer profit across the South. But you cannot ascribe the same reasons to those who target security agents and police stations in the Southeast. The needed interventions may be political, military or economic – depending on the root causes. Measures that would wean those who have identified criminality as very profitable would take a long time to put in place. But there are more immediate steps that can be taken to reclaim territories which the criminals have made their haven. Akeredolu in his plaint spoke of how most forests in the country have been taken over by terrorists. His words echo those of Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, who last December spoke of how the Falgore forest in his domain had been overrun by armed robbers, rogue herdsmen and terrorists. There’s need for proper profiling of these killers wherever they operate to identify the best way to tackle them. But whatever is done our forests must be made uncomfortable for them. This will require coordinated action between federal and state governments as well as local communities. One short term solution is to mobilise as many of the nation’s security agencies to retake these wilds. This requires an increase in recruitment and investment in technology given the expanse of territory to be covered and the number of criminals to be confronted. Clearly, legislators playing political games don’t understand the gravity of the situation. Otherwise, they wouldn’t have dropped the state police idea from the recent constitutional amendment exercise. This is one sure way of boosting the number of security forces who can complement the federal police and other agencies to combat aggravated crimes across the land. Some of these measures the Buhari administration can initiate. But with its limited lifespan the responsibility lies more with those who will take over from him. That’s why major parties and their presidential candidates must be challenged to show Nigerians credible plans for restoring peace to the land in the shortest possible time.