After two years of  COVID-19 enforced suspension, the annual Nestle Milo Secondary Basketball Championship returns with its 22nd  edition with 10 states to battle for honours. The national finals scheduled for National Stadium in Lagos between  June 25  and July 1, would see hosts  Lagos battle for honours against  Kano, Bayelsa, Benue, Adamawa, Jigawa, Kaduna, Ogun, Rivers and FCT Abuja Speaking at the press conference in Lagos yesterday, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nestle Nigeria Plc, Wassim El-Husseini, reaffirmed the company’s commitment to sports development through the sponsorship of the tournament. “The Nestle Milo Basketball Championship provides a platform to help children imbibe values that set the right foundation for their future. As they participate in sports, they learn grit – perseverance through hardship, courage to overcome fear, ability to work in a team, self-belief, respect, and leadership,” he said. “Since the start of the Championship, we have had several success stories which encourage us to keep sponsoring the initiative.”   Ryan Giggs resigns as Wales’s manager     Morocco 2022: Oparanozie  explains WAFCON no show     Amusan targets more gold for Nigeria   President, Nigeria School Sport Federation (NSSF), Olabisi Joseph, noted the significant contribution of Nestle Nigeria Plc to the growth of sports especially basketball cannot be underestimated. “Nestle Nigeria PLC has made a significant contribution to the growth of sports in Nigeria and the creation of a bright future for young people by supporting and promoting basketball in schools,” she said.“ Every year, our school boys and girls look forward to participating in the biggest grassroots basketball championship in Africa, which is fondly called Milo Basketball. “This is evident in the constantly increasing number of participating schools; from a few schools that started in 1999, this year, 10,354 schools participated in the championship,” she added. Participating teams in this edition   include Government Secondary School Numan, Adamawa; Akpur College, Gboko, Benue; St. Jude Girls Secondary School, Amarata, Bayelsa; Davidhall College, Obalende, Lagos; Government Girls Secondary School Shekara, Kano; Queen Amina College, Sabon-Tasha, Kaduna will compete in the girls’ category. The boys’ division include  Dutse Model International Secondary School, Jigawa; Government Secondary School Karu, FCT, Abuja; King Amachree Academy, Port Harcourt, Rivers; Topfield College Ajegunle, Apapa, Lagos; Victorroti Private Secondary School, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta, Ogun; and Bishop Dimieari Grammar School, Ovon, Bayelsa.