It was a warm homecoming recently for two former pupils of Olowora Primary School – Blessing Ugbebor and Bilikisu Abdulraheem – as they visited their former school in Isheri. The pupils, who are on full scholarship at Mind Builders High School, visited their former school to hold a sensitisation talk on the school’s annual scholarship opportunities initiated by its management as corporate social responsibility and encourage the primary school’s pupils to participate in the scheme. Ugbebor, Bilikisu Abdulraheem and other members of Mind Builders High School delegation were received by Head of Department of Primary 6, Mr. Olurantimi Ajibulu, and the Assistant Head Teacher, Mrs. Nkechinyere Ikeji. Ajibulu gave an introductory speech on the purpose of the visit to the delight of the pupils, who have assembled and eagerly waiting to hear from the Mind Builders High School representatives. Mr. Taofik Sunmonu, the Vice Principal of Mind Builders High School, thereafter, took time to explain the benefits of the scholarship scheme, especially to Primary Six pupils in public schools, which, he said, could only be won by hardwork and brilliance. He advised the pupils to imbibe the spirit of hardwork, discipline and diligence in their studies. He urged the pupils to believe in themselves and put in their best towards their studies. He  emphasised the importance of prayer in one’s life, which, he added, aid attainment of academic success.   ‘What Nigerian pupils should expect from Queen’s…     Education needs holistic reforms, says NLC chair     Three main reasons Corpers seek redeployment   The two scholarship ambassadors of 2018/2019 and 2021/2022 sessions also offered words of encouragement to the pupils, narrating how they clinched the full scholarship, attributing it to dint of hardwork and perseverance. In spite of their indigent background, they thanked the Board of Directors of Mind Builders High School for being committed to child development. Ugbebor and Abdulraheem assured them that any pupil that passed through the school would have a rewarding experience. In addition, the scholarship ambassadors advised the pupils of Olowora Primary School to see moral values as part of success requirements. They also urged the pupils to be committed to their academics and respect and see adult figures as role models to look up to. The Olowora Primary School’s Assistant Head Teacher gave vote of thanks on behalf of the school and praised the Mind Builders High School’s management for the scholarship opportunities, which is very rare to find among the top private schools in the neighbourhood. She re-emphasised hardwork and seriousness among pupils as watchwords for winning the scholarship. Mrs. Ikeji appealed to Mind Builders High School management to increase the number of scholarship opportunities to accommodate more indigent pupils. Responding, the visitors’ Vice Principal thanked the Olowora Primary School for the warm reception.