It’s been nearly six years since Alex ‘Unusual’ Asogwa appeared on the popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija Season 3. Alex, who made an impression on viewers during the show with her dance steps, has found her calling as a filmmaker and model. She has gone on to appear in several film projects including Merry Men 2 and Man Enough. On March 7, 2021, she also premiered her debut short film titled Nucleus on YouTube. In this chat with OLAITAN GANIU, Alex who is over six-feet tall speaks on relationship, career, life after the reality show among other issues. Excerpt  Life after Big Brother Naija, what is going with Alex Unusual? Alex has gone through a lot. I will actually let people know when I’m ready to put it out, but just know that I’ve been working, I’ve been studying. I’ve been researching and I’ve impacted people’s lives. If you have the opportunity to return to Big Brother House, what would you do differently? Nothing. Are you considering a music career? I’m multi-talented but no, God did not give me that talent. I don’t know how to sing. Though I might hit the studio to sing for fun, but I’m not a musician. What of acting? Yes, acting but I love working behind cameras. For me, it’s more interesting than being in front of a camera. I had featured in a couple of film projects in past including AY’s comic-drama, ‘Merry Men2′ and I had taken the stage in Bolanle Austen-Peters’ ‘Man Enough’ but I still prefer filmmaking. How do you cope with social media trolls and critics? People should know their place as fans because we (celebrities) are all humans, I could be your fan tomorrow. So fans should take it easy on celebrities because it’s like one person listening to 1,000 people and 1,000 people have refused to listen to one person and one person cannot do what 1,000 people think one person should do. One person will not do one thing the way 1,000 people would do it, except you have to do one thing 1,000 times. So, it will never really go the way Mr A, B, and Mr C want it at the same time. Therefore, trolls should just let’s live. I experience fans’ pressure after Big Brother House for like months but since then I’ve been good because I always stand by my words. How have you been able to switch from that unknown girl to the popular Alex? I just had to switch from being well known to be extremely known. I have always been known since I was born. Like I said, in my school, everybody talks about Alex, so I’ve been used to it. The main switch I had was having to be on social media and a lot of social media people having their own opinion openly about my life. You’re a brand ambassador to some brands, what are the things you look out for in endorsing brands? I look out for brands that are not controversial. I don’t like brands that sell on controversies and also brands that are trying to change you from who you are. I look out for brands that want to work with you and what you represent and the ones that will pay you on your worth.   I don’t sing for money but to win souls –Awolumate     AVRS gets Police AIG’s assurance in war against audiovisual…     Achievas Entertainment signs gospel singer Onyinye   Are you single or about to marry? When the Lord says but if I see someone that I’m ready to spend the rest of my life with, I’ll let people know. Like some celebrities, would Alex date a married man? I’ll never date a married man. Why? I just try to imagine my dad dating someone else aside from my mom. That’s terrible. I feel like all my mom’s prayers and curses will be on the person, and it’s not a nice thing to do to anyone. Married men should learn to be responsible. I would never date a married man and I can never for no reason in this world. Except, I don’t know but if I’m aware that he’s married – It’s not possible – we are done. What’s your ideal man? I don’t know about that ooo! But he has to be taller than I am (Lol) and he has to be very responsible. I don’t say God-fearing because everybody is saying God-fearing. God-fearing is relative, right? He just has to have sense, people don’t have a sense these days. Can you marry someone who is not financially buoyant? It depends. Some people have a lot of money now but when you look at their lifestyle, you know that if they continue their life like this, in the next three years, they won’t have anything again or if no one is there for them, they are going to fall. So, if I see someone who is not financially buoyant, I am not going to take his burden into my life and I know that God will not send a burden to me. But I am not saying you should be able to afford all the cars in this world but be okay for yourself, at least you can feed yourself. It is love that matters and not money. So, love matters more than money? Yes, it does because money will always come and go but love stays. If you were to change anything about Nigeria, what would it be? Everything is bad. I don’t even want to delve into Nigeria’s problem right now because it almost depresses me. What would you encourage the youth to venture into at the moment? At this point, I really don’t know what advice but I would encourage them to go into business, start up something for themselves, and just don’t give up. Recently I’ve been struggling with it as well. I don’t know what advice to give people. I think I need to put myself together to be able to give tangible advice that they need.