The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) has slammed full suspension on Multiverse Mining and Exploration Plc, halting activities on the shares of the mining company. With full suspension, there will be no trading or price movement on the share of the company as against technical suspension where price movement is only halted. In a circular, NGX Regulation, which regulates the NGX, stated that the full suspension was sequel to ongoing process of share capital reconstruction by Multiverse. The suspension took effect from June 2, 2022. “The suspension is necessary to enable Multiverse reconcile its share register towards implementation of the proposed share reconstruction,” NGX stated. Under the ongoing share reconstruction process, shareholders of Multiverse will surrender nine out of every 10 shares currently held in a massive share capital reduction that will see the company cancelling about 3.84 billion ordinary shares from its  total issued share capital of 4.26 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. The company stated that the planned share capital reconstruction was sequel to special resolutions passed by shareholders almost three years ago. According to the company, shareholders had at the annual general meeting in November 2019 approved special resolutions authorising the reconstruction. Under the proposed arrangement, the share reconstruction will be carried out under the provisions of the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990 (CAMA), Part V, Section 105 to113, now Section 131, CAMA 2020, for the reduction of share capital. The board of the company indicated that the purpose of the share capital reconstruction exercise is to offset accumulated losses on the company’s statement of financial position which will enable the company to undertake subsequent future capital raise.   ‘Investors need accurate data to succeed in capital…     ‘FMDQ Group remains committed to environment’     Nigeria to deploy unique identifiers to stem capital market…   The share capital reconstruction will result in the cancellation of nine existing ordinary shares out of every 10 ordinary shares held by shareholders. The total number of issued ordinary shares after the reconstruction exercise will be 426.194 million ordinary shares while 3.836 billion ordinary shares would be cancelled. With its authorised share capital remaining unchanged at 4.5 billion ordinary shares, the company’s total unissued ordinary shares will be 4.074 billion, by simultaneously pooling back the surrendered shares into the unissued share capital. The company plans to revalue the reconstructed shares by adding that total value of the surrendered shares to the price of the remaining one, to make the new post-reconstruction listing price. About 60 per cent below its nominal value of 50 kobo each, Multiverse’s pre-reconstruction shares were calculated at 20 kobo per share and will then be listed after the reconstruction at N2 per share. Multiverse’s share price dropped by 8.33 per cent to close at 22 kobo per share in weekend trading at the NGX. Shareholders had approved the reduction of the company’s capital base by more than N2.52 billion to offset retained loss in the company’s audited financial statements. According to the proposal, more than N2.52 billion which had been lost as at December 31, 2018 and any such losses till the end of December 31, 2019, which are otherwise unrepresented by available assets will be used to write off retained losses. Multiverse also secured shareholders’ approval to raise additional equity capital from Nigerian or international investors through any or a combination of special placement, public offer, rights issue and other means of capital raising. Market analysts had said the share capital restructuring and capital raising might not be unconnected with efforts to strengthen the company after sustained losses. External auditors to Multiverse had raised concerns that negative bottom-line and net current liabilities of the company could affect its going concern status, referring to its ability to continue operations into the foreseeable future. Auditors had warned that there was material uncertainty on the future survival of Multiverse noting that its ability to meet emerging financial obligations and working capital and its continuing survival depends on its bankers. Multiverse, quoted on the NGX in 2008, is engaged in the business of exploring, extracting, prospecting, boring, refining, drilling for, producing, and quarry mining of stones and other extractive solid minerals, especially Lead and Zinc, into different configuration and classification.