Knox Wire, a real-time gross settlement company is discussing with Nigerian banks to settle dollar transactions for businesses and get refund in naira. Its Chief Operations Director, Clifford Niemand said the banks would be integrated into its Real Time Gross Settlement  (RTGS) network that would allow it settle dollar transactions for banks’ customers. In a chat with The Nation yesterday, Niemand said the company is in final on-boarding stages with a few institutions, adding that its operations will bridge dollar supply gaps in the  market. Niemand said: “Due to the high interest from Nigerian organisations specifically, Knox Wire has used legal expertise to identify the necessary accreditation requirements to operate in Nigeria. ‘’Knox Wire, which operates as a third party between financial organisations, has the anti-money laundering policies and technology in place, and is aware of being subject to due diligence of banking partners.” According to him, the company complies with documentation such as bank licensing, anti-money laundering technology with ISO accreditations, and necessary non-disclosure documents to protect private information of partners. Niemand said more Nigerian banks would be accommodated in the second phase of the integration. He said the company has held several meetings with Nigerian banks on its services, adding that many banks have shown interest on its operations.   ‘FAAN relocating foreign carriers to new terminal in phases’     CITN to members: get acquainted with Finance Act     Customs modernisation to generate $176b, says ICRC   Niemand said the company has allocated dollars to support connected banks in meeting customers’ dollar needs in various parts of the world where it operates. He assured the financial institutions of a seamless solution for communicating and making cross-border payments to over 200 countries in 150 currencies. Niemand said that due to high demand and rapid expansion of the Fintech sector, there had been a huge increase in the need for a secure, ultrafast and cost-effective financial service web-based platform that could accommodate cross-border traction worldwide. He said Knox Wire evolved was derived from a global financial service organisation that included financial service experience in many global economic solutions with a total organisational value in excess of $10 billion. According to him, the solution ensured sub-two-second processing of payments between Knox Wire financial institutions, prompting settlements to third-party financial institutions. He said Knox Wire was a world-class system that saved on transaction costs and included a rebate for economising transactions. “Knox Wire has garnered huge attention among Nigerian financial institutions and is set to provide an RTGS platform that is not only one of the most feature-rich but is also unparalleled in its speed.” “Knox Wire is one of only three major global solutions but greatly improves upon current offerings by leveraging a correspondent network for off-network payments, advanced technical features to provide near-instantaneous cross-border transactions, anti-money laundering transaction monitoring to prevent fraudulent activity, and a system that integrates seamlessly with existing financial systems,” the company stated.