The market for honey is growing as the trend for healthy eating is on the rise. A youth, Oreofe Oluboba, has taken advantage of this to launch a business, which she converted from a hobby.  Now she supplies and trades in honey. With the rising interest of entrepreneurs in bee farming, she sees a new future for the bee as well as for honey in the future. On how, she started, she said: “I started the business last year. I was thinking about what to do to make money as a side hustle I was thinking about what to do to make money as a side hustle.” Initially, she would buy a gallon for N28,000 and sell in bottles. She sold a 75cl bottle for N1,500 and made  little  profit. Today, a bottle goes for N2,500. Similarly, the gallon price has gone up. Now, she buys a gallon for between N36,000 and N37,000. This excludes payment for way bill. While she still makes profit, she lamented that it is not as rosy as before. Her words: “There has been an increase in purchase and also how I sell.  The price of things has gone up and the economy is harsh.” A major challenge in the business, according to her, is sourcing good and unadulterated honey. “It is very difficult to get unadulterated honey. People will buy and trust you if they discover you are consistent in delivering quality honey,” she said.   Firm unveils N1m research grant     Firm to train youths     Funding dreams of African entrepreneurs   So far, Oreofe is enjoyed her time in the business. “I am planning to expand the business. At present, I am not doing anything aside improving my fashion designing skills. “I don’t really do anything than this honey I sell. I am gathering more gallons to start selling wholesale. People are looking for unadulterated honey to address many health issues. Since I have found the way out of getting unadulterated supply, I have since built a reputation and drawn patronage. “I really want to go in big time. Definitely, I will expand the business.To excel in honey business, Oreofe said one should not sell unadulterated honey and learn to persuade the customers. “Thus far, she has never had issues with her customers. She gets new customers by referrals. “It is by referrals. Once people try the honey and like it, they contact me. That’s how I have been getting new customers, mostly by referrals. I also tell people I sell honey. I get customers through marketing and persuasion” Her advice: “If you want to go into honey business make sure your supplier sells unadulterated honey. You will make a lot of money if your honey is unadulterated. On the whole, build a good brand, connect with a good supplier and develop good marketing skills.” She added: ”If you sell adulterated honey you will have issues with people who know good honey. People who know honey might not come back.”