President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday joined other Nigerians to mark the 2022 Democracy Day celebration in Abuja. Besides the President, who arrived the Eagle Square, around 10:12am, other dignitaries who graced the event were former President Goodluck Jonathan and the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Also in attendance were Senate President Ahmad Lawan; Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila; Deputy Speaker Idris Wase; the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad; and the Chairman of the APC, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Others were the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (rtd); the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor; service chiefs, ministers, members of the diplomatic corps, captains of industry, as well as other Nigerians from all walks of life, including students. Also at the Eagle Square for the ceremony was a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, who was the running mate to the presumed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Aare M.KO Abiola. However, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was not at the ceremony, having departed on Sunday evening to participate in the annual summit of the Africa CEO Forum in the Ivorian capital of Abidjan.   Yes, I’m stingy, Kizz Daniel replies lady who begged…     Buhari celebrates Abdulsalami Abubakar at 80     APC Yobe aggrieved aspirants threaten court action   Also not sighted at the event was the Abiola family, the patriarch of which was the icon of the June 12 Democracy Day celebration. President Buhari was received at venue of the ceremony by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, and the State Chief of Protocol, Lawal Kazaure. On arrival at the venue of the event, President Buhari inspected the parade immediately and was followed by military/police march past in slow and quick time. The event also involved combat march display by the Nigerian Army Women Corps as well as the combined silent drill display by the Armed Forces and Police. The event also witnessed Democracy Day playlet, cultural troupe display, showcasing Nigeria moving forward from the six geo-political zones. Also featured were the combined band/silent drill display by the armed forces and advance in review order. President Buhari also signed the anniversary register, followed by the parade commander leading three hearty cheers.