Two year after the death of respected Lagos politician, Senator Adebayo Osimowo, political allies, associates and disciples of the astute lawmaker are yet to recover from the blow his sudden death dealt on them. Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, reports. The death of Senator Bayo Osinowo on Monday, June 15, 2020, aged 64, left an indelible mark in the minds of his political allies, associates and disciples. According to many of them, the vacuum created by the sudden demise of the man they popularly referred to as ‘Pepperito’, will be hard to fill. Two years after the exit of the astute legislator, the Lagos political circle is still grieving his unexpected death. Remembering Senator Osinowo on Wednesday, an octogenarian politician and associate of the deceased lawmaker, Evangelist Laide Ladebonu, recalled the immeasurable loyalty of the late Pepperito to his leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and regretted his absence at a time like this when Tinubu is making a move to achieve his lifelong presidential ambition. “Osinowo is an uncommon politician. He is loyalty personified. He is the only politician that I know who is not only loyal to his leaders but also to his followers. He would have been everywhere, up and doing, running around to ensure the success of Asiwaju Tinubu’s presidential aspiration now but for his death two years ago. He is sorely being missed by all and sundry in Lagos, especially among us politicians,” he said. Ladebonu, a former National Treasurer of the defunct All Peoples Party (APP) recalled how the late Osinowo lured him away from the party and made him join the then Alliance for Democracy (AD). “His brand of politics is uncommon. To him, everybody is useful politically. I was always in the opposition before I met him. But after I worked vigorously against his party in a particular election, he came to me. “While others were abusing and cursing me for almost making them loose in a constituency, he came to me and urged me to join his party. I was moved by his action and words. He followed up with several other visits until I succumbed and became one of his political allies. Working with Pepper was so much fun and a lot of dividends. He was so selfless and concerned about other people. We will continue to miss the late Senator Bayo Osinowo,” he said. Senator Pepper The late lawmaker was elected into the Senate on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the last general election, precisely on February 23, 2019. He represented the Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly. Until his death, he served as the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Industry, and Investment. Osinowowas a native of Ijebu-Ode, in Ogun State and he started politics in his hometown. Before relocating to Lagos State, He was the Ogun State Youth Chairman of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in the Second Republic, in 1979. He continued with politics when he got to Lagos and went on to serve four uninterrupted terms between 2003 and 2019 representing Kosofe Constituency 1 in the Lagos State House of Assembly. He served as chairman, Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Lands and Housing for 11 years before his election into the red chamber of the National Assembly. He held a Diploma in Building Technology at the Instituto per Geometri, Rome, Italy. He also studied Italian Language. He also held a Masters’ Degree in Mass Communication from the Urbaniana University in Rome, Italy. He was married with three children, two of them medical doctors. He was renowned for the stabilizing role he played in the House of Assembly while his stay there lasted. To many of the lawmakers, he was mentor. He polled 247,743 votes to defeat an incumbent, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, who got 20,385 votes, to emerge as the Lagos East senatorial zone candidate of the ruling APC in the party’s primaries in 2019. His candidacy galvanized party members and leaders across the senatorial district leading to a massive victory against the candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the 2019 parliamentary elections. Describing the late politician as a pillar within his extended family after his sudden death, a younger sister, Bose Osinowo, had explained how the demise of the astute politician has left an indelible mark in his extended family. “It is a sad experience for me and the entire Osinowo family last year when the news filtered in that he was dead. As a matter of fact, no one in the family is yet to get out of the shock. “For anyone that knew him or came in close contact with him, his amiable and philanthropic gestures can hardly be forgotten. I missed him and I will forever miss him indeed,” she said. Before venturing into politics, Osinowo worked with the Federal Ministry of Works, Lagos State. He was a Land Officer at the Federal Ministry of Works till 1979. He then became the Managing Director at NITAL International from 1986 to 2003. He was also the Managing Director at NIMCO International Co. Ltd from 1990 to 2003. He also worked as Managing Director, at Extreme Piling and Construction Company Ltd and NIMCO Dredging Company from 1990 to 2003.   Nigeria to end kerosene use in 2030 – Buhari     Military retires 316 personnel, warns against subversion      Woman sues police for killing, burying son without her…   The remains of late Senator Pepperito were buried in his Ijebu-Ode residence, according to his wish in the evening of the same day he died. Family sources said Osinowo, a devout Muslim, had always told his children that his burial should not be delayed any time he died.   Tributes Pepper’s successor, the incumbent Senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Senator Mukhail Adetokunbo Abiru, while remembering his predecessor, described him as a devoted party man and selfless politician. According to a press statement from the Senator’s media aide, Enitan Olukotun, Abiru described the late Senator Osinowo as a true democrat, an exemplary leader and dogged fighter who fought for the revalidation of the June 12 mandate of the late Chief MKO Abiola. “That was the day darkness fell on the entire Lagos East Senatorial District and the entire Lagos State when we learnt about the painful departure of our esteemed leader and distinguished Senator of the Federal Republic, late Senator Sikiru Adebayo Osinowo (Lagos East) on June 15, 2020.” “On behalf of the good people of Lagos East Senatorial District, I join eminent personalities in Lagos State, political associates, and the family of Late Senator Osinowo in marking his remembrance today. Late distinguished Senator Osinowo, who was my predecessor, was a great man in every sense of it. Pepper was a dogged fighter who risked all for what he believed in. He was in the trenches with the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) during the struggles for the revalidation of the June 12 mandate. “When the country returned to civil rule in 1999, he was not on the sideline. He got involved in the political process alongside his co-pro democracy campaigner, our revered leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. He made his mark in politics as an astute grassroots mobilizer, consummate legislator, and builder of men. The lives late Osinowo impacted are too many to count. His sparkling legacies outlived him,” Abiru said. For Hon. Rotimi Agunsoye, the member representing Kosofe Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Senator Osinowo will forever remain in the hearts of those who met him and related with him politically. According to the federal lawmaker, “those we love don’t walk away, they walk beside us every day. Unseen, unheard but always near. Still loved, still missed and very dear.” Describing his relationship with the late Senator in a tribute he penned to celebrate the deceased, Agunsoye said “so strong, so fond; the bond shared with you my dear friend, big brother and iconic leader. Two years may have passed between us my dear Pepperito, yet it seems like only two days ago. Still waters run deep. So are the scars of the grievous injuries inflicted by the painful loss of a gem like you. What moves through me as I pen these lines in your remembrance is a deafening silence reminding me of the great leveller. “If only wishes were horses, my craving for the reliving of the past would have brought you back to life. Words may not be enough to express the emptiness your departure has created in the lives you touched but I take solace in the special moments we had together. For a life so beautifully lived for others. For a bid heart so deep missed.” Similarly, a group, Ikorodu Division Frontiers (IDF), made up of political disciples of the late politician, described his exit as a ‘continuous loss’. Speaking to our correspondent, coordinator of the group, Hon. Bolanle Sobowale, said members of the group can never forget the late lawmaker. “We look back on the good times we shared. We remember our several political struggles together. We recall the mentorship and the leadership; the many patronages and supports for party members, which are testaments to his unparalleled hospitality, and we concluded that he will forever be missed” she said. The group said it has plans to immortalize the late politician who they claimed changed the face of the politics of not only Lagos East Senatorial District, but the entire Lagos state. “Senator Osinowo, as one of the closest allies of Asiwaju Tinubu, wielded power, but he was very compassionate and considerate in the use of the power. He was a peace maker and the go to man whenever there is need for somebody to put things right. “Across the state, he is renowned for insisting that things be done the right way. He was always insisting that decision making must benefit the majority members of the party and not just a few people. That was something that differentiated him from others in his category within the party. It is for these reasons that we in the IDF have plans to immortalize him,” Sobowale added.