Free allocation of prepaid meters to electricity consumers  will resume by the end of August, courtesy of the Federal Government’s National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP). In the interim, government has directed electricity distribution companies (DisCos) to resume and rev up the Meter Assets Provider (MAP) programme under which consumers who can’t await the free distribution schedule could procure their meters. Even though the MAP has been in operation by DisCos for some years, it was side-lined by the introduction of the NMMP under Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s office in 2020 to bridge the wide metering gap in the electricity supply industry. Whereas the MAP had managed to reach about 4,000 homes by 2020, government’s intervention through ‘Phase 0’ of the NMMP reached more than 800,000 homes. Under the MAP, DisCos place a price tag of about N64,000 on single-phase meters and nearly N120,000 on three-phase meters, inclusive of the Value Added Tax. Even then, the fact of consumers paying does not translate to instant supply with meters because DisCos say they have to first schedule a date for surveying the prospective meter buyer following confirmation of payment transaction, and thereafter do a batching of outstanding consumers before they get to install them with meters. While all these last, those consumers continue being billed on estimated charges, which in most cases hardly truly reflects the actual quantity of power consumed, despite having paid for meters.   Unending fuel conundrum      Judges at war        The boy child   Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) Chairman Garuba Sanusi, was reported stating that free distribution of meters by government under ‘Phase 1’ of the NMMP would begin in August, but DisCos meanwhile should resume and speed up on the MAP. “By the end of August, meters from local manufacturers will be deployed by the DisCos. As a result, DisCos have been ordered to re-open the MAP, and customers are advised to take advantage of the window to purchase theirs if they cannot wait for the free meters,” he said. According to Sanusi, 45 local manufacturers have applied to supply meters under the new phase of NMMP that would target four million households, and the selection process has begun. “Names of winners of the bid rounds will be announced as soon as the process is completed,” he said. It is a most welcome step that government is resuming mass distribution of free meters under the NMMP to bridge the metering gap. The level of consumer metering till date is yet very low, and DisCos have carried on with estimated billing that many consumers have argued is a rip-off in that power consumption is assumed whereas reality is frequent blackouts. For consumers with meters, the situation is more bearable – though nonetheless inconveniencing – because they only pay for energy supplied. For those without meters, however, it is double jeopardy: they get estimated billing for energy not supplied. The perennial blackout has been ascribed by relevant authorities to insufficient power generation and frequent grid failures during transmission, which have been acknowledged at the highest level of government. There are grassroots arguments that consumers getting estimated billing make up the revenue that DisCos lose on non-supply of electricity to metered consumers, and so there’s really no urge to get everyone metered. Besides, some DisCos have been asking consumers to buy meters under the MAP programme, and the Kaduna Distribution Company only recently spoke up to advise consumers within its jurisdiction against paying for meters unless they are impatient to wait for free meters under the NMMP. We do hope that government’s promise of a new phase of mass metering will not end up being miscarried by DisCos, but that the firms will be held to strict account on how meters entrusted to them are assigned to needy consumers. In other words, this new phase must make significant impact in addressing the metering gap.