The Lagos State Government has restated its call for sustainable attitude to engender livable built environment. The call was made on the 2022 World Environment Day through a statement by the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development,  Dr. Idris Salako. While felicitating with Lagosians on the World Environment Day, he said that the global celebration of the day constituted a clarion call for sustainable attitude  towards the built environment. His words: ” No doubt, the human element is germane in what becomes of our earth. Therefore, let everyone of us,  in the various relationships we share with this benevolent matter- be it professionals in the built environment, decision makers or land users, retune ourselves towards cultivating the right attitude that will promote livability and protect the Earth”   Experts seek sustainable environment     Firms inaugurates 101 housing units for Shell, Mobil…     BAT Nigeria to address climate change, environmental issues   Reflecting on the celebration theme, ” Only One Earth “, Salako urged Lagosians not to bastardise the Earth but protect its alluring features and discharge their responsibilities towards its sustainability. ” The day also reminds us of the responsibility we all share towards the sustainability of our avuncular host, housing our civilisations, symbolised by the physical developments and all their trappings “, he said. He averred that building collapse experienced in the State in recent times was an aberration and needless distraction which must be corrected by all acting in unison to promote livability, sustainability and organised environment. ” Specifically, in the built environment it behoves  us to adopt attitude of compliance to regulations and endeavour to build right by doing the needful, including obtaining Planning Permits before building, subjecting building construction to Stage Supervision by LASBCA and getting the Certificate of Completion and Fitness for Habitation before moving into any building”, he said.