Southeast governors contributed to the poor outing of Igbo presidential aspirants in the national conventions of the two major political parties, according to the National Vice President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Ichie Damian Okeke-Ogene. He was of the view that the governors were too individualistic rather than united. Okeke-Ogene spoke while briefing members of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Anambra chapter, led by Dr Odogwu Emeka. He said: “Despite sustained efforts and advocacy to ensure that most political parties, especially the major political parties, fielded candidates of Igbo extraction as their presidential candidates, things eventually did not work out, which I must say is very unfortunate for the country. “It is regrettable that the political class in the Southeast zone frustrated efforts of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in championing the cause of president of Igbo extraction. “It is sad to note that all the delegates to the conventions were more or less controlled by the leadership of their various political parties which was reflected in their voting pattern and was a slap on the expectations of the Southeast, with exception of the Ebonyi State delegates. “The Southeast Governors Forum and Ohanaeze cannot be totally exonerated from the outcome of those conventions. “Their actions made it clear that there is a leadership vacuum in the Southeast region because the failure of governors to have a united front at this critical time is quite regrettable. “As far as I know, not for one day did I hear of their meeting to take a stand and position on the 2023 general elections.   Why Peter Obi can’t be president, by Mbaka     Sanwo-Olu, NCC, others review ease of doing business     FAAN eyes seven per cent passenger growth   “They were so individualistic in their approach towards this fundamental and decisive issue to the extent that information we received alleged that some Southeast governors coordinated delegates for candidates from other geo-political zones. For me, they failed Ndigbo. “Similarly, Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership equally has some part of the blame because when it was obvious that the governors were failing, Ohanaeze Ndigbo never met to discuss and invite the aspirants as we used to do, to address them on the need to prune down the number of aspirants. “For this, I apologize to Ndigbo for our failure to do the needful. When I foresaw this coming, I made attempts to reach the chairman of the Southeast Governors Forum who did not respond to my calls. “I also made calls to Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State as well as sent text messages without receiving any response.” Okeke-Ogene said he also reached out to the likes of former Ohanaeze President-General Chief Nnia Nwodo and Chairman of Elders Council of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu. The Ohanaeze Vice President welcomed the emergence of former Anambra Governor Peter Obi as the presidential candidate of the Labour Party (LP). He urged the public to ignore statements from the Ohanaeze faction led by Okechukwu Isiguzo, urging the Abia State governor to call him to order. “The Secretary General of Ohanaeze is Ambassador Okey Emuche from Abia State who was duly elected by the seven states of Ohanaeze on 10th January 2021 at Dan Anyim Stadium Owerri, Imo State capital,” he said.