President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu yesterday joined family and friends of former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, on behalf of Nigerians, to celebrate him on his 80th birthday celebration. The Northern Governors’ Forum and Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa also congratulated General Abubakar on his landmark birthday celebration. A statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said: “On behalf of the government and his family, President Buhari sends warm felicitations to General Abubakar, former Head of State and Chairman of the National Peace Committee, on his 80th birthday, on June 13, 2022. “The President joins family members, friends and associates of the former Head of State in celebrating the milestone, taking into full cognisance the historic roles he has played in the unity and peace of Nigeria, and in laying the building blocks of democracy. “The President notes the meritorious service of the former Chief of Defence Staff, sacrificing for the country and African continent by participating in peace missions and negotiating for the upholding of democracy across the continent. “President Buhari extols the humility and humanity of the Army General, who chose the noble path by ensuring transition to democratic government in 1999, and midwifed a peaceful handover process in 2015.” Lawan, according to a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, said: “I felicitate …General Abubakar as he turns 80.   Buhari’s govt has enriched democracy, says SGF Mustapha     ICRC sets January date for production of military,…     NBA reduces registration fee for 2022 conference   “It is worth special gratitude and thanksgiving to Allah that the General has reached this milestone in good health of body and mind, and with his place firmly secured in the history of this great country.” In his goodwill message, Kalu prayed to Allah to grant the celebrant longer life in the service of humanity. He urged other leaders to emulate the outstanding leadership qualities of the former Head of State, saying General Abubakar’s role in promoting peace and unity across the country is worthy of commendation. Also, Chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum and Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong described the former Head of State as a man of integrity, patriotism, fairness and justice. In a statement by his media aide, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, Governor Lalong described General Abubakar as a patriotic statesman and selfless leader with passion for a prosperous and indivisible Nigeria. He urged the former Head of State to continue to avail the nation and the North his reservoir of knowledge and experience. In a statement yesterday in Asaba, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, Governor Okowa described the octogenarian as an epitome of nationalism, selflessness and statesmanship. “As a great patriot and elder statesman, you have made significant contributions to the growth and stability of our nation through your selfless service to the country and humanity. “Your commitment to our peaceful coexistence and laudable initiative, which birthed the Fourth Republic, remains a momentous period in the history of our nation,” the statement added.