Music stars Olamilekan Agbeleshebioba, aka Laycon, Ikuforiji Olaitan Abdulrahman aka Oxlade and Praise Ugbede Adejo aka Praiz have become members of the 2022 class of Recording Academy. The trio with over 2,700 music professionals from wide-ranging backgrounds, genres, and disciplines around the globe received membership invitations from the academy. According to its Vice President, Membership and Industry Relations, Kelley Purcell, “The new members symbolise the future of the academy. And represent the direction we are headed in as an organization and the music community at large. “Their new ideas, recommendations and observations help us drive positive progress and continue our evolution.” Sharing the news via his Instagram and Twitter pages, the ecstatic winner of Big Brother Naija Season 5 wrote: “Africa up! I am now officially a member of the @recordingacademy, joining the best creators and professionals who serve, celebrate, and advocate for our music community year-round. #IAmTheAcademy #LayconXGRAMMYs.”   Inmate graduates with 2nd Class Upper from Open University     Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties   Feeling honoured with his status as a member of the prestigious Recording Academy, Oxlade, who recently got signed to Epic Records in France and Columbia Records in the UK took to his Twitter handle and insta story to share the news. “I’m honored to be part of the new @RecordingAcad member “class and join the countless creators and professionals who serve, celebrate, and advocate for our music community year-round. #IAmTheAcademy”, he wrote. The Project Fame alumnus announced the news via his Instagram page Praiz expressing the honour in being chosen to be part of the new Recording Academy member class. He wrote: “I’m honoured to be part of the new @recordingacademy member class and join countless creators and professionals who serve, celebrate and advocate for our music community year-round #IAmTheAcademy.” The Recording Academy is an American learned academy of musicians, producers, recording engineers, and other musical professionals. It is famous for its Grammy Awards, which recognises achievements in the music industry of songs and music which are popular worldwide Those invited have until July 12 to accept their invitations if they are to vote for the 65th annual Grammy Awards.