Actor Yul Edochie has counted the many blessings polygamy has bestowed on his family. Acknowledging the supremacy of God in his affairs, the film star explained some things regarded as disappointment oftentimes happen for one’s elevation. “God works in mysterious ways. Marrying a 2nd wife has brought me blessings and also elevated my two lovely wives. “Sometimes it takes the things we see as disappointments to happen for elevation to come. It happened many times in the bible, just like the case of Joseph” he said. Referencing King David in the Bible, Yul stated: “I’m a man after God’s heart. I’m like King David in the bible. I communicate with my God and He guides me everyday.” The father of five in his lengthy post admitted his mistakes on how he went about taking a second and steps he’d taken to appease his first wife, May He said: “I wronged my wife May from the way I went about it, and I have apologized to her sincerely from the bottom of my heart, but in the eyes of God things are different.” Addressing the western culture, he said; “Don’t be deceived by the white man’s culture. Same White people that condemn polygamy are encouraging men to marry their fellow men. In the end judgement is for God. Even white people don’t understand God fully. Nobody does, actually. That’s why He remains God.   Femi Kuti: my 60th birthday gift is bigger than Grammy     Femi Adebayo’s Ile-Alayo returns for season two     When Shuta Bug dazzled at Desperados Collectives   Validating his second marriage with Bible examples of great men who experienced elevation because they embraced polygamy, the father of five continued; “Many great men in the bible had one wife, many great men in the same bible also had more than one wife. And if that happens to be your destiny God will elevate you and elevate all that concerns you through it. Yul highlighted how polygamy blessed his family all round: with first wife, May, recently signing her first endorsement deal ever, Judy’s career experiencing a boost like never before, tripling of his stardom and his children not left out.. According to him: “My wife May just signed her first endorsement deal. Something that never happened all these years. And this came from what many saw as a disappointment. I have realized that God’s ways are different. Many more deals will still come to her cos she’s a wonderful person. “So is my wife Judy. She has also been elevated. Now widely known, her career is bigger with a whole lot going for her as well. “Let me not even talk about myself. My stardom has tripled. My name is being mentioned in places it never got to before. My children are blessed. “Summary: The ways of God are different. Our destinies are not the same. You may not understand another man’s destiny and that’s because you’re not supposed to, except your own. “If God gives you more than one wife it will come with blessings and elevation. Run your race and put God first in all you do. He speaks to each of us differently. Love and Peace to us all.”