OBUBA: I am Obuba from Abia State. My complaint is: non-payment of gratuity since August 2008. l retired on SGL l6 from the Federal Government and Abia State government. PTAD: You are required to provide detailed bank statement from retirement till date. ABDULKAREEM: My name is Abdulkareem. I am a federal pensioner from Lokoja, Kogi State. I have not received my December 2021 monthly pension. Kindly let me know if I am omitted from the bank schedule or it is just a delay. Thank you. PTAD: You are required to provide detailed bank statement from retirement till date. ADELOLA: I am Adelola, an Osun State pensioner that have federal share. I have not received my February 2022 monthly payment. My gratuity, too, has not been paid since 2000. Kindly help me. PTAD: You are required to provide detailed bank statement from period of complaint till date JIBRIN:  I am Jibrin from Kogi State. I am a state pensioner on federal share pay roll. Following my complaint to The Nation that I was not paid my December 2021 pension. I wish to inform the newspaper that I have been paid. But I am yet to be paid my gratuity since my retirement 2010. I am imploring the newspaper to request PTAD to do the needful on my gratuity. I wish the entire staff members of PTAD well. May God continue to guide and protect them in piloting the affairs of the organisation. PTAD: Mr. Jibrin’s December 2021 pension has been paid. His gratuity has been computed, but we awaiting funds. He will be paid soon. OKUNOLA: Dear Omobola, l and some former staff member of NITEL. I was verified since January 20I8 and we are yet to be paid. On April 5, this year, when you interviewed the Secretary of PTAD as was published in one of our best national daily newspaper, The Nation, she said we would be paid by June and this is December. Kindly save me and others from this ugly situation through your good offices.   10 pension rights, privileges to know as private sector…     Pension complaints and solutions     PTAD complaints and solutions   PTAD: Kindly provide account details or verification slip. MICHAEL: Dear Omobola, I am a federal pensioner with PTAD. Is it possible for me to be paid off once without waiting for monthly pension again? The reason is that I am contemplating relocating abroad. I wait for your kind reply. PTAD: Dear Mr. Micheal, please note that pension cannot be paid off. ADESIYAN: Good day, I am Adesiyan, one of federal pensioners in Osun State. Do you have any information about the non-payment of our pension allowance for January and the balance of our arrears for last year? Thanks, and God bless you. PTAD: Kindly send your bank statement from the period of complaint GEORGE: I am a pensioner with federal share. I have been logging into the website www.ptad.gov.ng for the “I AM ALIVE” pilot scheme but the computer keeps telling me that I am not selected. Please verify and let me know. PTAD might have sent the text in error to me. Meanwhile I am yet to see the reaction of my last enquiry in The Nation newspaper. PTAD: Please note that only 50,000 pensioners were selected for the Pilot Phase. BAYI: My name is Bayi. I retired in April 1999 from FBN Plc. They started paying me pension May 2011. Since then, my pension arrears haven’t been paid. Verification was done in 2017. We were told to wait for payment but nothing till date. I also haven’t received my arrears for 11 months but I saw the first one 7 months for minimum wage. Also a man Paul M, his pension from august 1997 to July 2018, have not been paid, also one Gyet Dangana Mwanti, pension arrears for 6 years not paid, one Yuwana Gokop not on payroll since February 2010 till date, Mohmmed Usman is not on payroll. While PTAD says it has paid N70 billion to pensioners, many pensioners and NOKs from Plateau State have not been settled. Comrade Bayi from Jos Plateau. PTAD: You are required to provide detailed bank statement from period of complaint till date