Chairman, Association of Quantity Surveyors in Public Service (AQSPS), Odulana Ayoade Alex, has said the idea behind  the formation of the association is to provide a platform for members to meet and discuss matters of mutual interest. He spoke during the inauguration  of the executives of the Lagos branch of the association. Another objective, he said, is to promote the  the profession  and support the Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) in  training their members, controlling the practice  and maintaining highest  standard of discipline and professionals ethics. He stated that for the above-mentioned objectives to be achieved, there is the need for them to work  for excellence. The Zonal Coordinator of the  association, Fausat Ajibade,  said the event marked the first by the branch. “It is the first in the history of the association, and it is hoped that this will be replicated in other states of the Federation.   Lagos partners public on Building Code domestication     LSDPC gets executive director     10 years after, Falomo Towers resurrects   “As we strive for a great Nigeria, we understand that the actualisation of every government policy is brought about by professionals who carry out both the specifics and the general requirements of the Civil Service. “As quantity surveyors, working with other allied professionals, capacity development is essential to evolving situation and trends in the construction industry to foster the specific objectives of the various Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) which we all represent.’’ She appreciated their parent body, the Nigeria Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) for allowing the constitution of AQSPS to see to issues that are germane to quantity surveyors within the Public Service. Lagos chapter chairman urged his members to support  the vision of the NIQS National President, Olayemi Osinubi to deploy technology in administering the association for the good of all. She canvassed this position because, according to her, that is what the profession represents, to promote the development of infrastructure and to tailor expenses towards a given budget. She tasked the members on the new media and the need to self develops for their professional growth and advancement. He said it has come to a level that if one insists on the traditional ways of doing things it will be difficult to fit into the technological driven economy.