Importers of new and fairly-used vehicles and goods are abandoning Nigerian ports for ports in neighbouring countries, especially Benin Republic, freight forwarders have said. They blamed the development on the introduction of evaluation of Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) by the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) and “recovery charges” paid to terminal operators by importers on behalf of the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA). The freight forwarders noted that the diversion of cargoes from the local ports was not only depriving the government of huge revenue but was also negatively affecting their business. They called for the streamlining of the “standard and non-standard” application of VIN and a review of the recovery charges on cargoes to check the unhealthy trend. Public Relations Officer of Registered Freight Forwarders of Nigeria, Chinedun Ogoke, raised the flag before members of the House of Representatives Committee on Customs and Excise visited NCS formations in Lagos yesterday. Ogoke said the practice where vehicles of the same model but manufactured in different countries are charged separately scares away importers. He stated  at the event attended by members of the Licensed Clearing and Forwarding Agents, that due to the VIN and e-Valuation, a vehicle imported at N1 million  could attract as much as N2 million to N2.5 million clearing fee. Ogoke, therefore, asked the lawmakers to look into the procedure with a view to ensuring that the same procedure is applied to all vehicles. His words:  “This issue of VIN valuation and e-valuation is not helping the system. It is affecting revenue generation negatively and we want the honourable members to look into this.   Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties     Police kill two gunmen in Anambra   “We have a situation where two different types of evaluations are used on the same type of vehicle and you find a situation where, for example, you import a vehicle of N1 million and you are supposed to clear it with N500, 000. But because of valuation, you are now clearing the vehicle with N2.5 million. “We have a situation where some people have abandoned the vehicle they imported and go to the market to buy another vehicle with less the amount. As a result of this, some importers no longer want to bring in their vehicles through the Nigerian port. “The age limit for cars to be imported into Nigeria is 15 years. But Customs are not allowing that 15 years. They are giving us ten years and this is also affecting importation. You need to look into this.” Chairman of the Committee Leke Abejide assured the freight forwarders that the committee would ensure that a uniform procedure was adopted throughout the country to encourage importers to bring in their goods through Nigerian ports. Abejide described the “standard and no standard” valuation method as illegal. He, therefore, called on NCS management to revert to one method of valuation for imported vehicles and other items. On the recovery charge, Abejide said: “What we will do is to invite the NPA authorities to come and explain what the charges are all about.” He explained that the e-valuation and VIN were aimed at improving NCS revenue generation and fast-tracking the process of clearing imported goods. The chairman assured the freight forwarders that the House might ask for the suspension of the new clearing processes if they are creating more problems. He said even though the law allows for the importation of vehicles that are not more than 15 years, the House might consider increasing their age limit. NCS Comptroller of the Western Marime Command, Abubakar Umar, told the committee members that the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes (UNODC) donated Video Teleconferencing (VTC) Cisco WebEx equipment “that aid our operations in the maritime industry.”