Kaduna State Government has confirmed three worshippers killed and several others abducted when terrorists on Sunday attacked Maranatha Baptist Church and St Moses Catholic Church in Robuh, Ungwan Aku, Kajuru Local Government Area. The terrorists also abducted worshippers as the church was just rounding off their first mass. The Nation gathered one of the seriously injured persons was rushed to St.Gerald Catholic hospital, Kaduna. It was also gathered the terrorists came in large numbers on motorcycles, shooting sporadically as they killed and whisked away the worshippers. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the attack in a statement giving names of the three victims as; Peter Madaki, Ward head of Ungwan Fada; Elisha Ezekiel and Ali Zamani, Youth leader of Rubu. According to him: “On a sad note, security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that bandits attacked worshippers and locals at Ungwan Fada, Ungwan Turawa and Ungwan Makama in Rubu general area of Kajuru local government area.   Three storey building collapses in Abia     Ekiti 2022: APC presented sellable product to win election…     Crowd, loud cheering as Tinubu arrives in Lagos   “According to the report, the bandits stormed the villages on motorcycles, beginning from Ungwan Fada, and moving into Ungwan Turawa, before Ungwan Makama and then Rubu. “In Rubu village, the bandits attacked worshippers in the Maranatha Baptist Church and St. Moses Catholic Church. “Three locals have been confirmed killed in the attacks. They are identified as follows: Peter Madaki (Ward head of Ungwan Fada), Elisha Ezekiel (Resident of Ungwan Fada) and Ali Zamani (Youth leader of Rubu). “Two persons were left injured in the attacks: one Aniro Mai, and a yet-unidentified woman. An unspecified number of locals were also kidnapped, according to the received reports. “The bandits looted shops and carted away some valuables from the villages. “Receiving the report, the Acting Governor Dr Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe, expressed deep sadness, and condemned the attack in the strongest terms. She sent her sincere condolences to the families of the deceased victims, as she prayed for the repose of their souls. “The Acting Governor also commiserated with the attacked churches, and prayed for the speedy recovery of the injured. “Security patrols are being conducted in the general area as investigations proceed. Citizens will be briefed on emerging developments.”