In the first of  presidential interviews  towards the forthcoming election into the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), former Nigeria International goalkeeper Idah Peterside speaks candidly about his vision and plans  as the race to Dankaro House in Abuja gets underway. He spoke to MARK OGAGAN in Johannesburg, South Africa. An aspirant for the post of the President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Idah Peterside, believed his emergence would restore the dignity of Nigeria football amidst the barrage of failures under the outgoing board led by Amaju Pinnick. The South Africa-based retired goalkeeper said  he hopes to rewrite the record books by becoming the first ex-international to lead the football house. According to him, the antidote to cure Nigeria’s football problems and put the country right back at the top of African football lies with him. The former media officer of the Super Eagles who played with local clubs Enyimba, BCC Lions, Sharks, and Iwuanyanwu Nationale before moving abroad for a short stint in Israel before moving to South Africa, where he featured for Tembisa Classic and Moroka Swallows FC spoke extensively on his 11-point manifesto and action plan to revive Nigerian football. On what inspired him to throw his gauntlet to the ring, Peterside said: “I was at the Stadium when Ghana eliminated Nigeria from the World Cup qualifiers, and I must say I’ve never been so let down in my life. You know, it was so bad that I thought I was going to collapse. “After the game, I returned to my hotel room and said to myself.Do you have any reason to complain why Nigeria did not qualify, because you never contributed, never did anything about it? “ I also asked myself: ‘how many ex-footballers run football in Nigeria?’ “ I’m not talking about coaching;how many ex-footballers administer football? With the tremendous experience that most of us have traveling all over the world, we’ve seen how football is run elsewhere, but how many of us have been privileged to bring back that knowledge and apply same in the Nigerian situation? “That’s when it dawned on me that, indeed, I can bring change. It’s been a great motivation for me, and I decided to come out. So the bottom line is, if I don’t take the bull by the horns now and go for it, I’d have no right to blame anyone in the future should we continue to fail. “I think it’s time for ex-footballers to get actively involved in administration, and if we must get involved in administration, why not at the top? That’s my motivation.” With huge support from ex-internationals, he said: “Honestly I feel humbled by the massive show of solidarity so far. For instance, I have received calls from Sunday Oliseh, Victor Ikpeba, Nwankwo Kanu, Taribo West, Victor Ezeji, Eddy Dombraye, Abdul Sule, Bolaji Douglas, and so many more. “The one that almost made me cry was Peter Rufai who asked: I leant you’re contesting, is it true? And I said ‘yes, Dodo Mayana I am contesting’ and  he asked what kind of assistance he could render to make this dream come true. “My brother, it’s overwhelming. And making it to the saddle could also mean breaking new grounds, as no ex-footballer has ever led NFF previously. “Look, it’s not even about breaking grounds; this is our game, we want to restore the dignity of Nigerian football. Nigeria is class, a World Cup tournament without Nigeria is pure madness, absolute madness, and we want to restore the pride of Nigerian football. That’s what I intend to do. “Part of my agenda also is to redefine our league. It’s going to be a world-class league, it’s going to be different. I’ve played in South Africa, I was in Israel as well, and we intend to call back some of our ex-internationals to be part of the rebuilding process. The other day I had a chat with Michael Emenalo about how these things can be run; he was so excited. I promise there’s going to be a massive change.” On his vision, he said: “I have mapped out an 11-point plan on transformation. My biggest focus would be on youth football. We’re going to focus on grassroots. That’s how I started, I started playing school sports, under the Youth Sports Federation of Nigeria (YSFON). We’re going to go back and put a lot of importance on it, and once we do that, we would have a pool from where club sides can begin to choose. And one of the things we would mandate our Premier League sides is that they must have youth teams; you must have breeder teams, teams that you can sign players from and bring to the professional fore.   Qatar 2022 miss affected me at Rangers, says Aribo     Jos AM&C ,  Afden shine at  UNIICEF Charity Polo…     Frills from Lagos’  festival of table tennis   “And once you develop these players to a place where they begin to pay, the structure would be different. There will be money because we’re going to look for TV sponsorship, and these players will be the biggest beneficiaries of this sponsorship. It’s going to be a massive restructuring. “My vision is very clear; within two years everyone would be able to see the difference, and our football will be absolutely transformed.” “There’s been too much noise about the NFF President. I mean; it is not supposed to be like that. The job of the FA boss is to oversee; the secretariat will do the day-to-day running of administration then my job is to monitor them and put my foot down to prevent maladministration. “Our style will be different, and I think I’ll be more open, I hope to form an Elders Forum where the former NFF Secretary Generals and Presidents, and club owners will sit down and we’ll ask questions. We’ll come up with a blueprint; we’re going to make sure that there’s an enabling playing field. We also want to eradicate corruption in our game by massive reorientation of the referees. “ For instance, if a team goes from Port Harcourt to Aba they can compete without fear of corrupt officials. We’ll look for ways to make sure that our Stadiums are filled up again. My reign will be all-inclusive as I intend to carry everyone along. We’ll try to reach out to strategic partners and see an expert contributing to our football.” He pointed out the ex-internationals were not considered good administrators,  adding that his emergence would change the narration. He continued: “The administrators never gave us a chance; they put fear in us because they will now come and speak big English, quoting big statutes to confuse our average minds. Consequently, ex-players felt ‘safer’ on the pitch rather than in an office environment. “So as it, these administrators now have ‘rights’ to hire and fire us whenever they feel like it. And our mind is that ‘we are employed and fired!’ In other words, they push us to the field while they control the office and finances. But if we run our system, we run our things ourselves, we understand whatever pain the coaches are going through, and we understand that the players are not given adequate equipment or adequate salaries to play. “ For instance, if a coach is fired in England, he doesn’t complain about management, he just packs his bags and leaves. “And our referees? My goodness, I promise you our referees will be selected to participate in AFCON and other big tournaments; we have a plan to make this happen if elected. “Part of that plan is to open up a direct line, a WhatsApp line, where fans can contact us and complain directly about a referee, and when we consistently get negative reports about a match official, he’s indicted already, and will never be allowed to come close to our Stadium. And once the refs understand that it’s the fans who run the games, they’ll sit up.” On his assessment of Amaju-led NFF, he said: “Honestly I don’t know them. I don’t know who is who in the Secretariat; I’m only familiar with Pinnick. I think he’s brought some kind of glamour to Nigerian football, that’s what I’d say. “He has brought style, particularly in the area of marketing and sponsorship. A lot of people criticize me when I say this he has been able to bring in sponsors for the national team, okay, but critics are saying what sponsors but we have seen names and we’ve seen people. “He’s been able to turn things around, especially on the side of the business. Pinnick is a businessman, you know, maybe he has some faults technically, and ironically I’ve made my intentions clear to him about running, and he endorsed my move. And that’s a big booster for me.” He expressed worries over the state of football, by saying: “How many big tournaments have we qualified for, and how far did we go? When was the last time our club sides reached the semi-finals of the CAF Champions League or Confederation Cup? We need to be at the World Cup consistently because there’s really no World Cup without Nigeria. On the inability to qualify for the 2022 Qatar World Cup, he said: “I think it started with Gernot Rohr. He was a disaster. Our football was messed up in his time. There was no zeal to play for Nigeria. There was no heart to play for Nigeria. We could not raise new players from our league, there was no fight in our national team. There were a whole lot of things that were wrong with him, and that’s where I’ll point my finger. “First of all, we should have gotten it right in the coaching department, and other things would follow. Coaching, basically, is about results. If I have my way, local coaches is the way to go,” noted the 47-year-old  former Nigeria international goalkeeper.