The founder of Afe Babalola University Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) Aare Afe Babalola has received the Distinguished Medical Vanguard Award (DMVA) from the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Ekiti branch. The award, which is the most recognised and highest ranked in the medical field for non-medical practitioners, is given to individuals who has contributed immensely to the growth of health care. Ekiti NMA chairman Dr Kayode Ariyibi described the legal icon as an asset to Ekiti State and the nation at large. According to Dr. Ariyibi, the award is the most coveted of the three in the medical profession, which is given out to personalities who have distinguished themselves in the medical society despite not being a medical practitioner themselves. He maintained that Aare Afe Babalola is the first recipient of the award since the establishment of the association 25 years ago. “This award is in line with the constitution of the Nigeria Medical Association to recognize, celebrate and encourage individuals who took health care as priority. The physical and infrastructural facilities which is evident in ABUAD Multi-System Hospital and the contributions to the economic growth of the state by creating massive employment deserves commendation. “Article 16 section 22 of the NMA constitution empowers the association to give out this award to deserving individuals and it is notable that Aare Afe Babalola is the first recipient of this award,” Ariyibi stated. Vice Chancellor of the Institution, Professor Smaranda Olarinde  extolled the virtues of the founder while she took time to explain the growth of the ABUAD multi-system hospital which includes medical facilities, industrial park and other investments in the institution. She was of the opinion that the institution, recently ranked as one of the 400 best universities in the world by a United States based Educational Organisation, is setting the pace with its economic goals.   ‘Nigerians don’t need medicines if they eat right’     Afriglobal joins list of ISO accredited labs in Africa     2,000 benefit from TREM medical outreach   She thanked the NMA for deeming it fit to honour the founder whom she describes as a man who has passion for humanitarian services. The legal icon flanked by his wife, Yeye Aare, was decorated with NMA Jersey and presented with a plaque, medallion and a glass portrait of the founder to the admiration of the audience. The award was then presented by the NMA Chairman and ably assisted by Professor J.O Sanya and Dr. Omole. Responding, Babalola thanked the NMA for recognisng his efforts and celebrating him for what he has been able to achieve. He said he was happy to counter the belief of the white men who called Africa a black continent and think the black community cannot do anything for itself. He lamented the huge amount of money spent on servicing debts and medical trips by government officials while calling on them to look inwards in solving the challenges facing the nation. “If you want success, it must start from your home. I am proud that the NMA is taking note of what we are doing here, I am inspired and moved. “For someone who used to sleep on banana leaves to this point of stepping on marbles. I keep saying to myself why me? How did I do it? But God in his infinite mercy gave me good health,” he said.