There was palpable tension in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State capital on Sunday over fear of possible reprisal attacks following the killing of a staunch supporter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Tope Ajayi Ajayi, who was a member of the Road Road Transport Employer Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), was allegedly shot dead in Itaji-Ekiti by political thugs when the APC and Social Demoratic Party (SDP) campaigned at the sleepy town only for a confrontation to ensue between members supporters of the two parties. Sequel to Ajayi’s killing, tension gripped residents of Ado-Ekiti following rumours that the leadership of RTEAN in the state had mobilised to launch a possible reprisal attack. The development forced many people to cancel going to churches and mosques. They also locked up residential buildings to avoid being caught in the web while streets were deserted. Our correspondent, who was caught in the web of the confusion at Ekute Area of Ado-Ekiti, saw commercial motorists, private vehicle owners and commercials motorcyclists making emergency u-turn following reports that RTEAN members have taken over the Mobil junction. Following the report, the Nigerian Army, Police and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps swiftly mobilised to some flashpoint in the state capital with a view to avert any reprisal attack.   Owo massacre: Osun churches beef up security     Police arrest three hunters for alleged kidnapping…     Democracy Day: Abiodun reverses death sentences, frees 40…   Our correspondent observed men of the Army, the Police, DSS and the NSCDC patrolled the streets in Hilux trucks to restore calm and normalcy. Three Armored Personnel Carriers and truck were stationed in various strategic locations in the state capital including at Tosin Aluko motor’s park, Atikankan, Old garage, Ajilosun, Ijigbo and Oja Oba. However, normalcy gradually returned to various parts of the Ado as residents motorcyclists and motorists carried on with various activities. It was learnt that Mofere area where the Tosin Aluko’s motor park was located was still under locked down but all the adjoining roads to the area remained quiet with a handful of individuals going about their normal activities. When contacted, Ekiti Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, said his men had been able to quell the crisis and restored calm to Ado metropolis, after the early morning bedlam. He added Police Commissioner, Mr. Morounkeji Adesina, ordered heavy deployment of anti-riot and plain-clothed policemen to some of the identified flashpoints across the state, to ward off violence and bloodshed. “The Police Commissioner and other security outfits have been trying to ensure that this election is violence- free, and other stakeholders, especially the political actors must join us, because no election worth the blood of any citizen. “Concerning what has been happening in the political scene, the CP had ordered full investigations into reported cases of shooting and disruption and we are assuring you that those found guilty will be severely dealt with,” Abutu said.