Justice Mojisola Dada of an Ikeja Special Offences Court, has issued a bench warrant for the arrest of social media celebrity and alleged internet fraudster, Ismaila Mustapha alias Mompha. The development followed the failure to of Mompha to appear in court yesterday. Justice Dada revoked the defendant’s bail and ordered his arrest. During resumed proceedings, the court registrar called Mompha’s case but the defendant was not in court. Consequently, Justice Dada stood down the matter for a while in expectation of the defendant. When the matter was called the second time, the defendant was  yet to appear in court. Prosecuting counsel of the Economic and Finanacial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Rotimi Oyedepo and defence counsel, Mr.  Gboyega Oyewole, SAN, told the court that the development was shocking to them. Trial judge, Justice Dada, expressed concern about the excused that was given that he tested positive to COVID-19 which was found to be false.   Bandits demand N150m to free Plateau monarch     Army intercepts carload of explosives in Cross River     Pupil swept away in Ondo floods   She adjourned further proceeding till June 30, Ismaila Mustapha, is being prosecuted by the  EFCC on an eight-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering to the tune of over N6billion, along with his company, Ismalob Global Investment Limited. It will be recalled that Mompha and his company Ismalob Global Investment Limited was arrested on January 10, 2022 by EFCC, arraigned and granted bail. However, the defendant had earlier failed to appear in court on two scheduled dates in the course of his trial. In  a related development, an alleged fake lawyer, said to be from the chamber  Aladejobi and Aladejobi & Co., was yesterday arrested by EFCC), operatives at Ikeja Special ofences court. at Justice Mojisola Dada’s Special offences Court. The suspected  fake lawyer  was said to have claimed to be a counsel to one of the sureties to Ismaila Mustapha alias Mompha. He was said to have appeared in the court with a letter requesting for Certified True Copy (CTC) of proceedings on behalf of his surety in the on-going trial of Mompha. The incident happened after Justice Dada had given a pronouncement that Mompha be arrested for jumping bail and adjourned for another date. EFCC prosecuting counsel, Oyedepo therefore asked the commission operatives to take him into custody for proper profiling and interrogation.