The Federal Government has unveiled plans to increase the production of cocoa from the present 340,000 tons to 500,000 tons by 2024. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar, stated this in Abuja during a visit led by the Executive Director, International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO) Mr. Arrion Michel. While explaining that Nigeria was ranked number four among cocoa producing countries in the world, Abubakar assured that the country can achieve an increase in cocoa production based on the present drive of the Federal Government and relevant stakeholders towards utilisation of improved varieties. He noted that of utmost importance is traceability and transparency in the cocoa sector, national cocoa farm irrigation, improvement of the cocoa sector through research, input delivery, production, value addition, processing and export. He said: “Nigeria has made a remarkable move to join the Living Income Differential (LID) initiatives which was established by Cote d’Ivoire and Ghana in 2019 which aims at guaranteeing the livelihood of small holder farmers through LID of $400/ton of cocoa beans sold,’’ adding that the two countries are benefiting while Nigerian cocoa farmers are at disadvantage of this benefit due to unregulated and liberalised cocoa industry in the country.   ‘Commodity trading platform for solid minerals good…     Piracy inhibiting foreign investment, trade, says envoy     NBS: Nigeria’s Q1 trade surplus hits N1.2trillion   The Minister said the interactive meeting between the Nigerian delegation and Ghana cocoa board has yielded a positive result with the recent approval by the ministry to establish the National Cocoa Management Committee (NCMC). He added that the committee  would consist of stakeholders in the cocoa industry,  develop a framework for the regulation and monitoring of activities in the sector to achieve transparency, traceability and sustainability. The Minister further stated that the NCMC would be powered by legislation through the National Assembly to give the process a legal backing. He pledged that the ministry would implement the LID system in Nigeria as it strives to take cocoa production to a new height. Earlier, the Executive Director, ICCO, Mr. Arrion Michel  informed that Africa produces about 80 per cent of cocoa but the price is determined in Europe and  noted  there is need to address the market force. He also pointed out that Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana and Ecuador are the major producers of cocoa while Nigeria is the fourth producer of the product, noting that the product is a key to smallholders farmers in many countries.