Despite the suspension of enforcement activities by the Removal of Abandoned Vehicles Committee (RAVC), operatives of the agency attached to Mushin Local Government on Friday impounded a Toyota car belonging to The Nation entertainment reporter, Mr. Sam Anokam. Anokam, who lives in the neighbourhood had barely parked his GreenToyota Highlander car(LSR 789 DW) on Kekereowo Street in Ilasamaja when the unlawful local government officials towed his vehicle to Zone D area where he was asked to pay a sum of N40,000 before his car could be released. He however ended up coughing out a sum of N6,500 before his car was released while only a receipt bearing a sum of N5000 was issued. He said: On Friday, June 10, around 1 pm I parked my car on Kekereowo Street in Ilasamaja in front of a business centre where I was making photocopies of some documents.  By the time I came out of the business centre my car had been towed. ” Upon inquiry, I was directed to the Zone D area of the Mushin Local government where I saw my vehicle and asked to know what happened. I was taken to an office where I was told that I parked illegally on a street and must pay the sum of N40, 000 as a fine.   WSCIJ inducts 21 female reporters as fellows     Owo massacre: Ogun monarch tasks churches on security     Family petitions Lagos govt over illegal destruction of…   ” I explained to them that I am a journalist with The Nation newspaper and that I also live in the neigbourhood. I also told them that the state government had disbanded and outlawed the operations of abandoned vehicle squads in all local government areas but the operatives turned deaf ears and collected in cash a sum of N5000, N1000, and N500 for fines, gate fees, and vulcanizer charges respectively. ”By the time my car was released to me only a receipt of N5000 was issued for all the amount collected from me.” ”At the premises, a lot of victims of these illegal operations were seen lamenting about various degrees of extortions.” It was gathered by some people in the vicinity that the illegal operations allegedly have the backings of the top hierarchy of the local government which allow free reign of illegal activities. Contacted, the Information Officer of Mushin Local Government, Ms. Mefful Funmi promised to find out about the matter and revert to our correspondent. She did not however do so at press time.