Where is an agitation for a power shift to the Southeast and we are witnessing a deluge of aspirants of Igbo extraction contesting across party lines. Are you considering consensus or what is the faith of the Igbo, considering the number of aspirants? We at the Southeast Renaissance Assembly (SERA) believe this is our finest hour and our finest moment to have a south easterner as the president of this country. We believe that we deserve the aspiration for any reason. We are not against the aspiration of individuals because they are legitimate aspirations of individuals across political parties and across geo-political zones. This is democracy. But, beyond that, we from the Southeast and every Nigerian know that we deserve consideration this time around. We have three main ethnic groups in Nigeria, even though we have other ethnic groups and we don’t shy away from that. We are the only ethnic group that has not produced the president of this nation from the three major ethnic groups since 1999. The current president is from the north and will be completing his eight-year tenure by the grace of God in 2023. Automatically, the next president should come from the south. From the south, we have had our brothers from the Southwest and Southsouth as president and we supported their elections. We supported Olusegun Obasanjo and we supported Goodluck Jonathan. So, we have supported the two geographical zones. We supported a Yoruba man from the Southwest because the Yoruba is one of the major ethnic groups from the south. We supported an Ijaw man from the Southsouth because the Ijaw is another ethnic group from the south. I think that equity and fairness demand that the Southeast should be supported. If you watch carefully, aspirants from these other geo-political zones are not saying it is their turn; what they are saying is that they are competent. There is a multitude of presidential aspirants of Igbo extraction in the APC today. Are there plans for a consensus candidate to brighten the chances of the zone getting the party’s ticket? Secondly, why are you not adopting a bipartisan approach to ensure the two major parties pick their candidates from the Southeast? That process is ongoing. As an APC member, I won’t speak for the PDP. But, I know that our counterparts in the PDP are as vocal as we are. First, I said Southeast. We did not start by saying APC Southeast. As a delegate, I can vote in the APC and influence voting during the presidential primary. But, in the PDP, I know that they are also vocal and committed to this course. It is not limited to us alone. There is no justifiable and sensible south easterner of note who is not being individualistic that will say it is not our turn to produce the president. You can have individualistic persons and they are all over the place. But I can tell that 98 per cent of eligible southeasterners believe and accept that it is our turn to produce the president of this country. When people say we are looking at the best, please give us what you have and we will give you what we have. Empirically, you will see that we have everything that is required to run this country. On the issue of narrowing down the candidates, we are working on that. People have argued that competence is what matters and not the region the candidate comes from. What’s your comment on this? Let me take your question from the aspect of de-emphasising zoning. It amuses me when for altruistic and personal reasons, people now say let us de-emphasis zoning at this point, but in their respective states, they are emphasizing zoning. In their respective local government, they are emphasizing zoning. Charity begins at home. Let them go and de-emphasis zoning in their local government and their state first. There is no outgoing governor who wants the next governor to come from his zone. There is no local government chairman who wants the next chairman to come from his community. It is a natural process. Now that it is the turn of the Southeast, people are saying we should not talk about zoning. If we abrogate zoning, then it should not apply at all levels. Talking of competence, give me the names of those who are in the race in the two major political parties and I will give you two or three individuals, who have a record of performance. I am not saying there are aspirants that don’t have issues among them. But, I can give you credible persons who can stand tall alongside other Nigerians. What is your position on consensus? I support consensus because it brings out the best and reduces acrimony. Most elections at all levels fail because of acrimony. For example, if you don’t adopt consensus, there are individuals that are ready to spend N100 million to rig the primary. He may not be the best candidate, but he has the money to buy the delegates. They will come to Abuja and go back home with bags of money. They don’t even bother about the character and quality of that person. Consensus will take care of that and give Nigerians the best. What is your view about the move to draft former President Goodluck Jonathan into the race to emerge as the APC consensus candidate?   CBN sets Aug 1 for enforcement of credit risk regulations     Shortage of oil refineries haunts Africa as fuel prices…     Lightning detectors for Abuja, Lagos, Benin airports   This is in the realm of people’s imagination. Who told you that if they give Jonathan the ticket as a consensus candidate, he will win the election? It is in the realm of individual imagination. What is the guarantee that if we say that nobody should run again and that Jonathan should be the sole candidate, he would win? We are talking about Nigeria and not a local government or a state. Do you want to say that there is nothing people can say about Jonathan that will de-market him against a fresh candidate from somewhere who has no issues? Do you want to tell me that Jonathan has no baggage? I will be surprised if he runs again and on the APC platform. What I see is that Jonathan is enjoying himself. They are rebranding him and he is busy enjoying being rebranded. He is not going to run for any election. If I were him, I will enjoy the rebranding, but won’t even come near running for an election. What is your level of consultation with other parts of the south and even in the north, especially considering that zoning the ticket to the south does not exclude other geo-political zones in the region? We are reaching out both as SERA and as individuals. You don’t reach out to the public. For the APC, the PDP and Nigeria, the presidential candidate of the parties will come from the south. There are no two ways about it. There is no state you will go to where the party will deny the governor just because he is finishing his tenure and say, we will produce the candidate from the same place. It does not happen. Go and check, including your various states and find out whether parties go to the same zone where the governor comes from to pick their next candidate. There is no Nigeria without the states. We are talking to them. As far as I am concerned, the APC has accepted it. Don’t bother about what some individuals are saying; they are entitled to their opinions. What is your suggestion to the top echelon of the APC ahead of the presidential primary? I advise Mr President who is the leader of the party and the leadership generally to remain focused. The president has an unfinished project. Remember there was a time he was sick and God gave him a second chance. He said he has never been sick before. Part of the second chance God gave him is for him to make sure that the Southeast produces the president of this country in 2023. I was equally given a second chance. I died three times in 2013. I died three-time and God gave me a second chance because of a time Iike this to speak for the Southeast. He was given a second chance for Nigeria and that second chance is to make sure that there is equity, justice and fair play by ensuring that the next president comes from the Southeast. If President Buhari decides to adopt one of the aspirants as a consensus candidate, what will be the fate of your party? One thing that goes for the president is that he has the respect of everybody in the party. We respect his views and positions. Consensus would be acceptable because it is in the overall interest of every member. It is not individualistic. You can make sacrifices for group interest. That is consensus. That sacrifice will be done for all geo-political zones for peace, fairness, equity and justice. I believe that God will guide the president right. Why the emphasis on the Southeast presidency. Why not the Igbo presidency? It is very interesting that when it comes to the presidency, the geographical zone does not matter anymore. When you talk about the Yoruba presidency, can someone from Kwara run because he is a Yoruba man? Can someone from Kogi or Edo run because he is a Yoruba man? Don’t we have Yorubas in Kwara? In 1999, who was in the race from Kwara or Kogi. Even Saraki was in the race but as asked to allow the Southwest to run, I was part of the APP then and I know that Saraki was in the race on the platform of the APP. Why is it that when it is time for the Southeast, we now remember that we have Igbos in Akwa Ibom, we have Igbos in Benue? But, when it is the turn of the Southsouth, they will now become south southerners. They will hide their Igbo identity. Did Emefiele become governor of the Central Bank because he is Igbo? It is because he is from Southsouth. They removed Soludo from the Southeast and picked someone from the Southsouth in the name of Emefiele. So, is he now Igbo? I don’t have anything against him. If he becomes the candidate, all is well and good. You said I died three times in 2013 and God gave you a second chance. What do you mean by that? People who have not died will not know what it meant. But I know what it means to die. Buhari died. I don’t know how many times, but I know he must have died at least once. But, he did not want to tell anybody. He said I have never been this sick. Was it not rumoured that he had died at a time? God said, come and finish your job and make sure that a south easterner becomes president of this country. When you die once or twice, you are not afraid of death anymore. You have never died before, but I have. When you die, your spirit leaves you and you see yourself and you come back. It is not a dream. There are things I can’t do today. When we were at a leadership retreat in Lagos, I told them that the problem of this country is that those who have sinned are refusing to say I will sin no more. As soon as we the elites say we have sinned and that we shall sin no more, then we shall begin to make progress. Having died before, I have said, I will sin no more.