The Chief Edwin Clark-led Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has said it will interact with various presidential candidates of all the political parties in the 2023 presidential poll. In a communiqué issued at the end of its meeting at the weekend in Abuja, the group promised to announce its preferred candidates. SMBLF condemned the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other parties that did not adhere to the zoning of the Presidency to the South ahead of the 2023 general election. It hailed APC and other parties that nominated and elected Southern presidential candidates. The meeting, which reviewed the outcome of the presidential primaries of the political parties, reiterated its stance on zoning and power rotation between the North and the South. SMBLF said zoning is the fulcrum on which the Nigerian federation has, since independence, been premised.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   It promised to engage with appropriate presidential candidates and, afterwards, decide on which of the candidates to recommend to the peoples of Southern Nigeria, the Middle Belt and other Nigerians of goodwill for consideration at the polls in 2023. The communiqué added: “Accordingly, commends the political parties, which, in line with the need for national cohesion, equity, fairness and justice, have nominated their presidential candidates from the South, particularly the All Progressives Congress (APC), African Action Congress (AAC), African Democratic Congress (ADC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Labour Party (LP), People’s Redemption Party (PRP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), among others. “Further deplores the insensitivity of the PDP and other political parties, including Action Alliance (AA), Action Democratic Party (ADP), Allied People’s Movement (APM), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Young Progressive Party (YPP), in nominating presidential candidates from the North for the 2023 election, in total disregard of the time-honoured principle of rotation.” The meeting, according to the communiqué, extensively discussed other critical issues of national concern, including the state of the nation and the prolonged ASUU strike, continuous voter registration (CVR) and INEC’s preparation for the 2023 general election. The group decried the worsening security situation in the country and urged the Federal Government to take urgent steps to stem the tide and assuage the suffering of Nigerians. It also denounced the spate of targeted terrorist attacks on churches and abduction of church leaders across the country.