British American Tobacco (BAT) Nigeria has restated its commitment to addressing climate change and environmental management issues. This is in addition to delivering a positive social impact and ensuring robust corporate governance across its operations. This was contained in a statement issued by the multinational organisation on this year’s World Environment Day in Lagos. The company also highlighted some of its achievements and plans in the areas of waste and water management, reduction in Co2 emissions and transition to renewable energy sources in its operations. Specifically, the company is poised to implement a 1 MW Solar Panel renewable energy solution (without backup battery storage) that would complement the gas engine-powered supply at its Ibadan factory. The project, which will consist of the installation of 1,900 polar panels, will generate a cumulative energy of 1,400,000 KWh annually, representing about six per cent of the factory’s annual power requirement which would be injected directly into the company’s energy mix. To achieve this, the company is making a significant investment of about £1m over the next two years on the project, which will reduce its carbon emissions (by the equivalent of 992 tons annually). According to the statement, this will take  the company closer to its target of 100 per cent renewable energy source and carbon neutrality by 2030.   Adron Homes offers N10m fuel to 3,000 Nigerians     NIQS to MDA: track constituency projects     Evercare Hospital gets environmental-friendly building   On the investment, Area Director, BAT West and Central Africa, Yarub Al-Bahrani, said:“BAT Nigeria’s Sustainability Agenda is integral to our Evolved Group Strategy and reflects our commitment to the principal focus area of reducing the health impact of our business. This is underpinned by excellence across our other Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) priorities. We are committed to reducing our climate impact, taking care of biodiversity, and rethinking our means of consumption. “The investment we are making in renewable solar energy in Nigeria aligns with our commitment captured aptly in our purpose to build a better tomorrow and is in line with our ESG target of being Carbon Neutral in scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2030. “Already, the company has recorded an impressive 23.7 per cent reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions, when compared with the 2017 baseline, among a number of other achievements, including 100 per cent recycling of waste generated at her Ibadan factory with zero waste evacuated to landfill, 26.2per cent reduction in water drawn and 4 per cent water recycled as well as the ISO140012015 environmental certification of the Ibadan factory, among others,”Al-Bahrani said. Commenting on the company’s achievements and the theme of this year’s World Environment Day, External Affairs Director, BAT West and Central Africa, Odiri Erewa-Meggison, said: “This year, the world celebrates 50 years of the initial Stockholm Conference with the theme ‘Only One Earth’. It is once again an opportunity to reiterate the need for mankind to live sustainably in harmony with nature and for BAT Nigeria, we are proud of the achievements we have made so far and are committed to continuously push for new ways to reduce our resource use, preserve the natural environment, improve the lives of farmers and communities, and uphold robust corporate governance standards. “In 2019, we began partnering with local recyclers to recycle waste material such as paper, plastics and cigarette waste. Some of the end products which are on display at the sustainability corner in our Ibadan factory show that beyond repurposing waste material, the initiative is also creating new capacities among implementation partners and employment in the local community. ”Sustainability has been central to BAT’s business and ethos for decades. In 2021, the company was recognised as a sustainability leader for the 20th consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, being the only tobacco company to be included in the prestigious DJSI World Index representing the top 10 per cent of ESG performers,” Meggison added.