Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on yesterday, returned to Lagos after taking part in the just-concluded All Progressives Congress (APC) special convention in Abuja. The Governor was received by a mass party faithful, who thronged the presidential wing of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport in Ikeja, to welcome him back and celebrate the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the party’s presidential flag bearer. The Governor chaired the Finance and Logistics sub-Committee at the convention. The party supporters, who came from different parts of Lagos, waved colours of banners and brooms as they danced in the road-show to the airport. They defied the light morning shower, entertaining passersby with chants of victory songs.   Four nuggets from George Bernard Shaw     Atiku: PDP begins reconciliation of Lagos factions     Ndigbo not under attack in Lagos – Ohanaeze leader   The governor addressed the party faithful led by the Lagos APC chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi. “Your first prayer point has just been answered,” Sanwo-Olu told the party faithful, referring to the election of Tinubu as the APC presidential candidate. The next hurdle to cross, the Governor said, is to elect Tinubu as Buhari’s successor. It is the turn of the South to produce the next President of Nigeria, and I am happy to tell you that this national mandate has been given to our own Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu by all Nigerians who chose him as our party’s candidate. “However, this task will not be accomplished only by our votes in Lagos; we must now take the message to all communities to galvanise our people across the country. Our National Leader has officially received the flag, but the next hurdle is to get him elected at the general elections. This is where we need to play our part in this project. Anyone that has not registered for Permanent Voter Card (PVC) now has to do so. Those of us who have collected over many years ago must go for revalidation of the card, so that our votes will count in the election. This is our chance to get Tinubu elected. We must ensure we are fully involved by getting our PVC ready.” Speaking further, he said: “After thanking God for the successful outcome of the primaries, it is also to thank President Buhari, who, throughout the event, kept to his word that there would be an open, free and fair process. The president led from the front and he did ensure there was a transparent contest. The outcome is not a win for Lagos alone. It is a win for Nigeria because Asiwaju will be elected the president next year.” Also at the airport to receive the Governor from Abuja are members of the State’s cabinet, traditional rulers, and cultural troupes.