Thirty-two persons have died in road accidents in Kogi, Gombe and Delta states. Of the number, seven died in Kogi, 15 in Gombe and 10 in Delta. Kogi Sector Commander, Federal Road Safely Corps (FRSC), Stephen Dawulung, confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lokoja He said the incident occurred around 4.40am when a Toyota Hiace bus had a head-on collision with an articulated vehicle at Akpanya near Koton Karfe on Abuja-Lokoja Road. “When the two vehicles collided, seven persons died instantly and five persons sustained injuries. “The injured were rushed to Koton Karfe Hospital, where they are being treated by medical personnel while the bodies are deposited at the mortuary,” he said. In Gombe, the 15 persons died yesterday in two separate incidents, which happened at a bye-pass in the state capital, and Lawanti along Bauchi-Gombe Road. Eleven persons died on the spot when a trailer driver ran into several vehicles at the bye-pass while 11 others were injured. The driver of the trailer truck carrying groundnut oil in jerry cans, Babayaro Muhammad, said he lost control of the truck when the brake failed. “The brake failed and I lost control of the truck and ran into several vehicles,” he said. In another accident which occurred at Alkaleri on Bauchi-Gombe Road, four other persons lost their lives and two others were injured. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Abu Dahiru, urged motorists to be careful. He said the state government would pay the medical bills of the survivors.   Military hails rescue of two Chibok girls     Man kills three-year old, threatens dad in Anambra     Lagos pulls down structures on Ikoyi building collapse site   “Yesterday at around 8:pm there was a road accident along Bye Pass and the casualties were brought to the hospital. As at 10:pm when they were brought in, eight people were brought in dead while fourteen were brought in with various degrees of injuries. “Eight of the injured were discharged in the morning, three were referred to the Federal Teaching Hospital. On the way to the teaching hospital, two died and one is still on admission. At the moment, we had three on admission at the State Specialist Hospital,” said Dahiru. He added that another accident occurred at Lawanti on Bauchi-Gombe Road. “Four were brought in dead while two were injured,” he said. Ten persons died on Wednesday in two auto crashes on the Benin-Onitsha Expressway in Delta State. The two accidents, which occurred 600 meters apart, involved an articulated truck, a motorcycle, truck and an 18-seater bus. It was learnt that the articulated trailer crushed four persons of a motorcycle around 9:15 am by Orogodo River in Agbor. The second crash occurred around 3:10 pm. Sympathisers, it was learnt, wept uncontrollably at the sight of the four men whose bodies were mangled by the truck. An eyewitness blamed the accident on a huge pothole. He said, “I saw the trailer racing down the road towards the motorcycle. When I saw it coming, I started shouting at the motorcyclist who was trying to avoid the pothole to give way, but he didn’t hear me. “Before I could say Jack, the trailer had run over the motorcycle, killing all the four occupants.” The Nation gathered that victims of the truck in the second crash were burnt to death, just as the driver of the bus and few others died on the spot.