So, Bola Tinubu made history at the Eagle Square, in Abuja. Against all odds. Like a living time machine, bearing with him multitude of hopes through dimensions of intrigues and trials fostered by the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential race, he emerged victorious. Victory sprouted in fields of tumult. Yet through his ordeal, his mettle reclaimed the radiance of rebirth, like the proverbial patriot’s, sculpted of spunk and spittle. Ornamented in self-creation, he defied the muse of manic re-creators. Tinubu jolted dismaying detractors a conniving party leadership and perfidious proteges pitted against him with devastating might. Through their severe plots, he marched in virtual lockstep with his dreams, undisguised in candour and integrity of intent. His consequent victory and emergence as APC’s candidate for the 2023 presidential elections commands elegant tributes to his politics and the legion of allies cutting across the Niger and transcending to the land of the rising sun in the East. His victory reorders the chaos of the play. The old guards at the centre were right to be wary of him and his political army. His victory at the 2023 presidential polls will excite defiant idealism and command a new class of political patronage. Tinubu will cancel them out. This Sphinx devices and answers his own riddle. Against the shadowy cabal’s run of play, Tinubu manifests as both a titan and remarkable man of alchemy. In the flora of imagination, he is a hero, a villain, a mentor, and a political godfather. He is a father, a husband, a brother, an uncle, and grandfather. He is also a patriot. A human. In the estimation of friends and foes, the heart of his story is redacted and recast. Everybody defends or maligns Tinubu as politics and circumstances dictate – if this isn’t expedient belly magic, what is? We have seen recipients of his benefactive politics hurl caution to the wind and pay it forward with malice. Some mutate as foes. Amid the clashing contrarieties triggered by his presidential ambition, only Tinubu’s deeds could validate him or otherwise. En route to the 2023 elections, it fortified him against the wiles and conspiracies of established and hidden detractors – gifting him a convincing 1,271 votes in total to clinch the APC’s presidential ticket ahead of former minister of transportation Rotimi Amaechi’s 316 votes and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s 235 votes. What does his victory portend for Nigerian politics? Does he command humbling idealism, purity of intent, and fidelity to growth required of a candidate of his stature? Is his materiality progressive and borne of pragmatism? Facts don’t care about anyone’s feelings. The truth sprouts free of “stomach infrastructure.” Of the 2023 presidential aspirants, Asiwaju leads in stature and by his deeds. Nonetheless, he’s been frantically dismissed as infirm by parties threatened by his virtuosity and apparent bone strut. There is no gainsaying the two-time Lagos governor vies for the Presidency in dire times. He must appreciate this moment for what it’s worth – when the neurotic tick-tock of midnight silences our whispers of dawn. Few weeks after the Katari-Rijana train bombing by armed bandits, on Sunday, gunmen attacked the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, located on Owa-Luwa Street in Owo, the hometown of the State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, leaving about 38 parishioners dead and several others injured.   Nigeria’s open secret     The Jibrils: Hell in the spoken word (2)     Deborah Samuel: Hell in the spoken word (1)   Tinubu must fashion a convincing and fail-safe plan to improve security in the country, no doubt. He vies for the presidency amid terrorism, comatose oil refineries, substandard health and education, corporate banditry, and Yahoo Plus pandemic, to mention a few. Despite his experience, critics of his ambition angrily crucify apologists of his candidacy irrespective of his merits. It’s that delicate. Many tales about him suffer enormous exclusions. In the foundry of political imagery, so much is excluded from Tinubu’s bust that we can feel his silhouette straining against the charged atmosphere, in combat with arbitrary sculpting. Having bestrode the political scene, like a colossus for three decades, grooming leaders, his politics culminate in pursuit of his presidential ambition. Tinubu banks on his experience as Managing Auditor and Treasurer at Mobil, the oil company where he made his fortune, his professional training at American based-accounting firm, Arthur Anderson, then ‘Deloitte Haskins and Sells,’  General Motors, First National Bank of Chicago, Procter and Gamble, among others, His re-engineering of Lagos’ fiscal regime, as the state governor, from a paltry monthly internally generated revenue (IGR) of N700m to over N30 billion as at today; and his exploits as a fiery warhorse, member, and financier of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), that fought the military to a standstill following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 election, are appreciable. He has subsequently proved himself politically savvy and consistent as a  Senator on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the aborted Third Republic, the Alliance for Democracy (AD), the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and the merger that resulted in the All Progressives Congress (APC). In politics, Tinubu flaunts a quintessential stone architecture, but the random troll wanted him to give it up for the use of a wily, lesser protege – even as the latter presented as less-than, initially playing ‘hide and seek’ with his presidential hope while sponsoring a flurry of attacks against his former benefactor. So doing, he and his team,  lionised Tinubu thus projecting himself as earthen ovule, and his manhood as quivering scorched egg. Tinubu’s politics, honed through his lieutenants’ hostilities and betrayal, assumes tactical elegance – his principles of political sportsmanship are made more concrete. They serve him as you read. Ultimately, he is elevated or “reduced” to his essence. He is a blessing to those who truly know him and a role model to his closet and open detractors. At 70, everyone wants a piece of Tinubu. Perhaps because he is the politician to beat despite the clamour for a younger candidate by segments of Nigeria’s youths. None of the whispered alternatives, however, is in his youth. Those who are could never win the 2023 elections. None has shown the intellectual rigour, emotional maturity, stamina, discipline, native intelligence, and character displayed by Asiwaju. Tinubu is ritualized personality, a streamlined pond, and a totem for sloganeering. He is detestable to his foes yet excitingly speckless to loyalists. The former squander expensive time maligning him, perhaps because their preferred candidate’s perfection is chiefly for display, not exploitable. He can only tickle their fancy from his social media balcony – his window of appearance. If all politics thrive by a window of appearance, Tinubu’s face is the sun of consciousness rising over his professed horizon. To his rivals and detractors, Tinubu is both exposed and enclosed, a torment and an idol. He is naked yet armoured, vilified yet ritually adored. Thus he must understand if, for instance, his democratic credentials are radically questioned by cutthroat rivals and embittered segments of the partisan electorate. He must appreciate too why he must soak it all in like a garbage dump, knowing it’s a prerequisite for a patriot seeking to serve Nigerians of vast bigotries, intellect, and stripes. He must respond in truth, patience, competence, understanding, and love. He must understand that his most bitter critics are essential to his pirouette to greater significance. If the presidency is divinely penned in his Qadar, no force in the world could thwart him. Of all his names, I am in love with his oriki, Akanbi, manifestly because I answer to it. An Akanbi is an Akanda Eda – inured to the odds, forged to triumph through tumult. Nigeria is in a state of war, a frigid blank zone under siege. It might take an Akanbi to liberate her.