A London-based lady Briella Neme has stated she is traumatised and broken down since aides of Grammy award winner Burna Boy shot her partner penultimate week at the Cubana club in Victoria Island, Lagos. Recounting her experience, she accused Burna Boy and his security details of ruining her vacation. She also said she felt hurt by the actions of Obi Cubana, the owner of the club. Briella wrote on her Instagram story: “We were visiting Nigeria from America and London for our childhood friend’s wedding. On the 8th of June 2022, @burnaboygram & his friends opened fire at us in @cubanalagos. “My partner and his friend were shot with both needing urgent medical care. A bullet grazed my partner’s head and our friend was shot in the thigh, leaving him hospitalised and needing an emergency surgery in Nigeria.” She noted that she and her friends were having a nice time at the club when Burna Boy and his friends arrived. According to her: “As the night progressed, one of Burna Boy’s friends walked to talk to me, his request was for Burna Boy to talk to me. “On that first attempt, I told him I wasn’t interested in talking to Burna Boy and I am married to my partner. He came again the second time and was met with the same response. “He came the third time and that caused a few of our friends to flare up as they asked why he kept coming to disturb me. There were words back and forth and one of Burna Boy’s friends attacked one of our friends, and as they attacked him, the situation degenerated into a fight.” Briella noted the club security intervened and things were slowly going back to normal when another fight broke out among Burna Boy’s friends.   Petrol scarcity bites harder in Abuja     Two kidnapped, one bandit killed in Zamfara     My ‘stupid’ comment on Wizkid-assisted song misunderstood   She noted that the shooting started at that point and everyone scampered for safety. “At this point, I couldn’t find my partner or my best friend. I was screaming for help after being lifted and thrown so hard on the floor by one of Burna’s friends and I hurt my left shoulder,” Briella said. She added: “All our private police officers were not allowed into the club, so it was left to us to fight for our lives. “One of our friends @theflowolf was trying to get Burna Boy to calm the situation but he only laughed at him and proceeded to get in his car whilst being protected by his security. “The shootings happened twice at different times. His friends were also shooting at people trying to evacuate the club through the main entrance. “They were out to kill and didn’t care who got hit. My partner’s head was bleeding profusely and his friend lost so much blood he needed a donor As soon as he got to the hospital. “@burnaboygram left @cubanalagos without a scratch and flew out to Spain the next morning. “@obi_cubana only reached out to us four days after the event claiming he had no idea and would do everything to get us justice for attempted murder. “11 days later, there has been no CCTV footage released by the club OR even a statement to address the incident publicly. Business has carried on as usual for him. “To sum things up, I’m traumatised. I’ve broken down every day since then. The random flashbacks and nightmares. Especially after seeing @burnaboygram’s response. “The lack of remorse or accountability is beyond me. At least two people could’ve died that night.” Reacting to the shootings few days after the incident, Burna Boy tweeted: “Nigerian Social media can say BURNA BOY started Boko haram, e no go shock me.”