The Yoruba Council Worldwide yesterday appealed to Nigerians across the country to support the presidential ambition of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu in next year’s election. The council noted that Nigeria urgently needed a president like Tinubu to address restructuring, put a good governance system in place in compliance with the foregoing circumstances and modernity. President of the Yoruba Council Worldwide, Aare Oladotun Hassan, stated this in a statement on Friday in Abuja. The statement reads in part: “Having critically considered all presidential candidates and their political parties beyond ethnic nor primordial sentiments, that the Northern Hausa-Fulani would have served and completed eight years by 2023 under President Muhammadu Buhari, these are no times for any ethnic bigots and political opportunist to take advantage of our precarious situation. “We therefore settled for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, being a thoroughbred, experienced nationalist and presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria come 2023 based on his uncommon intellectual acumen and eagle eye to pick the best cabinet ministers and parastatal heads from all geopolitical sections of the country, without any iota of political, ethnic, religious vengeance and biased sentiments to progressively serve and drive the nation forward.   Makinde relocates deputy’s office to Environment…     Kogi Assembly sacks four principal officers, suspends three…     Lawan, Akpabio make list of senatorial candidates as INEC…   “Nigerians urgently needs a presidential candidate like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to urgently address restructuring of the Constitution and succinct governance system in compliance with the foregoing circumstances and modernity; by putting up positively driven aggressive master plan on job creation and mass employment opportunities for all our teaming youths, spartan agricultural revolution, ensuring education right is guaranteed with adequate multi-funding system, best health care delivery systems, aggressive information technological advancement, while rebuilding a stronger FDI predicated on stable and continuous confidence. “He will commit himself to positively reinforcing and reinvigorating Nigeria’s foreign policy partnership base, and most importantly fight insecurity, insurgency and other wanton crimes to a standstill, ensure strategic security framework and laws, provide uncommon economic sustainable growth and national stability.” “We therefore appeal to all Nigerians from the 36 states of the country, particularly our home calling appeal goes to all “Oodua Nation Agitators” should rethink 2023 general elections predicated on the  “Yoruba Agenda and national development” and rally round supports and vote massively for our own worthy son and dependable Nigerian: Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the next President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria of Nigeria, while we use this medium to implore all political parties to as a matter of necessity balance religious and ethnicity related issues, so as to protect and sustain the tenets, sanctity and values of democracy in Nigeria.”