Senate President Ahmad Lawan has appointed Senate Chief Whip, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, as the Director General of his Presidential Campaign Organisation. Lawan, who is also the Senate President and Chairman of the National Assembly, is running for presidency under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He also announced the Chairmen of eight Committees of the Campaign Organisation at a meeting in Abuja on Thursday well attended by supporters. The campaign team was said to have met behind closed -doors to “fine-tune strategies and consolidate on the gains made so far.” Lawan’s team led by Kalu is expected to “strengthen the campaign organization and build a stronger cohesion that would deliver APC ticket to the Senate President during the presidential primary, and ultimately lead him to victory in the general election.”   Auto Draft     We lost 10,000 herdsmen, four million cows since 2015…     We pay N100 each at 98 bus stops, say Badagry drivers   The names of Chairmen of the eight committees include: Finance and Budget – Auwal Lawan (Chairman) and Senator Sani Musa (Co-Chairman); Strategy and Planning – Senator Ikechukwu Obiora (Chairman); Contact and Mobilization – Senator Barau Jibrin (Chairman) and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (Deputy Chairman), The Deputy Senate Chief Whip Senator Aliyu Abdullahi was appointed Chairman of the Media and Publicity committee with Femi Fani Kayode as his Deputy. The Security and Intelligence committee is being chaired by Mallam Lawal Daura with Commodore Mohammed Barau (rtrd) as Deputy. Transport and Logistics committee is being chaired by Senator Bello Mandiya, with Hon. Hillary Bisong as his Deputy. Prince Mustapha Audu is the Chairman of the Youth Groups committee and the Women Groups is headed by Hon. Aisha Ismail. Senator Betty Apiafi was said to have been appointed as Deputy Chairman of the Strategy and Planning Committee of the Campaign Organisation but she denied it. She described the report as “fake news” when contacted by our correspondent.