Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has begun reconciliation moves to enable aspirants who lost out at the party primaries remain in the All Progressives Congress(APC).. Akeredolu also tasked the candidates to personally reach out to their co-contestants and reconcile with them. He spoke at a meeting with the aspirants, party leaders and other stakeholders. The Ondo Governor urged them to work in unity for the party to record total victory in next year’s general elections. The Governor said the APC must win the three senatorial seats, the nine seats of the House of Representatives and all the 26 seats of the House of Assembly. Akeredolu appealed to the aspirants who lost at the party primary not to take it in bad faith as according to him, in any contest, a winner must emerge. He said there were no losers at the APC primaries in the state and pointed out that the tickets of the party were collectively owned by all those who participated at the primary.   Setting transparency agenda for APC presidential primary     Osun poll: How far can Adeleke go?     Lagos assembly aspirant appeals to APC authorities   On his rumoured imposition of candidates in the party, he said: “I did not impose candidates on you. The decision of the party was made known here and I felt we should follow it through. “I said it specifically that whatever decision the party made did not preclude others to contest. And I am glad people contested. “So, the primaries have come and gone. It is a process, a number of them can not be reversed. I congratulate those who won. Those who didn’t win, I want to appeal to you to take the outcome of the primaries in good faith and join hands with the winners to record victory in next year’s general elections. “We can not and we must not lose any seat. Not even in the House of Assembly. We must have three senators this time around. We can not lose anywhere. We must not lose Akure South/North federal constituency. We have won before, we must win again. “Let us bring out the glory of this party. This coming election is a very vital one. Your campaign must be APC-based. Appealing to your co-contestant is very important,” he noted. Ondo APC chairman, Engr. Ade Adetimehin, urged the aspirants and stakeholders to see the outcome of the primary as a family affair. “I want to appeal to those who stepped down. I am here to appeal that we must work together. We do our things in Ondo state in a very colorful way. Let us see the contest as a contest within the family,” he said.