Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, has urged youths to correct the ills militating against the nation’s progress, especially corruption. Mrs. Adefisayo spoke yesterday at the International Award for Young People Nigeria (IAYPN) Bronze Award presentation ceremony at New Era Girls’ Senior Secondary School in Surulere, Lagos. The commissioner hailed teachers for shaping humanity. She advised youths and pupils to use creativity to proffer solutions to the nation’s challenges. “The life you are going to live requires skills. You should be creative and be problem solvers. You will be problem solvers because you are going to solve our problems: water, food, poverty, political apathy and corruption,” Mrs. Adefisayo said. IAYPN National Director Oshoke Bello said the award, also known globally as the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award, provides a platform for youths to prove their mettle.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     2023 election: IGP approves retreat for senior police…   He said since 2014, over 39,000 young persons from various parts of the country have been engaged and impacted with skills. The national director said the award had extended to over 76 schools across the six education districts in Lagos State. Bello said: “In the past one year, we have engaged over 1,700 young pupils as participants for the award. These participants have engaged themselves in activities beyond the walls of the classroom. We exposed them to learning on a whole new different level. They engaged themselves in voluntary service, activities to their communities and the society.” The IAYPN national director said the organisers would ensure that every young person, regardless of their background, would be able to participate in the award. He added that the target was to reach over 100,000 pupils at the end of 2023. According to him, plans are underway to extend the award to Ogun, Bayelsa and other states. Bello said the organisers of the award had approached the leadership of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on a partnership that would allow corps members to participate in it to complement their service year. Over 200 pupils from three education districts got awards at the bronze level at the event. Participants said the award had impacted their lives positively.