Peter Ndubusi Mbah, lawyer and founder of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited, is gazing at Enugu State Government House. As the governorship standard bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he has embarked on intensive mobilisation ahead of next year’s poll. What are his chances? The eminent politician is not new to the corridor of power, having previously served as Chief of Staff and Finance Commissioner. He beat other reputable aspirants at the primary to get the ticket. The slogan of his party is continuity. But, what is Mbah offering to the electorate? “There is need for a radical intervention in Enugu,” he told reporters in Lagos, promising to build on the achievements of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. “I am driven by my vision and mission to deliver quality, people-oriented governance and make Enugu a destination for investment, business and tourism. We want to achieve a zero-poverty rate,” he stressed. The candidate said if elected, there will be transparency, accountability and accessibility. Mbah acknowledged that he is in a transition mood. He is trying to cross the bridge between business and politics. His company is waxing stronger. But, why is he leaving certainty for a sort of uncertainty? The flagbearer said no sacrifice is too much to make for Enugu to survive. “What we do here in terms of revenue is what a state like Enugu does. I am leaving Pinnacle when the ovation is loudest. We have the largest storage facility in LekkiFree Trade Zone. We have another terminal in Warri,” he said. Mbah said the wisdom that permitted him to build Pinnacle from a one-room apartment at Ahmed Onibudo Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, to a giant in the oil and gas down stream sector has not deserted him. He recalled that the company became number one in that matured sector in market share and revenue through devotion to excellence,  hardwork and creativity. “To emerge in the dominant market, we looked at gaps and provided solutions. We found out that what they did at operations was sub-optimal. We built a terminal offshore; with 40 kilometres of pipes. We brought larger tankers. What our competitors could not do, we do in 48 hours,” he stressed. In government, the same mark of success had followed him. He had put a stop to what he described as sub-optimisation when he was Finance Commissioner. He decried the budget that did not reflect government’s priorities and regurgitation. The onus was on him to alter that trend by developing a new model for allocating funds to development projects through a mid-term  expenditure framework. “We brought on board people who were innovative and creative,” he said. As Finance Commissioner, Mbah was a member of the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee. He was chairman of the sub-committe on Legal Matters, Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Enugu State Insurance Company and Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Enugu State Finance and Investment Company. Also, he was Chairman of Enugu State Tenders’ Board.   Atiku, Wike: the burden of leadership     Abiodun: forging unity in Ogun APC     ‘Tinubu’s presidency will unlock Nigeria’s potential’   Under Ugwuanyi, the state has witnessed appreciable growth. Mbah hailed the governor for focused governance, successful infrastructure battle, maintenance culture, fulfilment of obligations to civil servants and safeguarding the peace of Enugu. He noted that the state, being the most peaceful in the Southeast, has been insulated from chaos and commotion experienced in other zones. To sustain these achievements,  a concerted efforts should be made to build on them. Mbah said it requires a commitment to selflessly harness the state’s human and material resources. “It requires someone with a good head, someone who has experience in private and public sectors,” he added. Mbah promised to grow the Enugu’s 4.4 billion Gross Domestic Product (GDP) yearly to 30 billion in the next four to eight years.  “You cannot achieve this through incremental growth, five or six percent. We want to achieve a quantum leap through disruptive innovation. “There should be an ease of doing business, ease of procurement and permit. We will strengthen our institutions, our judiciary. We have ambitious targets across the sectors.” Mbah explained that he threw his hat into the ring, not for selfish reasons, but because of his passion for diligent service. He said the sub-units at the state level should be strengthened to cater for the people at the grassroots. Reflecting on the shadow poll, he said it was a wonderful struggle. He paid tribute to other contenders who have embraced him as candidate. He paid tribute to Senator Ike Ekweremadu, who, in his view, behaved honourably. “We share the same passion for Enugu. It did not come as a surprise to me that he is backing me,” he said. He added:”It is humbling. We have reached out to other aspirants. They have congratulated us. The state of our union continues to be stronger. The race was a brotherly affair. The party is fostering unity. We will sustain the alliance.” Mbah said if elected, his deputy will not be a spare tyre. “He should add value and he should be capable of governing the state when I am not there,” he stressed. The candidate ruled out the possibility of predecessor-successor crisis. He said 23 years after the restoration of civil rule, PDP, which has ruled the state, has become one family. Mbah unfolded plans to introduce a 24-year development programme. In the Southeast, he called forc a planned regional integration. If elected, Mbah said his philanthropist activities, carried out by his foundation, will be sustained. The foundation has built roads, hospitals and make many educational interventions, including payment of WAEC fees for indigent students.