On May 5, 2022, a certain Dorcas Ogbeide shared a post on a Facebook Group; Nadia Buhari Fans, of a twin picture of a young lady on a hospital bed with the chest area wrapped in a bandage. In the post with a bold inscription ‘A CRY FROM THE DEATH BED; a man claiming to be the sick lady’s husband claimed that the young lady, one Mrs. Promise Amesi is down with cancer and has been on 24/7 life support. He said the family urgently needed N850, 000 to save her life. He added that Mrs. Amesi has been on drips and oxygen for the past two months and her family has spent all their money to keep her alive. Amesi said: “It has not been easy buying oxygen because she can’t breathe and the doctor said she needed an amount which cost about #850,000 for her medical treatment.” On the same day, Ogbeide shared the same post on four other Facebook Groups: Official Gucci Fans; Oyerepa Family; TB Joshua official; and Young Elders GCFR Comedy Fans. About a week earlier, on April 29, 2022, a certain Josky Akpan had shared the same SOS message in the same Nadia Buari Group with the same pictures accompanying the plea for financial assistance from the public. But, it was Ogbeide that ensured that the post went viral with her multiple sharing on the Group accounts she belonged to. At the bottom part of the message a bank account belonging to Promise Amesi was printed for whoever wants to send money to her to pay for medical upkeep and save them from the life-threatening condition.  From pieces of evidence gathered through fact-checking using Tin Eye image search, it is established that the claim is false and it is a scam to fleece the unsuspecting public of their hard earns monies. The said cancer patient is not Promise Amesi but Debbie Osarere, and the picture was first found on June 30, 2015, on the internet. The link below; tag/health/page/6/ -2013/10/photos-cancer-patient-debbie-osareres/  first found on June 30,2015, emerging on the reverse image search engine, is a pointer to the fact that the scammer uses a fake name and fake bank account intentionally to dupe innocent people.   Osinbajo off to Abidjan for Africa CEO Forum     BREAKING: 30 feared killed as herdsmen attack Benue…     Tinubu Campaign Organisation disowns viral unofficial…   With the name, this reporter dug further using Google Search to reveal physical evidence that the claims were indeed false and disinformation.  This is the true story. The lady’s full name is Debbie Idiagbonya Osarere, a cancer awareness campaigner that succumbed to breast cancer in 2016. Her case was widely reported by the media and Osarere became a social media sensation at the point with notable Nigerian online media like dailypost.ng, kemifilani.ng, thewillnigeria.com, aproko247.com, nairaland.com, and lindaikejisblog.com feasting on the human angle story. On April 26, 2012, www.dailypost.ng published the story of her cancer diagnosis in which she was soliciting financial help to the tune of N6million from well-meaning people. Dailypost.ng in the online publication posted her account details and contact details for the prospective donors. The link to the story is below: Be a Good Samaritan: Help save Debbie Osarere from breast cancer – Daily Post Nigeria – https://dailypost.ng/2012/08/26/be-good-samaritan-help-save-debbie-osarere-breast-cancer/?amp=1. In the same vein, nairaland.ng and lindaikejisblog.com followed with other stories on Debbie’s battle to survive cancer. The twin picture that circulated in 2022 and was portrayed as fresh was actually used by nearly all the online platforms above to tell their stories. For four years this went on until 2016 when she lost her battle with cancer. Same cancer she battled undid her. The event like her survival stories attracted both online and social media. Lindaikejisblog.com reported her death with this link; https://www.lindaikejisblog.com/2016/04/cancer-patient-debbie- osarere.html, while thewillnigeria.com and kemifilani.ng reported it respectively with their links below;  https://thewillnigeria.com/news/brest-cancer-survivor-debbie-osarere-loses-battle-to-skull-cancer/ and https://www.kemifilani.ng/news/so-sad-cancer-patient-debbie-idiagbonya/amp. What the scammer simply did was to ‘resurrect’ Debbie Idiaghonya Osarere, renamed her with a new bank account to match the fake name, and posted it on social media with the nefarious intention of fleecing people. Their scheme worked perfectly as it is being shared by the unsuspecting public to make it viral. This could be established from the Ogbeides and Joskys that share the post multiple times.  This evidence also shows that the scammer faked pictures of cancer patients like Debbie to scam the public on Facebook. Debbies is one such case of internet fraud. Her case rebounded six years after her death to defraud the public.