IN the end, the All Progressives Congress (APC) didn’t need any consensus to pick the party’s presidential candidate. Party chairman Abdullahi Adamu’s curt announcement days to the primary that the president had backed the senate president, Ahmad Lawan, collapsed as soon as it was made public. Nor did the president get his wish to be allowed to ‘pick’ his successor in the same way he allowed progressive governors to ‘promote’ their successors or secure a second term ticket. In fact, all the rigmarole of more than a year to evade honouring the gentlemen’s agreement to rotate the presidency between the North and the South, led to nought in the face of the combined and determined efforts by about a dozen northern governors and ex-Lagos governor Ahmed Bola Tinubu to salvage the trust being noisily dissipated by the party, its chairman, Aso Villa cabals, and perhaps the quizzical vacillations of the president. This formula, which has saved the ruling party from implosion, may be a template for the future. It is pointless rehashing the machinations of the party against the eventual winner of the June 7-8 APC presidential primary, or the people and interests involved in the plots. Having won the primary by an embarrassing landslide of 1,271 votes, the party’s standard-bearer, Asiwaju Tinubu, has begun the process of healing the needless divides that had fouled trust within the party, turned the North against the South, and exposed the disorder sapping the vitality and vision of the Buhari administration. It is sufficient to mention that all the plots, ranging from drafting ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele, African Development Bank (AfDB) president Akinwunmi Adesina, and last-ditch weapon Sen Lawan, collapsed before the brilliant and dogged politicking of Asiwaju Tinubu and the circumspection, ethicism and pertinacity of a faction of northern governors probably inspired by Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State and Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State. If credit for the peaceful and transparent outcome of the primary is given to the referenced northern governors, that is, discounting the staying power and chutzpah of Asiwaju Tinubu who dared the cabal and won, it is richly deserved. They may be opportunistic in fighting for a cause whose dividends they hope to cash in the years ahead, but they proved more resolute in standing for progressive politics, despite the intimidations of Aso Villa and the northern rabble. Their southern counterparts, particularly some south-western governors, proved not only less resolute but even far less strategic. Whereas the northern governors put their money where their mouths were, nearly returning overwhelming number of votes in favour of the eventual winner, the southern governors dissipated their votes, quibbled inordinately, and even proved shifty in at least one state. As this column consistently maintained for two months or three, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo stood no chance at all. How and why he and his supporters failed to see the handwriting on the wall is a mystery. Yes, their presence on social media was unexampled, and the aspirant’s reliance on his eloquence overweening, but those gifts and tactics are wholly unsuited to the dynamics of party primaries. The elitist and snobbish south-western audience distrusted and disliked Asiwaju Tinubu for his earthy politics and the permanent grin on his face, preferring instead the inscrutable seriousness and intellectual gravity on Prof. Osinbajo’s face, but their assumptions were not only off-key, they were also too romantic and inapplicable to the political exigencies of Nigeria. They wanted a saint, as it were, even though they had little understanding of what that meant; but in the face of hard-boiled politics, as against their political fantasies, their expectations were truly jejune. On June 7 and 8, some 1,271 APC delegates, exploded their myths and rub their noses in the dirt. Those triumphant and iconoclastic delegates conceded only 235 votes to Prof Osinbajo, 316 to ex-Rivers governor Rotimi Amaechi, and 152 votes to party chairman Adamu’s consensus pick, Sen Lawan. The margins were humiliating; but much more, they represent something new in Nigerian politics. By given Asiwaju Tinubu only 10 votes out of a possible 288 votes, the Southeast once again manifests a troubling disconnect with that new something. The dithering Southwest is more flexible, and will sooner or later recalibrate its politics to suit the exigencies of the moment. While the North will likely continue to show fortitude and imagination in its practice and understanding of politics in the years ahead, and the South-South dithers, the Southeast may inadvertently proceed in playing the outsider politics, not only in the APC as seen in this case, but also in its PDP redoubt. Changes are no doubt afoot. The North is proving more anticipatory, calculating and responsive, if not entirely savvy and realistic, in its politics than the South. The APC presidential primary was supposed to showcase the strength and savvy of the South, particularly the Southwest, but it was the North that stole everyone’s thunder. Now, it has seemed that the North gifted Asiwaju Tinubu the crown, and even the candidate’s own talent, brilliance, decades of networking, and years of altruistic support for many Nigerian politicians, individuals and worthy causes appeared to pale in comparison. Until next week when the candidates announce their running mates, the battle for 2023 presidency will not be truly joined. The PDP has presented ex-vice president Atiku Abubakar, an old acquaintance of the APC candidate, to carry its flag into that brutal contest. They have fought together, played together, bantered with each other, mourned together, and since 2014/15 duelled. One of the two will emerge triumphant. It is not clear whether their choice of running mates will play a significant role in the outcome, but their style, which is not too dissimilar, and their depth of knowledge and understanding will undoubtedly become huge factors in the coming plebiscite. Alhaji Atiku is uniting the PDP behind him, so, too, Asiwaju Tinubu. Both parties are likely to go to war united behind their banners. The APC, however, has more to lose, having in recent years produced more ethically challenged chief executives of government agencies. So, they will force themselves into unaccustomed unity behind their candidate. Luckily for the candidate, he won the primary by an emphatic and unquestionable margin, and the losers have no straw or even broken reed to clutch at. The PDP senior elite have been harried and derided by the APC for nearly eight years; they need fear no further fall. But even they will also be united behind their party’s banner and give a good account of themselves. The most pressing task before the candidates is the choice of running mates. Neither candidate is in a position to boast or grin mischievously about the discomfort the other is facing. The APC candidate, being a southerner, will have to surmount the religious distemper viciously coursing through the land to pick a running mate that truly suits his political calculations. And the PDP candidate will have to reckon with the atrocious happenings in the Southeast, not to say with the somewhat controversial and unlikely options in the South-South, to pick someone who will add significant value to his ticket. Neither choice will be easy. Worse, both candidates, like all the other parties, are being stampeded to make that choice in just a week, unfortunately over the din of ethno-religious clamour in the North and South. During the APC primary, one of Asiwaju Tinubu’s opponents disseminated a story that the eventual winner had picked a Muslim running mate. The candidate scrambled to debunk the story. If he would pick a Muslim, it seemed, he would want to do so after the votes, not before.   Buhari, Tinubu and succession snafu     Jonathan, APC: shameless and self-righteous     Toying with open presidential tickets   Since this piece is essentially about the outcome of the APC primary, it is necessary to say a definitive word about who Asiwaju Tinubu’s running mate might be. That choice will be hugely controversial, but since his savvy is not in doubt, what is required next is for him to approach the issue with a lot of courage. For the APC to retain its frontrunner position and stand a good and sumptuous chance of winning and retaining the presidency, the candidate and his handlers must do their electoral arithmetic well and situate it within the context of regional cultures and politics. In the coming polls, and as things stand today, the party is expected to take the Northwest by a tremendous margin, the Northeast by a decent margin, the North Central by a slim margin, and the Southwest by a clean sweep. What stands, in a manner of speaking, in the way of this calculation, it is suggested wildly in many fora and on social and to some extent traditional media, is the APC candidate picking a Muslim running mate. But there is hardly one potential Christian running mate in the three zones in the North capable of galvanising the kind of votes and margins sufficient for an APC victory. So, if he picks a Muslim running mate, there will be outcry in the religiously polarised, indeed Pentecostal, Southwest, and North Central. But months later that outcry will be mollified by other factors that favourably dispose the candidate to the two zones. There are strident voices in the North Central and Northeast rejecting and even criminalising the choice of Muslim running mate; but the candidate will calculate the opportunity cost of a Christian running mate being unable to galvanise the rich and undiscriminating vote of the Northwest and Northeast. The APC saw the statistical glimmers of these tendencies in the primary.  The Southwest will, for instance, have to decide, on account of Muslim running mate, whether they would be prepared to sacrifice and exchange their Southwest son for a north-easterner. And the North Central, which had always thrived regardless of the religion of whoever ruled the nation, would have to determine whether the Muslim running mate factor is strong enough to make them disregard their natural instinct to embrace and promote progressive leadership. The APC candidate will take consolation in the fact that voters, to the extent of their enlightenment, are unlikely to limit their decisions to just the issue of running mate. They will probably see the issues surrounding the polls holistically. They will want to know who can better handle the existential conundrum the country has been pushed into by years of gross leadership incompetence. Whatever drawbacks the APC candidate will grapple with in selecting a running mate will be more than counterbalanced by his publicly acclaimed intuitive grasp of developmental issues, his well-known competence in discovering and managing next generation leaders, his deep and abiding belief in the rule of law and democratic practices, and his courage, candour, earthiness, visionary policies, and depth of knowledge. A section of the electorate will prefer to continue scoffing at both his background and records as governor as well as pillory his business models and practices, not to say his statements sometimes framed in inexact and even provocative terminologies, but his inner self-confidence and his sensible distrust of elitism should serve his argument well and drive his campaign. More than his opponent, nearly everyone knows him to be a shrewd accountant and auditor; this should frighten malfeasant public officers and endear him to those exasperated by decades of desperate filching of national resources. Asiwaju Tinubu won the primary by a wide and unequivocal margin. This is just the beginning. He knows his PDP opponents are keeping their gunpowder dry. They will unleash a fusillade at the appropriate time, especially seeing how easily the Prof. Osinbajo netizen crowd bullied and overwhelmed the APC candidate on social media during the primary. The PDP, together with his other enemies, will ask questions about his health, and keep at it for a very long time, including focusing on his quivering hand. He must prepare an answer, for he cannot shoo them away or ignore them and hope they will tire. They will refrain from focusing on his age, except to question its accuracy, for his main challenger is even older and less agile. He has had a knee surgery and sometimes has difficulty climbing stairs, but beyond a tremulous hand and a difficult knee, he is surprisingly much stronger and imbued with far more stamina than many people younger than he. No matter what he says, however, most of his opponents will persist in denouncing him. He will have to steel both his mind and gaze in order not to be distracted from emphasising his copious strengths. His doggedness helped him overcome his opponents and enemies within the party, many of them highly placed party officials. Someone made of less sterner stuff would have capitulated. Asiwaju Tinubu will have to draw on that kind of resoluteness to surmount what is certain to be a bad-tempered campaign, some of it projected by his supposed friends. As the Ekiti delegates’ votes showed during the primary, which is yet to be refuted, injuries inflicted by those close to home will rattle him more than injuries from outside. He may have overcome his enemies within the party, he will, however, be naïve to imagine that all of them have reconciled with his presidential primary victory, not to talk of preparing to welcome his anticipated triumph in the 2023 presidential poll. He of course does not display the kind of malice and malignant hatred some key leaders in the party and his Southwest region show intermittently, a virtue he should struggle against all odds to sustain in the months ahead, he must, however, be on his toes, expecting the best and tolerating the worst. He will also have to find a fitting response to the controversial posers thrown at his campaign by the overt politicking of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). It is not clear how the body of Christ hopes a Christian vice president would be of any help to the church, especially in view of the unique and iconic history of the early church. But for the church to repose so much hope in their running mate campaign almost to the detriment of carefully examining the pros and cons of the candidates themselves appears perplexing. In the best of times, and with the most uncontroversial of doctrines, unity in the church had always remained a chimera. For CAN to seek to herd the church in one direction against one party or the other, when their help does not come from any hill, must qualify as one of the most engaging puzzles of modern church life. There are anchors that sustain the church: crass politicking is not one of them. If other faiths repose hope in such gestures, it is not for the church to mimic the world system. In any case, the insistence on religion to define running mates may be a northern phenomenon; it is not a southern phenomenon. The church obviously flounders when it walks with strange gods. After the running mates are known, and the shape of the combatants become clear, the nature of the impending battle to redefine Nigeria and move the country forward can be better examined. Whatever comments anyone makes now may be just prefatory. At last, however, Asiwaju Tinubu has found in Alhaji Atiku an opponent worthy of the name. The campaigns will be great and entertaining, and the outcome epochal. Many Nigerians are miffed by the ineluctable choices presented them by the APC and PDP primaries, and have even begun to fantasise, largely on social media, the candidacy of Peter Obi of the Labour Party. Their romantic notions of the presidential sweepstakes are nothing but blowsy delusions. The Obi campaign is unlikely to gain significant traction. Instead, the focus will be on APC and PDP.