PEOPLE of Oke-Ogun area in Oyo State have decried alleged marginalisation and seclusion of the region by government, saying that the channel at which dividends of democracy can reach them was faulty.The people noted that the region, which comprises of 10 local governments has been enslaved by Ibadan, which dominates the political space of the entire state. A communique issued yesterday during the 2022 ‘Oke-Ogun Democracy Celebration’ theme: Effective Democratic Participation: “Wither Oke-Ogun” held at Ago-Are City Town Hall , Atisbo Local Government Area of Oyo State stated that Oke-Ogun has been marginalised and secluded from important positions in the state since independent, urging people of the region to stand up and fight for their right. Barr. Adeola Fehintola, who read the communiqué said denial of some positions such as  Governor and Senator has caused developmental and infrastructural deficit in all the ten local government in the region. They noted that many projects such as Otu-Ipapo road, Ikere gorge Dam, Okerete International Market, Okeho-Iganna road, and Housing Estate in Okaka, Ago-Are, Okeho among others which can bring development to the region have been abandoned for many years.   Osun 2022: Defeat staring PDP in the face, says…     Aspirant, Commissioner, GNAT hail Tinubu’s emergence…     WSCIJ inducts 21 female reporters as fellows   “Educational sector is also another area of neglect because over two million residents of the region do not have access to higher education, we are not happy for the developmental deficit by all level of government.We call on Oke-Ogun indigenes both home and abroad to come and invest and encourage others so as to show potential of the town particularly in agro-allied and mining industry. Speaking at the event, a federal lawmaker representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa federal constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon. Sina Abiola Peller said Oke-Ogun as the food basket of the state needs to be put into consideration if government want development in the state. He noted that it’s time for people of the region to stand up and fight for their right, saying that whatever the people do today will assist generations unborn.Reacting to his next political move, the lawmaker, who is aspiring for Oyo North Senatorial seat at the Senate frowned at reason why an aspirant (Fatai Buhari) from Ogbomosho with just three local governments would still want to dominate Oke-Ogun that has 10 local governments after his two term at the Senate. He however urged people in the region to join hands to liberate the region for the sake of equity, fairness and Justice.The Aare of Ofiki land, Oba Adeoye Oyetunji said traditional rulers in the region are not happy because of lack of unity among Oke-Ogun indigenes which has caused a setback for the region.