Incessant strikes by unions in tertiary institutions are causing irreparable same to the nation’s educational system, Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Ishaq has said. Oloyede described the ongoing industrial strike action by members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Non Academic Staff Union (NASU) as unnecessary. Prof Oloyede spoke in Ilorin, Kwara state capital when JAMB in collaboration with a United States based agency, Project Cure, presented a multi-billion naira medical equipment to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) for improved health care delivery in the country. He said: “While acknowledging the fact that the primary responsibility of reasonable (even if not adequate) funding of public health and education institutions lies on the proprietors-the Government, may I seize this opportunity to call on the employers, university-based labour unions to appreciate the irreparable damage of incessant strikes on not just the students but also the nation”. Oloyede said that the intervention of the board in the area of health care delivery was to support government’s efforts at addressing the huge medical infrastructural gap, added that JAMB would continue to prune down its expenses through prudent management, adoption of relevant cost-saving technology, and other efficiency-strategies to free up resources to support major stakeholders such as the tertiary health and educational institutions in order to uplift the health and educational institutions.   Enugu Catholic Diocese disowns Mbaka over attack on Peter…     LIVE UPDATES: Ekiti Decides 2022     Drama as Reps member displays ‘salary’ alert of…   He said that the hospital equipment were for 12 beneficiary health facilities in all the six geopolitical zones in the country,. The equipment include angle poise lamp, Ventilator, consumables, Mattress, OG couch, gynecology chair, treatment table, treadmill machine, crutches, ICU beds, urinary catheters, defibrillator machines, laparoscopy machines, needle and syringes, wheel chairs, Oxygen concentrator, suction machines, endoscopy machines, among others. The JAMB registrar, who urged individuals and corporate bodies to imbibe the spirit of volunteerism and sacrifice and rededicate themselves to promotion of the best interest of humanity through facilitation of physical infrastructure and enhanced capacity-building projects in our inadequately funded public education and health institutions, chastised Nigerian politicians who paid N100 million for expression of interest and nomination forms for the 2023 presidential race. “If the people, who had paid the N100m to buy nomination and expression of interest for the presidential election had done that for the nation’s health interventions, many people would have been praying for them. I don’t know who would be praying for them now”, he said. In his earlier remark, the Chief Medical Director (CMD) of UITH, Prof Yussuf Abudullah, said that the provision would go a long way to assuage and relieve the management of the hospital financially. The CMD also said that the the intervention would help to provide necessary services to our numerous clientele. “This is a novel and noble idea capable of helping the Nigerian masses. This is a happy event for me and the hospital. We are very happy to have it as the very first hospital to receive the equipment and to be commisioned among the 12 beneficiary institutions,” he said.