Lagos State Governor Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC),  the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAF), Advertising Council of Nigeria (APCON) and Heads of Sectoral Groups (HASGs)are expected to review the progress made in the ease of doing business in the country. Others expected for the forum being organised by the Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) to discuss the role of regulators in the ease of doing business are Lagos State Commissioner for Trade and Industry and Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (ASAA). Speaking during a press conference in Lagos yesterday, ADVAN President, Osamede Uwubanmwen said the dialogue will be an avenue to bring together stakeholders to discuss the way forward on how to move the industry forward, stressing that, the idea for industry regulators to brainstorm in a room to move the economy forward. He said the event scheduled to take place on June 22, 2022 at Radisson Blue Hotel GRA Ikeja with the theme: ‘the Role of Government Regulations in the Ease of Doing Business’ will see the Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole deliver the keynote address. “When regulators come up with policies, they need feedback on how regulations are affecting the industry, and we believe that’s what dialogue is all about, it’s something we have done over the years and the essence is to ensure we have sanity in where we do business,” he said, adding that industry dialogue is an annual event organized by ADVAN to bring stakeholders together. “Why we are considering the ease of the doing business is because, we believe that regulations should help business to succeed, because when business grows, the revenue grows, the economy grows and everybody will be happy.   ‘Women can sustain GDP growth’     FAAN eyes seven per cent passenger growth     ‘Over 10m Nigerians actively engaged in fisheries’   “Among all the players in marketing industry, ADVAN sits in a very important position because in ADVAN, you have stakeholders from telecoms, pharmaceuticals, FMCG, and for us regulation should be an everyday thing, it should be after one or two years before regulators will come up with new regulatory framework,” he added. On the impact of previous industry dialogues, the ADVAN chief said after the dialogues, the body always comes up with memorandum which it transfers to policy makers adding that the group is convinced that, the policy makers are looking in the direction of the ease of doing business. Also responding to questions on involving people from the grassroots on the dialogue, he said the invite is extended to everybody or group running a business in the country whether from the federal, states or local government. Giving a vote of thanks at the event, the Chief Executive Officer of ADVAN, Mrs Ediri Ose-Ediale said the forum seeks to provide a meeting point for critical stakeholders in the marketing communications industry and the various regulatory institutions, to proffer global best practice solutions on effective regulations for economic growth and development. According to her, advertising cut across several sectors which include hospitality, pharmaceuticals, engineering, FMCG, telecoms, among others and all of them are critical to how businesses are done in Nigeria.