The presidential candidate of the New Nigerian Peoples’ Party (NNPP), Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has attributed Nigeria’s current crisis to poor leadership. He spoke while interacting with party stakeholders, women and youths from Zamfara, Kebbi and Sokoto states recently. The NNPP flag bearer assured Nigerians that if given the mandate he will reposition the country for good. He urged the electorates to resist any attempt by selfish politicians to induce them into voting wrong candidates. He said electorates should not mortgage their conscience for stipends during next year’s general elections Kwankwaso, a one-time governor of Kano State, also told the audience, which also included candidates seeking elective positions on the party’s platform across all levels in Sokoto State that the newly formed NNPP was on board to reverse the growing trend of economic woes, insecurity, educational crisis, health sector challenges and youth unemployment bedevilling almost all sections of the country. He said Nigeria was rusting and fast decaying in many spheres of its national transition and that the party is seeking to rebuild Nigeria to bring back its past glory for the benefit of the average citizen. He said: “We are resilient and committed to having and giving good leadership if voted into office.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     Sultan directs Muslim to look out for new moon of…   “This is a departure from what we are experiencing today with the two major parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) whose attention is far away from serving the citizens of this country.” The presidential candidate who was accompanied by Alhaji Buba Galadima and other party stalwarts explained that his visit was to thank and appreciate all stakeholders from states for their unity and strength of loyalty to the party and his candidature ahead of next year’s general elections. Kwankwaso urged them to take advantage of the continuous voters’ registration exercise being conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) so as to enable them to obtain their permanent voters’ card (PVC) as a weapon to send other party candidates packing during the election. The party’s governorship candidate in Sokoto State, Senator Umaru Dahiru Tambuwal said the emergence of the NNPP as a party is a good omen and a symbol of the political transformation that would usher a new lease of life to the people; “a life full of hope, development and prosperity for Nigerians”. He added: “We are coasting home, moving from strength to strength because we are giving hope to Nigerian citizens by reawakening their political consciousness towards collectively voting our candidates for a new Nigeria of our dream.” Meanwhile, party chairmen from the three states and supporters also attended the event.