Suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari has spoken about his involvement with international fraud suspect, Abbas Ramon (a.k.a Hushpuppi). Kyari said his involvement with Hushpuppi was during his engagement, as a senior police officer, in a sting operation against the alleged fraudster, five months before his (Hushpuppi’s) arrest. He faulted the extradition application filed by the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) for his extraction to the United States (US). Kyari argued that the offences in respect of which a three-count charge was filed against him in the US, for which his extradition was being sought, are not extraditable offences. The suspended DCP stated these in a counter-affidavit he filed against the application for his extradition filed by the AGF, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/249/2022. In the counter-affidavit, deposed to by Kyari’s junior brother, Mohammed, he stated: “The specified offences are not extraditable offences of a political character, and were in fact made for the purpose of prosecuting and punishing the Respondent on account of his race, nationality, and was not made in good faith nor in the interest of justice. “The respondent is a senior police officer in Nigeria carrying out ‘sting investigation’ on Ramon Olorunwa Abbas or AbdulRahman Imraan Juma, otherwise known as Hushpuppi,” he said. Kyari said he wrote to the Interpol and the Inspector General of Police (IGP) on January 28, 2020 and March 3, 2020 “in respect of the sting investigation being carried out by the respondent (Kyari). This was five months before the arrest of Ramon and others by the FBI. “The request for the extradition is not supported by any document or verifiable evidence. “The request is directed to undermine the crackdown on various crime gangs by the respondent in Nigeria and internationally, and has political undertone. “The request is for purposes of persecuting or punishing the Respondent on account of his defence for the country.   FCTA insists Abuja Okada operators must get permit     EFCC confirms release of former AGF     2023: I will beat Atiku as APC candidate – Okorocha   “The respondent is confronted with series of charges to break him down because of his achievements and various national honours. “The offences are trumped up and the Respondent is seriously committed to defending himself. “The application for extradition processes clearly shows allegation of crimes committed on Nigerian soil. “The respondent has undergone administrative inquiry which is still on going and has not been completed to date on the same matter. “The respondent is a Deputy Commissioner of Police in the employment of the Nigeria Police, who is highly decorated with meritorious service/excellent awards for outstanding service to the nation and has nowhere to run to. “The respondent has equally been decorated by the U.S. Authorities. “Having regards to all the circumstances thereof, it will be unjust, oppressive and improper to surrender the respondent to the United State of America. “Equally, there is an ongoing criminal trial against the Respondent in FHC/ABJ/CR/57/2022 which the applicant failed to disclose. “The respondent submit that the applicant’s request concealed the ongoing criminal proceedings against the respondent, and it will prove that, on the merit, this application is deserving of being dismissed and the respondent to be discharged accordingly. The AGF has responded to Kyari’s counter-affidavit, faulted his claims and prayed the court to allow his extradition. When the case came up on Thursday, Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja granted Kyari’s request, made through his lawyer, Nureini Jimoh (SAN) for permission to file a further affidavit. Justice Ekwo rejected the request by the AGF’s lawyer, Pius Akutah to reply orally to Kyari’s notice of preliminary objection, but ordered him to file a formal reply. The judge adjourned till Friday for the formal hearing of the substantive suit along with the objection.