The All Progressives Congress (APC) is now poised to go for a southern presidential candidate at its primary scheduled for Tuesday in Abuja following a last minute endorsement by President Muhammadu Buhari and governors elected on the platform of the party. The governors – 11 of them – convened an emergency meeting in Abuja moments before Buhari hosted the party’s 23 presidential aspirants yesterday and resolved that the president ought to be succeeded by a southerner in the interest of national unity. They passed their suggestion to the president who gave it his backing immediately. He said the presidential aspirants should proceed for consultations and come up with a “formidable candidate”. Chairman of the Southern States Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu, hailed Buhari and the northern governors for “this heart-warming decision from our colleagues, great patriots and reliable partners in the collaborative efforts geared towards the attainment of nationhood for our dear country.” Minister of State for Labour Festus Keyamo called it one of the most pivotal moments in Nigeria’s history. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Special Duties, Mallam Ya’u Darazo, and former Secretary to the Rivers State Government, Senator Magnus Abe, declared that attempts by detractors to cause misunderstanding between Buhari and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, would fail. The APC northern governors, in a communiqué at the end of their Abuja meeting yesterday, asked President Buhari to restrict his search within the party for a successor to the  southern states. They said power shift to the South would be in the interest of building a stronger, more united and more progressive country. They advised all Northern presidential aspirants to withdraw in the national interest and allow only the aspirants from the south to proceed to the primaries. Based on their advisory, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State immediately withdrew from the presidential race. The communique: “APC governors and political leaders from the northern states of Nigeria today met to review the political situation and to further support our party in providing progressive leadership amidst our national challenges. “During our discussions, we welcomed President Muhammadu Buhari’s invitation to governors and other stakeholders to contribute to the emergence of a strong presidential candidate for the APC. “After careful deliberation, we wish to state our firm conviction that after eight years in office of President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the APC for the 2023 elections should be one of our teeming members from the southern states of Nigeria. ”It is a question of honour for the APC, an obligation that is not in any way affected by the decisions taken by another political party. “We affirm that upholding this principle is in the interest of building a stronger, more united and more progressive country.” They pleaded with Buhari to limit his search for a successor to the South. They added: “We therefore wish to strongly recommend to President Muhammadu Buhari that the search for a successor as the APC’s presidential candidate be limited to our compatriots from the southern states. “We appeal to all aspirants from the northern states to withdraw in the national interest and allow only the aspirants from the south to proceed to the primaries. “We are delighted by the decision of our esteemed colleague, His Excellency, Governor Abubakar Badaru, to contribute to this patriotic quest by withdrawing his presidential aspiration. “The APC has a duty to ensure that the 2023 elections offer a nation-building moment, reaffirming that a democratic pathway to power exists for all who value cooperation and build national platforms. “This moment calls for the most sober and inclusive approach to selecting our party’s candidate, and we call on all APC leaders to fulfill their responsibility in this regard.” The governors and leaders made their position known in a communique at the end of a meeting in Abuja. Signatories to the communiqué were Governors Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Muhammed Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Bello Matawalle (Zamfara) and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger). Others were Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa), Babagana Umara Zulum (Borno), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) and ex-Sokoto State Governor Aliyu Wamakko. Addressing the party’s presidential aspirants and other leaders of the APC at a meeting last night, President Buhari said the aspirants should proceed on consultations immediately and come up with a formidable consensus candidate. He said the APC has, in the aspirants, capable people who could take Nigeria to greater heights. “Looking at this assemblage of personalities and considering your rich pedigree of accomplishments in life, I have come to the conclusion that our party, the APC, is rich in human resources and also that our nation is blessed with capable people that can successfully steer the ship of state into the future,” his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity Femi Adesina quoted him as saying. The President added: “Our party, the APC, has won two successive presidential elections in 2015, first when we were in the opposition and in 2019 when I sought re-election. “Both processes were achieved through unity of purpose, strategic alignment, consultation, fairness, determination and effective leadership. In both instances, national and party interests were overriding factors in our deliberations and decision-making. “The 2023 General Elections are fast approaching in a global, regional and national environment that is constantly changing and challenging. This demands that our party should become more aware of the changing environment, be responsive to the yearnings of our citizens, re-evaluate our strategy and strengthen our internal mechanism so that we would sustain the electoral successes. “I am pleased to note that the party, recognising the significance of all these demands, has over time developed several democratically acceptable processes and policies that promote consultation, internal cohesion and leadership to facilitate victories at the polls.”   Man stoned, burnt to death, in Abuja over alleged blasphemy     Orji Kalu’s contrarian politics     Bandits attack Kaduna community, abduct 14   The President recalled the consultation he had held with stakeholders “that would help the electoral fortunes of our party, beginning with the State Governors. This is the second in the series and I still look forward to meeting with party stakeholders. These steps are being taken to ensure that the unity and cohesion of the party are sustained and to provide direction. “Amongst others things, I reminded the APC Governors of the need for the party to proceed to the 2023 Presidential elections with strength, unity of purpose and to present a flag bearer who will give Nigerians a sense of hope and confidence, while ensuring victory for our party. I extend a similar reminder to all of you distinguished aspirants.” Saying the APC will on Monday June 6, 2022 commence its national convention during which one candidate will be picked by delegates to fly the flag of the party for the 2023 Presidential Election, President Buhari said he was aware that there is anxiety among party members about the outcome of the process. “Given these circumstances, I charge you to recognise the importance of the stability and unity of the party, which cannot be overemphasised. “Similarly, I wish to remind you that our choice of flag bearer must be formidable, appealing to the electorate across the board and should command such ability to unify the country and capacity to address our critical challenges. “Ahead of the Convention, the party machinery has screened and found all aspirants eminently qualified. Recognising this fact, the Screening Committee has, amongst others, recommended that consensus building through consultation be intensified. “Without prejudice to your qualifications, I urge all of you to hold consultations amongst yourselves and with the party with a view to building a consensus in a manner that would help the party reduce the number of aspirants, bring up a formidable candidate and scale down the anxiety of party members.” The President said that in the interest of the nation and the party, he would continue to provide effective leadership during the transition processes and ongoing consultations “until we successfully make the choice on the candidate that will fly the flag of our party for the presidential elections and make the party stronger. I seek your support in this all important responsibility.” Earlier, National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, had promised that all stakeholders of the party would be reached in the consultation process. Responding on behalf of the aspirants, former Governor of old Abia State and immediate past Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, and Vice President, ‘Yemi Osinbajo, thanked the President for his leadership and guidance, pledging that they would hold the consultations as counseled “for the unity and strength of our party, the APC.” Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu applauded the APC Northern governors for their initiative. Akeredolu, who doubles as Chairman, Southern Nigeria Governors’ Forum, said in a statement that nothing short of “this heart-warming decision” was expected from “our colleagues, great patriots and reliable partners in the collaborative efforts geared towards the attainment of nationhood for our dear country.” Continuing, he said: “This is indeed another landmark achievement in our quest for understanding, rapprochement and continual engagements for mutual beneficence. “We acknowledge this courageous stance for equity and moral rectitude. We applaud the zeal and determination of our brothers to engage realistically and honestly. We salute this uncommon resolve to confront issues militating against the march towards nationhood and ultimate greatness. “By this gesture, we are convinced of the seriousness of our colleagues to join other patriots in ensuring that the ascendant march towards stability, progress and prosperity is not truncated by indiscretion. “We congratulate our brother Governor, Abubakar Badaru, for his exemplary conduct. Posterity will remember him for good. We thank the leadership of the Northern Governors’ Forum for the patriotic zest displayed at this crucial moment. “We look forward to conducting a hitch-free Convention which will culminate in the election of a suitable candidate who will hoist the flag of the party with a sense of mission.” Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo (SAN) in a tweet yesterday said: “A truly national Party has come to stay. Whilst others hope to cash in on ethnic sentiments to win AT ALL COST, the Northern APC Govs have displayed statesmanship & commitment to the Nigerian Project. “Take note: this is one of the most pivotal moments in the history of Nigeria!” Soon after the meeting with President Buhari last night, South West presidential aspirants proceeded to another part of Abuja for consultation. The meeting was still in progress at press time. It was a follow-up to the one convened in Lagos recently by former Osun State Governor Bisi Akande and former Ogun State Governor Segun Osoba. Akande said at the Lagos meeting that the South West was determined to produce Nigeria’s next president. Presidential aide Darazo rallies support for Tinubu, says President was once victim of misrepresentation Mallam Ya’u Darazo, Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Special Duties, has urged Nigerians, especially members of the APC, to ignore attempt by the opponents of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to misrepresent what he told party leaders and delegates in Abeokuta, Ogun State on Thursday. Darazo, in a statement he signed in his personal capacity as supporter of the presidential ambition of Tinubu, noted that the distortion of what the frontline presidential aspirant said was a dubious attempt to cause discord between him and President Buhari. The Senior Presidential aide started his statement with public disclosure by stating that he was speaking for himself as a member of the team working for Tinubu’s campaign. His words: “In the last 48 hours or so the media space has been polluted by the odious breath of mischief makers, nay ingrates, who misrepresented Asiwaju’s speech with the sole aim of planting discord between him and President Muhammadu Buhari. In their mischievous mind, that would earn them added advantage in the primaries for the Ticket of the APC. ”I have a message for them. They have failed woefully. They should not take Nigerians for granted; Nigerians are wise enough. Let the mischief makers note that good and purposeful leadership is not on the same page with mischief. “It’s good that Nigerians know them early enough. It’s very clear that their purpose of seeking leadership is not service driven. “I was with Asiwaju in Abeokuta among other good people of Ogun State when he delivered the speech in question. It was in Yoruba Language. It was later translated to me—which I found quite acceptable and politically relevant to audience and even beyond. “Truth is Sacred. If the mischief makers think that by misrepresenting Asiwaju’s statement they will get the sympathy of the President, they have failed again—and failed woefully. “President Buhari is not a stranger to the bashing of media mischief. He is a veteran. He passed through it. He suffered from it like no other leader in this country. When he sees media mischief, he would know it certainly, like this one against Asiwaju.”