The Nigeria Cricket Federation has partnered with Africa’s leading Cricket Media organisation, The Middlestump to stage a virtual cricket series: “Africa Cricket Roundtable” which begins today via the Twitter space. The platform according to Tayo Solowe, founder of The Middlestump is set up to aggregate thoughts on issues, prospects and growth of the game by engaging stakeholders from different parts of the continent. “The Nigeria Cricket federation has no doubt been a leading example in what is possible on growth and innovative systems building for the continent. Rwanda has also shown a brilliant event planning, logistics management and talent development. Uganda, Botswana, Ghana and Kenya have unique stories to tell as well. “We are working to build a platform where notes on all these unique stories can be told and exchanged for adoption in the most cost-effective way for the growth of the game.” Sowole said that the Nigeria Cricket Federation has been a worthy partner, not only because the operations of The Middlestump is localized in the country but because the present leadership is a very welcoming and fluid one.   Salah  admits ‘ incredible’ Courtois  denied Liverpool UCL…     Grant wins historic  European tour event     Nike’s man Okorougo dies at 69   “I think what Uyi Akpata has brought to cricket administration is beyond Nigeria, we need a platform where other African countries can benefit from him. But most importantly get other countries to also share their interesting journey for all.” The maiden edition of the event is billed to run on “Twitter Space” on @themiddlestump2 and @CricketNigeria handles on June 13, by 1pm (local time). The theme is “Development Opportunities for Cricket in Africa” The list of panellists for the maiden event include President of Nigeria Cricket Federation Uyi Akpata; Justine Ligyalingi; Development Officer  ICC Africa Rita Tinka; Women Representative Uganda Cricket Board Meet Shah; Co-founder, CricHeroe  Ladi Sonaike; Assistant Coach Cricket Germany and Founder of The Middlestump, Sowole. Sowole said apart from the panellists, that a good number of executives running Cricket across the continent will also be joining. “We believe this series will help a number of Associates get a better grip of their developmental goals and foster partnership that will help drive sustainable growth for the game across the continent.”