Accounts linked to the Bank Verification Number (BVN) stood at 54.7 million on May 29, this year, the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) has said There are the 128.4 million bank accounts in Nigeria as at May 29, this year, according to NIBSS. This was an improvement on the 47.54 million BVN-linked accounts  as at April 11, last year. The figure, however, fell short of the 100 million BVN-linked account target by the  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for deposit money banks by 2025. According to NIBSS, BVN is a unique identity number issued to every bank customer. “For authentication, individuals performing banking transactions (e.g applying for loans) shall be required to identify themselves using their biometric features which will be matched against information in the central database,” NIBSS said.   ‘How gunmen invaded church, killed many in Owo’     Owo Church Attack: Police deploy anti-bomb squad     Global air cargo market dips amid supply chain dislocation   Continuing, NIBSS said with BVN, customers bank accounts are protected from unauthorised access, will address issues of identity theft, thus reduce exposure to fraud, standardise efficiency of banking and enhance the industry chances of being able to fish out blacklisted customers. The CBN, in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee, NIBSS, and a German firm, Dermalog, launched the $50 million BVN project on February 14, 2014,  to capture biometrics of bank customers and giving them a unique identity that can be verified across the banks. The apex bank said increase in BVN enrolment would address the constraint that poor identification has on the availability of credit to prospective banking customers, particularly those in the informal sector. The Bankers’ Committee also unveiled a new plan that required classification of BVN into two – BVN Premium and BVN Lite. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, said BVN Premium covers customers that can provide the 18  requirements for enrolment, while the BVN Lite requires minimal documentation like name and phone number for  customers, especially those in the rural areas that do not meet the full requirements. This, he said, would enable such grassroots’ customers, mainly the poor, conduct minimal financial services and reduce financial exclusion rate.