They say that when you don’t look at your bank account every day, you are rich. And that is precisely what is happening to Paris Saint-Germain and Manchester City. Their profit and loss accounts are so absurd that it is totally unfeasible to believe that they comply with financial fair play. In fact, across the last 10 seasons, if we compare sales and income figures, PSG has a -988m euro balance and Manchester City recorded -1046m. Meanwhile, Barcelona are trying to survive with both their hands tied due to LaLiga’s financial control. The financial power of these two state-owned clubs has meant that money has never been an issue for them in their bid to compete for the Champions League title. Kylian Mbappe’s controversial contract renewal has raised many eyebrows. The Spanish and Italian leagues expressed their unease and in the case of LaLiga, they will file a complaint to investigate whether the operation complies with the financial regulations of UEFA and Ligue 1. Far from casting doubt on the renewal, Ligue 1 president Vincent Labrune hit out at Javier Tebas and questioned his intention to investigate it. “We wish to express in the strongest terms our disapproval, but also our incomprehension, at his latest attacks against Ligue 1 and one of our clubs,” he said.   Balogun to depart Rangers after contract expiration     Peseiro: Eagles played better against Mexico     Barcelona keep tabs on Chukwuemeka   And it is precisely in France that the greatest inequality occurs. According to figures provided by L’Equipe, PSG have 18 of the 20 highest salaries in the league. PSG’s overwhelming dominance in their league is beginning to spread to the rest of Europe. In fact, with the signing of Erling Haaland, Manchester City now own the two highest paid players in the Premier League including Kevin De Bruyne. Meanwhile, PSG went for Neymar and Mbappe before snatching the captains of Real Madrid and Barcelona with offers that their clubs could not match. Despite spending big, both teams are still far behind the traditional European powers. According to a Forbes report, Real Madrid are the richest team in the world ahead of Barcelona. Despite the crisis and the departure of some of their stars, the two Spanish teams continue to lead the rankings. Meanwhile, Leo Messi’s arrival increased PSG’s merchandising revenue by 60 percent and Man City’s products already outsell those of their neighbours, Manchester United. In the meantime, a Saudi-backed consortium has purchased Premier League club Newcastle, converting the Magpies into the richest club in the world. “It’s a game-changer for us,” co-owner Amanda Staveley said after the takeover. “I hope it’s going to be a game-changer for Newcastle United but we also don’t want to make promises we can’t keep. I don’t want to say we are going to be top of the Premier League in three years. I would love that.”