The coalition of North Central Chambers of Commerce and Ibolo Chambers of Commerce, Industries, Mines, and Agriculture (ICCIMA), have clamoured for the creation of a produce marketing board in the country. They said the board would check the indiscriminate invasion of Nigeria’s bushes by the Chinese to buy farm produce. Vice-Chairman of the Coalition of North Central Chambers of Commerce, Dr. Ahmed Raji said this in Offa, Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State at a-two day workshop on agriculture value chain development. The workshop was entitled: ‘Forging strategic partnerships for agriculture chain transformation in Ibolo land.’ Raji added that the board would be in good stead to regulate the prices of farm produce in the country.   Wabote delivers lecture at FUPRE convocation     ‘Nigeria needs help to end insecurity’     Batch B: Call up letters out on Sunday, says NYSC   The former president, Kwara State Chambers of Commerce, Industries Mines and Agriculture (KWACCIMA), said that “it is high time we had a produce marketing board. This will prevent the Chinese man from going to the farm to buy agricultural produce directly. “Nobody can do that in China. When we have a regulatory agency in place, farm produce will be sold at controlled prices.” Corroborating the ex-KWACCIMA chief, Olukotun of Ikotun, Oyun Local Government Area of the state, Oba Abdulrazaq Abioye, decried the uncontrolled and unguided manner by which foreigners “go into the bush to buy cashew nuts and other farm produce in the country. “When we had the Western Nigerian Cocoa Marketing Board, it was not so. In those days, nobody subjected cocoa from Nigeria and Ghana to quality tests. They knew both countries had certified them okay before exportation. We should stop allowing Asians to enter our bushes to buy agricultural products.” Commenting, ICCIMA President, Paul Olagunju urged traditional rulers, well-meaning individuals and organisations to “support us in this noble cause to empower our community, eradicate poverty and create wealth in Ibolo land.” Mr. Paul added that “the world is changing. We need to add value to whatever we bring out of the land in order to unleash the prosperity inherent in the agriculture value chain. That is the essence of the workshop.”