The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has established the Export Trade House (ETH) under the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) in Cairo, Egypt, to replicate them in other parts of the world. Other countries penciled for replications are Nairobi in Kenya, Johannesburg in South Africa, Hunan in China, Ottawa in Canada, Saudi Arabia and Lome, Togo. These are to cover export in the various regions being targeted by Nigeria. The Executive Director/CEO Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Dr. Ezra Yakusak, said the ETH is an initiative of the Council to have a central location where made-in Nigeria products could be shipped, displayed and distributed to various parts of the world. The ED stated this at the advocacy Programme on Export Trade House Cairo Egypt organised by NEPC in Abuja. He said this is in line with the concept of trade house that purchases, sells products for other businesses using their international expertise as it is the practice in countries such as in China, Switzerland, USA, Singapore and the United Kingdom (UK).   We’ll fix Justices’ complaints on work…     Remaining kidnapped railway passengers must be rescued…     Sadio Mane in Munich ahead €41 million move from Liverpool   Ezra said businesses that use trade houses could benefit from its expertise and insight into international markets they operate in as well as get access to vendor financing through loans and credits. The project is one of the Council’s facilities aimed at increasing Nigeria’s international market share. This is further necessitated by the need for aggressive marketing to increase productivity, enhance expansion and facilitate economic growth through non-oil export. He added that it is also a way of addressing the ever-increasing challenge of dwindling revenue from oil as the world is fast moving away from oil to other sources of energy such as electricity for automobiles and solar power  and others. Yakusak said the council had adopted the concept of ETH to drive the non-oil export to increase market share and take maximum advantage of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement (AfCFTA). To this effect, the ETH has been launched on March 21, this year in its location Sadat City, Cairo and is expected to improve value addition on our export of products through cleaning, processing distribution and marketing. This in turn will lead to economies of scale, international foothold in finding new customers and managing currency risks. All of which gives an exporter an advantage over his counterparts.