The November 2020 presidential election in the United States that brought into office President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris was supposed to have settled for some time, the direction of politics in the United States at least for the next two or four years when congressional and presidential elections hold respectively.  But it has not settled anything. As of two weeks ago, the Republican convention in Texas still declared illegitimate the election of President Biden and former President Donald Trump continues to go round the country and to hold press conferences about how he was robbed of victory by entrenched interests in the United States who allowed unqualified people to vote him out of office and to manipulate voting machines to arrive at predetermined answers in favour of his opponent. Right now the Congressional committee probing the January 6, 2021  invasion of Congress while counting the electoral votes, a formal process to affirm the votes of the people about who becomes president, has more or less concluded that the whole thing was planned and directed by the power-hungry President Trump. It was him who engineered and directed a coup d’etat against the United States government which he headed in an attempt to prevent a peaceful transfer of power to his successor. Despite the damning conclusive series of evidence and testimonies including from senior members of his cabinet including the attorney general and members of his family, former President Trump has remained without remorse and he is threatening to announce his candidacy for the 2024 presidential election. In all this, he seems to have a large following and support from the majority of the Republican Party. The reason for this support is that Trump is saying what white Americans believe but are not willing to mount the rostrum to say and this is that the United States is a “white man’s” country and should avoid being swamped by Latinos, Blacks and Asians who, put together may in future constitute the majority. This scenario is being preached to poor white uneducated people whose only self-acclaimed advantage they have in a world dominated by knowledge industry is their white skin. These are the fighting forces for reactionary politics being unfortunately manipulated by the Republican Party of Donald Trump and increasingly by the Supreme Court of the United States. Unlike many liberal democracies all over the world, the United States is perhaps the only country that has a Supreme Court whose members are categorized according to the party of the president who nominated them. One would have thought that these judges should be neutral once they are confirmed to adjudicate on cases in the house of law technically and philosophically blind and without reference for one’s gender, color class or race. But in the America of Trump era, the Supreme Court has become the Republican court. The Supreme Court is made up of nine judges so that at any given point, they are able to make a decision without being deadlocked. Now that there are six Conservative (Republican) judges versus three liberal (Democratic) judges, the court’s direction has become clear. But no one expected that the Supreme Court would go back on judicial decisions of the past and that have become part of the law of the land in some cases for a hundred or fifty years and begin to unravel them. This is what the Supreme Court of the United States has been doing in the last one week and no one knows how it will end. Conservative politicians in the United States used to decry any activist role by the Supreme Court when it decided in the past against segregated schools which it determined could not be separate and equal and decided that public schools should be integrated in the famous Board of Education vs. Brown case of 1952 in which the Supreme Court headed by Justice Earl Warren ruled that separate schools were unconstitutional. Now in recent decision by the Supreme Court, separate private schools set up to undermine this landmark decision are now said to be entitled to state funding on the spurious grounds of the fundamental rights of the parents and the children in those schools. It is like asking the National Universities Commission and TETFUND to make annual allocations to private universities in Nigeria. The court also ruled against the state of New York in its law of asking anyone who wants to carry concealed fire arms to show “due cause”. The court ruled against this reasonable state law by saying the law permitting Americans to carry weapon cannot be bridged in any way or form by a state legislation. People are now legitimately asking whether Americans will now be allowed to carry “concealed weapons” on aero-planes. This judgement came the same week when the Congress of the United States after 30 years, passed a tepid gun law to restrict the purchase of guns fueling the epidemic of gun violence in the United States. The criticism of this decision had hardly died down when the Supreme Court again came down on the 50 years or so law that has permitted women to have access to safe abortion in the United States. The so called Roe vs. Wade law was based on the principle that a woman should have absolute control over her own body. Those who are pro-life on the other hand argue that the unborn child to be aborted also has rights. The question then was asked about when an embryo became a child and the answer was when a heartbeat can be scientifically detected. This has been an emotional issue with women and it is also tied up with the question of women’s rights versus the right to life which some religious bodies like the Catholic Church and Evangelical churches hold very dearly to the point that the Catholic bishop of President Joe Biden diocese threatened to bar the president from Holy communion because of his support for abortion rights.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…     Fintiri picks female VC as running mate   The question has also become a Republican versus Democratic Party issue and may have to be resolved politically if women who feel strongly about the issue can mobilize their members to change the political balance in both houses of the United States congress. As part of the creeping abandonment of liberal tendencies by the Supreme Court, it recently ruled for the return of prayers to school as part of peoples’ fundamental human rights. As a Christian and a church elder, I am for prayers ceaselessly but in the case of America, any tendency towards church control in an essentially secular state is not in the right direction. Even though I do not support anything about civil rights of LGBTQ people but I will not go as far as denying them their rights. But as implied by Justice Thomas, the Black judge on the Supreme Court, every settled decision could be opened to review in the future. The eroding by legislations in several state houses in recent times of the Civil Rights of 1964 is an indication that the President LB Johnson’s 1964 Civil Rights Act may be subject to Supreme Court review.  This will be a bad omen for civil rights of black peoples. The direction of America towards racism, isolationism, and militarism is not in the interest of world peace and harmony. The coming into power by centrist and left wing parties in recent past in Mexico, Canada, Columbia, Chile, and Argentina and possibly in Brazil with the return of Lula da Silva next year shows America as an odd man out even in the Americas not to talk in the rest of the world. The world cannot do without America and America cannot remain an island completely self-sufficient and cut off from the rest of the world and totally oblivious of the thinking of the rest of humanity and expecting itself to survive. One hopes that Americans will see the light and reverse course from the Trumpian tendencies and reactionary politics in its vital institutions of the Congress and the judiciary particularly the apex court – the Supreme Court of the United States.