Former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will win the forthcoming 2023 presidential election. The apex leadership of Tinubu Vanguard said this in Abuja while briefing reporters on Tinubu’s emergence as presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Director General (DG), Tinubu Vanguard, Dr. Johnny Benjamin, said the clear and overwhelming victory is well deserved and indication of the love and trust of the people, particularly the rank and file of the APC. Benjamin hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for his impartial and selfless roles in providing the right leadership for the party by not only allowing a free, fair and credible democratic process: “for the election of the standard bearer of the APC but also listened and hearkened to the yearnings and aspirations of most Nigerians, that power should shift to the south, as championed by almost all the 14 Northern progressive governors”. He said: “Asiwaju’s emergence as the standard bearer is assured victory for the APC at the general elections in 2023. We appreciate the efforts of all those who played prominent roles for this victory.   Bishops sue for peace ahead of Osun Gov election     BREAKING: Late gospel singer Osinachi’s body arrive…     Terrorists kill three vigilantes, injure many in Niger…   “Our heartfelt felicitations and special appreciations goes to Mr. President, His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari, for his impartial and selfless role in providing the right leadership for the party by not only allowing a free, fair and credible democratic process for the election of the standard bearer of the APC but also listened and hearkened to the yearnings and aspirations of most Nigerians that Power should shift to the south, as championed by almost all the 14 Northern Progressive Governors. “The Northern Governors exhibited their love for our dear country Nigeria by their show of commitment to the power shift arrangements. This singular act of theirs is highly commendable as it went a long way to douse the rising tension for the fear of having the two major political parties settling for Northern candidates. “We salute their courage for promoting fairness, justice and undoubting love for the country. And more especially, we appreciate them for their love for our Principal and their resolve to ensure a better Nigeria. “All the elected delegates who believed in Asiwaju and entrusted him with their votes, we owe you many thanks and titles as heroes of Democracy. Your decisions were taken on behalf of millions of Nigerians which was well informed to guarantee the Nigeria of our dream. “Even the other delegates who voted otherwise, we owe lots of thanks for adding colorations to the beauty of democratic freedom by making the process an interesting competition. “To the members of the National Working Committee NWC, National Executive Committee – NEC, party officials, committee members and all other functionaries of the party, we say thank you for standing up for internal democracy.”