Neither the rough road to the All Progressives Congress presidential primary nor the struggles for power in a presidential election, still over eight months away, should be allowed to overshadow the pain and anguish from the barbaric massacre of 30 or more innocent Christian worshippers on Pentecost Sunday on June 5, 2022, at the St Francis Xavier Catholic Church in Owo. The sad event occurred in the hometown of Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, the Governor of Ondo State and Chairman of the Southern Governors Forum. There are interesting parallels between the incident and the assassination of Archbishop Thomas Becket in Canterbury Cathedral in 1170 during the reign of Henry II of England as told by T.S. Elliot in his verse drama, Murder in the Cathedral. True, no Bishop was murdered in Owo on June 5, but the crude murder of innocent worshippers was viewed as a message to Governor Akeredolu, the equivalent of Archbishop Becket in this allegory, except that he is not Catholic and he was not in that church on that day. The truth is that many observers did not see the targeting of a church, or any gathering of people for that matter, in Owo town as a random selection. The Yoruba Socio-Cultural Group, Afenifere, for one did not mince words in making the association between the Owo massacre and Governor Akeredolu’s firm stance on security and in championing the course of the South in the zoning debate within his political party He was tough against bandits marauding the Ondo forest reserve. He backed the activities of Amotekun, the security outfit of the Southwest. He pushed for the adoption of a law banning open grazing in the region. More recently, his call for zoning the presidential ticket to the South has been very strident. But he did not take these positions to protect himself and family. Rather, he took the positions to protect the people of his state and of the entire Southern Nigeria. He acted either as Governor and Chief Security Officer of his state or as the Chairman of the Southern Governors Forum. In the latter case, he only reflected the views of all 17 Governors across party lines in the region. It is believed that Governor Akeredolu or his state is being targeted for these positions, because they are being viewed as an affront on a group that sees itself more or less as the state. The parallel with Archbishop Becket, as revealed in Elliot’s drama, is very striking in this regard. The four knights who assassinated Archbishop Becket claimed that the king was frustrated with Becket, whose actions were viewed as undermining the stability of the state. Those behind banditry may view Governor Akeredolu in bad light today for defending his people and fighting for their right to govern this country. But history will judge him well for standing up for his people and the entire people of Southern Nigeria. Even now, in recognition of his tough stance on security, the National Working Committee of his party made him the Chairman of the Security Committee of the party’s convention.   Why the APC should head South     Why the APC should head South     Who gets kidnapped or killed next?   He was away in Abuja on this assignment, when the gunmen struck in his state. He quickly returned to his state to commiserate with his people and condone the bereaved. The entire nation rallied around him with condolence visits and messages. What is heartwarming about Governor Akeredolu is that he is not a man to be deterred by intimidation. Not even COVID-19 could floor him! No sooner had he returned to Abuja than he quickly put the party Chairman in his place for attempting to go against the zoning decision that Northern Governors had made in consonance with the demand of Southern Governors, which he gallantly championed. It must be emphasized, however, that the implications of the church massacre reverberate beyond Owo and Governor Akeredolu. The sad event is a poignant metaphor of the high level of insecurity in the nation. It is also a sad reflection of the poor standard of crime control and investigation in the country. Although the nearest police post to the church is said to be less than two miles, no policeman showed up in the church until the bandits had fled the scene of the crime. The police post reportedly had no operating vehicle to take them to the scene. Up till now, the simple information about the exact number of casualties from the church massacre remains unknown. So is the whereabout of the killer bandits It is easy to extrapolate from this example that the necessary knots and bolts of security in this country are hopelessly loose. No wonder then that many citizens are kidnapped or killed every day. What is worse, there appears to be no solution in sight. And this is where the next President comes in, now that the stage is set for the presidential election in 2023. The first thing the electorate should focus on in the candidates’ manifesto is their plan to tackle the security problem in this country. The plan must rest on the tripod of state police, devolution of powers, and fiscal federalism. Put quite simply, every state must be in charge of its own police. However, in order for that to be possible, more powers must devolve to the states as in the United States of America, whose constitution we copied. Moreover, states should be fully resourced in order to perform their functions effectively. This requires further revision of the federal allocation formula and consideration of a new resource control formula. The truth is that the more each state is equipped to control its destiny, without being crushed by an all-powerful centre, the less the agitation for separation and the less ethnic and religious considerations will count in national affairs. What is more, the best approach to poverty reduction is not by sharing bread from an invisible centre but by having each state put its residents on the path to self fulfillment.