The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) and Bank of Industry (BoI) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will help to deepen capital market and promote inclusive growth. The agreement will also help to facilitate the capacity of stakeholders through financial literacy programmes, market advocacy initiatives and listing of companies. It was signed in Lagos yesterday by the Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX), Mr. Temi Popoola and Managing Director, BoI, Mr. Olukayode Pitan. Popoola said the agreement was in furtherance of the Exchange’s aim to promote the interest of stakeholders operating in the capital market. He said the collaboration will support various advocacy initiatives to develop the capital market, promote information flow to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) about the capital market listing procedures and facilitate training for potential issuers on the various product initiatives.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…     Fintiri picks female VC as running mate   “NGX will work with BoI to create a seamless avenue for divestments through the listings of any of its investee companies on the Boards of NGX,” Popoola said. Pitan noted that the agreement would enable BoI and NGX to develop programmes that would educate stakeholders, especially large enterprises and small and medium enterprises on how to access alternative financing options. “Through this partnership with NGX, BoI will encourage companies in which it has equity holdings as well as its pool of current and past borrowers to approach The Exchange for initial public listings which will serve as a veritable window for divestments and access to wider funding options,” Pitan said. He added that BoI’s mandate to promote capital market inclusion supported the expansion of over three million enterprises and created over seven million jobs. According to him, capital base expansion saw the bank making successful forays into the international market and raised about $3.8 billion in the last four years. This include a $750 million syndicated medium-term loan in 2018 (fully paid); a one billion Euro syndicated loan in March 2020; a $1 billion syndicated loan in December 2020 and in addition, a 750 million Euros Senior Eurobond, the first by any African national development finance institution, in February 2022.