A Federal High Court in Abuja has discharged and acquitted  Mrs. Ochuko Momoh, wife of a former Managing Director of Pipelines and Products Marketing Company, Haruna Momoh and five others on money laundering related charges. In a judgment on Thursday, Justice Taiwo Taiwo held that the prosecution failed to discharge the burden of proving its case against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Taiwo upheld the argument by  lawyer to Mrs. Momoh, Ade Adedeji (SAN) that the prosecution’s case was based on mere speculation and conjecture, having failed to conduct credible investigation to support its allegations against the defendants. Mrs. Momoh was tried with Blessing Azuka-Agozi, StanbicIBTC Bank Plc, Energopol Nigeria Limited, Blaid Construction Limited and Blaid Farms Limited on a 22-count charge brought by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). The ICPC, in the charge marked: FHC/ABJ/CR/278/2019, accused Mrs. Momoh of laundering funds estimated at about N3 billion through her companies – Blaid Construction and Blaid Farms. Azuka Agozi was allege to have reneged on her promise to provide ICPC’s investigators with documents relating to the contracts Energopol Ltd allegedly executed for the PPMC, for which it was allegedly paid huge sums. The ICPC accused Stanbic IBTC of failing to report suspicious transactions in the accounts of Blaid Construction and Blaid Farms to the relevant authorities as required by law. Justice Taiwo, in his judgment on Thursday, resolved the sole issue identified for determination – whether the prosecution proved the 22-count charge against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt – against the prosecution. On the allege offence of money laundering, the judge held that the prosecution failed to prove the predicate offence by establishing that the funds allegedly laundered were proceeds of crimes or other unlawful acts. On the claim that Blaid Construction  unlawfully got contract from the PPMC, Justice Taiwo held that there was no evidence to show that Haruna Momoh (as the MD, PPMC) committed any offence when his wife’s firm got contract during his tenure.   Finally, Osinbajo congratulates Tinubu on APC ticket     140 suspected Yahoo Boys arrested in two Lagos hotels     Jonathan to presidential candidates: eschew acrimonious,…   The judge noted that the prosecution failed to show how Blaid Construction benefited from Mrs. Momoh’s husband’s alleged favouritism to the detriment of others. He added that the prosecution failed to show that Blaid Construction was not qualified to be awarded the contract for which it was paid over N200million and  that the projected contracted to it was not well executed. Justice Taiwo further held that  the prosecution failed to show that the transactions, where N10miliion was paid in tranches into the accounts of Blaid Construction and Blaid Farms were suspicious to support its allegation against StanbicIBTC. He held that having not established that the funds deposited in StanbicIBTC were proceeds of crime or unlawful acts, it was wrong for the prosecution to accuse the bank of failing to report suspicious transaction when the deposits were within the threshold set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Justice Taiwo proceeded to vacate the interim order of forfeiture obtained against the assets and funds belonging to Mrs. Momoh and her companies, as prayed by the lawyer (Adedeji). The judge said: “In the final analysis, the case of the prosecution was entirely based on suspicion,without any reliable ground. “The investigation allegedly carried out was without merit and unable to establish the allegations against the defendants. “This court holds that it will only rely on probable facts and not suspicion and conjecture as resented by the prosecution in this case. “The law remains trite that doubts arising from criminal proceedings must be resolved in favour of the defendant. “Consequently, the prosecution, having failed to discharge its onerous duty of proving the 22-count charge against the defendants beyond reasonable doubt, the defendants are hereby discharged and acquitted of all counts of the charge,”Justice Taiwo said.