The revelations of countless tribunals, fraud investigations and rumours of plea bargaining and estimates of the quantum of illegal money secreted abroad can be accumulated into an astronomical figure for fraud and theft in the trillions, annually. This ‘klepto-currency-mania’ thievery is in all strata of society – politics, professions ‘welfare funds’ recipients, civil servants, contractors and individuals. Now the politics of the 2022 political primaries, known underground to be awash with  offers, demand and payments for ‘money for votes’ has been trivialised as ‘stomach infrastructure’ when the ‘exchange rate for votes’ included condiments. We are disgraced by the exposed Nigerian politics’ extremely dirty linen washed this week in public with plastic bags containing dollars and ‘toilet paper’ naira on camera with the amounts announced and totalled.  This whole election will cost many billions or low trillions of naira. Nigerians are aware that every kobo must be repaid from their own public pockets through the coffers of the next elected government, usually within the first year in office from corrupt practices including, unsuitable sadly called ‘juicy appointment’ meaning ‘stealing appointments’ -so-called because appointee is expected to ‘get as rich as Croesus’. And all this while the country falls headlong deeper into poverty, is poorly governed and making the poor poorer and people, the old and spent aka the backbone give up in despair at the loss of their paltry retirement sum in a mismanaged economy with galloping inflation, and adults aka the arms and legs of the country and the young, aka the future who grow up un-catered for. The cost to Nigeria of the current politics and the greedy offspring, the simple electoral process delineated honourably by INEC but bastardised by most political participants will be the subject of social and political studies for years. However, we see the effects in greedy overpaid political figures, state officials and the public. These effects cost the country through incompetent governance, contract inflation, poor contract completion, and among the most expensive political systems and cost/kilometre of bridge and road worldwide. Sadly, the coming election will sap so much with so little return in the badly needed good political leadership and not turnaround in the country’s fortunes.   ASUU 10 : Govt. nil; 50-year Klepto-currency-mania epidemic     Forget not train terrorism; CVCNUS; Aspirants     Train victims; N100m forms vs. universities; Oyo Buses   To decide to steal is both a collective party responsibility and an individual prosecutable decision. Not every politician is a thief and not every thief is a politician. However, a very greedy political or thievery decision costs Nigerians billions far in excess of all the collected funds of Yahoo-Yahoo boys and girls, drug mules etc. put together. Imagine how many thieves in a market you would need to catch to retrieve N80billion. But all theft must be defended before God and, or, the courts, if they are honest and not a hornet’s nest of corrupt lawyers and corrupted and corruptible judges. To steal ‘government money’ or even ‘company money’ or any money anywhere  seems, to many  officials entrusted with the people’s money or other money, to be the ‘order of the day’ worthy of celebration or a reason for the job in the first place Where would our education, health, road and rail network and our power and water supply be now if only we had been able to use our God-given treasury for the achievement of SDGs in which we are disgracefully so far behind even tiny African states? It is a great pity that there is so little appreciation and praise and so little credit given by even parents and the press or government at  LGA, state and federal government national honours level for the numerous old students and alumni associations. They have spent huge sums of money propping up and recovering lost standards of health education, cleanliness and hygienic toilet facilities in our schools and universities. In a country where arrears of pension and salary were unheard off but later became the norm, we must thank especially ASUU for being among the first to realise that the non-payments were actually a brazen politicised form of thievery and raise alarm to that effect. Other watchdogs of standards are more complacent and Nigeria has lost billions in unrecoverable earnings, deaths and man-hours due to the misgovernment allowing such criminal fraud. About 29 years ago a, I went begging to a friend for support for Educare Trust which I had recently set up to try to recover some of the old school system glory. He laughed sadly at me as if I were a small child with another silly idea. In fact, he said ‘Tony you are a fool’. He said that if I knew how much was looted daily at ports and government organs, I would not bother to even start an NGO for Education because after another 20 years of looting, there would be nothing left to steal and the citizenry would be left in penury and educational ignorance. He likened Nigeria to a sieve filled with corruption holes and Educare Trust struggling to fill just one hole out of maybe 100,000-1m. He warned me not to return after writing me a cheque of N5,000 then. Sadly, his prophecy was correct. Without cleaning the Augean stable of government, political and corporate corruption, our efforts will continue to be like trying to filling a Nigerian sieve with Nigerian good deeds without blocking the Nigerian corruption holes first which threaten to make us the ‘Richest Poor Country’ or ‘Poorest Rich Country’ world.