Two days after his return from Kigali in Rwanda, President Muhammadu Buhari will on Tuesday jet out to the capital of Portugal, Lisbon, on a four-day state visit. Buhari on Sunday afternoon returned to Abuja after attending the 26th Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in the capital of Rwanda, Kigali. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President, who will hold official talks with his Portuguese counterpart will be conferred with the country’s National Honour and decorated with ‘Great Collar of the Order of Prince Henry.’ The two Presidents are expected to chair an enlarged bilateral meeting and witness the signing of some agreements bordering on issues of mutual concern. Buhari will also visit the Portuguese Parliament and hold discussions with its president, Dr Augusto Santo Silva, as well as the Prime Minister of Portugal, Antonio Costa.   Ahmed Musa donates N100m to 5,000 widows, others in Plateau     Erigga asks about ‘Yahoo’ rulers’ penalty over EFCC’s…     How to check rising prices of diesel, cooking gas –…   In the course of the visit, the President is scheduled to address a Forum of Nigerian and Portuguese businessmen and hold separate meetings with select Portuguese Chief Executive Officers and prospective investors to Nigeria. Buhari will also participate in the United Nations Ocean Conference, which began in Lisbon on Monday, June 27, and runs till July 1. The Conference, co-hosted by the Governments of Kenya and Portugal and supported by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA), aims to accelerate the adoption of science-based innovative solutions to challenges facing oceans and the global marine ecosystem. The Nigerian leader is also expected to engage members of the Nigerian community in Portugal on matters affecting them and developments at home. The President will be accompanied by Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo; Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare and Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami. Others are National Security Adviser, Maj-Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director General, National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Amb. Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar and Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) Honorable Abike Dabiri-Erewa. He will return to Abuja on Saturday, July 2.