THE Lagos State Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Olalere Odusote, has said the government is addressing the demand – grid supply deficit in the state, estimated at 33-43 TWh (83 per cent of total demand)- and that a solution was being considered by the government on the use of rooftop solar. He spoke at  a workshop held by the state government, in conjunction with World Bank, on the implementation of the Distributed Photovoltaic (DPV) in the state. The objective of the discussion was to discuss the pathways for realising the state’s ambition of achieving one gigawatt of installed PV capacity by 2030 with a proposed mix of 60 per cent commercial and industrial, 20 per cent residential and 20 per cent government owned buildings. Odusote noted that the ministry would incorporate the feedback from the stakeholders and leverage same in developing a document to guide the project implementation. The World Bank Acting Regional Director for Infrastructure, West and Central Africa, Ashish Khanna, stated: “There is a unique opportunity for Lagos to lead the way for solar adoption in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa by demonstrating a model for distributed PV in urban Africa that provides affordable and reliable electricity.”   Consolidated Hallmark pays N433.6m dividend     ECOWAS Brown Card: Insurers settle 3,442 claims     Prestige increases gross premium by 32%   The discussion centered on the financing structure, operating framework and the institutional arrangement for achieving the state’s objective. Participants considered the government’s ambition achievable and confirmed their readiness to work with the state to realise it. The funding for deployment of about 500MW of solar DPV in the next five years is estimated at between US$350and US$700 million. It is envisioned that this would be financed through international grants, equity, and concessionary debt with various risk mitigation instruments would be explored. The programme will adopt two business models – developer-owned model for commercial and industrial customers and user owned model for the residential, MSME and public sector customers. To address the challenge of fragmented demand in the solar ecosystem, some aggregation mechanisms would be introduced by demand aggregators to create scale within the industry. Technical assistance would also be provided for capacity development for stakeholders across the ecosystem as well as targeted consumer awareness campaigns to enable effective roll-out for end-users. The event was attended by key actors across the industry value chain comprising over 70 participants, including PV developers, solar aggregators, commercial banks, development finance institutions, and Fintechs, among others.