A Nigerian firm, Anthorad Nigeria Ltd in partnership with the International Finance Corporation, at the weekend unveiled a new Coolbox technology for meat retailers and other perishable commodity sellers in Lagos State. At the unveiling of the technology in Ode-Eran meat market in Igando area of Lagos Stat, Managing Director of Anthorad Nigeria Ltd, Engr. Adegboyega Samson Adeosun, said the new product will help meat, fish and fruit retailers to keep their product fresh and hygienic for consumers. “As the day wears on, fruits, fish and meat can sell at less than half of their original value, slashing profits for retailers but with this new coolbox technology, the products can stay fresh throughout the day. “This is food meant for human consumption that we typically lose along the supply chain. The mission really is to reduce food spoilage due to lack of cold food storage at key points along the food supply chain.” According to Adeosun, the Coolbox, which comes in different sizes from Columbia and India, will not only help to make the meat stay fresh but also protect them from germs. “The big dream for us is to solve the problem of food spoilage in Nigeria, and expand our technology and service to other states in the country that have these challenges,” he said.   Horticulture on the rise     Over 1,000 poultry farmers receive grant in Cross River     Food security: Women to the rescue   Chairman, Lagos State Butchers Association, Alabi Bamidele Kazeem, (BK) described the Coolbox as a unique system that will in the long run benefit meat retailers in the State. Kazeem described the product as a welcome development for butchers and meat retailers in the State, adding that investment in the facility has enormous benefits to the butchers, people and government. “This will help put a stop to open and unhygienic movement of meat as meat that passes through such a process is still largely exposed to flies and similar elements in the open markets, where they could be contaminated,” he stated. He expressed his group’s readiness to adopt the new technology in ensuring healthy red meat consumption. “As meat sellers, we are ready to adopt any technology to ensure sanitary and hygienic red meat butchering, transport and sales, they will be beneficial to all and sundry as we will now have healthy meat on our plates,” Kazeem said. Treasurer of Association of Corporate Meat Processor and Retailers, Lagos (ACMPro), Adejimi Azeez, described Coolbox as an innovative product, but pointed out that it should be affordable. While also contributing on how to improve the system, Azeez stated some perceived challenges with the use of the box. He lauded Anthorad Nigeria Ltd and the IFC for coming up with the product, which would ensure sanitary transportation of red meat across the state and in helping their business.