There will be a more significant impact on Nigerians if professional bodies play more active roles in the implementation of government’s plans and policies, says  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Osinbajo stated this when he received members of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, (NIA), led by its President, Enyi Ben-Eboh. The Vice President, who made specific reference to the social housing scheme of the Federal Government, said the programme would significantly impact more Nigerians if professional bodies such as the NIA, played an active role. His words: “When we developed the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP), it was part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We were very concerned about social housing, not just as a way of providing cheap housing for the poorest among us, but also as a way of providing jobs and job opportunities. But I am not so sure we got much response from NIA. “One of the advantages of professional bodies like yours is to make it possible for a vast majority of our people to get decent housing for instance, finding the cheapest ways of building 300,000 affordable houses.”   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   Continuing, Osinbajo noted: “For the vast majority of Nigerians, the relevance of our professional institutions, especially when it comes to the design and building, must be felt when it comes to the basics. I certainly will like to see what sorts of contributions the NIA will make in developing policies around social housing.” He commended the institute for coming up with the Integrated Infrastructure Research for Development Conference as its contribution to the country’s National Development Plan, noting that situating architecture in the creative industry is apt. Osinbajo emphasised the need for the building sector to drive the industry and its operations as much as possible, noting that “it is very important that the sector itself drives reforms, regulation and policy.” Earlier, Mr. Ben-Eboh praised the Federal Government for its contribution to the growth of professionals by signing of Executive Order 02 in 2017. He said: “Without doubt, Executive Order 2 laid the foundation for the gradual take-off of our nation’s envisioned industrial diversification and self-sustaining economy with 100 per cent in-country capacity utilisation and development.” The NIA officials made a presentation on the implementation guide of the institute’s Integrated Infrastructure Research for Development Conference.