Dspite the irregularities that marred the emergence of Nasiru Shehu Bodinga as the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Bodinga/Dange/Shuni/Tureta Federal Constituency in the just-concluded National Assembly primary in Sokoto State, the only female aspirant in the race, Sa’adat Yunusa Muhammad has appealed to her supporters for calm to allow the party to use its internal conflict resolution mechanism to resolve the matter. The female aspirant who made the remark while addressing reporters on the outcome of the primary also urged the Sokoto APC leadership to resolve the matter in such a manner that would restore people’s faith and confidence in the party. The legal practitioner said the primary was characterized by manipulations such as a shift in date, substitution of delegates list, and the use of security operatives to intimidate and harass persons that demand an explanation about the way the exercise was being conducted without consulting aspirants.   2023: APC, PDP set for rematch on the Plateau     NNPP picks Kwankwaso as presidential candidate     Roots TV founder Kachikwu floors Moghalu, others to pick ADC…   Mohammed has, however, assured the party that she would not approach the court to address the matter. She said: “As you know, I am a democrat and a committed party member. My party, the APC has robust means of settling and rectifying this kind of matter. My intention is to exhaustively explore all internal options and knowing that the APC as a party was founded on justice by responsible democrats who would ensure justice is not only served but seen to be served.” Besides the winner, Bodinga, Sa’adat Yunusa Mohammed contested the primary for the party’s ticket to represent Bodinga/Dange/Shuni/Tureta Federal Constituency of Sokoto State with four others. They include Ja’afaru Waziri, Shehu Dange and Aminu Bodai. Sa’adat Yunusa Mohammed is a lawyer by profession, with over 10 years of experience in the legal profession. She is an indigene of Dange Shuni Local Government Area of Sokoto State. She is also a member of the Association of Professional Negotiators and Mediators, as well as a Notary Public of the Supreme Court. Mohammed is the vice president of the Northwest Youth Forum, and the chairperson of Sa’ar Mata Foundation, a non-governmental organisation supporting women, children and young people. She is a recipient of several prestigious, humanitarian and political awards.