CAN the Super Eagles be said to have found their form simply because they beat Sao Tome and Principe 10-0 in Morocco? Wouldn’t it be appropriate to wait a bit for other matches to be played to see if truly what happened in Morocco wasn’t a flash in the pan? Was the performance enough to celebrate after the World Cup ache? Certainly yes because we haven’t seen the Eagles play with such guts and guile. We have watched the Eagles take their feet off the pedals in matches where they did very well in the first half. Need I remind you, dear readers of the game between Nigeria and Sierra Leone played at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City? Eagles threw away a four-goal advantage only to draw the match at 4-4. A few fans in Benin showed the players what such a woeful outing it was to them by venting their spleen. This is not to say that what those beasts in Benin did isn’t condemnable. After all, in football, you either win, lose or draw matches. Just one result per game and this is determined by how well you have played for each game. The 10-0 pummelling only showed that the country abounds with talents to deliver the right results with a little patience. All that a coach needs to do in the Eagles is abhor the greed to make money and pick only the best players to wear the Green-white-Green shirt. Indeed, the Eagles weren’t enterprising against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone inside the MKO Abiola Stadium, although many a fan complained about the stadium’s playing pitch which looked like a pig sty. The 10-0 battering raised hopes about a brighter future provided the Portuguese manager sustains his hunger for glory by combing the nooks and crannies of the country to fish out good talents. If the Portuguese manager creates a competitive setting in the Eagles camp, a new dawn beckons which would make our Golden era of 1994 and 1996 look like a child’s play. One only hopes that the 10-0 stuff was the result of the two international friendly games which Nigeria played against Mexico in Dallas and New Jersey against Ecuador. Nigeria lost 2-1 to Mexico in Dallas and 1-0 defeat to Ecuador in New Jersey. Both countries qualified for the Qatar 2022 World Cup scheduled to hold in November. The players would be ready to fight for shirts in camp if they know that there would be fairness on the manager’s part in terms of selecting those to play the matches. What this simply means is for the Portuguese to draw a marker stating clearly what qualifies any player to play for Nigeria in the international game. What this presupposes is that a lot of those in the team have overstayed their welcome and should be shown the exit door by organising testimonial games to pull them out of the team with pomp and ceremony. Playing for the Super Eagles is the platform to showcase excellence not to exhibit mediocrity which has been the bane of the team recently. All kinds of players are invited to the team, Such all comers’ tendencies lower the team’s standards soonest. Nigeria’s next two matches are the doubleheaders against Guinea-Bissau on September 19 in either Lagos or Abuja, although subterranean moves are on to get the team to play in Uyo and in Guinea Bissau on September 26. Beating Guinea Bissau could be banana peel if we choose to rest on our oars having thrashed Sao Tome and Principe. We must cut short the celebration and think of the handicapped position in the group where we only get to play against the big boys of Africa such as Cameroon, Egypt, Senegal, Tunisia, Algeria etc only at the competition proper in Cote d’ Ivoire next year. One only hopes that chieftains of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) have recognised this challenge which could be plugged by organising Grade A international friendly games for the Eagles against those tough European countries going to the 2022 Qatar World Cup. NFF chiefs must ensure that the Super Eagles are involved in quality matches to make up for the low-quality opposition in Nigeria’s group leading to the 2023  Africa Cup of Nations slated to hold in Ivory Coast. And this should start by getting the Eagles to be fully engaged with the game during all the FIFA free windows for playing international friendly matches. It won’t be out of place if Nigeria plays friendly games against some of the African countries that have qualified for the Qatar 2022 World Cup to gauge the Eagles’ form against formidable opponents. “About the 10-0 win? Yes, it’s good. It is better for us [to get] three points, which is more important to us,” the 62-year-old stated after the resounding win. “Of course, I want to improve our organisation on the field because we didn’t train too much with them. We want to introduce our ideas – this match was good because they tried to follow our organisation, our style, and our ideas. “I am also happy because the guys who entered during the match did as well as those players who started.” Dear Peseiro, Nigerians are not amused over the 10-0 battering of Sao Tome, considering their ranking at FIFA. Nigerians have chosen to mock the Eagles than applaud them with the pain of missing out on the Qatar 2022 World Cup the plank of their bitterness and pains.  here are some of the comments.   Politics, religion and 2023     Southern, Middle Belt leaders slam Okowa as traitor over VP…     Supreme Court overrules Lagos over hijab ban in schools   “This is not fair, I suggest countries like Sao Tome, Eswatini, Lesotho, South Africa, San Marino, Andorra, Moldova, India, Cyprus, Bulgaria, China, North Korea and Belarus should start their own tournament called Fifa World Weakest Teams Cup. They’re on the same level of play,” responded Elliott Wako GC. “If only [William] Troost-Ekong had played. He would have equalised all the ten goals for Sao Tome. Sao Tome players are like ‘wishing you quick recovery,” commented Mathew Abara. “The Super Eagles punished Sao Tome for sins they know nothing about,” said Danny Boy. “10 goals for Nigeria. More than Manchester United’s goal difference in the Premier League” observed Muhammad Kachallah Gombe. “This team should be in the same group with my country South Sudan so that we taste a win,” said Malou Thiong. Some fans wondered where this clinical Nigeria was during the 2022 World Cup playoff which the Super Eagles lost to Ghana on away goals following a 1-1 draw in Abuja. “They would have proved themselves against Ghana, congratulations anyway but if we can’t beat Ghana forget it. Nigeria is like England, over hyping is their problem,” said Orange Don Austyne. “Nigeria scored Sao Tome 10 nil today [Monday]? Finally gotten their level. It still won’t send them to Qatar,” replied Adam Ukasha Original King. “The anger of not going to Qatar was evident all over. It was a bare-brained show for Sao Tome and Principe,” Kanye Pamba said. Nigerians love the beautiful game. It is the opium of the people. It runs in their veins. But the pertinent questions are: where is Peseiro? Has Peseiro returned to Portugal like other foreign coaches recruited by Nigeria? If we have learned our lessons from the past events, then Peseiro should be seen around league venues monitoring matches to pick future Super Eagles from the home-grown players. Any coach who needs to be prompted to stay in Nigeria to train our boys should be shown the exit door. We have the best opportunity to change how we do things, having not qualified for the Qatar 2022 World Cup and these changes should include how to generate cash to prosecute the campaigns without relying wholly on government. Corporate sponsorship of our football would come when our organisations learn how to account properly for what they received. Corporate cash isn’t freebies. Rather is cash of shareholders who need to know what their money was used.