Founder of Maryam Abacha American University of Nigeria (MAAUN) Prof. Adamu Abubakar Gwarzo has donated N1million to Usman Yahaya, a Nigerian student at the mercy of the Russian immigration. The Best African Medical Student at the Russian Centre for Scientific Research was suspended by Irkutsk State Medical University (ISMU) and evicted from the campus hostel after Sokoto Government failed to pay his overdue scholarship. The donation by Prof. Gwarzo, through the Association of Nigerian Students in Europe (ANSE), was received by Adnan Mukhtar, Manager of PRNigeria Centre in Kano. The MAAUN Founder urged spirited citizens to quickly come to the aid of Yahaya to make sure that his “bright and promising future is not truncated”. “We have to do something to ensure that his education is not affected; that he also not detained in Russia. The N1million and other expected donations will go a long way to rescue Yahaya,” he said. Bashiru Muhammad, ANSE President expressed gratitude for the gesture and appealed to the Sokoto government to swiftly resolve the student’s predicament.   New surge in girl-child enrolment in northern states     Rotary sensitises pupils on good conduct     NUC wants Open Educational Resources policy to fit into…   “We cannot appreciate Prof. Gwarzo enough. He has blazed the trail in the crowdfunding initiative for Usman Yahaya. It is hoped that other philanthropic Nigerians will follow suit,” he added. After initial eviction, the Sokoto-born student was allegedly detained at a Russian immigration camp at Angarsk Irkutsk by the authorities. Yahaya has appeared twice at a Russian State court and, if convicted, may be expelled from ISMU, imprisoned or banned from the European country. Ms Elena Orel of the university’s International and Student Relations Department said the student was not forcefully detained or the only one evicted over visa violation. “He was moved to the immigration camp to seek for asylum pending when he will be able to resolve the visa issue. There’s no form of humiliation or harassment from the authority, the student can move freely. “However, after receiving a letter from his sponsors in Sokoto, the student is currently housed in the university accommodation for safety. But if he cannot renew his documents, he may be deported,” Or