A school in Ohanku, Aba, Abia State, Best Intellectuals Model School, has been named in the top 10 shortlist for the World’s Best School Prize for Overcoming Adversity, The Nation learnt yesterday  If it wins, the school could get $50,000, one of the five prizes on the table for the award.   The World’s Best School Prizes was launched this year by T4 Education in partnership with Templeton World Charity Foundation, Accenture, American Express and the Lemann Foundation.  According to the organisers, the top three finalists for each of the five World’s Best School Prizes for Community Collaboration, Environmental Action, Innovation, Overcoming Adversity and Supporting Healthy Lives will be announced in October during the World Education week.  All 50 shortlisted schools across the five prizes will share their best practices through toolkits that showcase their “secret sauce” to innovative approaches and step-by-step instructions on how others can replicate their methods to help improve education everywhere.  After a public advisory vote, the winner of each prize will be chosen based on rigorous criteria by a judging academy comprising distinguished leaders all across the globe including academics, educators, NGOs, social entrepreneurs, government, civil society, and the private sector.  The $250,000 will be equally shared among winners of the five Prizes, with each receiving US$50,000 each.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     2023 election: IGP approves retreat for senior police…    According to the organisers, the five World’s Best School Prizes celebrate schools everywhere for their role in developing the next generation of learners and contribution to society’s progress especially in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Founder of T4 Education and the World’s Best School Prizes, Vikas Pota, said: “With over 1.5 billion learners impacted by school and university closures, COVID has greatly exacerbated a global education crisis in which, even before the pandemic, the United Nations warned that progress was already too slow to achieve universal quality education by 2030.  “We have launched the World’s Best School Prizes as a grassroots solution to help build the systemic change needed. By telling the stories of inspirational schools that are transforming the lives of their students and making a real difference to their communities, schools can share their best practices and have their voices heard at the top table to help transform education.”  Congratulating Best Intellectuals Model School, she added: “Educators all over the world will now be able to learn from the example of this outstanding Nigerian school.”  During the pandemic, Best Intellectuals Model School made a music video to boost the morale of pupils, and it went viral. In 2021, the school tried to contend with the pandemic and battled a wave of pupils dropping out because of the financial strain caused by the pandemic.  People in the school’s host community were known to love music and even more receptive when children were involved.  The school hoped that a music video using its younger pupils would capture the hearts and minds of the people and address some of society’s ills.