In a new move to preserve and promote an old and challenged indigenous language, the organisers of the first Igbo spelling bee underlined the importance of creativity in sustaining native languages in the face of increasing globalisation. It is the first indigenous language spelling bee in Nigeria. Fourteen-year-old Oluebube Ogbonna won the maiden edition of the novel contest held in Anambra State, involving 356 public and private secondary school students in Awka, Nnewi and Onitsha educational zones.  A student at Divine Rays British School, Obosi, Idemili North Local Government Area of the state, Ogbonna got N300, 000 for her performance. The second and third runners-up got N100, 000 and N50, 000. The event tested contestants in spelling, Igbo syllabication and punctuation, and was organised by City Speller Bee, in collaboration with Onitsha Business School. The project manager, Chinedu Aniagboso, said the competition was designed to make Igbo language attractive to youths. He praised the participants, observing that “they not only understand English, they are also proficient in Igbo.” There are more than 500 native languages spoken in Nigeria, including Igbo, which is dominant in the country’s Southeast geo-political zone.  But the country’s official language is English, which was inherited from British colonialists. There is no doubt that the English language in particular is a threat to indigenous languages in the country. Modernisation has created a situation in which more and more natives aspire to achieve mastery of English because of its status as a so-called international language, to the detriment of their own indigenous languages. It is noteworthy that more than 40 per cent of the estimated 6,000 languages spoken in the world are considered endangered.  Languages that are given a place in education systems and the public domain, and used in the digital world, have more chances of survival as the world evolves. According to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), “Languages, with their complex implications for identity, communication, social integration, education and development, are of strategic importance for people and the planet. Yet, due to globalisation processes, they are increasingly under threat, or disappearing altogether.” The global agency, therefore, supports and encourages all moves to promote mother tongues.   Unutilised constituency projects littering the Okeho…     Rivers stampede and the matters arising     Parties and gale of defections   Notably, the world celebrates International Mother Language Day on February 21. This special day has been observed every year since 2000 “to promote linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism.” The beauty of this new Igbo spelling bee is that it helps to put indigenous language on the front burner, and further highlights the power of languages. Targeting the youth in secondary schools is a positive effort to encourage the mastery of the first language or mother tongue at a young age and, consequently, enhance the basic skills of reading, writing and numeracy. The competition is a commendable approach to getting school-age youth interested in their native language, and to pursue mastery of the language.  It is said that the future belongs to the youth, and the contest organisers have demonstrated belief in catching them young. It is unclear to what extent the school system and family context influenced the performance of Ogbonna, and the runners-up, in the competition.  Are they students of Igbo in their schools? Are they encouraged to use the language in their homes?  These are important factors that can help in sustaining indigenous language. The Igbo spelling bee is not only innovative; it is culturally and socially useful. It should be supported by Igbo language stakeholders in particular.  Aniagboso said:  “We are hoping to make this a yearly event, so we call on the Anambra government, firms and individuals to come and partner with us, so that the awareness and reward can get better in subsequent editions.” This is a call that deserves a positive response. The competition should inspire the introduction of other indigenous language spelling contests in the country as a way of sustaining native languages in the face of globalisation effects.