As the deadline approaches for presidential candidates to pick their running mates, the question of who will be the choice of particular candidates has become a hot topic. Partly because he is the presidential candidate of the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress; partly because of the spectacular way he won his party’s primary in a landslide; and partly because of his popularity and gravitas, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has attracted the most attention over his choice of a running mate. Of the three major factors featured in the discussion of who should be his running mate, one is already settled, and that is the geographical zone the chosen running mate should come from. It should be the North, because Tinubu is from the South. The other two factors are: (1) Does the chosen running mate have the requisite qualifications to discharge the role of Vice President effectively and (2) How many votes can the running mate garner for the presidential ticket? The issue of qualification centres on whether the running mate, considered a heartbeat from the presidency, can truly assume the presidency, while the President is not available. How presidential can the running mate be in carriage, communicative ability, and knowledge of the job? What managerial or governance experience has the running mate had that would enable her or him to step up to govern Nigeria? What preparations for that role has she or he had? These are questions Tinubu and the APC leadership can easily answer, because the Northern region is not short of supply of well qualified candidates for Vice President. This leads to the third major question about the number of votes the chosen running mate can bring to the ticket in order for Tinubu and the APC to be able to win the election. It is within this context that the question of the religious affiliation of the running mate would be considered by the presidential candidate and his party. However, others, including the media, ignore electability by arguing that the top of a presidential ticket at this time must be balanced with a running mate of a different faith in order to douse the ethno-religious tension in the country today. Accordingly, it is argued, there must not be a Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian presidential ticket. The Christian Association of Nigeria has been particularly forceful in advocating the choice of a Northern Christian as Tinubu’s running mate, because Tinubu himself is a Southern Muslim. To be sure, CAN has every reason to defend its constituency, especially in the light of escalated abductions and killings of Christians. The attack on Christians has been particularly frequent and deadly in the last few months during which Bishops were abducted and church members killed in the House of God. However, it cannot be denied that terrorists and bandits have killed far more Muslims than Christians and the Muslim President has not been able to stop the carnage. Moreover, the ruling presidential ticket under which these atrocities have been taking place is a Muslim-Christian ticket, with President Muhammadu Buhari, a Muslim, on top of the ticket and Professor Yemi Osinbajo, a senior pastor and a member of CAN, as his Vice President. He also comes from the Southwest, where the horrific killings of church members recently took place.   The semiotics of the Owo massacre     Why the APC should head South     Why the APC should head South   But what exactly has Osinbajo, a Christian pastor, been able to achieve in dousing the killings of Christians other than visiting the scenes of crime and expressing sympathy? He cannot announce a new policy of containing terrorism and banditry unless he has the express mandate of the President. Even in areas where the constitution grants some powers to the Vice President, such as the chairmanship of the National Economic Council, he can only push the policies approved by the President. He cannot unilaterally reverse the downturn in the economy and lighten the burden of a mounting debt in excess of N40 trillion. I raise these questions, not to indict Vice President Osinbajo, who has performed exceedingly well in that office, but to show that the limits to his power are defined by the constitution and the whims and caprices of the President, who is empowered by the same constitution to delegate whatever functions he deems fit to the Vice President. That’s why the President was able to whittle down on the assignments previously given to the Vice President, particularly the social protection programmes, he had been supervising. The point being made here is that the Vice President performs more symbolic than real functions, including representing the President here and there. But election is real and it is a game of numbers. In our present political configuration with multiple presidential candidates, the search for votes is a real challenge. In particular, the APC has to contend in the North with the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, former Vice President Atiku Abukar, who is a Northern Muslim. To make things harder for the APC, the North is made up of 19 states, only three of which could be regarded as predominantly Christian states. The remaining 16 states have predominantly Muslim populations. APC’s failure to make a significant incursion into Muslim voters may give Muslim Atiku a competitive edge in the region. To be sure, there is a possible advantage for the APC in terms of control of the levers of power in the North. Of the 19 states, 14 are controlled by the APC. Nevertheless, for the predominantly Muslim population, there are indications that they usually vote massively for one of their own. This can only put additional pressure on the APC to select a Muslim running mate. Another factor overlooked by advocates of a Christian running mate for Tinubu is the lifemate he already has in a Christian wife, Senator Remi Tinubu, who, incidentally, is also a pastor. Thus, the religious equilibrium he is being invited to practice at the national level he is already practicing at home. Finally, advocates of a Christian running mate for Tinubu are overlooking one critical factor. When the top of the ticket is from the North, the pressure to pick a Christian running mate from the South is imperative, because the South is predominantly Christian. By the same token, the pressure to pick a Muslim running mate cannot be overlooked, when the top of the ticket is from the predominantly Christian South. Given what we have witnessed in the last eight years, it will be a shame if Southern voters ignore one of their own over the choice of a running mate.