Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwatse III, on Saturday, hosted the third edition of “Ghigho Aghofen” ceremony for Omadina Community in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the ceremony was hosted at Olu’s palace, amidst cultural display from various ethnic nationalities residing in the oil-rich kingdom. Among the communities were: the Urhobos, Ilajes, Binis, Esans, Yorubas, Ijaws, Isokos, Igalas and Ibos, among others. NAN also reports that Ghigho Aghofen, meaning “Palace Watch,” is a ceremony ushering in one of the indigenous Itsekiri communities to keep watch over the Warri Kingdom. It was initiated by the king in 2021, shortly after ascending the royal stool. The aim was to promote robust relationship between the king and other communities that could not have access to the palace due to one reason or the other. Addressing the congregation on Saturday, Ogiame urged Omadina community to resolve their differences and forge ahead as one and indivisible community. “I thank Omadina community for coming in large numbers. I want to use this opportunity to preach peace and unity because there is a lot that is being spoken about the community. “Let me remind you that you have a unique opportunity to start again in your community. So a line must be drawn. Many people may feel a sense of indictment and frustration. “I appeal to all of you to put those sentiments away and start doing things right. Omadina is a too important community for there to be division and fight.   INEC extends voter registration deadline     Group seeks support for anti-drug abuse efforts     Akeredolu greets Sanwo-Olu at 57   “You are on duty till Sept. 24. You will also be on duty when we mark our first coronation anniversary. “Hopefully, before the time lapses, we will come to Omadina. We want to see that the factions are dissolved and embrace peace,” he said. Ogiame said that there was much to achieve with unity, with special reference to Itsekiri Trust Fund. “As much as possible, we will re-organise ourselves as Itsekiris. We have to exhibit excellence,” he said. The royal father also thanked Inorin community, the immediate past Ghigho Aghofen (Palace Watch) for doing a great job in the past three months. Ogiame also thanked the various ethnic nationalities that came to identify with the palace and prayed God to continue to promote peace among them. “We will enjoy peace in Warri. Never again should we clash over our differences; we will always live together, discuss, agree and be better for it,” he said. NAN reports that dignitaries at the ceremony included: a former Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, Speaker, Delta House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori and some state lawmakers. Others were: a National Leader of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Alhaji Shehu Gabam, SDP governorship candidate in Delta, Mr Kenneth Gbagi, captains of industry, traditional rulers, chief and religious leaders, among others. (NAN)