The International Monetary Fund (IMF) in its latest Sub-Saharan Africa Regional Economic Outlook report, would again highlight the elements that have become recurrent as to be only too familiar; yet nonetheless underscore the grave tragedy that has come to define the so-called largest economy on the continent. These are the broad issues of the national revenue, and, the management of the national debt – which the IMF aptly framed as the albatross of debt service, low revenue and fuel subsidy, but are more appropriately the derivatives of the crisis of governance – poor governance. The summary as captured by IMF latest Sub-Saharan Africa Regional Economic Outlook report presented last week is that the country may be spending 100 per cent of its revenue on debt servicing by 2026. Currently, it spends 89 per cent of its revenue on debt. Added to this grim reality is low revenue, which the IMF’s Resident Representative for Nigeria, Ari Aisen, described as an ‘existential issue’ for Nigeria. He specifically mentioned the nation’s inability to take advantage of the current global high oil prices to build reserves; and then of course, the fuel subsidy payments, which at the current N500 billion monthly level is projected to hit a record N6 trillion by the end of the year. All of the above, he surmised, threatens to push the economy to cliff. To be sure, in none of the above can Nigerians be fairly accused of either playing the ostrich or feigning indifference. Take for instance the issue of the fuel subsidy now said to constitute an albatross on the economy. Long before the problem was allowed to metastasise, and perhaps long before the IMF woke up to that realisation, Nigerians are on record to have spoken loud and clear on the need not just for the government to fix the nation’s four refineries but also to expand the refining capacity; ditto the ancillary infrastructure that serviced the national fuel distribution system on which the nation had heavily invested.   Worrisome earnings     Hunger in the land     Igbo spelling bee   Of course, successive administrations, for reasons best known to them, chose to do nothing until the ensuing disruption and subsequent collapse of the entire system left the space open to rentier fuel merchants and transporters to run the show. Clearly, if we expected the Muhammadu Buhari administration with its promise of a new broom to cleanse the sector to make a difference, things would appear to have gotten worse with the subsidy burden growing in leaps and bounds in the aftermath of the recovery of oil prices. Now, the administration needs a whopping N6 trillion to subsidise the price of fuel in this year’s budget alone. But sadly, it is not just the burden of subsidy that is proving too high to bear; the massive, industrial-scale theft of crude, whose cost to the treasury, according to the Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) is put at $3.27 billion annually has, under the Buhari administration, also proven nigh impossible to crack, hence the embarrassing situation in which OPEC’s supposed fifth largest oil producer is unable to meet its modest 1.8 million barrels per day quota. We do understand where the IMF is coming from. Unfortunately, raising the alarm on issues that are at best symptoms of problems that are deeper and are of a more fundamental nature, which the IMF routinely does, merely begs the issue. Now that it has spoken, it seems about time it also learns to pay attention to the concerns of Nigerians. To begin with, will there ever be an end to the fuel price spiral after the subsidy removal, given that the twin factors of high oil prices and shrinking naira value at the heart of the costs are beyond Nigeria’s control? Will this not further compound the woes of businesses at a time the cost of energy and other operating costs are already at a choking point?  What about the impact on inflation, unemployment and ultimately the level of poverty? And then of course the other grim possibility – recession – already a major issue in the more developed economies said to be inextricably linked to the high oil prices. Did the IMF factor this in too? These issues, far from being academic, are some of the concerns that Nigerians have spoken about; needless to state that the issues are such that would require far more than the scare-mongering statistics of the IMF to assuage. In the circumstance, we can only urge the Federal Government to tread with utmost caution.