President Muhammadu Buhari has revealed the personal torture he suffers on account of the security challenge in the country. Buhari, in a national broadcast this morning to mark Democracy Day, says he lives “daily with grief and agony for victims and prisoners of terrorism.” The day is in commemoration of the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by the late Chief Moshood Abiola but which was annulled by the Babangida military regime. Buhari, who describes this year’s Democracy Day, as his last as president, is optimistic that signals ahead of next year’s election look positive on the strength of the recent peaceful conduct of primaries by the parties. He urges all Nigerians to work together to ensure the success of the coming transition “in honour and memory of one of our national heroes for democracy, Chief M.K.O Abiola, GCFR.” Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag bearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, and Labour Party (LP) standard bearer, Mr. Peter Obi, all pledged their commitment to the ideals of democracy ahead of the 2023 elections. Recalling the circumstances of the 1993 annulled election, Buhari said: “On June 12th 1993, Nigerians saw the best in our citizens as we all went out to vote peacefully. By June 24th, 1993, we also saw the worst of our leadership as the elections were annulled. “We must never forget the sacrifices of the heroes of Nigeria’s democracy during 1993. Their patriotism and peaceful struggle should guide our actions, especially when it comes to electing our leaders and holding them accountable now and in future. “This is my last Democracy Day speech as your President. By June 12th, 2023, exactly one year from today, you will already have a new President. I remain committed and determined to ensure that the new President is elected through a peaceful and transparent process. “It is important for all of us to remember that June 12th, 2023 will be exactly 30 years from the 1993 Presidential elections. In honour and memory of one of our national heroes for democracy, Chief M.K.O Abiola, GCFR, we must all work together to ensure this transition is done in a peaceful manner. “I am hopeful that we can achieve this. The signs so far are positive. Recently, all registered political parties conducted primaries to select their candidates for the 2023 general elections. “These primaries were peaceful and orderly. Those who won were magnanimous in their victories. Those who lost were gracious in defeat. And those aggrieved opted to seek judicial justice as opposed to jungle justice. “I followed the party primaries closely from the state level to the Presidential level. I was very impressed to see across all the political parties that, most candidates ran issued based campaigns. The language and tone throughout were on the whole measured and controlled. “As we move into the general election campaign season, we must sustain this mature attitude to campaigning and ultimately, voting. We must never see it as a ‘do or die’ affair. We must all remember democracy is about the will of the majority. There must be winners and losers.” Buhari asked all candidates in next year’s polls to “continue running issue focused campaigns and to treat opponents with dignity. As leaders, you must all showcase high character and never forget that the world is watching us and Africa looks up to Nigeria to provide example in governance. The tone you set at the top will surely be replicated in your followers.” Buhari promised Nigerians that their right to choose their government “will be preserved and protected” while efforts were being made to make the elections  safe and secure for all Nigerians. Continuing, he said: “I ask all citizens to support and cooperate with our security agencies by reporting any suspicious characters and activities to law enforcement agencies. We can only have a safe country if we are able to prevent crime not after the crime has been committed. “On this special day, I want us all to put all victims of terrorist activities in our thoughts and prayers.  I am living daily with the grief and worry for all those victims and prisoners of terrorism and kidnapping. I and the security agencies are doing all we can to free those unfortunate countrymen and countrywomen safely. “For those who have lost their lives, we will continue to seek justice for their families against the perpetrators. For those currently in captivity, we will not stop until they are freed, and their kidnappers are brought to justice. If we all unite, we will be victorious against these agents of terror and destruction.” I dedicate myself to the spirit of June 12, says Tinubu The APC presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in a goodwill message on the Democracy Day celebration says the June 12, 1993 election, though almost 30  years ago “provides vital and reassuring lessons to Nigeria today.”   The end of the rules-based international order?     Nigerians rise for APC     Professionals in government: Issues in navigating policy…   He says: “First, it shows that we are capable of democratic excellence and conducting elections as good as anywhere else on earth. Second, Chief MKO Abiola won a truly national mandate. His victory and mandate, though unfairly and unlawfully stolen, shows Nigeria’s unity is not an impractical dream. Although we are diverse in terms of ethnicity and religion, we all seek good governance, a better life and the positive things that result from sustained good governance. “For me personally, Democracy Day holds a special meaning. I was a close supporter of MKO Abiola and had entered politics believing that we could change the face of this nation for permanent good. When the military dictatorship tried to bury that dream, I was there at the birth of the NADECO movement. The democratic lessons I learned then have guided the path of public service which I have tried to follow since those days. “This year, Democracy Day holds even greater significance. We just concluded fair, transparent, and open primaries in our party, the All Progressives Congress.  The PDP also concluded their own primaries a few days earlier. Other parties too have conducted primaries. Even though we shall engage in intense and important political competition during the coming presidential campaign, I congratulate all the other candidates for their nominations and their parties for doing their part to sustain democratic processes as the mainstay of our political life. “The APC was able to conduct a successful primary election due to the sage leadership of President Buhari, and key party stakeholders like the Governors, party leadership and the Delegates. I was fortunate enough to win the APC primary due to the support of so many important people in the party. “I shall never forget the confidence they have reposed in me and shall always do my best for the nation and my party. “The role they have given me is one of weighty responsibility and sober considerations. “On this Democracy Day, I dedicate myself and my upcoming campaign to the spirit of June 12 and what it best symbolizes for today’s Nigeria. “Just like democracy finally won against dictatorship, I know that prosperity shall overcome poverty, peace shall outlast violence, compassion will conquer hatred and good will defeat evil. Justice, security, and economic development will visit and reside in every hamlet, household, village, and city in our nation. The spirit of June 12 shall expand to become the spirit of Nigeria and our national greatness and destiny.” Nigerians shouldn’t give up on hope – Atiku For the PDP presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, today’s Democracy Day is “one of the most epochal political events in our nation, just before the February 2023 general elections.” According to him, it is therefore “an auspicious period to rally round all compatriots; to think and work in concert for the unity, security, equity, inclusivity, socio-economic prosperity and equitable development of our dear country.” He asked Nigerians to “seize this unique opportunity of Democracy Day to reinforce our firm commitment to the sacrifices made by the pioneers of our country’s independence, and salute the courage and selflessness of the pathfinders of our current freedom and liberty; by pursuing with vim and vigor the fundamentals of our Constitution, the pillars and principles of rule of law, of electoral transparency and equity and unity in diversity. “Let’s not despair by folding our arms in hapless helplessness. The last thing that should die in a person is hope. “Let’s continue to do our civic duty and responsibility to salvage our dear country together; saving her from falling off precariously from current socio-economic cliff into abysmal catastrophic end of a failed state, as predicted by some naysayers!” Obi to Nigerians : The future of our democracy is in your hands In his own goodwill message, the presidential candidate of  Labour Party, Mr. Peter Obi, encourages Nigerians not to stand aloof from the journey of nation building, saying  every Nigerian needs to play a part  for democracy to be sustained in the country. He stresses the need for the citizens to re-evaluate the leadership selection process to ensure that only most qualified and capable leaders are elected into office. He adds:”Our democratic existence is continually challenged by corruption, tribal and ethnic disunity, religious tension, poverty and inequality. We must not continue to allow these vices to foster among us as a people. The Nigeria of today is obviously a far cry from the dreams of our heroes of democracy. We must, now, all join hands to build the Nigeria of our dreams. “The nation needs a unifier, to bring back the people together and rebuild our social cohesion. We need a leader, knowledgeable enough to lift Nigerians out of poverty, invest in the critical areas of development and place the country on the path of progress, to ensure that our national democracy is sustained.” Ondo cancels democracy day celebration The Ondo State Government said yesterday that the people of the state would not be joining the rest of the country to celebrate Democracy Day today. It said it was cancelling the celebration to mourn victims of the terror attack at St Francis Catholic Church, Owo, Owo Local Government Area, a week ago. The  Chief Press Secretary to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Richard Olatunde, said the cancellation was to enable the people of state mourn their loved ones who lost their lives in the attack. “Recall that the Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu,SAN, had directed that all flags in the state be flown at half -mast for seven days in honour of the victims of the terror attack,” he said.