Over $600 billion has been lost to flooding and storms in Nigeria and the rest of the world in the last three years, according to various reports sourced by The Nation. The 2021 Weather, Climate and Catastrophe Insight from British-American multinational professional services firm, Aon, said flooding- caused  losses were put  at  $105 billion with events in Europe and China taking up $75 billion of  the  figure. The Insight Report evaluates the increasing frequency and severity of disruptive natural disasters and how their resulting economic losses are protected globally. According to the report, there was a total of $343 billion in economic losses last year, $329 billion of which resulted from weather and climate-related events, making last year the third costliest on record after adjusting for inflation. While losses were up from 2020, the report said the number of notable disaster events slightly decreased, demonstrating the heightened costliness and severity of these events. Of the losses, only 38 per cent were covered by insurance. In its account, Swiss Re Institute research shows that last year natural disasters accounted for a total global economic loss of $270 billion, and insured losses of $111 billion (previously estimated at $112 billion). This, it indicated, represented a yearly rise in global economic losses from $203 billion in 2020, with a similar rise in $90 billion in insured losses. Swiss Re said this was the fourth highest figure on its records and continues a long-term trend of insured losses increasing by a yearly average of between five and seven-per-cent worldwide.   MSMEs need tax deferrals, finance to grow, says DBN     How to curb yearly $89b loss to illicit financial flows, by…     Nigeria tops 20 countries in electricity access deficit   Global losses from floods amounted to $82 billion last year, accounting for almost a third (31 per cent) of global economic losses due to natural disasters. According to Swiss Re Institute’s latest sigma report, the economic losses rose by $10 billion after adding the costs of man-made losses, with insurance covering $8 billion of the amount. In 2020, it posited that total losses from natural and man-made disasters were estimated at $187 billion up 25 percent from 2019. The  reinsurance giant Swiss Re maintained that it  marked  a hike from 2019 when natural disasters caused losses of $139 billion but remains below the 10-year average of $202 billion. Global manmade losses, it indicated amounted to $14 billion, with insurance covering $10 billion of that total. World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) Atlas of Mortality and Economic Losses from Weather, Climate and Water Extremes, from 1970 to 2019, noted natural hazards accounted for 74 per cent of all reported economic losses. The report added that there were $3.64 trillion in losses. According to its, economic losses have increased sevenfold from the 1970s to the 2010s, going from an average of $49 million, to a whopping $383 million per day globally. Storms, it continued, was the most prevalent cause of damage, resulting in the largest economic losses around the globe. In Nigeria, according to Climate Scorecard Nigeria, had paralyzed economic activity in Several States and Lagos. The Climate Scorecard Nigeria Country Manager Peter Hansen noted that in 2020, flooding directly affected more than 2 million people. In 2019, he noted that flooding paralysed economic activity at an estimated cost of over $4 billion.