The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele has said that the Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)- eNaira will define the next phase of Nigeria’s e-payment system. Emefiele position followed CBN’s partnership with the Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF)- an innovative hub established to identify and accelerate innovative startups in Africa, to hold this year’s  eNaira hackathon. He said the  eNaira would bring more people into the financial system, expand access to financial services at the grassroots and boost its economy. “We desire to achieve this and more with the eNaira with the underlying goal to boost Nigeria’s economic outlook. Innovators at the hackathon will develop solutions in the areas of international remittance, trans-border payment, blockchain, financial inclusion, and trade (AfCTFA),” he added.   Cameroun deploys hundreds of troops to protect 40,000 people…     IWPG preaches peace through art     Akeredolu forwards two Commissioners nominee to Assembly   The eNaira hackathon is geared towards ideating innovative solutions for the newly launched digital currency. The programme registration is billed to open on June 27, 2022, and runs till July 21.  The event is expected to address the strategic points to eliminate possible glitches that could hamper smooth transactions being carried out with the eNaira. According to the CBN and AFF, the main event, which is billed to kick off on August 4, 2022, is part of efforts to drive financial inclusion, facilitate macroeconomic growth and integrate the Nigerian economy into the world-leading economies through innovation and cutting edge emerging technologies. It, therefore, cutting-edge urged interested participants to visit the eNaira Hackathon website to register from June 27, 2022. With the theme “eNaira – Africa’s Gateway to a Digital Economy,” the hybrid hackathon will bring together teams of talented entrepreneurs, developers, designers, solution developers, problem-solvers, out-of-the-box thinkers, and code magicians from Africa to develop innovative solutions that will drive improved adoption of the eNaira.