A Few weeks before the June 18 Ekiti State governorship poll, ex-governor Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) was forging ahead so dangerously that panic began coursing through the rank and file of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The fear was no longer the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the state’s former ruling party, despite the competence and popularity of its candidate, Bisi Kolawole. But in the end, the APC candidate, Biodun Oyebanji took the election by a despairing margin that confounded and paralysed the two leading opposition candidates. With more than 187,000 votes, the APC candidate bested competition so convincingly and overwhelmingly that it made any hypothetical resort to legal redress, as Mr Oni is said to be unwisely contemplating, wasteful and meaningless. The outcome was not always certain. The PDP had virtually been destroyed from the inside by the meddlesomeness and irascibility of former governor Ayo Fayose whose needless interferences in the party had triggered irreconcilable differences between leaders of the party, particularly over the shape and temper of the party’s governorship ticket, and ultimately between the candidate himself and the former governor. Two weeks before the election, and going by the intensification of the acrimony in the party, it was clear to pundits that the PDP would not even be the first runner-up. On its own, the SDP went into the poll united and formidable, but it was a borrowed vehicle taken and driven by a strange but competent driver pushed out of the PDP. Once again, Mr Oni suffered collateral damage from powerful politic undercurrents far stronger than he or his borrowed vehicle could withstand. Mr Oyebanji’s victory was not inevitable, considering how Governor Kayode Fayemi also foisted him on the party by disingenuous means, after squeezing powerful opponents out of the impending show by provocative means. APC is the ruling party in the state, but it operated less and less with the cohesiveness expected of the party and the inspiring democratic principles many had expected of the governor. Few weeks before the poll, it in fact looked like a revolt against the ruling party was afoot in the state. However, Mr Oyebanji’s chances were reawakened and bolstered by the euphoria that followed ex-Lagos State governor and national leader of the APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential primary victory. Why, the Ekiti people asked themselves rhetorically, would the state go into opposition when their Southwest son stood a good chance of winning the presidency? Losing Ekiti to either the SDP or the PDP was, therefore, out of the question. The poll went virtually seamlessly. The electoral umpire and the security agencies passed muster, and their efficiency encouraged Nigerians that if the people put their minds to it, they could pull off any miracle. However, vote-buying festooned the poll, not as an allegation, but as a fact. Whether the votes bought and sold were sufficient to alter the outcome of the poll is a different thing altogether. As repulsive as vote-buying was, there was no sufficient indication that the forces that finally shaped the election in the closing two or three weeks before the election would have produced a different outcome from what was witnessed on June 18. The poll was a three-horse race. All the three parties that competed for the people’s votes bought votes at different prices. So, Mr Oyebanji won fair and square, despite the vote-buying stain. Perhaps he outbid the others, considering that he packed a larger war chest and attracted new recruits and converts reinvigorated by the outcome of the APC presidential primary, but the defeated cannot cry over unfair tactics, seeing that they also used the same, albeit puny, tactics. Ekiti is lucky. Any of the three leading candidates that contested the governorship poll is competent to rule not only that state, but any other state. Perhaps the versatile Mr Oni would have been more exemplary and savvier than his opponents. His major flaw, which takes nothing from the quality and temperament he had repeatedly shown over the years, is his politics, particularly the politics of migrating from one party to another at the drop of a hat. His last foray into the governorship race saw him emigrating to the PDP a second time, and finally berthing at the Social Democratic Party for the first and probably final time. He is a natural progressive who has the misfortune of having to work or associate with governors whose respect for democratic principles was and remains less than stellar. Dr Fayemi is also a natural progressive possessing the even more preternatural instinct of an autocrat. He handles power ruthlessly, and in higher office, will handle power with more severity than the constitution allows. Mr Fayose, surprisingly, is also a progressive, perhaps a little tamer and wittier than usual, which brings him much closer to pragmatism than progressivism, but he is also a consummate and irascible tyrant with benign, seductive hue. Mr Oyebanji has won. He should be proud of his victory. He will deliver the state to the APC in next year’s presidential poll, and will bring the state beneficially close to the centre in Abuja should Asiwaju Tinubu win the election. Apart from that, he is believed to be a competent administrator, less consumed by realpolitik than his predecessor, and possesses the urge to leave a legacy of development and growth. All his three predecessors have not quite grabbed the imagination of the Ekiti people, nor left a political culture that deviates from the repugnant state and national mean. If the governor-elect manages to resist the offensive lure of power and the arrogance that weakens the vision of great leaders, he will probably affect the state far more than his predecessors and change the lives of his people, irrespective of political associations, for the better and perhaps forever. The choice is his; for fortunately for him, the state’s mind and character are not yet etched in granite. Ekiti’s governorship election template will be replicated in Osun state next month. The campaigns will be boisterous, generally devoid of issues, but not too difficult to predict. Just as Ekiti found it enticing to toe the APC line, Osun, notwithstanding the grumpiness of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola, will embrace the ruling party probably with a plurality that would also be incontestable. Osun PDP’s Ademola Adeleke, the sybaritic senator, generally forswears discussions of issues, and so Governor Gboyega Oyetola will be left alone in an open field where he will boringly wait to engage any bystander and wayfarer in a debate. Sadly too, there are no third parties in the state weighty enough to be deployed as a special-purpose vehicle to win the governorship poll. The electoral dynamic in Osun may be different from that of Ekiti, but the outcome is likely to be the same. With Ekiti and Osun safe in the APC column, especially as the PDP at the national level is nonplussed by the manner both states have elected or will elect their governors, the leading opposition party will find the dynamic of the next presidential poll a little befuddling and irksome. Third parties such as Rabiu Kwnakwaso’s New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) and Peter Obi’s Labour Party are said to be making waves on social media and in some circles, but Ekiti and Osun, like other states and past federal polls, suggest the indispensability of party structures to favourable electoral outcomes. Emmanuel Macron’s En Marche movement that helped him win the 2017 French presidential poll and rubbished the larger parties cannot be replicated in Nigeria. Nigeria’s ethnic nationalities are too politically ossified within their religious and cultural ecosystems to be moved by anything but party structures and alliances. Third parties may irritate the body politic and even exude great promises of nirvana, but in the end they will succumb to the obnoxious realities which Nigerian revolutionaries always dream of extirpating with their hypothetical and theoretical swords.     Atiku and the Okowa gamble     APC presidential primary and uncertainties     Buhari, Tinubu and succession snafu   The 14 Supreme Court justices who wrote an unprecedented letter of protest to the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) and National Judicial Council (NJC) chairman, Tanko Muhammad, feared that should their protest, hitherto entertained behind closed doors, become public it would be catastrophic for the apex court. The unease in the Court broke out in March and witnessed a flurry of actions to either smother the complaints or ameliorate them. Nearly three months later, partly because of the lethargy shown in addressing the very germane issues bordering on judicial administration in Nigeria, the fracas broke into the open. At full strength, the apex court should have 21 justices. But only 15 currently shoulder the humongous responsibility of dispensing justice at the highest level. Some 14 of them, none excluded, defying the customary ethnic and religious divisions that separate Nigerians, united in calling on the CJN to take urgent remedial measures to address the problems militating against the dispensation of justice at that highest judicial policy level. They called attention to issues relating to accommodation, vehicle allocation, electricity tariff, diesel supply, internet services to residences and chambers, and electricity supply to the apex court. The protesting justices fumed that the inability of the CJN to address and resolve these anomalies, some of them wrapped in shady practices and details, called into question his good faith and administrative acumen. More, and disturbingly, they call into question the bookkeeping practices of the Court, a euphemism for corruption. In contrast to the lethargy he was accused of showing in the matter, the CJN has promptly responded to the allegations and also made it public. In a statement issued by his special assistant, Ahuraka Isah, the CJN cheekily gave the protesting justices a slap on the wrist. He lectured them on proper behaviour and the time-worn practice of being seen and not heard. Then, in what probably qualifies for obscurantism, he talked of the ineluctability of the apex court operating in the same national environment as other institutions. In other words, there can be no special treatment as advocated by the justices. The protesting justices had hinted that they would like to know the budget breakdown of the judiciary, wondering if there were diversions, presumably illegal. The CJN simply summed up that the apex court had no budgetary allocation to cater for some of the issues raised by the justices – after about two years, for instance, since new justices were appointed. Then he virtually dismissed the expectations of the protesting justices as ‘utopian’, and capped his response by excusing the federal government and budgetary authorities for abysmally failing to recognise the salience of the judicial arm. But it was the CJN’s seeming readiness to acquiesce to the diminution of the judiciary, in particular the Supreme Court, that the justices protested against. If the CJN realised this deficiency at all, if he realised the weight of the administrative burden he was expected to shoulder, if he understood the philosophical responsibility the dispensation of justice means, he did not appear interested in addressing them in his response. A lot is on his shoulders, and the problems referenced by the protesting justices might very well be beyond him; but the inexcusable and half-hearted defence he put up and disseminated to the public shows the chasm between his understanding of his role and the needs of the apex court and its justices. Can he be trusted to find a way to bridge that chasm? It is unlikely. The justices gave him more than enough time both to respond to the issues raised and to resolve them; that he didn’t do anything is no fault of the complainants. The fault is entirely his. He took umbrage at the justices apparently leaking their protest letter; he should more appropriately introspect and identify where he had been remiss in his duties. The administration will likely help him to shoulder on, no matter what anybody says or does, and perhaps get him to embrace inclusive style of administration and to seek help from competent aides who will help him bridge his areas of weaknesses, particularly his insufficient appreciation of the philosophical pedestal upon which the apex court must indispensably perch, even luxuriate. It is safe to say that the CJN shows a shocking lack of apprehension; why he is not bowing out is even more shocking. Predictably, stakeholders are already weighing in on the dispute, when they should be leaning on the CJN to bow out after all his fellow justices, without exception, had passed a vote of no confidence in him and called his style and ethics into question. The National Assembly and the Body of Benchers have waded in. So, too, has the Nigerian Bar Association. But they cannot pretend not to know that years of weakening and corrupting the judiciary have endangered the apex court. Legal experts have repeatedly warned of the politicisation and ethnicisation of the appointment of justices, not to say the crass and abysmal culture of promoting unworthy judges. Efforts in the past to sanitise the process of appointment had also become ensnared by filial and regional considerations. The weakening of the judiciary, especially as manifested by poor and incompetent adjudications, became nothing but mere precursors to belittling the courts and exposing them to ulterior and sinister political manipulations. It was not surprising that these manipulations have made the courts and the judiciary as a whole to be disrespected, poorly funded, and even harassed. The federal government was eager in 2015 to ‘reform’ the judiciary, in fact as the Muhammadu Buhari administration argued, to make it more ethical, competent and responsive to the yearnings of the common man and everyone who approached the courts for justice. Alas, the so-called reform was nothing more than a cloak to robe the judiciary in the questionable and controversial image of the administration itself. Now, the courts, particularly the appellate courts, are skewed, nervous, unsure of themselves, and despised. It is uncertain that having spent years undermining the judiciary, the administration can now quickly wake up to remedy the problem. But if they can manage the altruism they have consistently claimed to champion, they must find a way to nudge Justice Tanko into responding more scrupulously and empathetically to the legitimate and reasonable demands of the protesting apex court justices. By implication, that response would also salve some of the wounds inflicted upon the entire judiciary by years of gross administrative incompetence. No one expects administration officials to say anything inspiring about the dispute in the apex court, for they are not capable of it; but they have an obligation to go beyond saying something to doing something. After all, the current rot in the judiciary is partly, if not largely, their making.