Apex Igbo sociocultural group, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has told President Muhammadu Buhari his request to international partners, especially the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) to take additional steps to proscribe the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB)as a terrorist organisation is unachievable. Ohanaeze said the president is the only person fuelling secessionist agitations in the Southeast by refusing to extend justice to all and sundry. Buhari, in an interview with Bloomberg, pleaded with Nigeria’s international partners, especially the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (UK) to also block the group from the international financial network. But in a statement in Enugu by spokesman of Ohanaeze, Alex Ogbonnia, the group said: “The request by Mr. President to the West is most unachievable because the West watch with keen interest and utter resignation the pathetic governance paradigm in the country. “For the avoidance of doubt, democracy all over the world requires justice, equity, mutual toleration and institutional forbearance all of which are in short supply in today Nigeria. “Mr. President is reminded that the British profound sense of justice, fortitude, restraint, civic virtues and forbearance are the hallmarks that sustain their enviable government with an unwritten constitution. In a similar vein, what sustains the US democracy is not just the constitution but democratic norms and values anchored on justice and patriotism.” It explained that IPOB began the agitations for a state of Biafra because of the marginalisation and the height of injustice meted to the Southeast and its people under the leadership of President Buhari. It added: “What, I think, the IPOB is asking for is very clear: Treat us as partners in the Nigerian project or allow us to go. “On the other hand, how can one explain the obvious lopsidedness in the appointment of military and paramilitary personnel to head the followings organisations with little or no Southeast considerations; Nigerian Army, Nigerian Airforce, Nigerian Navy, Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Security (DSS), National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Nigeria Correctional Service, Nigeria Immigration Service, and Nigeria Customs Service; and several others”. Ohanaeze noted the President ignored the admonition of the Nigerian foremost patriot, democrat and diplomat, Maitama Sule, who before his death, urged Buhari to let justice to be key to good governance.   Move to override President’s veto suffers setback     IPMAN makes u-turn, directs members to sell fuel at N165 per…     Gunmen kidnap former Ekiti Chief pharmacist   “Mr President knows he ignored the eternal advice from the Nigerian foremost patriot, democrat and diplomat, Alhaji Maitama Sule. “Alhaji Maitama Sule of the blessed memory in congratulating Mr President, admonished that “justice is key to good governance”. That Mr. President should “extend justice to all and sundry, irrespective of religion or tribe. “Sule reminded Mr. President that an infidel with good conscience and equity can govern successfully, far better than a believer devoid of sense of justice. “Sule added that the solution to Nigerian problems can never be achieved by force, nor by fear, nor by power but by equity and justice to all. “The prophetic Sule urged him to do justice to all parts of the country because according to him, peace and stability are a product of justice and equity. “He added that in the absence of justice and equity, there can never be peace and development. Sule among others stated that in absence of development, there will be mass unemployment, poverty and that the idle men is a devil’s workshop……” “On the other hand, as Maitama Sule predicted, the orchestrated alienation of the South East from the centres of power is the basic cause of the agitation in the South East. “The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide led by Ambassador Professor George Obiozor has repeatedly stated that a people denied justice may not have interest in peace. “As I am writing, the sad news of another Benue massacre flew in: “No fewer than 16 kinsmen of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State were, Monday, reportedly murdered in a fresh attack by suspected armed herdsmen, who invaded Udei and Yelwata communities in Guma Local Government Area, LGA, of the state”. ” According to the report which is viral, “the latest attack is coming about 10 days after a similar attack claimed several lives in Igama village, Edumoga Ehaje, Okpokwu LGA and four days after a lawmaker and his sibling were also murdered and beheaded by the marauders in Orokam, Ogbadibo LGA of the state……” “Ohanaeze contends that if Mr President confronts the menace of the Fulani herdsmen who have been terrorizing several states, communities and individuals for over seven years now with similar obsession and commitment deployed to IPOB, Nigeria will be a better place”.