Mixed reactions have greeted videos where Mercy Aigbe was seen in a brawl with a businesswoman at an event in Lagos. The videos, which surfaced showed Aigbe at an outdoor event with colleagues Iyabo Ojo, Eniola Ajao and others, including the businesswoman Lara Olukotun, popularly known as Larrit. The actress, who appeared to be singing aloud, seemingly making taunting facial expressions while seated on the opposite side got the shock of her life when the businesswoman threw a bottle at her apparently angered by her song. In another video, the fight which seemed to have disrupted the event, saw a crowd gathered on the road as the police whisked Aigbe away. Reacting to the videos, many tweeps have slammed Mercy Aigbe for always being in the news for the wrong reasons. Others blamed the businesswoman for striking first. @SirDavidBent tweeted: “Mercy Aigbe used to be a fine and talented actress, it is however distressing that she turned herself into a shameless laughing stock. It’s now so bad that she has to fight in public until someone forgot a bottle on her head. Hope she gets better, but will she learn a lesson?”   Action not thinking will overcome fear – Funke…     Four injured as gunmen attack Osun motorists     Court rejects CBN’s request to withhold N8b awarded to…   @topensyy said: “It’s okay if you don’t like Mercy Aigbe, I don’t like her shenanigans too. She was on her own enjoying the vibes when the other lady started abusing her knowing fully well mercy will retaliate and people are changing the narrative to push agenda. Don’t dish what you can’t take.” @90Sophie wrote: “Mercy Aigbe go party with her bad mouth, her fellow actress use bottle stone her.” @anthony_fedora stated: “Actress Mercy Aigbe went to a party and was singing ‘Dem must to hear word’ so aggressively. Another actress Larrit took it personal and almost broke her head with bottle. You snatched somebody’s husband and you’re still loud about it. Tsk tsk. @AubtyCom4t tweeted: “Mercy Aigbe did nothing wrong. She was singing and enjoying herself and someone got angry and decided to break her head with bottle. Why is the person not getting the backlash.” @Tee_Classiquem1 said: “Before you marry that your dream woman, please make sure she’s not a fan of Mercy Aigbe on any social media platform, even if you are being carried away by the ass and whatever, please do this for the sake of your future kids.” @Benluvsunited wrote: “See as them break bottle for mercy aigbe head….very shameless woman. Even portable no razz like that.” @VAgbuje stated: “They refuse to see Mercy Aigbe was probably reacting to an insult from the lady,na another person start fight but is mercy they are calling shameless.” @babson04 tweeted: “The way Eniola ajao was feeling uncomfortable by sitting beside mercy aigbe was written all over her face and I hope blood did not stain her.” @IvyTsoyo said: “The jealousy on Mercy Aigbe is just too much this is not the first time someone is marrying somebody’s husband and beside ,she’s someone’s daughter too y’all should rest abeg, She fall my hand sha she for beat that oversize fool black and blue what nonsense.”