A frontline presidential aspirant of the  All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator  Bola Ahmed  Tinubu, yesterday visited Owo, Ondo to commiserate with Governor  Rotimi Akeredolu and the people of the state over the killing of scores of worshippers at St Francis Catholic Church, Owa-Luwa by gunmen.. Before he departed the town, Tinubu in his magnanimous manner, donated N75 million for the treatment of the injured victims and to the church. Also yesterday, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) announced N50 million to the  Ondo  Catholic Diocese to cushion the effect of the attack… Out of the N75 million donated by Tinubu, N50 million is meant for the treatment of the injured survivors and the balance of N25 million for the church. The former Lagos State governor had hours after the incident on Sunday, said that his  “ heart is broken for the family and friends of those who were brutally killed and many who have been hospitalised.” He advised that the attackers be arrested and made to face justice.. Akeredolu, who announced the donation by Tinubu at the palace of Olowo of Owo, Oba  Gbadegesin  Ogunoye Ajibade, thanked the APC leader for the donation. Earlier, Tinubu had advised that the nation’s security architecture be enhanced in order to contend with the rising criminalities across the regions. He prayed to God to console the families of the deceased and grant Owo community and the state government the fortitude to bear the loss. The  Olowo of Owo urged the government to do the needful and ensure the arrest of those involved in the attack. Before Tinubu’s visit, Akeredolu directed that flags be flown at half-mast in all public buildings, facilities and official residences for seven days in honour of the victims. ”In honour of the victims of this unfortunate attack, I hereby direct that all flags be flown at half-mast for seven days, starting from Monday to June 12. It is a collective loss to the people of our dear state,” he said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde. The governor described “the attack on innocent worshipers is a deliberate and calculated assault on the people of the state.” “Those who unleashed this unprovoked terror attack on our people have tested our collective resolves.   Owo Church Attack: Governors condemn attack     Owo Church Attack: Police recover unexploded bombs     Owo Church Attack: Ooni, Sultan, Olubadan express anger   “We will not be deterred in responding appropriately to this dastardly act,” he added. In another statement, Akeredolu dismissed viral reports quoting him as saying that the gunmen were  Malians trained in Libya. Advising that the report be disregarded, the governor .said he had told the people of Owo to resist the urge to attack non-indigenes resident in the town. He said he mentioned that those who live in Owo were not responsible for the terror attack. His words: “The charge became necessary in light of disturbing reports of impending retaliatory attacks on non-indigenes in Owo, who were believed to share the same ethnic background with the suspected assailants. “This is a trying time for us in Ondo State. It is a tragic moment and the mood of the state is melancholic. We urge the media, to report accurate and factual information so as not to mislead the general public. This is not the time for undue sensationalism.” Akeredolu’s counterpart in Ekiti State,  Kayode Fayemi,  was also in Owo to visit the injured victims. He also met with the  Oba and the  Bishop of Ondo Diocese, Most Rev. Jude Arogundade, at the Bishop’s Court, Akure. Accompanied by former Governor of Ogun State, Senator Ibkunle Amosun;   Fayemi  urged  security agencies to fish out the  perpetrators He, thereafter announced the  N50 million donation on behalf of the NGF to the Catholic Diocese. The governor assured that all efforts would be made to ensure that the perpetrators were apprehended and brought to book.,   —* NEMA  begins assessment, says 11 children on admission Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq has directed the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to immediately provide succour to the victims and families of the Owo attack. Farouq, in a   statement yesterday, described the killings as “evil and horrific”. She said: “Officials from NEMA, Ekiti Operation Office, have arrived at the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, where the dead were taken to and the injured are being treated. “NEMA is already conducting an on-the-spot assessment of the victims and the casualties.” Head of NEMA Ekiti Operations Office, covering Ekiti, Ondo and Osun states,  Kadiri Olarenwaju,  said that  33 persons, including  11 children are on admission in the city.