Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi and Immediate past Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, have picked the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket for Senate tickets. Umahi picked the Ebonyi South Senatorial District while Akpabio won the Akwa Ibom Northwest ticket after withdrawing from the presidential race. The Ebonyi State governor takes the ticket from his younger brother, Austin Umahi who had won the party primaries last month. Umahi had lost the APC presidential ticket to the former Lagos Governor and National leader of the ruling party, Bola Tinubu, during the party’s just concluded National Convention. It was gathered that the substitution took place at Afikpo North local government area Headquarters Thursday night. Mr Austine Umahi, had won the ticket in the primary election which took place on the 28th May, 2022 at Afikpo North local government area Headquarters. A very close source to the governor confirmed the latest development to our correspondent in Abakaliki. The source who pleaded for anonymity dismissed the speculations that a fresh primary election was held for the senatorial district. He said: “no election was rescheduled, what happened was just substitution of candidates. The Electoral Act directs that such exercise must be conducted at the venue where the earlier exercise took place with full agreement of all parties involved. ”The Governor does not need to be present for the exercise to take place.  All that is required is just the consent of parties involved and once they agree and sign necessary documents the exercise is complete. Then, the party submits to INEC and the case closes.”   Peterside, rivers PDP condole with APC over fatal crash     2023: Oyo APC chieftain plots PDP’s fall     Furore in Kwara over House of Reps rerun   In the party’s primary that was held on Thursday evening, Akpabio scored a total of 478 votes to emerge winner. He defeated Udom Ekpoudom and Sir Joseph Akpan who scored three and one votes respectively. 11 votes were however declared invalid. Akpabio had on Monday collapsed his structure to support former Lagos State governor, Bola Tinubu who emerged the presidential flag-bearer of the party. It will be recalled that the same election was conducted across the 108 wards in the 10 local government areas of the district, with DIG Udom Ekpoudom(Rtd) emerging winner of the initial nomination exercise. Setting the tone shortly before the rerun of the primaries in Ikot Ekpene on Thursday night, the Chairman of APC, Akwa Ibom State chapter, Mr Stephen Ntukekpo, explained that the National Working Committee of the party ordered a rerun due to security infractions in the May 28 exercise. “There were some infractions in the primaries held about a week ago and I was directed by the National Working Committee of our great party to conduct a rerun. “We have about three aspirants in this exercise, and they are fully aware. They are: Sir Joseph Akpan, DIG Udom Ekpoudom, Obongemem Ekperikpe Ekpo, and Senator Godswill Akpabio.” He used the occasion to introduce Sir Sylvester Okonkwo as Chairman of the National Working Committee for the senatorial primaries,  Mrs Bunmi Moleye as Returning Officer and Chief Sunday Ewoleye – Chairman, APC Primaries Appeal Committee. Addressing the delegates, one of the aspirants, Mr Ekperikpe Ekpo announced his withdrawal from the race, drumming support for Sen. Godswill Akpabio. “Today, he has joined the race. I plead with all my delegates to identify with my father as I return all the delegates to vote for Senator Godswill Akpabio. With that, I have withdrawn my aspiration to the senatorial seat,” he said. Reacting to his victory, Senator Godswill Akpabio appreciated the National Working Committee of the party for the conduct of the primaries, and the delegates across the senatorial district for finding him worthy to represent them in the Nigerian Senate. “May you live long to reap the fruit of your labour. May God Almighty give us the opportunity to empower you. I was the only senator ever to do the kind of empowerment I did; from market to water project, electrification, even road construction, I did all as a senator, and I promise to do more,” he assured.