We, the Southwest Congress of the Federal Colleges of Education Union of Pensioners, acting for the senior citizens of this country, were alarmed to hear the character assassination by one of the senior citizens of this country, Mr. Abiodun Samuel, who went to Channels Television to allege that the Pensions Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) had gone comatose in the discharge of its duties. While Mr. Abiodun might have one misgiving or the other about PTAD, we make no pretenses about the fact that his claim is rather, not only untrue but malicious. Of course, it would be an exaggeration to say that there have never been glitches in the payment of pensions, it is clear that such do not translate into inaction. To put the records straight, PTAD has performed far above average in the discharge of its duties towards us. When problems arise with payment of one or two pensioners, PTAD, especially under the supervision of the executive secretary, has so far been very quick to respond to our complaints which are within a question of days. We got badly worried by the claim of our colleague for fear that it is capable of dampening the spirit of the Pensions Management Body (PTAD).   Access Holdings to acquire majority stake in First Guarantee…     PTAD complaints and solutions     PenCom kicks off online verification for MDAs’ retirees   If you have been very active and responsive in handling pensioners’ issues but you get apathy instead of commendation the consequence is obvious. To be factual, pensioners have never been as fortunate as we have been under the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. We remain eternally grateful to him for his empathy. It is on record that he had directed that pensions be paid on or before the 25th of every month at the inception of his administration! Nothing can be better than this, although this has hardly been realisable due to some logistic reasons largely associated with the Accountant- General’s Office/ the Central Bank. To realise the dream of our dear president in this regard, I want to appeal to the Accountant-General’s Office and the CBN to kindly give monthly pensions first-line charge so that PTAD’s effort can be seen and felt in carrying out Mr. President’s directive on the prompt payment of pensions. We appeal to our fellow senior citizens to intimate the Executive Secretary (ES) of PTAD, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, as well as the directors, with their complaints before going to the press. We are sure that this approach works as  Dr. Ejikeme would be on the neck of her directors until issues are resolved. This has happened before as the no-nonsense ES would fix issues with dispatch. Let us give praises to whom it is due, please.