Nigeria appears to be the only soccer-crazy nation where employees (foreign coaches or managers) whichever is applicable dictate to their employers how they want to work. The desperation we show in the quest for their services is such that we don’t care a hoot if exercise is done at grave cost to our football. We bend over backwards to accommodate their requests, leaving our nationals as bystanders in a vocation where they should be equals and partners with the foreigners. No disrespect to the foreigners. We searched for them and accepted their tasking demands even if it meant lending money to pay them. Such lack of vision and a discerning plan to actualise our targets explain why our football has been tottering with every new injection of life we apply. We easily forget that no football nation would allow her best coaches to move elsewhere when their football isn’t off the scratch. It is the reason no country has won the senior World Cup using other nationals as coaches. It is important to ask how those countries that used their nationals to win the World Cup did theirs?  Why our football chieftains take delight in belittling our local coaches is stranger than fiction. It is ridiculous that Nigeria could have two international friendly games and two 2023 Africa Cup of Nations qualification matches, yet the country’s Technical Director Austin Eguavoen was dropped without scruples. Our football administrators have unwittingly created an ‘enemy’ setting between Eguavoen and Peseiro, thus effectively ruling out any form of synergy between both men during games and competitions. The Portuguese would see Eguavoen as a rival who should be kept at arm’s length rather than be shown the game’s rudiments going forward. Those who took Peseiro to Ilorin to watch one of the domestic games for that week are the true enemies of the beautiful game in Nigeria. Pray, why are we so cursed? In other climes, Eguavoen would have accompanied Peseiro to Ilorin and they have enough time to rub minds and warm themselves to each other. What a lifetime chance has been thrown into the furnace. Monday’s (June 20) meeting at 1 pm was the first time Jose Peseiro and Austin Eguavoen were meeting as employees of the NFF. Both men met in Abuja at the instance of the NFF General Secretary  Mohammed Sanusi. The body’s Chairman of Technical Committee  Ahmed Yusuf Fresh, and the team’s Coordinator Dayo Enebi attended. Cynics have been wondering how it took the federation such a long time for the country’s foremost football tacticians to meet. The critics were equally worried about how the NFF chieftains missed the opportunity offered by the two international matches against Mexico and Ecuador in Dallas and New Jersey in the United States (US) for Peseiro and Eguavoen to interact before, during and after the two matches which Nigeria lost 2-1 and 1-0. Observers were miffed that the federation didn’t consider it expedient to interface between both men before Nigeria beat Sierra Leone 2-1 in Abuja and whacked Sao Tome and Principe 10-0 in Morocco, wondering what they would have to say about such failure of leadership in the federation. Many argued further that it was a subtle attempt to belittle Eguavoen before Peseiro, with one poser left unanswered –  who between Eguavoen and the Portuguese is the boss of Nigeria football? As usual, nothing has been disclosed officially about what transpired in Monday’s meeting of our football egghead except one is able to speak with either of the coaches or trap a football chief who attended the meeting. In other climes, such a meeting would have drawn the blueprint for our football   Everyone loves winners, but…     Welcome Jose Peseiro     Job for Peseiro’s son   showing us how all our national teams across gender in the next three years beyond the ceremonial handshake of welcome to Nigeria and possibly words of assurances from both men to work together for the good of the beautiful game in Nigeria. I don’t need to be a seer to know that nothing was discussed in the meeting about who between Eguavoen and Peseiro is the boss. The morbid thought of our administrators is that Eguavoen should know that Peseiro is the boss since he handles the Super Eagles. What a pity! Will both men work together amicably? I’m not a pessimist, but one thing is sure, Eguavoen would be more inclined to stand with his former teammate who is the assistant coach than with his boss which ought to be the case. Do our administrators care about the growth of the game beyond their characteristic quick fixes? It suits them more to belong to the international bodies than to be perturbed about the dearth of the game at the domestic level. Peseiro, having worked in Africa before wants the support of Nigerian coaches to succeed, according to the reports from Tuesday’s meeting in Abuja. That is expected. What would blow my mind out would be his plans to give the national teams a unique way of playing games which should run through all the national teams. Now that Peseiro is scheduled to watch a game today in Uyo, would it be out of place for Eguavoen, Finidi George and Ike Shorunmu to be there also? This quartet should stay back in Uyo how best they can utilise the facilities there as a training camp for all our national teams. Playing on good pitches is infectious just as it brings out the best performance from the players on both sides. Global best practices among coaches are such that they lay down markers for picking players known to everyone before the season begins. Most coaches fix their gaze on players who ply their trade in the elite leagues of most of the European leagues knowing that only the best players in the world compete weekly there. Such leagues are beamed live for people to watch making it very easy to monitor the players needed by any manager. Players of countries where their national teams’ coaches have set markers for them know the leagues that they must play in to be selected. If they choose to play in the novelty leagues for the cash, then they know that they won’t be picked even if they score goals on the moon, as one Nigerian coach used to say when asked why certain players were dropped, especially the strikers among them. The NFF should as much as possible accept the grade A games which are for points acquisition in FIFA’s monthly ranking, while the grade B games can be used to test our other players, particularly the home-based players. The grade B games must be played in Nigerian cities to reawaken interest in the game. These grade B games can open a new vista for the local boys who shine in them; the local boys have been forsaken for a long time and this has affected the quality of the leagues. Yearly, our representatives in the CAF inter-club competitions complain of the lack of matches to keep their players in competitive form as the reason for their early exits. Why the NFF executive board members have turned deaf ears to this disturbing trend beats one’s imagination. It doesn’t matter if the country’s representatives take turns in being eliminated from every round of the competitions. What insults our sensibilities is the yearly explanation after the teams must have crashed out that we would do something and nothing gets done about it. Should we fold our hands and cry? No. Peseiro should live in Nigeria and create six zones where domestic league players can assemble from Monday until Thursday to train under the supervision of the Super Eagles coaches and assistants where a new playing culture would be taught. It is very sad that we hardly find secondary schoolboys in our domestic leagues anymore. The dearth of boarding schools can be traced as the reason for this systemic failure. Nigeria go better!