The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, has excluded lawyers, including seven Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), from the six present or future vacancies at the Supreme Court. None of the 23 lawyers who heeded the CJN’s January 19 invitation and applied for the job is on a 29-man provisional list seen by The Nation yesterday. The list, already sent by Justice Muhammad, who doubles as the Chairman of the Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC), to the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), was received by its Judiciary Committee Chairman, Dr. Babatunde Ajibade (SAN), on May 27. It comprises 29 Justices of the Court of Appeal from five geopolitical zones. They are to fill six current or expected vacancies on the Supreme Court’s maximum 21-man Bench. The shortlist includes five jurists each from the Northcentral, Northwest, Southsouth and Southwest, while the Southeast has a nine-man jurist team. The candidates and their zones are: “A. Northcentral: Justice Jummai Sankey, JCA; Justice Stephen Jonah Adah, JCA; Justice Sa’idu Tanko Hussain, JCA; Justice Ridwan M. Abdullahi, JCA; and Justice Mohammed Baba Idris, JCA. “B. Northwest: Justice Ali Abubakar Babandi Gumel, JCA; Justice Tani Yusuf Hassan, JCA; Justice Mohammed Lawal Shuaibu, JCA; Justice Jamilu Y. Tukur. JCA; and Justice Balkisu Bello Aliyu, JCA. “C. Southeast: Justice Uzoamaka I. Ndukwe-Anyanwu, JCA; Justice Chidiebere N. Uwa, JCA; Justice Chioma Nwosu-Iheme, JCA; Justice Theresa N. Orji-Abadua, JCA; Justice Obande F. Ogbuinya, JCA; Justice Uchechukwu Onyemenam, JCA; Justice Onyekachi A. Otisi, JCA; Justice Ugochukwu A. Ogakwu, JCA; Justice Kenneth Ikechukwu Amadi, JCA. “D. Southsouth: Justice Moore A. Abraham Adumein, JCA; Justice Biobele A. Georgewill, JCA; Justice Frederick O. Oho, JCA; Dr. Justice Abimbola O. Obaseki-Adejumo, JCA; and Justice Ebiowei Tobi, JCA.   Buhari returns from Rwanda after 26th CHOGM     Taming petrol scarcity menace     Onnoghen’s ghost   “E. Southwest, Justice Oyebisi F. Omoleye, JCA; Justice Tunde O. Omotoye, JCA; Justice Habeeb A. O. Abiru, JCA; Justice Peter Olabisi Ige, JCA; and Justice Joseph Olubunmi Kayode Oyewole, JCA.” Apart from the Southeast, which will get two out of the six slots, and the Northeast, which is excluded, the other zones will get one slot each on the apex court’s Bench. The CJN’s May 27 list requested the NBA to comment on the provisional shortlist of the nominated candidates. Dr. Ajibade, who released the names of the shortlisted applicants in a June 13 letter, sighted by The Nation yesterday, advised NBA members to send in their comments/petitions not later than today. His letter, titled: Re: Appointment of Six Justices of the Supreme Court, reads: “By a letter, dated January 19, 2022, the Chief Justice of Nigeria and Chairman of the Federal Judicial Service Commission, Hon. Dr. Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, CFR, requested, from critical stakeholders, including the NBA, the nomination of suitable candidates for consideration for appointment as Justices of the Supreme Court of Nigeria to fill six present and potential vacancies at the Supreme Court…” “On February 7, 2022, the NBA invited the expression of interest from suitably qualified members from the relevant geo-political zones. “Further to the above, and pursuant to Rule III 4(i) and (iii) of the 2014 Revised National Judicial Council Guidelines and Procedural Rules for the Appointment of Judicial Officers of all Superior Courts of Record in Nigeria, the CJN has, by a letter, dated May 27, 2022, requested the NBA to comment on the provisional shortlist of the nominated candidates.” Responding to The Nation’s enquiry on whether the NBA was expecting another provisional list, Dr. Ajibade said the association would take up the matter with Justice Muhammad. “We’re taking it up with the CJN. This is the only list we’ve received from the Federal Judicial Service Commission,” he said. The NBA chairman explained that the association was concerned that “private legal practitioners who expressed interest don’t seem to have been considered.” He hinted that NBA President Olumide Akpata would express the body’s concern to the CJN.