Following the decision by the Federal Government to reverse the two-year international ban placed on basketball, stakeholders have hailed the development while expressing concern over the inability to address the main issues affecting the sports in the country. In a statement released yesterday and signed by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Ismaila Abubakar, the decision to reverse the ban was based on the appeal from concerned stakeholders, former Nigerian international basketball players and well-meaning Nigerians. Abubakar stated that the decision was also based on the fruitful meeting between FIBA and Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare which he said produced common understanding in certain general areas with a commitment from the world basketball ruling body to explore and collaborate on enhancing relationships. In addition, the apology letter from the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) board singed by Musa Kida to the President and Minister over the embarrassment with a pledge to set up a team to reconcile all contending parties in the basketball family within and outside the country necessitated the reversal. Gbadegesin  Olatona, who is the coordinator of the Youth Alive Basketball Community League, believed  the decision by the government is necessary to save the future of the athletes. “I am happy that the ban has been reversed especially considering the career of most of the players both within and outside Nigeria,” he said.“ This is good for them to see the need for them to aim to represent Nigeria in international competitions. “ However, the issues that prompted the ban are yet to be addressed especially in terms of the structure of the sport.”   World Athletics Championships: Enekwechi sets new shot put…     Nigeria win WAFU B U17 Championship in Ghana     Senegal’s superstar Sadio Mane set to mesmerise Bayern…   He continued :“Basketball should go beyond an individual and foundation to ensure that the basketball does not go the way of football in Nigeria should be avoided at all costs. “Football now is managed by the highest bidder without any proper structure to grow the sport at home and this is why there are still struggles in football. “ But I believe we should have taken a cue from this and allowed the sport to go beyond any individual with proper structure in place for the sport to stand on its own,” he added. Similarly,  Abimbola Faniran, who is the founder of the Akofa Foundation , supported Olatona while calling for the abnormality in the NBBF Constitution to be addressed. He offered: “I am happy with the reversal but it is yet Uhuru for the sport as the contending issues that caused the ban is still not yet addressed. “ Particularly the abnormality in the NBBF Constitution which stated  that  the President and Vice President can be chosen by a few people. “So these issues must not be swept under the carpet while all stakeholders in the sport must be assembled to forger way forward for the sport,” Faniran noted.