A Chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) who contested for the Oyo South Senatorial District, primary, Chief Adegboyega Taofeek Adegoke, has pledged to work with the party to ensure the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is sent parking in Oyo state in the 2023 general elections. Adegoke, who said despite the way the primary of the senatorial district went, he still remains a formidable member of the party in the state,  congratulated Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his emergence as the presidential flag bearer of the ruling APC. Adegoke, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA) and Aare-Onibon Balogun of Ibadanland stated this while hosting his supporters to a get-together at his hotel, Channel 8 Premium Hotel, Ikolaba/Bodija Ibadan.   Furore in Kwara over House of Reps rerun     2023: Akwa Ibom APC has no governorship candidate – INEC     2023 presidency: APC, PDP heighten search for running mates   The APC chieftain said the purpose of bringing his coordinators across the nine local governments that make Oyo South Senatorial District is to allay their fears on the next political agenda as well as socialise with them to dance away the bitterness of the outcome of the primary. Addressing his teeming supporters,  Adegoke said, “the purpose of this gathering is to socialise, interact and to let you know that primary has come and gone, but that does not  end the road. “I want to tell you that I remain a formidable member of APC, so that when some people are firing political guns, you will let them know that we are going nowhere, we remain in APC to work as a team to take Oyo APC to the next level by coming out victorious in the 2023 election. “Though some political parties have come to me but we remain in APC for better. My principle is that let what has transpired be expired and let us aspire for new aspirations. I want to encourage you that we still have lots of programs ahead of us. God has his own plan for us, that is not the end of our political project because I still have lots of plans ahead of me and I know God has a lot of plans for me as well.”