The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) is set to put 813 pensioners of Bank of Agriculture (BoA) in its payroll, the Executive Secretary, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, has said. She spoke at the just-concluded verification of pensioners of the BoA in the Southwest zone and mopup for other pensioners who missed previous exercises under the Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) in the zone. She said the retirees quit work before 2007 did not transit to the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), stating they received complaints from some pensioners whose claims had not been verified and had not been put on the payroll. She stated that some of the retirees had been on-boarded, noting that they were not part of the treasury-funded pension scheme before but that they were part of the poverty alleviation agencies. She said: “After this exercise, they will put them on payroll. We will validate the verification to banks, do what we normally do under quality assurance, and do computation. We will put them on the payroll because we have already made provisions for them.   NEM’s assets hit N6.9billion     PenCom to sanction PFAs for misleading clients     PTAD begins verification for BoA’s pensioners   “This is the verification for the Southwest zone. We are going to go the Northcentral, and Northwest for verification. For the other zones, we are going to work out a mobile verification strategy because they don’t have too many people there.” She also said some retirees under the parastatal pensions department, who were eligible had been put on the payroll, adding that settlement of arrears in the Defined Benefits Scheme was a continuous process. The Head, Human Resources, BoA, Tsukunda Yakubu, who monitor the verification, said the programme was well planned. ”We have been working with PTAD for a period of time. We have had our timetable set out and everything has been working out very well. It is something that started before the COVID-19. It has been on but as soon as she came on board, she made sure that she put all machinery in action to ensure that this happens this year. “We are very happy and grateful that she made out time to come and we thank the Federal Government for the creation of PTAD,”  she said.