In furtherance of his reconciliatory initiative, All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential flag bearer, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday reached out to four more of his rivals in Tuesday’s primaries to ensure the party goes into the 2023 election as a united family. Tinubu visited former Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi and former Niger Delta Affairs Minister Godswill Akpabio, 24 hours after a similar visit to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. More congratulatory messages also poured in yesterday for the APC candidate, the prominent ones coming from Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) chairman Audu Ogbe, Afenifere Egbe Ilosiwaju Yoruba, state governors and former national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshimhole, among others. The APC candidate hailed his hosts for their commitment to the ideals represented by the party and promised that everyone would be carried along in the quest for victory in 2023. He asked the Kogi State governor to support his campaign to improve the lives of Nigerians. He stressed the need for intra-party unity to provide a better and prosperous future for Nigerians. “We will use our intellectual inquisitiveness, build a nation of sound minds, sound people, elevate our people, extract them from poverty,” he said. “There is no reason to be in abject poverty in this country. We are brilliant people. Let us wear the uniform of can-do; the mind of those people who have built other nations, particularly people from this age.” Touched by the Tinubu’s visit, Governor Bello donated an office to the presidential campaign of the APC flag bearer and promised to work for him and the party. Tinubu’s meeting with Umahi was unscheduled and took place behind closed doors, but it was gathered that the discussion focused on salient issues arising from the just concluded presidential primaries. The former Lagos State governor described Umahi as a rallying point for Igbo integration in the mainstream national politics. He pledged to carry all parts of the country along if elected as president. Umahi in turn assured him of his support and that of all members of APC in the entire South East zone. He expressed confidence that the country will take a leap under the leadership of Tinubu. Tinubu, during his visit to Akpabio, hailed the former minister for foregoing his presidential ambition for him (Tinubu), which he said went a long way in ensuring his victory at the primaries. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said yesterday that he would support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for the 2023 presidential election. Osinbajo spoke at the Abuja campaign office of The Progressive Project (TPP), a coalition of support groups that backed him for the presidency. Osinbajo said despite the outcome of the APC’s presidential primary he remained committed to the dream of a new Nigeria. In his address to the crowd of supporters, the VP described the clamour for a new Nigeria as a movement. He said: “This movement is a movement within a party also. We are not doing something that has not been heard of before. What is new is that we have a firm belief that a new Nigeria is possible and it is possible through us who are here. “We went to the convention and the results showed us clearly that we lost, but it is only a battle, it is not the war. There are battles ahead, but we will win the war for a new Nigeria. I have no doubt in my mind that we will win that war for a new Nigeria. “That is why our movement for a new Nigeria must remain strong and firm. And we will do everything to keep our movement strong and solid.” According to the Vice President, despite the result of the APC presidential pimary, “the dream of a new country remains alive and well… We will have at the back of our minds, that what you have started in the various movements, coming into one, is the seed that will birth a new nation. You and I know the time has come and we will devote everything to it. “I am committed and will remain committed to that dream (of a new Nigeria) for as long as you are willing and recognise that we have not yet written the story of this country, we have not yet completed the story of this country. As a matter of fact, the story has just begun, this movement has just started.” The VP further said “a new Nigeria has only just started, and everywhere across this land, it will be clear to all that a new Nigeria has been born. Once the genie comes out of the bottle, you cannot put it back. The word has been spoken; it cannot be taken back: it is time for a New Nigeria.” Pledging support for the APC presidential candidate for the 2023 elections, Prof. Osinbajo recalled the personal letter he wrote to Asiwaju yesterday congratulating him on his victory at the party primary. “In that letter, I said to him that the dream of this country, the dream of a new country remains alive and well. And I want you to know in your hearts that we are democrats. “When we participate in a contest and the results are announced. No matter what those results may be, we abide by them because there is only one process for democrats, whether that process is good or bad, there is only one, and we have gone through that process. A chieftain of APC in Cross River, Mr Ekpenyong Nsa, yesterday donated a 22-room building complex and the sum of N100 million to support Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s campaign. Nsa, in a statement, said that the donation was crucial in supporting Tinubu to actualise his presidential bid. Nsa who vied for governorship ticket on the platform of the party in Cross River, said that he was optimistic that Tinubu would revamp the economy if elected. This, according to him, is part of the reasons he is supporting Tinubu with the building and money for campaign. According to him, the campaign structure situated at 78 Ndidem Usang Iso, in Calabar Municipal Council, has a conference room, a lounge, office spaces, kitchen, security post, reception halls, library and rest rooms. He said that the building would serve as the official state campaign headquarters of Tinubu when finally acquired. While congratulating Tinubu for his victory at the primaries, Nsa acknowledged Tinubu’s human capital and infrastructural development initiatives which he said was evident in Lagos State. Nsa said that the revival of Cross River port would improve the economic potential in Cross River State. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) Chairman Audu Ogbe in a congratulatory message to Asiwaju Tinubu yesterday said it was down to his wealth of experience which will help in strengthening the APC ahead of the 2023 elections.   Party primaries: the fallacy of national gender policy     Tinubu: The man who would be president     Uju Ohanenye: Breaking gender bias   Chief Ogbeh, ascribed Tinubu’s victory to his wealth of experience which will help in strengthening the APC ahead of the forthcoming general elections in 2023. He said: “Congratulations on your nomination as the flag bearer of our APC for the 2023 Presidential elections. Your courage and determination made your victory inevitable. “I believe that your wealth of experience will help in strengthening our great party ahead of the forthcoming Presidential elections. As one and the same party members, we must now work together to pursue our common interest which is to come out victorious in the upcoming elections. “You are coming into office at one of the most difficult and challenging times in our history with a frightening multiplicity of political and economic problems confronting us. “But we believe that with hard work and sincerity of purpose, we shall overcome. “I look forward to working with you in furtherance of our great party’s success in the upcoming 2023 elections.” Yoruba Socio-Cultural Group, Afenifere Egbe Ilosiwaju Yoruba, in its own message lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for providing good leadership and allowing due process to be followed in the selection of the presidential flag bearer. In a statement on Thursday by the secretary of the group, Mr Bayo Aina, the group lauded the APC Northern Governors for their commitment to power shift that led to the realisation of a southern candidate as the presidential candidate of the party. The group under the leadership of elder statesman, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, commended all the aspirants in the party for their conduct before, during and after the primary. It called on leaders of the party to unite behind the presidential candidate and work for the success of the party in the coming general elections. The group said whatever differences that exist within the party must be resolved amicably. Former National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said the emergence of Tinubu was a reaffirmation of his acclaimed capacity to headhunt, mobilise, motivate and empower the best minds to translate vision into reality. The former governor of Edo State, in a statement, urged all party leaders to rally around the candidate to ensure his success in the elections. He said: “Although it was clear to many of us from the onset that you possess all it takes to lead this country at the expiration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure, taking into consideration your antecedents and the sacrifices you have made for our party, we are nonetheless gratified by the level of goodwill and overwhelming acceptability that you enjoy among our party faithful from across the country which translated into votes during the primary convention. “You represent a movement, a force, full of energy and radiating hope of a brighter future to come when Nigerians hand over to you the baton of leadership, which you are well prepared for and ready to accept with all its attendant responsibilities. “I do not doubt that Nigerians, no matter their political persuasions, will readily recognise your unique abilities and accept you as the right person needed at this momentous time to lead this nation and transcend all extant challenges.” Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma described Tinubu’s victory as a demonstration of his strength, tenacity, experience, credibility and integrity as one of the founding members of the APC. Uzodimma, in a statement he personally signed as Chairman, APC Special Convention /Presidential Primaries 2022, also said the success of the Abuja primaries was a testimony to the dedication of the APC to the tenets of democracy and democratic principles. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his sterling leadership qualities that paved the way for the emergence of a worthy successor in Tinubu. Abiodun visits him Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday visited Tinubu and pledged his support to ensure victory in the presidential election. Abiodun said on his Twitter page that his visit was to congratulate the APC flag bearer on his victory at Tuesday’s primaries. Former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN) said Tinubu’s victory at the primaries was a testament to his “wide acceptance across the length and breadth of our country.” He added: “This is so because for well over three decades, you have bestrode the political landscape of Nigeria exhibiting strong leadership and mentoring acumen that has swelled the ranks of your mammoth followership. “Your uncommon courage, strong passion and infectious patriotism, coupled with your steely determination had left no one in doubt that you have a mission to drive our quest for a more secure and prosperous Nigeria. That mission shall soon be fulfilled to the glory of God and the good of our nation.” Former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives Hon Babangida Nguroje urged Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to be magnanimous in victory. He said all hands must now be on deck by every APC member to ensure victory in next year’s elections. Hon. Nguroje who is also a member of the Sterling committee for the Tinubu team in Taraba State expressed optimism that the former Lagos State Governor would emerge victorious in the presidential election. A chieftain of the All Progressive in Delta State, Chief Ayirimi Emami, has applauded the emergence of former Lagos State Governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the party’s presidential flag-bearer in the Tuesday’s primary. Emami, who was a director in the Election Planning and Monitoring Committee of the 2019 APC Presidential Campaign Council, said Asiwaju Tinubu’s emergence brightens the party’s chance of retaining power in 2023. Chief Emami, in a statement in Warri, said the resounding victory of Senator Tinubu at the presidential primary was a testament of the acceptance he enjoys across the country and “evidence of a political aficionado, gifted with the tenacity to successfully actualise incontrovertible victory, amid apparent challenges.” According to the Warri Chief and businessman, “the  resolve so far exhibited by the APC Presidential candidate to closely work with members of the Progressive Governors’  Forum, the National Working Committee of the party, fellow aspirants in the just concluded APC Presidential primary and other stakeholders in the party, explains how Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, was able to lay foundation for the economic progress and all – round development being witnessed in Lagos State and the formation of APC from a coalition of political parties, prior to the 2015 elections.” He commended APC delegates from Delta State for conducting themselves in ” exceptional manner during the APC Presidential primary, adding that there were indications that the APC flag-bearer would hit the ground running.” The Concerned Yoruba Muslim Scholars in Nigeria described Tinubu’s victory as a reward from Allah for  his goodness. President of the organisation, Sheikh AbdurRasheed Mayaleke, Secretary General Prof. Abideen Olaiya and Publicity Secretary Mallam Abdulganiyy Sahid Olaide Ezra in a joint statement said: “This is just the beginning but a victory in large scale for will never allow any kind of goodness to go in vain. “We therefore urge Asiwaju to remain grateful to Allah Almighty who made the aspiration a successful endeavour and remained magnanimous in victory by extending hands of cooperation to all other aspirants that contested for the coveted position along with him.” The organisation urged Tinubu to “remain resolute and be firm in his faith in Allah who enthrones whomsoever He wills to the position of authority,” and hoped that “we shall see a better and working Nigeria that will overcome all challenges facing it presently very soon.”