The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State Of Biafra (MASSOB) has lampooned Senators Ike Ekweremadu and Jim Nwobodo over what it terms unguarded and provocative utterances against Labour Party presidential candidate Peter Obi. Ekweremadu and Nwobodo had reportedly said that Ndigbo will never vote for the former Anambra Governor in 2023. MASSOB said such statement could only come from political slaves of Hausa/Fulani Oligarchy and cannot represent the general view of Ndigbo. . “We viewed their statements as that of a political slaves to Hausa Fulani of Northern oligarchy,” the statement by MASSOB National Secretary, Comrade Ugwuoke Ibem Ugwuoke begins. The statement reads: “It’s very unfortunate that learned men like Ike Ekweremadu and Jim Nwobodo will be used against their own people to say that South East will not vote for Mr Peter Obi. Who even made them the spokespersons for Ndigbo? “Ike Ekweremadu and Jim Nwobodo should be ashamed of themselves for been slaves who couldn’t even aspire to be the president even when it is the turn of Ndigbo to produce the president of Nigeria, they ran away and want to decide where Ndigbo will vote.   Motorists groan as tipper drivers block Onitsha/Enugu…     Soldiers guard school with 4,928 voters     LIVE UPDATES: Ekiti Decides 2022   “MASSOB observed that Ike Ekweremadu has forgotten so soon what happened to him few years ago in far away Germany, how angry Biafrans dealt with him. “MASSOB is not surprised over Ike Ekweremadu’s action because we know that he can sell his brothers because of his greed for power, his aim is to return back to senate and the only way to get the ticket is to attack his Igbo brother. “MASSOB wish to warn all Igbo politicians that our non violence nature should not be taken for granted, it is time all Igbo political betrayals in Igbo land will be paid back in their own coins. “Ike Ekweremadu has been in government power for over 20 years , still not satisfied MASSOB will not allow greedy politicians in Igbo land to destroy the future of our next generation because of their selfish desires. “MASSOB will mobilize Igbo youths, market women/men, town unions and students etc to vote against bad leadership in entire Igbo land.” #