The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has confirmed the June 30 deadline for the ongoing continuous voter registration (CVR) will be extended. The Commission did not however state how long the extension will last INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, made the disclosure on Saturday during the Youth Vote Count concert at the old parade ground, Abuja. The awareness campaign was organised by INEC in partnership with European Union Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria (EU-SDGN) and YIAGA Africa. The event was designed to mobilise youths across the state for the on-going nationwide CVR exercise. Yakubu said contrary to reports, distribution of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) for the ongoing CVR exercise will begin in October, 2022. According to him: “The youth want to know when the registration will end. I want to assure you on behalf of the commission that the registration won’t end on June 30 for as along as we have you people trying to register, we will continue to register you. In the last five days, we have registered over 14000 Nigerians in this place alone. We have about 50 voter registration machines”. “Also, by next Monday, we will deploy more machines to register Nigerians. We won’t stop registration until we are satisfy that those who wish to register are given the opportunity to do so.   Group seeks support for anti-drug abuse efforts     Akeredolu greets Sanwo-Olu at 57     Arewa group vows to end inter-ethnic conflicts in Southern…   “When will your PVCs be ready for collection? PVCs will be ready for collection latest by October this year long before the election. I want to thank you for making the PVC the most popular Identification Card. He urged the youths to ensure that they used the PVC for the purpose it is meant for, “not just for opening of bank accounts”.. Yakubu assured the registrants that their votes count in all elections He said: “Ekiti governorship poll is good, Osun will be better and 2023 general elections will be the best. Your votes will count. For those who are yet to register, kindly do so to vote” Head of the EU delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Ambassador Samuela Isopi urged youths not to sell their votes, adding that they have the numbers to drive positive change. “This is the start of a great change. We can feel the energy. Nigerians are mobilizing and there is this feeling that this time they are ready to be driver of change. You have the Power to drive positive change. Get your PVC and use it. Your votes will count and don’t give up your power. don’t sell your votes because if you sell your votes, you sell your future. “Go out and challenge your leaders and stand for your values. This is the way to build democracy, to have a better governance and a better Nigeria. The EU will stand by you and by all Nigerians to make Nigeria democracy stronger,” she said.