CoinW shows that it has empathy for the problems of the poor in Africa and donates aid and relief materials, to raise awareness of the brand’s purpose. On June 13, the African team of CoinW , the world’s leading cryptocurrency trading platform, and some volunteers from the crypto community pays a visit to Living Fountain Orphanage in Lagos, Nigeria, with a batch of charity supplies for the children to show their love and care.  Covid-19 exacerbates poverty in Africa.  Due to the economic impacts brought by the Covid-19 epidemic, poverty and hunger have been exacerbated. Impoverished children living in developing countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, Latin America and other places affected, are suffering in many aspects such as survival, health and education. “2022 Nigeria Poverty Assessment Report” released by the World Bank in March shows that poverty in Nigeria has increased due to the Covid-19 pandemic impact. According to research published in The Lancet Child Adolesc Health, there will be 5.2 million orphaned or abandoned children worldwide due to COVID-19-related orphan or caregiver fatalities, according to a study published in The Lancet Child Adolesc Health in April 2022. We intend to give back to the community and accept some of our international social duties as a global crypto-asset trading platform. The CoinW Africa team reached out to the Living Fountain Orphanage in Lagos with the help of KOLs in the local crypto community and made a kind donation.   Should Your Pension be paid in Crypto or Local Currency?     SPOUSES OF THE VICE CHANCELLORS IN NIGERIA     If You Need Money, This Week, This Is For You!   People’s hearts are warmed by love and kindness, and the world is a better place because of it. Living fountain home is a non-governmental, non-profit organization which was established in 2007 out of the desire to provide shelter, succor, clothing, emotional care and hope for a better future for the motherless, abandoned, underprivileged and the poorest of the poor children in our society. After carefully studying the orphanage’s requirements, the CoinW public welfare team determined that this general donation should focus on daily basics and anti-epidemic materials, such as drinking water, rice, milk, edible oil, paper towels, soap, disinfectants, thermometers, masks, etc. At the same time, this event teamed up with local crypto asset community owners in Nigeria to support public welfare and spread the love so that more people could engage in the orphanage assistance operations and increase the public welfare effect. The founder of the Living Fountain Orphanage, Ms Bethy Obieri, exclaimed: “The loss of a parent is difficult for children, but they are also fortunate. CoinW has my sincere gratitude for the gift. Thanks to these important supplies, children’s lives are filled with hope and stability.”  CoinW’s CEO said, “The Covid-19 epidemic has raised the poverty rate in West African countries, especially Nigeria.” Children are a country’s and a nation’s best hope for the future. Make a difference in the lives of orphans by providing them with the support and resources they need to thrive in a safe and nurturing environment. Also, I aim to encourage more people to pay attention to and care for these youngsters. At the same time, the charitable deed of giving back to the local community and caring for the disadvantaged groups in the area is also a part of the company’s culture. “Improve the overall image of CoinW in Africa and allow the CoinW brand to better integrate into the local society.” However, the CoinW Nigerian charity action is not over. It would continue indefinitely as long as there are children in need in Nigeria. Future CoinW journeys of public welfare will have a greater sense of responsibility and mission to produce value. The dandelion of general interest and love can fly to more areas that require love and care. Everyone is welcome to join CoinW, participate in public welfare activities, and spread the love! CoinW is a world-class platform in crypto-asset trading. Since its inception in 2017, it has grown to include 16 regional trading service centres in 13 countries, serving 7.5 million customers worldwide. The products are available in Chinese, English, Korean, and Vietnamese. To protect the interests of its customers, CoinW has obtained financial regulatory licences in several different countries and regions. Self-developed trading systems, bank-level fund security systems, and sophisticated risk control systems enable seamless transactions and asset protection.