The Institution of Environmental Engineers (NIEE) has sought the collaboration of government and individuals to sanitise our environment and turn its waste to useful purpose. Its National Chairman, Mr Sesan Odukoya, stated this at a briefing on the World Environmental Day in Ikeja, Lagos. Noting this year’s theme ‘Only one earth’, he said we have only one world, which we must take care of or we suffer from the consequences of not doing so. The objective of the celebration, he explained, “is to ensure that this ‘Only One Earth’ is conducive for all to live in’’ . Odukoya lamented: “Nigeria has its share of environmental challenges arising from air and land pollution, degradation and mismanagement. The impact of these on our lives is enormous and we can, in our little way, change the level of damage done to the environment. Our drainage system management has affected our roads and dealt great damage, the resultant effect of which is felt on lives. We have to look into the carbon footprint generated by industries, automobiles, and generators, or else we set ourselves up for a disaster. “As a nation, let us participate actively in the World Environment Day in aligning ourselves with the tenets and actions necessary for the creation of an eco-friendly and green world conducive for us and our children and those yet unborn.’’   PTAD complaints and solutions     10 pension rights, privileges to know as private sector…     Pension complaints and solutions   On the partnership, he said NIEE’s members have the technical knowhow, which it would avail the government “to promote clean environment. People can also leverage our experience to provide solution”. He said environmental sanitation should not be left for the government. Rather, all hands must be on deck. He noted the body’s past achievements in Lagos, Edo State where it played a major role at the Bypass to deflood the area and in the Southeast. To win the war on environmental degradation, NIEE’s Vice Chairman, Antonio Ayodele called for policy direction while Odukoya asked for the strengthening of policy enforcement, saying a lot of policies were not being implemented. Also at the event were NIEE’s past chairman, Yinusa Adisa; and Secretary, Mr. Afolabi Gege