Going by the words of Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule, President Muhammadu Buhari told All Progressives Congress (APC) governors the type of presidential candidate he has in mind for the party. But Buhari did not tell the governors who the choice-candidate would be, he said. Sule, who spoke on a Channels’ Television programme yesterday, said that was one of the agenda of an emergency meeting the President had with the progressive governors in Abuja. According to him, the consensus candidate must be somebody acceptable to every part of the country and who can win election for the party. He said Buhari also hinted that the candidate would be an individual, who understands the vision and drive of the party and that can sustain the good programme of the party.   Governors’ meetings on President’s proposal deadlocked     Fed. Govt receives terrorists’ demands for release of train…     2023: Fresh suit seeks Atiku’s disqualification over…   Sule said: “Our objective must be the victory of our party and our choice of candidate must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence even before the elections.” Sule, however, denied knowledge of any of the APC presidential aspirants that fits into the President’s description. He said: “At our meeting, he did not say he has a preferred candidate and it does not look to me that the president has a preferred candidate. He has given us the governors and stakeholders to look for such.” He added that, it was needful for the president to give his benchmark of the candidate so as to guide all stakeholders on how they can help Buhari deliver on his desires of bequeathing good legacies to whoever emerges. “I don’t think the president will want to pick his successors singlehandedly, hence he would not be consulting the party leaders like he has been doing. “We are going to work on who to emerge as the consensus candidate as the governors are already meeting. “If we find one of us that fit the prescription, we would not mind. “We may have a President who has never been president.”