The day was Tuesday, May 24, 2022. The venue was the popular Panseke Junction, Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State. The event was the official inauguration of the 3km Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road within the Abeokuta metropolis. The strategic road, which traverses Abekouta South, Obafemi-Owode and Ewekoro LG, was one of the major roads started but abandoned by the immediate past administration in the state. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony at the popular Panseke Junction, Governor Dapo Abiodun described the event as symbolic, stressing that the project is a fulfilment of his administration’s promise to the people of Ogun State. In many ways, the 3km road is particularly of tremendous economic importance to the Gateway State, as it traverses three Local Government Areas and also provides a viable bye-pass to the busy Ita-Oshin-Lafenwa end of the Abeokuta-Ifo-Sango-Lagos expressway through Obada Oko. On the micro level, the road adds to the infrastructure aesthetics of the area, with reinforced concrete median, a carriage width of 8m in each direction, and reinforced concrete drain and walkway. The benefits of getting the road done, if weighed on the macro scale, are also equally huge. Among other benefits, it puts in a position of advantage the state’s Transport Master Plan, especially the road transportation aspect of the administration’s multi-modal transport agenda, since the road will serve as a boost to the state’s transportation development plan for Abeokuta, one of the fastest growing cities in Ogun State. “This road has a history. It was started on December, 2018. That makes it one of the inherited projects from the immediate past administration. At the inception of our administration, and in our usual methodical, strategic and inclusive approach, we inaugurated a committee to consider the status and viability of these inherited projects. “Then, I made a promise to the good people of Ogun State that we will complete all inherited projects that have direct bearing on the development of our dear state. Here we are! We are fulfilling our promises. Since 29th May, 2019, our dear state has witnessed a new vista in infrastructural development. We thank God that we are here gathered today not only to commission this road, but to fulfil the promise made. This is to show that our words are our bond with the people of Ogun State,” an elated Abiodun said. That was not the only landmark project successfully completed and delivered by the administration. On Thursday January 13, during the inauguration of 14km Ijebu Ode-Mojoda-Epe Road, President Muhammadu Buhari, who was officially in the state for the purpose, was so impressed that he said Governor Abiodun has justified mandate given to him by the people of Ogun State. President Buhari described Abiodun as the ‘‘performing Governor of Nigeria’s Gateway State,’’ saying he is a worthy example of ‘‘promises made, promises kept.’’ The President gave the accolade while addressing residents of the state, during his one-day official visit to the state where he inaugurated some landmark projects delivered by Abiodun’s administration. During the official visit, President Buhari inaugurated the Ijebu Ode-Mojoda-Epe road and other four projects located in different parts of the state. The President’s entourage included other governors: Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni; Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi; Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola; Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, and representative of Oyo State Governor, Engr Rauf Olaniyan. Also on the ground were Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, and former governors Olusegun Osoba, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, Otunba Gbenga Daniel, among others. The President, who showered praises on Governor Abiodun, for delivering visionary and trail-blazing projects for the wellbeing of the people of the state, despite prevailing and challenging circumstances occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, declared that the present administration under Governor Abiodun has transformed the state than how he left it after his last visit in 2019. The President noted that the lofty projects: the Gateway City Gate; the 42-Kilometre Sagamu Interchange-Abeokuta Road; the 14km Ijebu-Ode-Mojoda- Epe expressway and two Housing Estates for low, medium and high-income earners at Kobape and Oke-Mosan in Abeokuta, respectively, could not be possible without the state government’s huge investment and commitment to the security of lives and property. ‘‘This project has made Ogun State one of the safest and most peaceful states in the country and investors’ destination of choice. You (Prince Abiodun) have justified the mandate of the people of Ogun State. You have represented our party (APC) very well,’’ President Buhari said.  The President expressed delight that the 14km Ijebu Ode-Mojoda-Epe Road inaugurated by him has been reconstructed into a modern expressway by the state government. He noted that the road would complement the Sagamu-Benin Expressway that the Federal Government is currently reconstructing; also due for commissioning this year. ‘‘Just across the road is the 42-kilometre Sagamu-Interchange-Abeokuta road, which the state government has reconstructed and equipped with street lights. That road enjoys a direct linkage with the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway that the Federal Government is rebuilding and due for completion later this year. I am particularly impressed by the quality and standard of your road projects, and the creative way you have deployed resources to reconstruct and rehabilitate them. It is significant to note that the two road projects being commissioned today are federal roads. This is an example of constructive engagement, cooperation and collaboration between the States and Federal Government. These roads also fit well into our rail transportation masterplan that connects Lagos, Nigeria’s economic capital to Kano, with Ogun State having more rail stations, along the Lagos-Ibadan rail corridor.’’ Three years after taking the reins of government, Governor Abiodun’s administration has remained focused in waging relentless war against poverty and all indices of underdevelopment in the state.  Since May 2019, Abiodun has been making good his promise to develop road infrastructure with an even distribution and commitment of resources and time to all senatorial districts of the state. In all, more than 270km of new roads have been constructed; while over 300km of roads have been rehabilitated. Essentially, there is a minimum of one road project in each of the state’s 20 LGAs. These records are not unconnected to the revival and operationalisation of the state’s road maintenance agency known as the Ogun State Public Works Agency (OGPWA). In Ogun West, the reconstruction of Raypower Road and Imasayi-Ayetoro Road has been completed and the new roads are already being used by motorists; while Oke Ola Road in Imeko and Owode-Ilaro Road are currently being reconstructed. Also, the government has reconstructed the Odo Afa Road and Bridge in Ipokia LGA, which had been in an unfavourable condition for use over a long period of time. Of particular importance is the 19.2km Agbara-Lusada-Atan Road, which had long been abandoned despite the industrial significance of the region to the state’s economy. The road project, which was flagged off by the governor on Thursday, April 29, 2021, in which asphalt is now being laid on a section, is going at a commendable pace that will deliver a quality road on completion. It would also be recalled that in the same month, Governor Abiodun commissioned the 10.25km Lusada-Igbesa Road, which was constructed by the Ogun Guangdong Free Trade Zone in partnership with the Ogun State Government. In Ogun East, completed road projects include: Oru-Awa-Ilaporu-Ibadan Road, Fusigboye-Ojofa Street Road and Asafa Oke-Asafa Isale-Ayegun-Ojofa Street Road in Ijebu Ode. Other projects, which are ongoing, include: the 14km Ijebu Ode-Epe Expressway; Oba Erinwole Dual Carriageway, Sagamu; Molusi College Road; Ilishan Market Road; 11km Atan-Erunwon Road; Ogbagba Street Road; and Ejinrin-Oluwalogbon-Mobalufon-Ibadan Road.   Nasarawa PDP flag-bearer picks running-mate     Dan-Agundi is head Kano consumer protection council     Coalition seeks action on sugar-sweetened beverages tax   In Ogun Central, completed road projects include: Obantoko Road (Fajol-American Junction-Unity Estate-Gbonagun); Idi Aba-Oke Lantoro Road; and Ikoritameje-Adenrele/Olose Titun-Vespa Road. Ongoing project which are nearing completion at a commendable pace include: construction of the 42km Abeokuta-Sagamu Interchange; reconstruction of Panseke-Adigbe Road; as well as extension of the proposed gate Development at Sagamu Interchange. In Ifo LGA, roadworks are ongoing on Akute-Denro-Ishasi-Oluwakemi Road. Among township roads, the 6km Koriko Village Road that leads to Association of Senior Civil Servant Housing Scheme was upgraded in the period under review – designed to ease the hardships faced by residents and other road users. While inaugurating the 2.1km Lantoro-Elite-Idi-Aba Road in Abeokuta on Wednesday June 16, 2021, Abiodun reiterated that his administration’s commitment to intracity road is to reduce travel time and resolve gridlock. The governor, while delivering the road leading to the home of the first civilian deputy governor in the state, late Pa Sesan Soluade, said the road which was chosen for reconstruction by his administration in conjunction with the Community Development Associations, traditional rulers and other stakeholders, would drastically reduce travel time and resolve traffic gridlock in the axis. He noted that the road was executed through direct labour under the watch of Ogun State Public Works Agency (OGPWA) to ensure minimal cost without compromising the quality of the job, adding that the method provided direct employment to the youth in the project catchment area and engage local suppliers of materials, thus supporting his agenda of socio-economic development of the state and individual prosperity of citizens. “This project, Oke lantoro-Elite-Idi-Aba road, is 2.1 km in length. It will serve as an effective alternative and bye pass to those who are coming from either Lantoro or Obantoko area or Asero and going to Idi-Aba or Ajebo road. They would not need to go through Iyana Mortuary Junction. This will not only serve the purpose of reducing travel time and resolving traffic gridlock, it will also enhance the quality of life of residents around this area and increase the value of properties and become a source of prosperity to the owners, which is a major anchor of our governance vision. “Let me reassure our people that construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of intra-city roads will continue across all the 20 LGs in the state. We have reinvigorated the Ogun State Public Works Agency, OGPWA, to take on this challenge. We will continue to look out, o cater for and attend to the welfare, well-being and wellness of the people of Ogun no matter where they live in the state at all time”. Abiodun stated. Abiodun explained that his administration’s methodical approach to infrastructural development of the state had informed the reconstruction of arterial roads linking the state with Lagos State, such as Ray Power Road and Ikola / Navy – Osi-Ota Road in Ota, Ijebu -Ode to Epe road, and Atan-Lusada-Agbara road which was flagged few months and due for completion next year. He added that roads were being constructed in 18 out of the 20 Local Government Areas in Ogun, disclosing that via Transportation Masterplan the state will soon launch its ultra-modern mass transit bus system with the pilot scheme in Abeokuta metropolis. Beyond road infrastructure, Governor Abiodun’s administration has established the new Ogun State Waste Management Agency (OGWAMA), which has been operating effectively. This has verifiably controlled indiscriminate waste disposal, drainage clogging as well as reduced the cost of state funds previously expended on dredging. In the area of transport, ICT-enabled mass transit buses have joined the fray in Ogun State. Having taken delivery of high-capacity buses in May 2021, which it said was the first batch of the internet-enabled vehicles to be used for the state’s Bus Mass Transit Scheme targeted at easing access to safe, public transportation as well as create jobs in the value chain while also giving the state internally generated revenue (IGR) a boost, the state government, on April 7 2022, launched its transport scheme and multi-modal transport masterplan. The buses, which are operated located locally, are fully air-conditioned and have Wi-Fi within them. Having delivered over 1,000 units of the 2,500 housing units targeted by the administration as at the end of 2021, a minimum of 1,000 additional units are currently being worked upon in 2022, spreading across the Prince Court Estate, Kemta, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta; Kobape in Obafemi-Owode LGA; the King’s Court Estate, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Others are at different stages of completion in Ijebu-Ode, Sagamu, Ilaro and Otta. In the period under review, the state government has rehabilitated the Iberekodo Dam, with five new gates installed as well as gear hoists, cofferdam demolished, and water flow restored. With water flow already restored, the Ogun State Water Corporation has resumed supply. A 14.5ml water reservoir has also been constructed in Abeokuta, the state capital. The state government has commenced the construction of the Ogun Agro-Cargo Airport in Iperu-Ilishan Remo. The airport, which is a major boost to the local agro-processing and export subsectors of the state, is located in the AfDB-approved Special Agro-Processing Zone (SAPZ), which hosts several major industries, and it will ease logistics of end product export. To guarantee adequate provision of potable water supply, Ogun State, through the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency in the period under review has rehabilitated a total of nine (9) hand and motorised boreholes into complete solar-powered boreholes in Odeda; while constructing two (2) new ones. In Yewa North LGA, eight (8) boreholes have been rehabilitated with solar power; while five (5) have been fully constructed. Five (5) hand and motorised boreholes were also rehabilitated in Ado Odo/Ota LGA, while thirteen (13) new ones were constructed. In Ipokia LGA, twelve (12) new solar-powered boreholes were constructed, while eight (8) were rehabilitated. There has also been urban water resuscitation at Arakanga, Abeokuta North LGA, now providing water to Abeokuta and other major communities. There are also now mini water schemes in Ikenne, Igbogila, Ibooro, Odonopa, Ipokia, Idowa, Omu-Ijebu, Ago-Iwoye, Igbesa, Owode-Yewa, Imoru, Ibefun, and Ikangba, even as the powerline at Ikangba Borehole Scheme in Ijebu-Ode has been reconnected. Also, Government is introducing a community-based water supply scheme known as “water kiosking” which would ease supply to central sources in different communities. Similar feats have been recorded in the health and other critical sectors. For example, in the area of expanding access to electricity, the state government has commissioned the 100KWp solar mini-grid Hybrid Electrification System at Olooji Community. Equally, Atapa Community in Ogun Central Senatorial District and Koto Obo in Ogun West have also been provided with complete Household Solar Lighting Systems. Transformers have also been procured for institutions and communities. In the period under review, the state government has procured over 100 units of 500KVA transformers for installation across educational institutions and residential communities across the 20 LGAs of the state. It has also modernised fish processing, through the Ministry of Rural Development, by fabricating and distributing a large number of modern smoking kilns to fish processors in different LGAs including Ikenne, Sagamu, Odogbolu, Ijebo Ode, Obafemi Owode, among others. Government also constructed and continues to maintain 385 (Dug-Out – 235; Tank – 130) new fish ponds/tanks for 300 fish farmers across the State. This has empowered and assisted at least 2,815 farmers in stocking over 3,815,000 Clarias fingerlings.