The recent brutal murder of a bus conductor in Lagos by irate herdsmen for accidentally running into and killing two cows that strayed onto the nation’s highway indicates the value placed on human life by a group of people in this country. By the same token, the failure of the police to protect the bus conductor who ran to their station for protection is also symbolic of how negligent the current officials of the Nigerian state are in upholding the constitution they swore to obey. According to the constitution, one of the “fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy” pointedly states that “the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government” (Section 14(2)(b)). As a result of the escalation of terrorist, banditry, and kidnapping activities in recent years, media attention has been devoted largely to the “security” component of this constitutional clause. Consequently, little or no attention has been paid to the “welfare” component. Even then, the media interpretation of security has focused almost exclusively on security from physical harm. This has led to the neglect of social security, which implies the welfare of citizens. True, advanced democracies develop strong armies and a formidable police force to ensure physical security, but they also invest heavily in social security, which begins with the provision of critical infrastructure and other shared political goods, such as education and healthcare, and then puts special emphasis on workers’ welfare and social safety nets for the young, the elderly, and the physically challenged. It is incontrovertible that the Nigerian state has failed woefully in all aspects of physical and social security. However, as indicated earlier, it is now time to turn the spotlight on some critical aspects of social security, particularly the welfare of workers. Three recent events heighten the urgency of this focus. One is the ongoing strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, which started on February 14, 2022. Very soon, the duration of the strike will beat the old record of 5 months and 15 days, recorded in 2013 (July 1 to December 17). Indeed, ASUU has embarked on as many as 16 strikes over the past two decades with debilitating effects particularly on university students. A critical bone of contention in these strikes is staff welfare, ranging from salaries to welfare packages. A second recent welfare crisis was highlighted by the strike of workers of the National Assembly and the National Assembly Service Commission. Again, their complaint is about salaries and allowances. The third and most recent welfare crisis was provided by the Justices of the Supreme Court, whose mind-boggling complaints rattled the whole nation and even international observers. Their grievances include decrepit vehicles; epileptic power supply at home and at the Supreme Court; lack of drug supply at the court’s clinic; a dearth of capacity building opportunities at home and abroad; failure to recruit qualified legal assistant; and lack of Internet facilities for the Justices.   Who wants to litigate Ekiti governorship election results?     Meet the Vice President     The semiotics of the Owo massacre   A recurrent feature of these three cases is the failure of the relevant authorities to do the right thing, including implementing agreements with relevant workers. In all cases, repeated complaints were also ignored. These federal cases attract attention because of their media visibility. Similar cases go on in state and private universities, state Houses of Assemblies, and state courts. Even more deplorable cases of welfare crisis go on across the 36 states of the federation, where basic entitlements, such as salaries, are not paid on time, if at all. Worse still, those who have devoted 30-35 years of their lives to public service are left in a limbo, without the payment of their pension. So critical has the payment of salaries become in some states that it has become a major campaign issue. In Osun state, for example, the regular payment of salaries has become a major achievement of the current All Progressives Congress administration in the state. Since the administration could not be faulted for this achievement, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party is campaigning on the inverse of the situation by deceiving votes into believing that the administration would revert to half salaries, if voted back into office. Of course, the administration has no such plans. It must be admitted, of course, that federal and state governments have launched various social protection programmes to provide succour for youths, the elderly, the physically challenged, and the poor. The problem with many of these programmes is their temporary and transient nature as well as their variation across administrations, especially when party lines are crossed. It is now time for this nation to develop an enduring welfare and social security policies and set up stable structures for their implementation. If there is any laudable function that central governments perform in advanced democracies, it is the smooth and effective implementation of such policies. In the United States, for example, two notable enduring programmes are Social Security for the elderly, which is the equivalent of our contributory pension, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children, otherwise known as the WIC programme. The programme provides supplemental foods, healthcare, and nutrition education for low-income women and to infants and children up to age 5. The incoming administration can understudy these successful programmes for adaptation to the Nigerian situation. But, more importantly, the new administration should move from ad hoc to enduring social protection programmes. The implementation of these programmes cannot be domiciled in Abuja like the current school feeding programme. Decentralisation is needed to ensure effective implementation. This leads to the need for devolution of powers. But that is a subject for another day. In the meantime, the three federal welfare cases discussed above should be resolved as soon as possible in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the legislative houses, higher education, and the temple of justice.