The presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has charged party leaders and members to join hands with him to beat the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023. He spoke on Wednesday shortly after being declared winner of the party’s presidential primary. Asiwaju defeated 13 other aspirants to clinch the party’s presidential ticket for next year’s general elections. Addressing a large crowd of party members and supporters, Tinubu urged them to join hands with him in defeating the PDP. He also said the fight in beating back the nation’s common foes of poverty, terror and violence requires all hands to be on deck. He said: “Shame on those who were already building the coffin of APC. Shame on them. Our party is alive. They won’t be able to do the convention but here we are, the first convention to choose our flag bearer.   Why I was absent at APC primary, by Nwajiuba     Atiku congratulates Tinubu for winning APC presidential…     Tinubu: Atiku, PDP Govs in emergency meeting   “Our executives, the Governors pulled themselves together, we did not break our backs and we are here, very happy and confident and courageous to tell you that the cat that lies down quietly is not a pretension of death but breeding of its energy to devour its enemies. “Now we are here, we will roar. We will do it. We will tell Poverty Development Party. They call themselves PDP, 16 years of failures of wastefulness are over. We are set to defeat them again, buried them and leave them way away for us. We will repair our country.” Expressing appreciation to the party faithful, the APC standard bearer said: “I must thank you all for making me the standard-bearer of our progressive party. And I humbly accept the nomination of this convention to be the presidential candidate of our enlightened, humanitarian and great party, the All Progressives Congress. “I also offer my sincere gratitude to President Buhari for his calm and prudent leadership throughout this process. I thank him, also, for his steadfast determination to ensure a level playing field and a free and fair primary process for every aspirant. Without him, I would not be standing here today as the new flag bearer of Nigeria’s party. “I thank the governors for their invaluable contribution to internal democracy and unity. I commend the party leadership and organizers for the conduct of a successful convention. “Thank the delegates, for the confidence you have shown in me. I will prove that your choice was a wise one. You have moved our party and country towards its best future. On your mandate I shall stand.” Assuring his co-contestants, TInubu said: “The competition is now over. Those who did not support me, you have nothing to fear. I hold no grudges or grievances. “Let us each agree to join hands in defeating the PDP and beating back our common foes of poverty, terror and violence. We now have a date with destiny in February 2023. Let us win so Nigeria can become the nation it is intended to be.”