Following the intervention by concerned stakeholders, former Nigerian International basketballers, well-meaning Nigerians, and a letter of appeal by Musa Kida on behalf of the board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF), the decision of the Federal Government to withdraw from international basketball for two years has been rescinded. Kida’s letter of appeal dated June 17, 2022, addressed to the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare, among other things apologised to Mr. President and the Minister over the embarrassment of the issues around the game and the conduct of some of its actors have brought on the nation, appealing to him to use his good offices to approach President Buhari for the reversal of the self-imposed ban. The appeal letter also gave key undertakings to immediately set in motion the process of the NBBF Statures review, and the reconciliation of all contending and aggrieved parties both home and abroad as well as committing to work in tandem with the Ministry.   WAFU B Under-17 : Ugbade, Michael talk tough ahead of…     Unveiled: Five teen stars tipped to shine at AFN trials     Revealed :Why Nigerian stars missing from big summer…   Following the above, and in the overriding spirit of national interest, love for the Nigerian youth, and the development of the sport, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the return of Nigeria to international basketball immediately. Meanwhile, the board of NBBF has extended its gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari through the Minister for rescinding the decision to withdraw the national teams from international basketball. Speaking through its President, Engr Ahmadu Musa Kida, the board said: “After the back and forth, I am quite glad to see that this decision is reached, and it is a major victory for basketball. This is what I truly will say, no victor and no vanquished.” Kida also emphasized that the NBBF pledged, in line with its decision at its last meeting in Lagos, to set up a high-powered and all-inclusive committee to reconcile every genuine grievance amongst stakeholders.