Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, has said that those that are killing people in Anambra State are only doing business and not agitating for anything. The former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, spoke at the governor’s lodge Amawbia yesterday to mark his 100 days in office. He was sworn in on March 17, 2022 after winning the November 6, 2021 governorship election in the State. According to him, “criminals invaded us and they are mostly not from Anambra’ State because money is involved. “Anybody that tells you that he is agitating for anything, it’s false, but because they are doing whatever because of lucrative criminal enterprise. “The last 100 days has been very bumpy and challenging. It has been a case of so far, so bumpy, but so good. “Every day, we work 24 hours to ensure that we do not disappoint you. We have resolved that we must do that to make you happy and proud.” Speaking on the security challenges in the state, Soludo said: “I remind everyone who wants to commiserate with me that I duly applied for this job.”   Buhari to Nigerians in Rwanda: I’m proud of youths…     Audiomack expands footprints in 16 African countries     AfDB: Nigeria’s N3.2tr mini grid market largest   Soludo said that the innocent people gruesomely murdered by hoodlums called gunmen terrorising Anambra State would not die in vain. He said the state government under his watch would ensure justice for the dead to please their families. He noted that the criminal gunmen and their sponsors had being exposed and assured that every promise he made to the people of the state would be actualised. “I am not a fan of marking 100 days in office. I prefer to give you annual report, and we look forward to the first one in March next year. “We have launched a campaign to restore our homeland. Most people can attest that the grave insecurity is gradually being contained and we remain undaunted. “Even as I speak to you now, something is going on in various communities in Anambra State.” As he was broadcasting to the state on Saturday, the gunmen engaged security operatives in a shootout at Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government Area of the state  The Nation gathered that many people were killed on both sides in a shooting that lasted the entire day The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ikenga Tochukwu, did not return the calls made to his phone. But a senior police officer, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that people were killed while many were injured. He, however, would not disclose the number of casualties.