Going by the claim of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), over four million livestock were either rustled, killed or confiscated between 2015 and now. The group said the machinery of government was also used to displace over two million persons during the period under review. According to the association, about 10,000 died during the period. MACBAN National President Alhaji Husseini Bosso maid the claim yesterday at the national security summit held in Abuja. According to Bosso, MACBAN had in the last eight years engaged the Northern Governors’ Forum, the Southeast and Southwest Governors on the causes and solutions to the farmers/herders conflict at its infancy.   APC crisis: NWC chair Abdullahi settles with aggrieved…     Nigerian heads African teacher’s union     Traders get 24-hour notice to quit Apo-Dutse   He stated that the association also engaged the security agencies by hosting a Summit with them in Birnin Kebbi. Bosso said: “From 2015 to date close to ten thousand pastoralists were killed in Nigeria and over two million persons were displaced and impoverished while over four million livestock were either rustled, killed or confiscated using the machinery of government. “Our members are being used as cannon powder to fan the embers of hatred. Recently, they set a whole trailer loaded with cattle ablaze after killing its occupants. What a callous and barbaric display of the highest degree of inhumanity.” Alleging that members of the association are deliberately being targeted by the states, Bosso said: “It has become like a competition to enact anti-open grazing laws without recourse to the fundamental human rights as guaranteed by the constitution. “In Benue State for instance, it has become a cartel between officials of the state government, the state livestock yards and some overzealous security agents to confiscate cattle and auction them after detaining them for two weeks only. “It is on record that all Federal Government policies geared towards alleviating farmers/herders’ conflict, such as RUGA – the National Livestock Transformation plan (NLTP) have been consistently and deliberately frustrated”.