Truck loaded with 600 bags of cement became the latest casualty of the sit-at-home ordered in the Southeast by the Independent Peoples of Biafra (IPOB). The truck was set ablaze at Beach Junction in Nsukka, Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, by enforcers of the stay-in-door directive yesterday. It was gathered that the attackers waylaid the truck, but the driver and his conductor fled before the hoodlums set it ablaze. Their whereabouts were not confirmed but The Nation learnt that no life was lost. The Monday sit-at-home protest was ordered IPOB to demand the release of its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is on trial at the Federal High Court in Abuja for alleged terrorism, among other charges. The group claimed it has since suspended the order, but the directive is enforced by violent hoodlums every Monday and on any day that Kanu is brought to court for trial. The Enugu State Police command had yet to react to the development as of the time of filing this report. Command spokesman Daniel Ndukwe could also not be reached. His phone when contacted was switched off.   Tinubu, Osinbajo: The true story of how they met, by Bayo…     Atiku knocks APC over consensus candidate rumour     Pope Francis reacts to Owo church attack   In Anambra, hoodlums threatened to attack schools, churches and burial events in the state and neighbouring Imo State, if they continued to disobey the sit-at-home order. In Abia, residents and business owners in the two major cities of Umuahia and Aba stayed away. Our correspondent reports that there was no restriction of movements in the two cities, but commercial banks, markets, and private and public offices were closed for businesses over the fear of attack by sit-at-home enforcers. Some motor parks and other loading bays that opened for business complained of low patronage of commuters. At the Main Park, by Milverton and Park Road respectively, our correspondent reports that commercial tricyclists were seen, loading passengers. Some fuel stations, especially those within the main park opened for business, but with few customers to attend to. Street traders were also seen on Ehi Road awaiting would-be customers. The situation was the same in Umuahia, the state capital, as residents stayed away from their offices, shops and businesses. Those who had an urgent need for financial needs relied on the Automated Banks Machines (ATM) as bank premises remain closed.