HUSSAINI: Good day, my name is Hussaini. I was a staff member of Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission. I retired on February 1, 2021. I was verified last November 18 and was issued with Retirement Benefit Enrolment Slip. My first question is -When will I be paid my Lumpsum and start receiving my monthly pension? Secondly, will I be paid monthly pension arrears effective February 2021 till date? Thirdly, how long does it take before you transfer Accrued Pension Rights to PFA/RSA? PENCOM: Please forward your RSA PIN, full name as well as the name of your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. ABDULKADIR: Good day, I give kudos to PenCom and The Nation. My problem is that I retired in June, last year, but since then, I have a health problem. Also, I was unable to do the online registration because I was unable to get introduction letter and record of service from my former employer. Please, is there any way I can do the registration without these two items and is it true that I will not be paid? My PFA is Trustfund Pension. PENCOM: Please note that for your late father’s death benefits to be paid, you must submit some  documents to his pension fund administrator (PFA) for processing. If you have done this, please forward to the commission the following details: his RSA PIN, name, name of PFA as well as other vital information to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. OZURUONYE: I am Ozuruonye. Please, where is Stanbic IBTC Pensions in Owerri, Imo State? Thank you. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Do look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom. AJALA: Greetings to the Director-General of PenCom and The Nation newspaper. My name is Ajala, a paramilitary officer. I retired in June 2009. My Pension Fund Administrator is Sigma Pension. My complaint is on the non-payment of 2.5 per cent and areas. Thank you. PENCOM: Please be informed that you are not eligible for the 2.5 per cent differential as the presidential approval took effect from July 2014 when the Pension Reform Act 2014 was amended for the increment in the rates of contributions. Thank you.   PTAD complaints and solutions     Leveraging opportunities for growth     ‘Pension fund assets rise by N1.53 trillion in one year’   DANIEL: My name is Daniel and I am a next-of-kin. I received a payment of N1,591,877.64 in my UBA account, which we believe is RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are waiting for the death/life assurance benefits of the late Mrs Grace. She served over 10 years and died on active service of Fed Poly, Idah in February 2015. PENCOM: Please be informed that your late wife is not entitled to any other benefits (accrued rights) as our investigation revealed that she started working in 2005 after the implementation of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The accrued right is paid to employees who were employed prior to the commencement of the CPS in 2004. Thank you. GAZAMA: Good day, my name is Gazama. I was retired since January 1, 2018 and I am still waiting for my benefit to be paid. I was called and signed since but up till now, nothing has been done. Please, look into my problem. PENCOM: Please be informed that your retirement benefits was paid last December. Please contact your PFA for access. FARID: Hello, my name is Farid. The president’s approval of outstanding pension said something about 2014, but my father died in 2013. Will his death benefit also be paid? And what is consolation and how long does it take? Thank you. PENCOM: Please be advised that your late dad is not eligible for the outstanding pension arrears as this took effect from July 2014. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I, then, transferred to Leadway for Annuity. The Federal Government recently said it had released funds to pay the 2.5 per cent it is owing out of its 10 per cent. When and how will this money be paid? I am being owed 24 months. PENCOM: Please be advised that if the amount payable is less than N100,000 it will be paid directly into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000 you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider. GIMBA: Good day, my complaint is about the non-release of my pension since October 2020 till date. PENCOM: You are advised to  forward your details such as your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Pin, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA), name as well as other valid information to enable us investigate further. Please be advised that retirees of the Federal Government Tertiary-Funded Ministries, Departments and agencies are required to undergo a verification and enrolment  prior to retirement. If you are yet to undergo this process, kindly visit http://www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the process and then proceed to your PFA for physical verification and enrolment. In addition, please be informed that the Commission has paid the benefits of retirees who retired from January to December 2020.