But for the urgency demanded by the Owo massacre of June 5, and the June 8 All Progressives Congress’s (APC) presidential primary which held the nation spell-bound because of the preceding intrigues; this piece ought to have been published two Sundays ago. The headline tells it all: ”Teenager brutally murders mother and child in Adamawa”.  Some newspapers added the rider that the teenager killed the two after a failed attempt to rape the woman! According to the Adamawa State Police Public Relations Officer, Sulaiman Nguroje, the suspect attacked the victim by the riverside, where she went to take her bath alongside her child. ”The Adamawa State Police Command on June 6, 2022, apprehended an 18-year-old suspect for the brutal murder of one Talatu Usman, 36, and her one-year-old child, in Lamurde Local Government Area”, Nguroje said. He added that the suspect (Volamu Kalbes), overpowered the suspect and pressed her down into the water when she resisted being raped. The woman eventually died. This, ordinarily, should have scared the suspect out of his blind ambition. But no. Like someone possessed, he also went for the victim’s one-year-old baby who was now crying uncontrollably on the river bank, and pressed him into the water until he too died. Newspaper reports did not give further details. For instance, we were not told how the failed rape attempt leaked, leading to the suspect’s arrest. Did the suspect report himself after committing the crimes? Did he leave clues that eventually gave him up? It would have been interesting to know how the husband and father, respectively, of the victims, got wind of what happened.  Nguroje simply said that “… the suspect was arrested by the command operatives attached to Lamurde divisional police headquarters, following a report received by the victim’s husband, Alh. Usman Abdul, who is distraught over the loss of his wife and child.” We must be sufficiently alarmed that an 18-year-old who ordinarily should be in school is already obsessed with sex such that he would not even mind becoming a serial killer in the course of meeting his sexual desire. Apparently the suspect killed his victims to conceal his crimes. Apparently, too, as in such rape cases, he must be well known to them, particularly the mother. But why would he also kill a year-old baby? The same guilty conscience that that one too could spill the beans? But this incident is not only about the real savage story of some of our youths today; it is not only about the influence of all manner of drugs, including aphrodisiacs that they have cheap access to; or wrong peer influence alone, it is also about the primitive living conditions prevalent in several parts of the country, particularly the rural areas. The victims would not have had cause to go to the river to have their bath if they had access to water, even if well water, at home. But in many of our rural areas, the rivers that people get water from are usually lonely, making those who go there, particularly women and children vulnerable to all kinds of dangers, especially these days when the nation has lost its innocence. This was the fate suffered by Talatu and her baby: they must have been shouting when the man was pressing them down the river but due to the loneliness of the place, no one came to their rescue. The young man must have been monitoring the movements around the river to know when best to carry out his lustful desire. Whether he specifically had the victim in mind or she just happened to have come handy at the time is a thing the police should also be interested in. But governments must work on provision of water in all the nooks and crannies of the country, or at least ensure that there is enough security, to reduce, if not eradicate the kind of fate that befell these hapless victims. Perhaps there would not have been much cause for alarm if this was an isolated incident. But it is not. Nigerians are daily inundated with reports of teenagers getting involved in all manner of crimes as if such crimes are going to get out of fashion anytime soon.   Taming petrol scarcity menace     Onnoghen’s ghost     10,000 Osun PDP members defect to APC   On January 29, this year, two teenage boys – Wariz Oladehinde (17), Abdulgafar (19) and Lukman Mustakeem (20) — were caught in the Oke Aregba area of Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, burning the head of the girlfriend of one of them, Rofiat, in a pot. The suspects reportedly confessed that the ritual crime was for the purpose of making money. Then, on March 5, the Kano State Police Command arrested an 18-year old boy, Abdullahi Suleiman, along with a 17-year-old accomplice, Muazzam Lawan, for the alleged murder of a housewife, Rukayya Jamily, aged 21 years. The suspect had entered the deceased’s house at about 4pm on February 12, 2022, met her on her bed and took possession of three mobile phones she had with her. As is usual about such crimes, Suleiman was said to have repeatedly hit her on the head with a wooden pestle to prevent her telling the story, apparently because she knew him. Suleiman also killed the woman’s two children before fleeing the scene. If the woman was 21, we can imagine the ages of the two children that were also killed to conceal the crime. Again, on April 14, Amotekun personnel in Ondo State apprehended three juveniles, Timilehin Femi (12), Ojo Sunday (16) and Odeyemi Ayodele (20) who allegedly specialised in armed robbery, at Ijare in Ifedore Local Government Area of the state. Guess who their models were? Three of the most notorious armed robbers known in Nigerian history: Anini, Oyenusi and Osumbor, whose names they had adopted as nicknames! Some heroes! As if these were not enough, three boys between the ages of 14 and 15 who were caught some time ago roaming the  streets in Benin, the Edo State capital, said they were from Delta State and that they were in Benin to scout for opportunities to engage in Yahoo-Yahoo in order to make money. Of course still fresh in our minds is the story of the Chrisland school children caught for immoral sexual acts in faraway Dubai, where they had gone to participate in a sports event. We have numerous other obscene scenes in the social media, of various school children engaging in all manner of seductive dances and other salacious activities. If we say the urge for quick money is the reason why some of our youths today engage in ritual killing, Yahoo-Yahoo, kidnapping and other social vices, what would we adduce as reason for teenagers engaging in rape? What kind of sexual urge would make an 18-year-old to kill mother and baby? If we say the boy killed the mother apparently because she could identify him and eventually spill the beans, why kill her one-year-old baby? Talk of the guilty being afraid? It is simply crazy and incredible. But, what exactly is the world turning into? This is the question that comes into mind reading these obviously bizarre stories. Imagine an adolescent who is so sex-starved that he did not mind taking two lives, even when it was obvious he was on an impossible mission. Now, not only has his mission failed, he is likely to be arraigned for attempted rape and alleged murder of two persons. The consequence is huge, considering especially the murder angle. The question now is whether the urge for sexual satisfaction is worth such a weighty consequence even if he had had his way. The same way we can ask whether the lust for money that made others engage in ritual killings is worth the trouble. Ditto those who were caught for engaging in Yahoo-Yahoo, etc. What these stories tell us is that the value system in the country has collapsed. There is nothing that is held sacrosanct anymore. Gone were those days when people valued good names more than riches. Gone were those days when people remembered the homes from where they came. Gone were those days when Nigerians were their brother’s keeper. All of these have gone to the dogs. All of these explain why the country itself is perpetually on tenterhooks. The irony is that we are all to blame; from the parents to the religious leaders and traditional rulers, and ultimately the political leaders. Yet, we are all likely to point accusing fingers at the government. But ”charity”, as they say, ”begins at home”. That being so, a child begins its first lessons right from the home, before going to school where peer and other influences take over. This is where the religious leaders and traditional rulers and ultimately the larger society take over. Everybody needs to wake up if we are to reverse the trend, and if Nigeria is to make any headway among the comity of nations. Although nothing can bring back the lives already snuffed out by these heartless fellows, the least the society owes the dead and their relations is for the police to do diligent investigation of the cases and others with a view to getting the suspects prosecuted and those found guilty jailed for their atrocities.