Shareholders of NASCON Allied Industries Plc at the weekend approved the distribution of about N1.06 billion as cash dividends for the 2021 business year amid commendations for the resilience of the fast moving consumer goods company. At the company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, shareholders approved the payment of N1.06 billion as cash dividends, representing a dividend per share of 40 kobo. NASCON, a subsidiary of Dangote Industry Limited (DIL), had reported increase in pre-tax profit from N3.9 billion in 2020 to N4.3 billion in 2021. The total dividend payout of N1.06 billion represents 35.7 per cent of net profit of N2.97 billion recorded in 2021. Shareholders noted that the food-seasoning company has over the years recorded impressive performance, in spite of the harsh economic operating environment. Founder, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Sir Sunny Nwosu, commended the Board and Management of NASCON for their ability to declare and pay dividends despite the harsh operating environment which resulted from the Apapa Wharf gridlock and the downturn in national economy. He noted that while other companies are lamenting and cutting down on production, the company is paying dividend which is commendable. National Coordinator, Pragmatic Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Mrs. Bisi Bakare said the performance reflected the ability of the management of NASCON to steer the company through difficult times especially in the face of lack of power, fluctuating exchange regime and dwindling purchasing power of consumers. She said the overall performance of the company was a reflection of its seven sustainability pillars, which are geared towards ensuring that the company connects with  stakeholders.   Valency Agro launches N5b new capital raising     NGX mulls guidelines on corporate compliance on climate…     Stock Exchange suspends Multiverse over share reconstruction   Another shareholder, Mrs. Adetutu Siyanbola noted that NASCON Transport Team section should be commended as indicated in the financial report, for winning the best haulage company of the year out of the 684 companies that enrolled for the Road-Transport-Safety-Standardisation-Scheme of the Federal Road Safety Corps. She pointed out that the company has over the years imbibed a culture known for taking good care of shareholders through consistent payment of dividends adding that despite the harsh operating environment occasioned by the global economic downturn, the company still paid a dividend of 40 kobo per share. Acting Managing Director, NASCON Allied Industries Plc, Mr. Thabo Mabe said the company will not rest on its achievements as it is moving from street to street, market to market and shop to shop, introducing its array of products to consumers. He said as a company in the fast-moving consumer goods sector, the management team has developed plans and strategies to capture more share in chosen markets and will gradually deploy them in the coming months. National Salt Company of Nigeria (NASCON) was established as a salt refinery, Ijoko, Ogun State in 1973, in a joint venture between the Federal Military Government of Nigeria and Atlantic Salt & Chemical Inc. of Los Angeles, California, United States. The company was privatised in 1991 with its shares listed on the Nigerian Exchange in October 1992, through which Dangote Industries Limited purchased majority shares. Following the reverse takeover of NASCON by Dangote Salt Limited (DSL) in 2007, NASCON acquired the assets, liabilities and business undertakings of DSL. Principal activities of the company include processing of raw salt into refined, edible and industrial salt. NASCON is also into the production of seasoning and vegetable oil.