Members of the Tinubu Support Groups (TSG), in Enugu State, at the weekend vowed to unite the Southeast in support of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 elections. Speaking in Enugu during a party in celebration of Tinubu’s victory during the just concluded primary election of the ruling party in Abuja, coordinator of the group and immediate past state chairman of the APC, Dr. Ben Nwoye, said the group was united in making sure that the APC candidate emerged victory not only in Enugu State but the Southeast at large. “We are united in our mission; the goal is victory for our leader and presidential candidate, His Excellency, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu come 2023”, Nwoye said. He explained that the reason was because Tinubu is the only man that can protect the interest of the Southeast. Nwoye stated: “We shall look forward to moving forward. The unity of purpose demonstrated today is next to none. We shall work hard to unite all supporters of our presidential flag bearer across every internal and external party divide. “The various groups you are seeing here today are supporters of our leader and presidential candidate, His Excellency, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, (the Jagaban) the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the special grace of God.   Why we stopped protests over ASUU strike, by NANS     UPDATED: Supreme Court overrules Lagos on hijab ban in…     ASUU, SSANI, NASU strikes causing irreparable damage to…   “These support groups are committed and are going to ensure that we mobilize enough voters for our candidate during the 2023 presidential general election, adding that the APC presidential flag bearer remains the best amongst all the candidates of the various political parties. “These are different support groups at various levels in Enugu state, including the grassroots. We have come together under one umbrella, the Tinubu Support Group (TSG) which also cuts across Nigeria. “I want to also use this medium to call on our people of Southeast Nigeria to embrace our candidate and the APC because Tinubu has the capacity to deliver, noting that as governor of Lagos state, he proved himself. “There were Southeasterners who were commissioners and Special Advisers when the Asiwaju was the governor of Lagos State. So, we want to assure our people that that thing Asiwaju started as a governor by bringing Ndigbo close to his government, he will replicate it even better as the president of Nigeria. “If we recall what happened when he was Lagos State governor, we don’t need any naysayer to tell us as Nigerians that the man Tinubu, has all it takes to take the nation to the next level from where president Muhammadu Buhari will stop”Nwoye stated “We all know when the then PDP led federal government stopped Lagos state government under Tinubu’s watch from recieving it’s monthly federal Statutory allocation, yet the governor continued with his tremendous human oriented programmes and policies which he used in transforming and moving the state forward untill he left office”. Nwoye added: “what am saying is that Tinubu is a nice product, he is a tested and trusted political leader, and above all, a detribalized Nigerian”.