Kaduna State Government has confirmed bandits killed 32 in attack on four communities in Kajuru Local Government Area. It also debunked the rumour the attackers were aided by an helicopter. The locals alleged an helicopter aided the attackers, who invaded Ungwan Gamu, Dogon Noma, Ungwan Sarki and Maikori villages near Maro in Kajuru Local Governmnet Area, it was learnt. Kaduna Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan confirmed the attack and released names of the victims. He however clarified the bandits didn’t attack the communities with helicopters, stating the helicopter in question was security helicopter which went to repel the bandits. According to Aruwan: “The Kaduna State Government received initial reports from security agencies, that bandits attacked the villages of Dogon Noma, Ungwan Sarki and Ungwan Maikori in Kajuru local government area on Sunday. “According to the reports, the bandits stormed the area in large numbers on motorcycles, and proceeded to raze several houses, as they attacked and killed locals. “Since the attack on Sunday, security agencies and traditional leaders in the locations have been updating the government on the development. “As of the time of this report, 32 persons have been confirmed dead following the attack. The deceased are listed as follows: Ahmadu Musa, Audu Dandaura, Akilu Laya, David Wasika, Hajatu Buhari, Nashon Buhari, Iliya Yaki, Javan Mairabo, Jackson Adamu, Nasco Victor, Dutse Gwamna and Joshua Amadi “Others are: “Gona Isah, Douglas Yakubu, Phineas Joel, Tanimu Umaru, Abody Iliya, Wanzami Halidu, Dogo Aweh, Sunday Shittu, Rejoice Audu, Jedidiah Ayawa, Jinkai Pius, Rebecca Ayafa, Ishaya John, Audu Danladi, Jibo Sule, Yakubu Garba, Williams Danbaba, Maikasa Kufana, Augustine Bahago and Mamiya Maikori. “While the Government mourned the gruesome killing and burning of houses in the attacked locations, a report was published suggesting that the victims of the attack were killed by terrorists using a helicopter. “The Kaduna State Government wishes to make a clarification based on reports received since Sunday. The bandits attacked the first two locations and killed 31 citizens. They then headed into Ungwan Maikori, where they killed one person and burnt some houses. “An Air Force helicopter (under Operation Whirl Punch) dispatched to the area, had earlier scanned the first two locations and sighted burnt houses and properties on fire. “The helicopter intercepted the bandits at the last location (Ungwan Maikori) and engaged them as they retreated, before the arrival of ground troops to the general area.   One die, five injured in Rivers APC members auto crash     Tinubu condoles Rivers APC over death of delegates     APC Primary: Be magnanimous in victory, Jimoh Ibrahim urges…   “It was the arrival of the air asset which deterred the bandits from further attacks on the citizens in the village, after the bandits had already killed one local and burnt several houses. “The story that a helicopter provided air support to the bandits against the locals, is therefore an untrue account. “The Government of Kaduna State having gone through all the facts, finds it regrettable that a section of media would circulate an unverified report, insensitive to its implications on national security, law and order. “Eyewitnesses to the peddled report of a helicopter aiding bandits in the killing of innocent citizens are invited to present their accounts to the Government backed by incontrovertible facts. “The military, police and other agencies working in the general area deserve commendation and motivation, rather than demoralizing allegations. “In the last 72 hours, security forces have conducted vigorous operations in the same general area, and are on the trail of a wounded notable terrorist. “Similarly, several kidnapped victims, including an expatriate kidnapped at a mining site, were rescued after a fierce engagement with bandits. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i, on receiving reports of the attack, expressed deep sadness and prayed for the repose of the victims’ souls. He also conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims,” Aruwan said. National President of the Adara Development Association (ADA), Awemi Dio Maisamari, said the attack started around 12noon on Sunday and lasted until around 6pm unchallenged by the State. The statement alleged the attack was carried out by terrorists who came on about 150 motorcycles carrying three AK47 wielding persons each. The statement also claimed many persons are uncounted for while injured persons are taking treatment in hospitals. According to him: “When the armed killers were carrying out the killings around 3pm, the villagers mobilised to repel the attackers at Maikori village, “the valiant natives who came out in large numbers from neighboring villages were already driving back the invaders and taking control of the situation when a helicopter appeared. “To the horror of the natives, the white painted helicopter, faced the brave natives instead and started gunning the youths from the air, clearly leaving out the killers who can be distinctly identified by the mode of dressings and from their positions. “There was no way that poorly armed farmers using crude weapons could face the combined fire strength of better armed herdsmen and a gun mounted helicopter. “With no other options, the Adara youths had to scamper for safety. This enabled the attackers to burn down the whole village. The covering fire of the helicopter also enabled the attackers to escape unhurt. As a result of the attack, 25 persons, mostly men were killed. 16 men, 5 women, and 4 children were killed. “We are not yet sure how many of the casualties were caused by the gun shots from the helicopter. But some injured persons are taking treatments in various hospitals. Some houses were burnt at Ungwan Sarki but Maikori village was completely destroyed. The ECWA church in Dogo Noma was razed down. Some houses in Unguwan Sarki and Unguwan Gamu were also burnt.”