Intellectualizing the Yoruba state in the Nigerian union got a boost, with the dawn of the Apero caravan of weekly exchanges, by Yoruba resource persons at home and in the Diaspora. It’s a fitting piece of intellectual “referendum”.  It calls everyone to reason together; and find mutually accepted solutions to whatever present angst. What is more?  Nothing is off the table: from the two extremes of the Ilana Oodua clamouring for “Yoruba Nation” now; to the opposing liberal tendencies, of “restructuring” to make a federal Nigeria work for all. The Apero organizers, led by Professor Segun Gbadegesin, chair of the Apero Planning Committee, put their fingers on the prime Yoruba dissonance today, in a season of self-loathing, ethnic doubt and allied social pathologies: “Apero planners understand the divergence of views on the future of Yorubaland in the context of a paralyzed Nigeria.  Between advocates of Yoruba Nation now and proponents of restructuring,” it rightly noted in a promotional piece, “there is no meeting of minds.” Going forward: “Apero provides an opportunity for rational dialogue not only on these alternative visions, but also on the concrete developmental issues that we must grapple with, no matter what vision we adopt in the end.” About time!  Rational dialogue — not the open sesame of empty emotions. Still, no wonder: Apero lays great store by buying the inputs of as many as possible and available, in contradistinction to Ilana Oodua’s presumptive ultra-nationalism; fuelled by explosive, if vacuous, emotion that every Yoruba must, willy-nilly, buy into its agenda, because it can appeal to sweet base instincts. That approach would appear an insult to the Yoruba psyche, with its well-trumpeted Awolowo tutelage, which ranked clinical thinking over base emotions. If Awo himself declared that no one could lead the Yoruba by the nose, it was perhaps a clear admission, by the immortal avatar himself, that his own social reforms, as radical and epochal as they were, were only a modern consolidation of the Yoruba native instinct of critical thinking; and asking hard questions. From the Sunday Igboho debacle and the way the Ilana agenda seems to have flagged since then, it would appear clear that that is no way to go. The Bible warned that strike the shepherd, and the flock would scatter.  That played out in the seizure of the Christ Jesus; and how Peter, the Rock of the faith, denied him thrice! In the Ilana case, however, only Igboho, the battling ram (who even hardly understood the full ramifications of his actions) ran into a ditch.  Yet, the Ilana leadership virtually froze; and the body’s social media fire and brimstone, suddenly neutered! That cold ash of reality, from extreme thunder to extreme quiet, speaks to its founding dynamics. In other words, how much of its agenda — no matter how nobly intended — resonated with the ordinary folks, outside the loud minority that make a row on social media; or even the malcontent in the Diaspora, who love to show off the base grudges they emigrated with as new, cosmopolitan, liberationist thinking? Even if these condescending exiles have indeed processed their homeland grudge into finer, liberationist thinking, how many of the Yoruba ordinary folks share the emigres’ glib Armageddon, about their homeland — beyond the stoking of naked fears?   Wike and limits of belligerence     Omolúàbí!     Cost of an eye   For or against, it would be difficult to say.  The fact is no one has carried out a definitive survey to determine which is which. But by its fact-seeking and legitimacy-buying caravan of weekly dialogues, the Apero seems avoiding the Ilana pitfalls.  Hardly any thinking is smarter! Again, for emphasis, listen to the Apero pitch, in original Yoruba, and its English translation: “Apero Yoruba Nile Loko”: the dialogue (or summit) of the Yoruba, home and abroad. But to what purpose? “Atunbi ati isodotun Ile Yoruba”: “Yoruba renaissance and renewal” is the English translation, even if that cannot fully capture the full evocative majesty of the Yoruba original. Compare and contrast the democratic ethos inherent in the Apero process, to the seeming group and individual crowing of Ilana’s own processes. Here is a Facebook pitch of Ilana, to prospective members: “Ilana Omo Oodua worldwide is the apex body for the Yoruba self-determination and self-preservation struggle.  Membership registration, as flagged off by the ALANA (capitalization theirs) of Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide, Professor Banji Akintoye …” Now, what Yoruba inclusive processes, climaxing in a referendum, gifted the good professor and eminent historian that Alana (Yoruba for pathfinder), beyond the lionization of his own group, who claim to speak for all Yoruba without any proof? Again, it’s good that the Apero is shunning a similar path, in its newly launched series of weekly virtual summits, to dissect issues and plot codified probable solutions.  However its endeavour ends, it stands a far better chance to legitimacy — if its more democratic process remains un-ruptured. On this score, it’s gratifying that the Apero summits are cross-sectoral: “education, health and social welfare, rural development and employment generation, challenges of governance, security challenges, renewal of cultural values and norms, repositioning our youths, political pathways, and a new paradigm of development for Yorubaland”. In this agenda, there is no visceral anti-Fulani ogre, that would embolden a Sunday Igboho to dash to Idi-Iroko and shut the “Yoruba border” — whatever that means — at the apex of his explosive rashness!  But when the flak came, he faced it all alone, after those goading him on had all but melted! Still, such matters are covered under the Apero series: challenges in governance, security, and renewal of cultural values and norms.  Besides, all of these would be clinically analyzed and discussed, and possible solutions proffered, with neither charity nor grudge to anyone, in a sober and rational environment. Neither charity nor grudge!  The cold fact is: every part of Nigeria needs cold self x-ray, to plot a better future.  But you don’t — nay, can’t — do that with smouldering cross ethnic hate or grudge.  That will only distract you from getting together your act. Indeed, every part of Nigeria needs an Apero summit, as intellectually structured — and the Apero should radiate such to other ethnics. That way, everyone would realize terrorism (among other challenges) is no threat from the Fulani or the Igbo or the Yoruba, but rather, a collective threat to everyone.  If we don’t kill terror, terror will kill us all! Such sober intellectualization of that grave challenge would wean it of the flawed and present cross-ethnic blame games.  That way, the prospect of a robust, enduring and pan-Nigeria antidote to it would begin to emerge.