The Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB) on Sunday said a sovereign state of Biafra would soon be actualised following the launch of its liaison office in Catatonia, a region in northeastern Spain. The group said the office was officially inaugurated on Saturday June, 12, 2022. Our correspondent learnt Catalonia had through a resolution that was passed by the parliament of Catalonia on 27 October 2017 declared the independence of Catalonia from Spain and the founding of an independent Catalan Republic. The declaration did not receive recognition from the international community But IPOB in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful said the establishment of a liaison office in Catatonia was a quantum leap in the redemption of the defunct Biafra Republic that fought for its independence from Nigeria between 1967-1970. The group reiterated that it had no hands in the insecurity ravaging the Southeast geopolitical zone, restating that, ” The Nigeria Government and its security agencies especially the terrorists in military uniform and deployed in Biafraland are the key actors in the kidnapping and the unprovoked killings in the region.”   My victory a new dawn for Ekiti – Oyebanji     UPDATED: Three killed as terrorists attack two churches,…     Ekiti guber: PDP candidate, Kolawole congratulates Oyebanji   The statement partly reads: “We wish to inform Biafrans, friends of Biafra and lovers of freedom across the globe that IPOB has secured a liaison office and officially inaugurated same on Saturday 12th June, 2022. “The feat is another indication that Biafrans are ready and going home anytime soon and we are going to show the world that IPOB remains resolute and peaceful in the pursuit for Biafra liberation and only in a peaceful strategy can achieve the aims which is the only way to seek for total freedom from a country like Nigeria. “Nigeria Government and her security operatives with enormous resources within their reach which includes, logistics, money, consultation with British manpower within their reach strategically schemes perfect ways to consistently incriminate IPOB and ESN activities which transcend beyond the boundaries of Nigeria to Kenya from where our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, a (British Citizen) was kidnapped and extraordinarily renditioned since one year ago and no one says a word even Britain where he chose to become citizen of their country. “The leadership of IPOB commends Biafrans, more especially IPOB members in Catalonia, for their efforts towards securing the office in Catalonia. Also encourages other members in the diaspora to secure other offices in their respective countries for IPOB and Biafra nation for strategic use shortly. “IPOB members in Catalonia has made us proud in their country of residence and their contributions which is in small measures towards restoration of Biafra would surely not be regretted. “We want to let everyone know that Biafra will soon emerge and all those doubting Thomases among us thinking that Biafra is not coming would be perplexed and some would proceed on shameful self exile when Biafra eventually comes.”