In line with the memorandum of information (MI) prepared ahead of the auction of two slots of spectrum in the 3.5gigahertz (GHz) spectrum set aside for early deployment of 5G technology services in the country, by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the two winners of the licences, MTN and Mafab Communication, have less than two months to begin service offering using the new platform. According to the latest Ericsson Mobility Report, 5G subscriptions will hit one billion this year while it will reach 4.4 billion by 2027. Nigeria will, however, be joining the race for these milestones amid huge challenges before the two operators. While MTN Chief Executive Officer, Karl Toriola, has restated the readiness of the telecom giant to rollout services on the 5G spectrum even before the NCC’s timeline, nothing has been heard from the second winner of the spectrum, Mafab Communications Limited. An opportunity for stakeholders to hear from Mafab was truncated last week at the 90th Telecom Parliament organised by the Commission in Lagos, where its official, who was scheduled to be on the panel, was missing during the discussion. Like Toriola, MTN representative on the panel and Senior Manager, RF Planning, Chinedu Ezeigweneme, assured that the operator would switch on commercially by the set date, adding that it would deploy using a standalone (SA) network. NCC Executive Vice Chairman/CEO Prof. Garba Danbatta said the International Telecom Union (ITU) acknowledged that 5G networks faced considerable challenges. The challenges include the requirements for more spectrum and vastly more spectrally-efficient technologies, more than what the current 3G and 4G systems require. There is the challenge the ITU described as the intrinsic propagation characteristics of millimetre waves, which propagate over much shorter distances and will therefore significantly require a greater number of base stations with the implication that deployment of infrastructure will become more complex and will require radio equipment being mounted on diverse structures. Added to this is the backhaul requirement since “considerable work is required for implementing fibre services and ensuring availability of wireless backhaul solutions with sufficient capacity, such as microwave and satellite links, and potentially with high-altitude platform stations (HAPS) systems’’ where they are deployed. There are other challenges, such as the need for skilled professionals with requisite knowledge of technology, fewer numbers of 5G-enabled devices, managing expenses involved in 5G network deployment as well as challenges with security and privacy concerns. We must not forget that across the globe, what happened was that the deployment of 5G technology was received with mixed reactions and in some isolated cases hostility even in countries adjudged to be technologically advanced. This initial resistance was fueled largely by misconceptions arising from conspiracy theories. It is a challenge that stakeholders must collaborate to address as Nigeria rolls out 5G Technology Services. The industry must, then, turn the challenges into opportunities rather than seeing them as obstacles, the issues that should militate against or slow down the deployment of 5G Technology are themselves opportunities that can potentially create new revenue streams or new subsectors in the industry. Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity at NCC, Bako Wakil also identified local challenges to include inflation and foreign exchange rates, quality and adequate power supply as the world moves to go green, devices affordability and many others.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     BetKing, DSTV strike deal   He said the inability of the between 500 and 1,000 megabytes per second (Mbps) capacity from traditional microwaves to meet the 20 gigabytes per second (Gbps)demand of 5G calls for stepping-up into the E-band spectrum. Wakil said in order to fiberize the towers/base stations, the issue of Right-of-Way (RoW) must be well addressed, adding that subjecting the barrage of internet of things (IoT) devices to the Type Approval process within a limited timeframe is another daunting challenge. According to the Ericsson Mobility Report, North America is forecast to lead the world in 5G subscription penetration in the next five years with nine-of-every-ten subscriptions in the region expected to be 5G by 2027. The 2027-timeline also includes projections that 5G will account for 82 per cent of subscriptions in Western Europe; 80 per cent in the Gulf Cooperation Council region and 74 per cent in North East Asia. In India, where 5G deployments have yet to begin, 5G is expected to account for nearly 40 per cent of all subscriptions by 2027. In global terms, 5G is forecast to account for almost half of all subscriptions by 2027, topping 4.4 billion subscriptions. The latest Ericsson Mobility Report – the 22 edition of Ericsson’s network traffic insights and forecasts – also reveals that global mobile network data traffic doubled in the past two years. This traffic growth was driven by increased smartphone and mobile broadband usage, as well as the digitalization of society and industries. The recent statistics and forecasts highlight the strong demand for data connectivity and digital services have, and are expected to have, despite the global Covid-19 pandemic and geopolitical uncertainties. Several hundred million people are becoming new mobile broadband subscribers every year. The June 2022 Ericsson Mobility Report also verified that 5G is scaling faster than all previous mobile technology generations. About a quarter of the world’s population currently has access to 5G coverage. Some 70 million 5G subscriptions were added during the first quarter of 2022 alone. By 2027, about three-quarters of the world’s population will be able to access 5G, according to the report. Speaking on the report, Executive Vice President and Head of Networks, Ericsson, Fredrik Jejdling, said: “The latest Ericsson Mobility Report confirms 5G as the fastest growing mobile technology generation ever, and Ericsson is playing a key role in making it happen. We work every day with our customers and ecosystem partners around the world to ensure that millions more people, enterprises, industries, and societies enjoy the benefits of 5G connectivity as soon as possible.“ Executive Editor, Ericsson Mobility Report at Ericsson, Peter Jonsson, said the deployment of 5G SA is already gaining traction in many regions as mobile network operators (MNOs) brace for innovative ways of tapping into the huge business opportunities of the technology. “The deployment of 5G standalone (SA) networks is increasing in many regions as communications service providers (CSPs) gear up for innovation to address the business opportunities beyond enhanced mobile broadband. A solid digital network infrastructure underpins enterprises’ digital transformation plans, and their new capabilities can be turned into new customer services,” Jonsson said. The report also highlighted the increasingly important role that Fixed Wireless Access (FWA) is playing in the delivery of broadband services. Ericsson predicts that the number of FWA connections will exceed 100 million in 2022, a figure that is forecast to more than double by 2027, reaching almost 230 million. On the Internet of Things (IoT), the report notes that in 2021, broadband IoT (4G/5G) overtook 2G and 3G as the technology that connects the largest share of all cellular IoT connected devices, accounting for 44 per cent of all connections. Massive IoT technologies (NB-IoT, Cat-M) increased by almost 80 per cent during 2021, reaching close to 330 million connections. The number of IoT devices connected by these technologies is expected to overtake 2G/3G in 2023.