The 2019 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State Adebayo Adelabu has dumped the party. Adelabu, who lost the party’s governorship ticket for the 2023 election to Senator Teslim Folarin, said he was defecting to the Accord Party to actualise his political dream. The announcement of the new party put to rest speculations surrounding his acceptance or rejection of the governorship primary, which was held amidst the controversy of doctored delegate lists. He said he will use the new platform to achieve his seven-point agenda if elected Governor. Adelabu said: “A time exists in the life of a sincere aspiring man of the public when events and circumstances lesson the operation of his mind onto new decision, new desire and new determination. “Such time now finds expression in my political career which necessities vital change, fundamental decision,s and refreshing determination. It is therefore on this basis that I hereby declare the withdrawal of my membership from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Accord Party of Nigeria (Accord).   We pay N100 each at 98 bus stops, say Badagry drivers     Insecurity: Police deploy air assets along Abuja-Kaduna…     OPEC increases Nigeria crude oil quota to 1.799b/d   “This is the political platform upon which my gubernatorial ambition shall be pursued to actualization by the guidance and grace of the Almighty Allah. “It is needless to restate in details, reason for relinquishing my APC membership on the point that such reason is public knowledge. The man dies in him who keeps silent in the face of blatant injustice and the life of a lie is a matter of little time. “Evil people struggle in vain in their conspiracy against their innocent fellowman because malice is a poor match for destiny. What is important above all is that my leaders, supporters and teeming people of Oyo State are hereby assured of my determination never to disappoint them in the pursuit of my gubernatorial ambition to reality by the will of God. “I wish to present my humble self for the Political Liberation Movement to rescue our pacesetting state from the bad operation of clueless and inept people in government and in the other party. We shall together inaugurate a new Era of peace and Progress in our Dear State in line with my 7-Point Agenda when I become the Executive Governor by God’s Grace in 2023. “There is accord for our vision in the Accord Party of Nigeria. We hereby move to therein accordingly. May God guide , guard and bless each and all.”