The House of Representatives yesterday urged the Federal Government to urgently set in motion the process of disarming the various unlicensed persons bearing arms in the Southeast and other parts of the country. The House said doing so would ensure a safe environment and polity ahead of the 2023 general election. It also asked the government to immediately address some underlying factors that sparked unrest and violence in the Southeast.  The House also urged heads of security agencies to secure the lives and property of all Nigerians by heeding early warnings and response mechanisms to collaborate with focal security agencies in intelligence sharing. Adopting a motion of urgent national importance by Dozie Nwankwo, the House of Representatives asked the Federal Government to intervene in the rescue mission of the Anambra State government by giving financial support and other strategic logistics to contain the wave of insecurity in the state. Leading a debate on the motion, Nwankwo said the House should be mindful of the efforts of Anambra State Governor Chukwuma Soludo to tackle illegal arms bearing and the ability to reduce the activities of the unknown gunmen in the state since he assumed office.   N187b earmarked for 2023 census inadequate, says NPC     N25.7b fraud: Appeal Court affirms conviction of ex-Bank PHB…     I couldn’t have rejected Atiku’s running mate offer, says…   The lawmaker noted that the governor’s diplomatic efforts and other intervention strategies he has applied to enable the state overcome the menace have not yielded the desired results. He said the recently concluded party primaries across the country exposed the polity to the activities of miscreants who terrorised the region, especially, striking at will and retreating unchallenged.  Nwankwo noted that with the heightened socio-economic and political activities across the land, commensurate measures are required to keep the polity conducive for the citizens to actively participate in all activities, particularly in the zone, without molestations or fears. According to him, with the elitist crave for political power, poor responses from the security agencies to emergencies become more manifest due to their numerous challenges. He said: “This cuts across the nation, especially the Southeast, but more particularly in Anambra State, looking back at the not too distant period.” Nwankwo said the nation’s challenges have worsened in recent time, attributing the development to lack of requisite tools to fight corruption in the system, dearth of jobs, sabotage and betrayals worsening the integrity and efficiency of the security agencies in the face of increased spate of banditry, kidnapping, terrorism, cultism, ritual killings and political killings. He recalled that between June 2020 and April 2022, about 8,455 lives were wasted in the zone under reference due to insecurity.