Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday commended the various intervention programmes being implemented by the Bank of Industry (BoI) to support the growth and development of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector. Osinbajo, who gave the commendation at the fifth National MSME Awards Dinner in Abuja, noted that the efforts of the Bank of Agriculture, the Federal Inland Revenue Service, the Corporate Affairs Commission, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, among others, in promoting the growth of MSMEs. The Vice President noted that the drive, energy and creativity of young Nigerians are the guarantee that the country will prosper and provide jobs and opportunities for the millions of youths coming into the job market yearly, as he commends the steadfastness and contributions of young entrepreneurs who won prizes at the event.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…	     Fintiri picks female VC as running mate   “These MSMEs tells the story of our country’s great economic future, Nigeria is set to manufacture its own vehicles, clean energy trucks and cars, the country are on course to manufacturing its own weapons, armored mobile platforms and aircraft. We have all it takes,” he said. While referring to prospects in the manufacturing and technology sectors, the Vice President expressed optimism about MSMEs in technology and manufacturing, especially in the clean energy or green economy deserve special mention. He noted that the sector will be crucial in global industrial development in the coming years and will leapfrog Nigeria to economic prosperity. He announced arrangements for the establishment of MSME Shared Facility projects comprising the Kaduna State Tomato Paste Production Hub and the Ogun State refurbished Adire market. Other facilities are now being established in Gombe, Bauchi, Kebbi, Ebonyi, Delta, Nasarawa, Ekiti, Abia and Kano states. The highpoint of the event was the presentation of prizes to winners in the various categories, including deserving states such as Edo for best State in Shared Facility; Imo for best State in Fashion; Borno for emerging State in Innovation and Ogun for best State in MSME Policy.