Ahead of Burundi’s debut at the Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (WAFCON)  scheduled to start on Saturday in Morocco, England-based striker Falone Sumaili said the Swallows are confident they can match Nigeria’s  Super Falcons and other established teams in the tournament   Applause as Dare hosts victorious Golden Eaglets     Morocco 2022: NFF confirms Falode as Chef de Mission     Oregon 2022: World Athletics defend Nigeria’s expulsion from…   The Swallows would face record nine-times winners and defending champions Nigeria, last tournament’s finalist Bayana Bayana of South Africa and fellow debutants The Mares of Botswana in Group C. Burundi qualified for a spot in Morocco by beating Djibouti 11-1 on aggregate in the second round of the play-offs. “I see it as an opportunity because we have a rare chance of playing against very experienced sides,” Sumaili, who plays for Huddersfield Town, told BBC Sport Africa in a recent interview. “We will gain new experience as players, and for the coach too. But it is also an opportunity for us to showcase our qualities, what we are capable of as a team. “We are confident we can do great.” Meanwhile, former Super Falcons goalkeeper Rachael Ayegba has been named among some of Africa most celebrated former football stars in the women’s game to be part of the CAF TV commentary and analysis line-up in Morocco for the TotalEnergies Women’s Africa Cup of Nations  (WAFCON) which begins on Saturday. Ayegba, who was part of the Falcons contingent to the 2007 FIFA Women’s World Cup, as well as the 2006 and 2008 African Women’s Championships, will be part of the build-ups and commentary team for all matches which includes renowned former Indomitable Lionesses’ captain Christine Manie (Cameroon), former Banyana Banyana (South Africa) captain Amanda Dlamini and former Carthage Eagles (Tunisia) Haifa Guedri. The 36-year-old, who played in Finland’s women top flight for 11 years, and others will form a  stellar on-site commentary and analysis team that will be a first in the history of the WAFCON competition.