President Muhammadu Buhari has said that he has no intention to subvert the Constitution to remain in office beyond May 29, 2023. The President, who spoke through his Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari at a special prayer session to mark the 60th birthday of Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila at Ansar-Ud-Deen Central Mosque, Wuse 2, Abuja expressed commitment to ensuring a free, fair and transparent general election in 2023. He insisted that has always been committed to credible elections. While describing the Speaker as a patriotic Nigerian who has used his position to serve the country well, the President said Gbajabiamiala has positively changed the public perception of the relationship between the legislature and the executive, while urging the Speaker to remain patriotic to Nigeria like he has always shown. “The message from Mr. President is to congratulate you on your 60th birthday. He also wants to urge you to continue to serve the country well. He said the House of Representatives under Gbajabiamila has ensured a good working relationship with the Executive arm against the notion in some quarters that the National Assembly should “be antagonistic to the Executive,” Gambari said. He quoted the President as reiterating his belief in the aspiration for a peaceful and a united Nigeria. Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu also described the Speaker as a patriotic Nigerian, who uses his position to enhance good governance. Tinubu said God has made it possible for Gbajabiamila to impact positively on the lives of Nigerians through the Legislature and prayed God to continue to bless and grant the Speaker long life and wisdom to serve Nigeria better. He said: “May God continue to give you good health. May He also answer your prayers. Only God will put us on the right path and continue to guide us through life to overcome the problem of leadership. May God give you good health to work for Nigeria.   Abducted former Ekiti Chief Pharmacist freed after N4.5m…     Kaduna youths demand Deputy Gov slot     Man arrested for raping 75- year- old woman in Anambra   “It is a complex country that you have to navigate through. May Allah in His infinite mercy give us the stability, the peace to govern; the love that we share for one another, the patriotism that will make us proud of our country,” he said. In his message on leadership, good governance and tolerance, the Chief Imam of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Mosque, Dr. Musa Olaofe, said Nigeria is difficult to govern due to its nature. He said however that with good leadership, there will be good governance, urging Nigerians to be tolerant with one another for meaningful progress. While expressing gratitude to the President and others present for their kind words, Speaker Gbajabimila said that he owed his political journey to God through Tinubu, whom he said the Almighty Allah used to uplift him and many others politically and otherwise. Gbajabiamila also thanked his mother, Hajiya Lateefat Olufunke Gbajabiamila, who raised him in a good manner as well as his wife, Salamatu, who organised the prayer session. He said: “Let me first of all start by appreciating the President though the COS. Let me also appreciate my benefactor. Many believe that wherever you find yourself, all power belongs to Allah. “But Allah doesn’t come down to give you power. He guides and directs you. In doing so, He directed me to Asiwaju. He did it to me, and not just me, he did it to others too. May the Almighty Allah continue to give you that very uncommon capacity.” He expressed appreciation to his colleagues in the House who have been supporting and cooperating with him to discharge his responsibilities as first among equals.