The National Vice Chairman (North West) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Salihu Mohd. Lukman, yesterday warned that many sections of Nigeria would continue to be marginalized if choices of leaders are dictated by ethno-religious factors. Lukman, in a statement in Abuja, said ethnicity and religion should therefore be de-emphasized in the polity in the best interest of good governance in the country. He was contributing to the ongoing debate on a Muslim-Muslim ticket ahead of the 2023 presidential election. He said if the present trend continued “only Christian Southerners and Muslim Northerners will continue to have advantages,” to rule Nigeria. He said though ethnic and religious identities are important “addressing challenges facing the country requires that political leaders are not allowed to ride on cheap sentiments of religion and ethnicity to opportunistically win elections.” He added: “If Nigeria is to move forward, 2023 Presidential campaigns must not reduce important debates of moving Nigeria forward to sentimental considerations of ethnicity and religion. If the truth is to be told, Islam and Christianity as well as all our ethnic factors have been used in equal measure to hold Nigeria at a standstill. If Nigerian politics is to overcome the adversities of these so-called religious and ethnic leaders, religious and ethnic backgrounds of leaders must be subordinated to experiential attributes of persons being considered for leadership.”   APC convention: Rousing welcome for Sanwo-Olu as gov returns…     2023: INEC may extend voters registration     Minimum Wage: Compel debtor-states to pay, NLC urges FG   On the choice of the APC vice presidential candidate,  Lukman said: “whatever is the final choice of Asiwaju Tinubu and APC leaders with respect to who emerges as the running mate, the 2023 Presidential election will be keenly contested, irrespective of religious and ethnic identity of both Asiwaju Tinubu and whoever the running mate may be. APC leaders must acknowledge the fact that the 2023 elections present another golden opportunity for the APC to re-invent itself. “With the landmark initiatives of President Buhari’s government in the last seven years, challenges of insecurity are being used by opposition parties, especially PDP, to falsely allege that APC has failed. Nigerians must be guided to make choices based on evidence and not just sentiment. In many respects, when Asiwaju Tinubu, in his acceptance speech enjoined fellow APC leaders to ‘ensure PDP does not return to power after 16 years of colossal failure’, he certainly must be referring to these issues. “Notwithstanding all the achievements of APC-led government of President Buhari, it is however important to recognise the issues of insecurity, which has remained a major national challenge. It is important that assessment of performance of APC government is not reduced to opinions of opposition politicians. The reality is that both President Buhari and all APC leaders acknowledged the enormity of the challenges of insecurity in the country.”