Osun State Chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has just concluded its primary elections, preparatory to the general elections next year. Flag-bearers representing the party at the House of Representatives and the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly have emerged and … the rest is history! That said, it is common knowledge that political agitations are seldom resolved without their aftermaths. By nature, elections are designed to eliminate contestants until the best are decided. Even at that, those who lost out are not always the happy bunch. But, in the spirit of sportsmanship, and for the sake of the party and its central interest, aspirants are expected to come together, reconcile and unite behind the objective interest of the party, which is to win the coveted prize. As at the time of writing this piece, it is doubtful if any of the aspirants who lost out in the party’s primary elections in Osun have sincerely congratulated those who won. Well, whether it is noble, ulteriorly selfish, or evil, this attitude is not healthy for our body politic. To a large extent, it only speaks volume of the real motives of some of the contestants. Since some of these motives are not readily available or knowable, it behooves APC to work tirelessly behind the scene to ensure that expressed agitations by the aggrieved aspirants are not left unattended to. While we congratulate all those who participated in the exercise in Ijesa North Federal Constituency, my domain – as we are all winners, kudos must also go to the party hierarchy, beginning from the governor, and Leader of the party in the state; the State Chairman and all others for a successful outing, here’s a caveat: ‘it is not yet uhuru!’ Why did I say so? Well the real prize, starting with the Osun governorship election, slated for July 16, 2022, is some kilometers away. It is after this will have become a success story that the path to the February 25, 2023 National Assembly elections can become well-paved. The more reason the stage is set for the party and the candidates to launch into the deep and go a-fishing for votes, preparatory to the election. But, isn’t Osun with a difference? To be frank, the courage and the resilience of the aspirants, coupled with the maturity, tact and finesse they brought into the electioneering process attested to their ‘Omoluabi’ ethos. The humility and sportsmanship spirit, with which the results of the elections were also received, both by the party as well as the aspirants remain unmatched in the history of party politics in this part of the world. Of course, this magnanimity must not be taken for granted; for it is a sure way to deepen the tenets of democracy in the hearts of the citizens, and a veritable safeguard norm for a smooth transition of power and status in a democratic dispensation.   Tonto Dikeh emerges running mate to ADC guber candidate in…     2023: Sen Ogba names Osi as Ebonyi gubernatorial running…     ‘Southeast must tap into Tinubu presidency’   Unarguably, victory for Osun APC in next year’s General Elections is a collective duty. So, it is bigger than any individual or personal interest! However, success in the tasks ahead can only be achieved if lingering issues are justly attended to, and resolved amicably, in the interest of the party. For the party must remain strong and formidable, it is the duty of the party hierarchy to not allow bickering or negative insinuations that might have arisen before, during or after the primary elections to fester. Impliedly, all aggrieved members and unlucky aspirants must reconcile with the reality as well as the effects of the loss of election, no matter how painful or inconvenient the experience might have been. This is needed, in the objective interest of APC, which will continue to serve as the umbrella body and the main platform for every member to effectively pursue or push his or her political objectives. On July 16, 2022, Osun State will be having another experience of governorship election. Therefore, the collective task of Osun APC members is to work towards the reelection bid of Isiaq Adegboyega Oyetola, the incumbent governor. It is to ensure that no stone is left unturned at making him the choice of the electorate, subsequently, the winner of the election. In this wise, nothing should be taken for granted! State-, and party-structured campaign rallies, community gatherings, house-to-house and street-to-street campaigns, both at the individual and group levels must also be embarked upon to augment the strategies already on ground. Crucial information concerning procedural dealings at the poll must also be disseminated to the electorate ahead of the due date and time of the election. In a subtle manner, we need to gently remind our neighbours to promptly collect their PVCs to secure their chances to vote during the upcoming elections. As a last minute reminder, let us engage the people by highlighting some of the notable and significant accomplishments of the Oyetola-led Administration within the last 43 or so months, despite the paucity of funds. Issues such as prompt payment of salaries, implementation of pending welfare packages of civil servants in the state, increase in the number of O’YES cadets and their monthly stipends; and the modification of the Education Policy, to reflect the yearnings of the indigenes and residents of the state; should not be left unmentioned. The electorate should also be reminded of others like the improved O’Meal, maintenance of extant infrastructure and the building of new ones, especially in the rural areas, and the expansion of commerce and new initiatives of economic activities. Revivalist approach towards agriculture and effective supervision of projects and policy implementation are also some of the governor’s achievements. Some of these things might have been underreported by the media; hence the need to repeat and remind Nigerians! After all, a trumpet unblown is a trumpet abused! To those who truly understand the game, Oyetola’s victory is Osun APC’s victory, while the latter’s victory is bound to boost the chances of the national party in the General Elections. So, while congratulating the teeming and loyal members of the party, this is an appropriate juncture to also congratulate Bola Tinubu on his victory as the APC presidential flag-bearer in the 2023 General Elections. Without doubt, this enigmatic and visionary APC National Leader represents many things to many people. His overwhelming victory is no doubt a reflection of his enigmatic persona. Tinubu runs with ideas and visions, and he knows that ideas and visions don’t have tribal marks! In like manner, Oyetola sees all party members as one big, indivisible family. Therefore, insinuations of discriminations or favouritism in relating with individual members are false; and should been seen and treated as such! Lastly, as we gradually move towards Osun guber, all members should consider the bigger picture, which is: securing victory for the party. Let the aggrieved agree to be consoled by the party’s mediation intervention! Let them resolve to move on, based on party supremacy! Let the tenacity of the bond between the party and the spirit of party membership have roles to play in what’s on ground! Ideally, party membership should be for life. Even if for this singular reason, the idea of frequent defection of members to another party becomes an aberration. So, it should be discouraged! Those committed to pushing visions into reality in public service are the true politicians. They are not political-jobbers!