Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal has emerged the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial candidate for Sokoto South. He emerged on Saturday night less than 24 hours after he returned to Sokoto after the PDP presidential primary penultimate weekend where he stepped down for former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. The district comprises Yabo, Tureta, Dange Shuni, Shagari, Tambuwal, Kebbe and Bodinga. Speaking shortly after declared winner of the primary, Tambuwal said the PDP was poised to win the 2023 general elections. “I urge you, men and women, youths and the elderly to continue praying. When the time comes and the campaign commences, we must go into nooks and crannies of our villages to campaign for our candidates and the PDP; for its return to the centre and its continuation here in the governance of Sokoto state.   Attackers of Owo church came in a bus- Witnesses     Owo church attack: Akeredolu abandons APC primary after…     Buhari condemns terror attack on Ondo church   “APC is already in ICU (Intensive Care Unit); and we know what is happening now, between today (Saturday) and tomorrow (Sunday), they have gone back to try to trace the drawing board…which they are yet to see. They are still looking for the drawing board because they are so confused as to what to do at the national convention on Monday and Tuesday. “Either way it goes, by the grace of God, our presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar (Wazirin Adamawa), will emerge victorious as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he stated. He expressed gratitude to God and the political stakeholders: electoral teams and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) monitoring team for participation in the primary election, which simplified the process. Tambuwal, who picked the ticket following his unopposed emergence via affirmation, would face Senator Abdullahi Danbaba Dambuwa of the APC who just dumped the PDP. His Deputy , Muhammad Manir Dan Iya, also clinched Sokoto North senatorial ticket of the party. He will slug it out with former Governor Senator Aliyu Wamakko of the APC.