Which groups or individuals are behind the June 5 attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State? The Federal Government claims the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) is behind the attack, but the group has not owned up to it. Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu described the Federal Government’s claim as ‘hasty’. Yesterday, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi took sides with Akeredolu. He described the alleged involvement of ISWAP as ‘speculative at this stage’. Fayemi spoke on Channels. The Catholic Diocese in Owo said yesterday that the 40 victims of the attack will be buried on Friday. Those who could not be identified will be given mass burial. The three-day mourning declared by the Southwest governors begun yesterday across the six states. The Director of Social Communication of the Diocese of Ondo, Rev. Fr. Augustine Ikwu, confirmed the burial plan. Fayemi said: “As far as I’m concerned, the statement that ISWAP or Boko Haram or whatever other institutions are responsible for this (attack) is purely speculative at this stage. “I haven’t seen any evidence that concretely puts this in the corner of any of these rogue elements that we have. “And really it doesn’t – at this stage – matter. They have committed this crime, they have demonstrated the capacity to cause maximum damage to our people.” Fayemi, Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), said governors, as chief security officers of their states, are privy to intelligence, but not all of them are actionable. He explained that they have a responsibility to pass such intelligence to the relevant institutions, who are expected to take necessary actions. He added: “I don’t want us to jump the gun as far as this is concerned and that is why I am not going to go into any detail as to what intelligence we had and at what point we had it. “Our duty as security officers is to ensure that this does not occur again and we go after elements of this nature, whichever organisation they may represent within our domains.” The Parish Priest, Fr. Vincent Amadin, said the number of injured persons has risen. Amadin said those who went home after the incident never knew they had internal injuries. “You cannot say this is the actual figure because more than half of the church were affected. There are various forms of injuries.   ‘TCN’s incompetence cause of grid collapse’     Facebook, Twitter, Instagram get Fed Govt’s operating…     Herders invade Niger Delta creeks, says IYC   “Some just went home with minor injuries but they are complaining now. A woman that didn’t know she had internal injuries called me yesterday after she fell.” Oba Ogunoye III said it was unfortunate that terrorists defiled the House of God and attempted to shatter the peace enjoyed in Owo. “It is an unfortunate incident that we never expected. “Nigeria has been experiencing terrorist attack but we were concerned that this incident could come to our area. We are experiencing it now. We are all challenged by what really happened. “They have turned this land into a land of violence. Our humanity is challenged. The Federal Government should focus on protecting lives and property. We should get prepared to defend ourselves. The perpetrators are looking for soft spots. We must protect ourselves. Nobody has the right to take life.” The Neo Black Movement of Africa (NBM) donated N2million to the victims. It said it would help to showcase the rich cultural values of Owo community ahead of the Owo Igogo festival. National President of NBM, Olorogun Ese Kakor, made the donation when he visited scene of the attack and the palace of the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye III. In line with the directive of Southwest governors, Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola directed residents to conduct themselves in sobriety as they mourn the victims. Oyetola, through the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Funke Egbemode, in a statement, declared that mourning would be observed from Monday to tomorrow. The statement reads: “During the state mourning, all flags will be flown at half-mast throughout the state, and citizens are expected to conduct their affairs in sobriety in honour of our innocent brothers and sisters who were taken down by the attack. “Osun State Government, once again, commiserates with all those who lost their loved ones in the unfortunate incident and pray for a quick recovery for those whose wounds are still being nursed.” As a mark of respect for the victims, Fayemi declared a three-day mourning with effect from Monday till Wednesday. Flags were flown at half mast yesterday at the Ekiti State High Court, Governor’s Office and Government Secretariat, as well as Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti. Oyo State government also declared a three-day mourning. The decision, according to a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, was in compliance with the communique issued at the end of a virtual meeting of the Southwest governors. Governor Seyi Makinde approved that flags should fly at half mast between yesterday and tomorrow. The statement read in part: “The government of Oyo State hereby announces a three-day mourning period in honour of the victims of the Owo Catholic Church massacre.”