Delta State governor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vice presidential candidate, Ifeanyi Okowa, has defended his nomination and acceptance as the running mate to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. Okowa spoke last night on Channels Television programme, Politics Today. The governor said he could not have turned down his party’s offer. He was apparently reacting to agitations from some groups, which had decried his acceptance to be the vice-presidential candidate of the main opposition party. In a statement by leaders of four groups: Chief Edwin Clark, for the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) and the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF); Chief Ayo Adebanjo, leader of Afenifere; Dr. Dru Bitrus, the President General of Middle Belt Forum, and Prof. George Obiozor, the President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo Worldwide, Okowa got some bashing for accepting to be Atiku’s running mate. The elder statesmen said it was unspeakable and disappointing that Okowa, the currently Chairman of Southsouth Governors’ Forum and a native of Owa-Alero in Ika North-East Local Government Area (one of the Igbo-speaking areas) of Delta State, exhibited they called barefaced unreliability to accept the position of vice president. They recalled that 17 Southern governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), under the Chairmanship of Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) met in Asaba, Delta State, on May 11, 2021, and took far-reaching decisions, including the need for the presidency to return to the South at the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s eight-year two-terms.   Buhari: Good roads reduce travel time, expenses     2023: APC National Women Leader seeks China’s support for…     Wike hosts Orubebe, other high profile PDP visitors   They said the Delta governor was the host of that historic meeting, adding that the Southern governors later met again in Lagos, on July 5, where they reaffirmed their decision and again in Enugu, on September 16, to restate the call that the presidency should come to the South in 2023. “It is, therefore, most unfortunate that the Governor of Delta State, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa who should know better, accepted his appointment as running mate to Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. We do not have anything personal against Ifeanyi Okowa but his action is treacherous and tantamount to a despicable pawning of the political future of the people of Southern Nigeria.” The statement said But reaction yesterday, Okowa said: “I respect our elders and their statements and understand their agitations. But I’m a party man to the core and I respect the choice of my party.” The governor insisted that he is an Igbo man from the Southsouth. He said: “We went to the convention to pick our candidate and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar emerged. He is a Muslim from the North. It is only fair that a Christian from the South emerged. And when the offer came, I couldn’t turn it down.” Asked of what value his candidature would be, Okowa said: “In the first instance, I have worked in several places. I have been a local council chairman, commissioner, a senator and governor. In all these positions, I have done well. I have done very well with the youths, the women and I have got enough to the table. “If you find out, Delta is a peaceful state and is a mini-Nigeria with so many people. We have been able to build peace together and the narratives are good. Delta State is strong and that is what we are bringing to the table. “We have stirred up the entrepreneurial spirit in our youths and provided the right environment for the private sector to thrive.”