Water is one of the classes of food and the most important one at that because without water death can occur. That explains the popular saying “water is life”. Hence the importance of water cannot be overemphasized. Below are some reasons why water should be taken adequately: *It aids Digestion: water is essential to good health. It helps break down food so that your body can absorb them( nutrients) into the body. It also helps to prevent constipation and make stool softer. Everyday, you should choose water over other sugary drinks. It is the best. *For regulating body temperature: the human body uses water to stabilize temperature meaning it can absorb heat before its temperature rises. This is what allows the water in every cell of the human body to stabilize the human system against sudden temperature changes. Water also helps to expel heat from the body as water vapour from the lungs and through sweat on the skin.   Four main misconceptions ladies have about Postinor pills     Six local products good for export     Four reasons for cryptocurrencies crash   *It reduces skin harshness: water helps to maintain the skins elasticity and keep it hydrated. People who drink enough water are less likely to suffer from scars and wrinkles and they won’t show many signs of ageing as those that drink little amounts of water. *To normalize blood pressure: dehydration causes the kidney to release renin. This results in sodium and water retention in the body to correct the low fluid volume. This response if constant can cause the blood pressure to be high. If these effects remain constant in the body, the brain will constantly have to maintain a blood pressure higher than it normally should so that other organs can receive blood supply. When this happens, people are at risk of having hypertension because of poor water intake. *Cushioning joints: Water helps to keep your joints properly lubricated and flexible. The synovial fluid that directly lubricates the joints consists of mainly water. This fluid reduces friction between joints and helps to maintain healthy tissues. Intake of alcoholic drinks can heavily affect your joint movement because it easily makes you dehydrated and this is not good for the joints. Therefore, it is advised that taking alcohol should be accompanied by almost a double of water measurement to keep the body hydrated.