The  Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited is soon to lose its monopoly of the importation of  Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) otherwise known as diesel and Jet-A1 (aviation fuel). Petroleum Resources Minister of State Timipre Sylva said yesterday at the ministerial meeting on the Reactivation of the Trans-Saharan Gas Pipeline (TSGP) Project in Abuja,saying the Federal Government was set to decentralise the process. The decision is to check the rising costs of the products and their resultant economic hardship. Recall that the Airline Operators of Nigeria(AON) had in March 2022 threatened to shut down flights over the rising cost of Jet A-1. As of then, it sold for over N700 per litre, a development that also led to a 100 per rise in the cost of local air travel. Today, diesel sells for close to N820 per litre. When the  National Assembly intervened, the association demanded and got the support to be granted a waiver to import aviation fuel for its members. At a meeting with NNPC Limited on March 14, 2022, the   Group Managing Director, Mele Kyari,   informed the House of Representatives that the licence would be granted to the operators to check the rising cost of the product and keep the airlines afloat. Similarly, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria(MAN) had also urged the Federal Government to give its members some rebate as the cost of diesel hit N720 per litre.   We’ll fix Justices’ complaints on work…     Remaining kidnapped railway passengers must be rescued…     Portable needs rehabilitation, says Okowa’s aide   But Sylva told reporters that the liberalisation of the importation of the two deregulated products would make it possible for their users to access foreign exchange to import them. The minister blamed the frequent scarcity of the products and their high prices on the paucity of foreign exchange. Sylva said:: “The problem with aviation fuel is that it is a deregulated commodity. So, it is not within the purview of the government to fix the prices at all. “And of course, the actual issue is also the paucity of foreign exchange. People cannot access foreign exchange to import diesel. “So, for the time being, NNPC has been the main importer of these products. But what we are trying to do is to democratise the importation so that the aviation fuel users themselves can be able to access foreign exchange on the Import  and Export  window and they should be able to import these products.” The minister dismissed the attribution of the scarcity of diesel and aviation fuel to the government, saying it was a global energy challenge. He added that the Russian and Ukraine war has further aggravated the prices of the two deregulated products. His words: “It is not a supply issue at all. It is just a global problem. The problem in Ukraine and Russia has actually exacerbated the rise in prices as it is not a Nigerian problem. “High cost of diesel is also because of the same reasons. These are not subsidized commodities. They have deregulated commodities so it is actually not within the purview of the government to intervene in the price.”