Sterling Bank Plc has partnered the Bedrock Initiative to train youths so that they can be employed as part of its contribution towards reducing unemployment in the country. The training held during the Owerri Business Week. Its theme was: ‘Gaining business momentum.’ Divisional Head, Business Growth and Transaction Banking at Sterling Bank, Obinna Ukachukwu, proposed a bottom-to-top approach to  tackle Nigeria’s economic challenges. He said the efforts aimed at solving Nigeria’s problems should be a bottom-up approach, whereby the led would revolutionise their thinking  about reshaping the country such that the leadership would have no choice than to key in. “We can transform this country from bottom to top, if the people who are in the majority decide to do the right thing. First of all, as a voter, let every adult of 18 years and above procure their permanent voter card (PVC) and get ready to vote and participate in the electoral process.   Neveah redeems N2.7b Commercial Paper     Abbey Mortgage Bank’s PBT rises 116% to N661m     Havenhill Synergy, others to power healthcare facilities…   “If they participate and make their votes count, their elected leaders would not have any other option than to follow the minds of those that elected them,” he said. Ukachukwu, a key speaker at the  forum, noted that there were various ways of getting things done, especially by deviating from the conventional way. He urged entrepreneurs and young start-ups to follow their mind and continue to build. He recommended that young Nigerians should begin to think of building for tomorrow to transform the country. “This means that you are building your business outside of yourself. You need not build a business around yourself, but liberate yourself from the business so that your dream would be bigger than you. Let the next generation build and improve on what you have started. “Let your business be around people and service delivery. Also, you should build your business so that it could thrive even after the founder’s death. Think on community service above self.”