A Federal High Court in Abuja has granted former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha a N500 million bail. In a ruling yesterday, Justice Inyang Ekwo rejected the object of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to Okorocha’s bail application. The judge said bail is at the discretion of the court, noting that the Constitution provides for the defendant to be given adequate time to defend himself. He averred that a bail was granted to the first defendant (Okorocha) at N500 million with one surety in like sum. The surety, the judge said, must reside and own property within the jurisdiction of the court. Justice Ekwo directed the Registry of the court to verify the documents of property to be presented as bail bond and directed Okorocha to deposit his international passport with the court registry. The judge said Okorocha should remain in the custody of the EFCC pending when he is able to meet the bail conditions. He also granted bail to Okorocha’s co-defendant, Anyim Nyerere Chinenye, on the conditions attached to the administrative bail earlier granted him by the EFCC. Justice Ekwo fixed November 7 for the commencement of trial in the matter. While arguing his client’s bail application, Okorocha’s lawyer, Solomon Umoh (SAN), urged the court to grant bail to the ex-governor on liberal terms.   Fed Govt engages over 6,000 pharmacies for COVID-19…     Three ‘global scammers’ arrested in Lagos, Benin     Give us prepaid metres, Lagos communities plead   Umoh argued that it was within his client’s constitutional right to be admitted to bail in line with the doctrine of presumption of innocence. He added: “The applicant has been a man known in this society. Therefore, the prosecution’s contention that he could not be served with the charge is not true as he could have been served through substituted means. “We beg the court that the applicant be admitted to bail on liberal terms.” Chinenye’s counsel, Oba Maduabuchi (SAN), equally prayed the court to admit his client to bail in line with the administrative bail earlier granted him by the EFCC. In opposing the bail for the defendants, prosecuting lawyer Cosmos Ugwu cited instances when Okorocha allegedly evaded service of court documents. Ugwu said: “On two consecutive occasions, the first defendant (Okorocha) frustrated his arraignment by refusing to appear in court.” In relation to Chinenye, Ugwu argued that the defendant would jeopardise the criminal administration system, if granted bail. Okorocha, Chinenye and five companies were arraigned before the court on Monday on a 17-coubt money laundering charge filed by the EFCC. The companies are: Naphtali International Limited, Perfect Finish Multi Projects Limited, Consolid Projects Consulting Limited, Pramif International Limited, and Legend World Concepts Limited. The defendants are accused of diverting Imo State’s funds estimated at N2.9 billion. The EFCC claimed that the defendants committed the alleged offence between October 2014 and February 2016. It also claimed that the defendants sequentially siphoned funds from the Imo State Government House Account and Imo State Joint Local Government Project Account, which they diverted into accounts maintained by private firms.