He is an avatar. He is a man of tall plans and big ideas. A nationalist of the first order. Rt Hon Olufemi Hakeem Gbajabiamila is 60th today. Born on the 25th June, 1962 to the popular aristocrat Gbajabiamila family of Lagos, young Gbajabiamila attended Mainland Preparatory School for his elementary education and proceeded to the popular Igbobi College for Secondary education. He was a contemporary of serving Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. He proceeded to London, for his A-level education. He enrolled at King William’s College on the Isle of Man, United Kingdom. He later returned to the country of his birth, Nigeria to study law at the prestigious University of Lagos where he graduated with honors in 1983 and was called to the Nigerian bar in 1984. Gbajabiami, suave and highly cerebral lawyer, cut his teeth in law practice at Bentley Edu and Co, a foremost and reputable law firm that attracted  sound young lawyers in the 80s. After learning from the masters in the law practice, Gbajabiamila ventured out to give wings to his dreams by establishing his own law firm, Femi Gbaja & Co. In the United States of America, he earned his Juris Doctor from Atlanta John Marshall Law School in the State of Georgia. Brilliant Gbajabiamila cleared his papers at the Georgian bar exam in 2001. He subsequently set up his law firm in Atlanta. The Speaker’s latent interest in politics began to find expression when he joined others in actively campaigning and mobilising support for Bill Campbell’s candidacy who later emerged the 57th mayor of Atlanta, Georgia.  He was the fourth person of the African-American descent in history to emerge mayor. In preparation for the 2003 general elections, Gbajabiamila returned to Nigeria to participate in the electoral process. He joined the defunct Alliance of Democracy, a progressive party to contest for the Surulere 1 Federal Constituency election. He won the election to serve in the House of Representatives. Over the years, Gbajabiamila has proven his leadership dexterity, and the ability to competently manage diverse interests and tendencies within the convoluted Nigeria’s political space. When he served as the leader of the minority caucus in the House, he was the daily nightmare of the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. He kept the nation alert of the perfidious leadership and unprecedented pillage of the common patrimony of Nigerians by the PDP looting gang. He contributed greatly to the abrupt halt of the PDP reign of terror in 2015. The Gbajabiamila was largely instrumental to disruption of the projected 60 years reign PDP game plan that was truncated to 16 years. When the All Progressives Congress, APC took over in 2015, he contested for the speakership but fifth columnists in connivance with strange elements within the National Assembly  frustrated the ambition. The Saraki/Dogara broad day legislative coup readily comes to mind. He took the unpalatable incident in his stride and continued seeking the common good of the Nigerian people as the Leader of the House. He provided the needed leadership during the turbulence period and served as a rally force for all the progressives in the House. Having proved his mettle as the majority leader of the House, it was not a herculean task convincing his colleagues to support his speakership aspiration in 2019. He got all that was needed.. He was well educated, exposed and highly experienced. Those who know him very well will attest that Gbajabiamila is never a power-drunk. He was not aspiring to feather his nest. He was genuinely concerned on how to use the legislative instruments to make Nigeria better and improve the socio-economic conditions of the people. That has been the ultimate focus since he took the leadership mantle of the House. He declared from the start that he was out to revolutionise legislative business in Nigeria. He set the agenda for the 9th House of Representatives under his watch. And he has vigorously pursued them to the admiration of many discerning Nigerians.   But for our village catechist, I would have ended up as…     ‘My journey from top banker in UK to waste manager in…     How late Alaafin saved us from herders – Oyo high chief and…   He discreetly maintains cordial relationships with the Executive arm of government without losing the independence of the legislature. He removed unnecessary animosity that impedes development but rather intervenes occasionally when the need be. In the heat of the COVID-19 pandemic, Gbajabiamila showed exemplary leadership by galvanising the ruling class for the cause of the poor. He openly advocated for direct credit transfers into the bank accounts of the most vulnerable people in Nigeria. He didn’t stop there, he brokered meetings between regulatory agencies and providers of certain essential services like the Pay TV service provider, DSTV and Distribution Companies of Nigeria (DISCOs) for free services for two months. The health workers who were battling the pandemic also got the support of the Speaker. Hazard allowances that had been owed were released following Gbajabiamila’s intervention. The Health minister was summoned to explain why the welfare of doctors, nurses and other health professionals were not catered for. The House of Gbaja was a bipartisan, patriotic chamber that prioritises pro-people interventions. Resolutions on the worsening insecurity and other national maladies were in legion. Petroleum Industry and Governance Bill got life under his watch. The Electoral Act amendments bill amidst other great feats were recorded last year. The celebrated Electoral Act, the Petroleum Industry and Governance Act, Not Too Young to Run Act, the ultimate return of the budget circle to January and December and other landmark legislations and legislative interventions are largely possible because of the support of Gbajabiamila. On the January and December budget circle, the Speaker recalled the sacrifices and the pains that went into the process. He said, “”through the day and night, forgoing all other considerations in a joint effort to deliver a national budget that meets the highest expectations of the Nigerian people. “Therefore, I am confident that the National Assembly will give this Appropriation Bill the prompt consideration it demands. “However, let me use this opportunity to say to the heads of ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria that the determination of the National Assembly to deliver a timely budget will not derogate from our responsibility to ensure exhaustive consideration of the Bill. “We will demand a thorough accounting for the funds previously appropriated, disbursed and expended. And we will take steps to hold to account those who fail to provide the records we need to make informed decisions on the Appropriation Bill. This is the responsibility of the National Assembly, and we will live up to it.” The man being celebrated today didn’t not forget his constituency in the governance mix. Surulere and by extension Lagos State are getting the dividends of Gbajabiamila’s speakership. Infrastructure, health facilities, schools, medical equipment , ICT centres are all attracted to Lagos State. Join me in celebrating this great achiever, Rt Hon Femi Gbajabimiala. Happy birthday sir !