At the end of the proceedings in three days’ time, the Ekiti State governorship would have been won and lost. Sixteen political parties and their candidates are seeking the mandate from 988,923 voters to govern the state. Correspondent RASAQ IBRAHIM examines the chances of the three leading candidates With just three days to the much-awaited June 18 governorship poll in Ekiti State, indications are that the race for the exalted position is going to be a three-horse race involving the candidates of All Progressives Congress (APC), Biodun Oyebanji, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Bisi Kolawole and that of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Segun Oni. The three front runners have been engaged in frenzy campaigns, traversing the local government areas in the state. The three candidates are relatively popular among the electorates for different reasons and any of them are capable of winning the election. Until a few days ago, there had been a lull in electioneering activities, despite the lifting of the ban on open campaigns by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Unlike the 2018 governorship election, the political space was bereft of campaign rallies and other electioneering activities. In 2018, campaigning was intense, with as many as 35 parties involved. This time around, activities have been at the lowest ebb until about three days ago. So, from the northern fringes of the state, Otun-Ekiti and Omuo-Ekiti to the hilly community of Efon Alaaye, candidates of the three major parties and their foot soldiers have been on the campaign stump in the last five days, trying to woo the electorate to their sides ahead of the D-Day. However, the governorship poll promises to be the mother of all contents in Ekiti’s political history. No fewer than 16 political parties would be on the ballot. But, the ruling APC, the opposition PDP and the SDP lead the way in what could be described as a fierce battle to succeed Governor Kayode Fayemi. After two terms in office, Fayemi will vacate the position in October this year, and is barred by law from contesting for the election. Many pundits have suggested that Fayemi’s successor will emerge from one of the three strongest parties. As the election draws closer, the political gladiators have been deploying energy and resources to boost the chances of their parties in the election. The silence that hitherto pervaded the political space has given way to intense politicking in all the nooks and crannies of the state. Both television and radio are being bombarded by jingles. Social media too is awash with propaganda from one political party or the other. Unarguably, the governorship election is going to be a fierce battle that will reopen old wounds among political warlords who are now called emerging godfathers in Ekiti politics. So, the election will be a titanic contest tarred with the influence of the emerging godfathers: Fayemi, former Governor Ayodele Fayose and Oni. Oyebanji, the APC standard-bearer is the anointed candidate of Fayemi, while his PDP counterpart, Kolawole enjoys the support of Fayose. But, Oni, the SDP flag bearer remains the godfather of himself. So, the three of them are old war horses with scores to settle. The candidates and their backers have returned to drawing boards to strategize on how to grab votes in the 177 wards and 2,445 polling units. INEC has put the number of registered voters in the state at 988,923. But, only 733,746 have so far collected their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC). The breakdown of the 177 wards council by council shows that Moba has 11; Ido/Osi 11; Ilejemeje 10; Irepodun/Ifelodun 11, Oye 12; Ikole 12; Ado 13; Ekiti West 11; Ijero 12; Efon 10, Ekiti Southwest 11; Ikere 11; Gbonyin 10, Ise/Orun 10; Emure 10 and Ekiti East 12. Similarly, the breakdowns of the 2,445 polling units indicate that Ado has 344 voting points; Moba 116; Ido/Osi 144; Ilejemeje 91; Irepodun/Ifelodun 174, Ekiti Southwest 188; Ikere 125; Emure 94; Gbonyin 115; Ise/Orun 114; Oye 191; Ikole 189; Ekiti East 112; Ijero 145 and Efon 119. The APC and the PDP have a slight advantage over the SDP; because they have more structures, reach, presence, resources, manpower and members in all the 16 council areas than the SDP. But would this count in the election? It has not been rosy for the three of contestants, as some of their followers have defected to other parties, seeking where their bread would be buttered. Some even left for the African Democratic Party (ADP) and other fringes parties where they are regrouping to challenge the three leading candidates. Many factors will shape the outcome of the governorship poll. Some of the factors include the influence of godfathers, violence, financial war chest, successes (s) or failure (s) of the Fayemi-led APC administration, acceptability and antecedents of the candidates and their manifesto, power of incumbency, party’s strengths, and support of critical segments of the population. The influence of emerging godfathers in Ekiti politics cannot be over-emphasised. The candidate of the APC, Oyebanji and that of the PDP, Kolawole are protégés of Fayemi and Fayose respectively. The two candidates have dominated the state’s political space in the last 10 years. So, the influence of the power brokers would play a major role in the election. Secondly, violence will have an impact on the election. Violence has become a norm in Ekiti electoral process. Elections in Ekiti are characterized by violence. The last by-election in Ekiti East was not free from such violence. Already, there are accusations and counter-accusations that some candidates are banking on thugs to intimidate voters and make it easy to rig the election. It is also believed that money to a large extent will play role in determining who occupies the Oke-Ayoba Government House. Like it was witnessed in the governorship polls in Edo, Ondo and Anambra states, the election would be heavily monetised and the electorates who have become more impoverished in the last four years may find it difficult to resist temptation if offered money in exchange for votes.   Oyebanji’s strengths:  Oyebanji commands huge respect in the political arena. He enjoys cult-like followership in all 133 autonomous communities in the state, as a result of his generosity and ties with the grassroots. His acceptability cuts across every stratum. If there is anyone who knows Ekiti like a walking encyclopedia, definitely it is the Ikogosi-born academic-turned politician. He appears to understand the inner workings of government, having served in three progressives’ governments that had ruled Ekiti in different capacities. In the current APC administration led by Governor Fayemi, Oyebanji had served as the Secretary to the State Government before he resigned to contest the party’s shadow poll. In that capacity, he was the engine room of the administration and the multipurpose secretariat for all the government activities. He is seen as a generous, level-headed, bridge-builder, consummate technocrat and a distinguished administrator who has a deep knowledge of how government runs. Also, it is believed that he enjoys the tremendous support of the traditional rulers and other leaders who worked during the struggle for the creation of Ekiti State. In fact, he served as secretary to the committee that campaigned for the creation of the state. The fact that Oyebanji represents the homegrown chief executive Ekiti people have been yearning for since the state was carved out from the old Ondo State in 1996 and that his party also controls the levers of power at the federal level give him an edge in the race.   APC widens consultation over Tinubu’s running mate     PDP panel okays Wike as Atiku’s running mate     Akeredolu: Southwest will resist unprovoked attacks   The emergence of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the APC presidential candidate ahead of next year’s general election has also brightened his chances. Following this development, aggrieved APC members in the state, dubbed Ekiti APC Stakeholders, led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye, would be encouraged to return to the mainstream faction of the party. Members of the Ekiti APC Stakeholders, who are ardent supporters of Tinubu’s presidential aspiration, would not want to rock the boat, to ensure that the APC retains control of Ekiti during next year’s general election.   Weaknesses:  The general perception that the Fayemi-led administration has underperformed might work against Oyebanji’s candidature. Another baggage Oyebanji carries is the resentment of the Ekiti people against the belief that he is a lackey of Fayemi and Minister of Trade, Industry and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo. It is also believed that the defection of some APC members to other political parties could affect Oyebanji’s chances. The sacking of over 2,000 workers at the Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti and the State Teaching Hospital by the APC-led governorship might also be a setback to Oyebanji’s ambition, as the affected workers would most likely take their pound of flesh on election day.   Oni’s strengths:  Indisputably, Oni’s acceptability transcends politics. He has a formidable political network and virile background. Ekiti people believe he is one leader with a spartan, modest and receptive mien, who can be trusted with power. The Ifaki-born politician has two things going for him in this political game: his goodwill and vast experience of having been governor before. In fact, he has the distinction of being declared the winner at the governorship poll twice on April 14, 2007, as well as April 25 and May 5, 2009. Although both elections were nullified by the court, his experience on the saddle will prove vital in the days ahead. Going by the perception of the Ekiti people, the Ifaki-born politician was loved for his legendary performances in key areas of infrastructure and the management of the state’s lean resources, in spite of the distraction caused by the long-drawn litigation against him. Oni is also loved by a section of civil servants, many of whom are rooting for his return. Although he had a frosty relationship with them during his tenure, they appreciate the former governor for his welfarist policies, especially the policy of pensioners getting their gratuities within three months of retirement. Oni, as a former governor, possesses the needed solid experience and expertise to launch Ekiti on the path of progress. No doubt, he has Ekiti in his palms and understands its affairs, including the political intricacies and peculiarities of the people. Many believe that his wide virile network of political associates across political divides and goodwill among Ekiti people would be added advantage for him. They also averred that what may advance his acceptability is the perception that he is not corrupt. He has never been indicted by succeeding administrations. He also enjoys good relationships with many traditional rulers in the state. The rank of the SDP is swelling with the political clout of Oni, whose captivating electioneering slogan ‘Enough is Enough: Ekiti Rejects Suffering’. He is seeking an end to imposition and godfatherism in Ekiti politics. There is no doubt the political party he joined barely less than four months has become a movement and potential threat to both the ruling APC and the opposition PDP.   Weaknesses: One of the major factors that may work against his ambition is the issue of power rotation or zoning. There is agitation for power shift to the Ekiti South zone because Governor Fayemi hails from Ekiti North, which has produced three governors. The Ekiti Central has occupied the position three times, while Ekiti South is yet to produce a governor. There is also a perception in some quarters that Ekiti State does not need an “old man” like Oni as the governor; he would be 68 years by September. The major drawback to Oni’s ambition is his political platform. Although the rank of the SDP is swelling day by day, the party lacks the structures and the financial war chest required to prosecute governorship elections. Party structure and money are indispensable for a candidate’s success in elections, especially in the governorship. The party has no single representative in any local government council, the state House of Assembly and the National Assembly. Where will it get support from?   Kolawole’s strengths: From the look of things, Kolawole fondly called ‘Bisi K’ is a force to contend with as far as this weekend’s governorship election is concerned. The Efon Alaaye-born politician is a grassroots mobiliser and political vortex. Kolawole served as a councillor and lawmaker in the state House of Assembly between 2007 and 2011. He was also Environment Commissioner during Fayose’s second term between 2015 and 2018. Known to be a performer in any position he finds himself in, Kolawole has grown to be a grassroots politician. Unarguably, the Efon-born politician is not a pushover in the race, given his acceptability, and vast experience. Though he may not have strong political structures, which is relevant in Ekiti’s political matrix but being backed by the maverick Fayose, a two-term governor and astute politician, is a great impetus for his ambition. So, it would be risky and suicidal for anyone to underrate him. Kolawole would also be banking on the stellar performance and achievements of Fayose while in the saddle, as well as the support of some voters who are incurable loyal to his boss. His career has been devoid of scandal and controversy. He is a holder of many chieftaincy titles in his hometown, Efon Alaye, Igbara Odo and Odo Owa Ekiti. So, his position in the traditional set-up gives him an opportunity to interact with the traditional institution and he may convert this to political capital.   Weaknesses: But, the division in the party which had forced many chieftains to leave the PDP may be a big setback for him. Some who still remain in the fold are indifferent to Kolawole’s ambition. The people are still aggrieved over the manner he was picked at the party’s primary by Fayose, whose popularity among his loyalists has reduced drastically. Unless Fayose reconciles with the aggrieved members, observers believe that Kolawole may not garner enough votes to defeat the other candidates. Though he is popular, having served in various capacities in government, Kolawole’s popularity doesn’t look strong enough to earn him victory at the poll.