The political parties’ primary elections to nominate candidates for the various elective positions for the 2023 general elections have come and gone, churning out losers and winners. There are some bad losers who jumped the ship even before one says Jack-Robinson, decamping from their parties to other parties, hoping to actualise their ambitions through the new platforms. But majority of the losers are gracious in defeat and therefore, stick with their parties, supporting the nominated candidates.   I call on the victorious aspirants to reciprocate the gestures of their comrades and be humble in victory, carrying everybody along to ensure victory for their parties in the general election. Though, there are about eighteen registered political parties in the country, but the focus remains the two big parties, the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The two parties didn’t disappoint, as they proved book makers and political pundits right in their choice of presidential candidates. Most political analysts had postulated that Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu will fly the flag of APC, while Alhaji Atiku Abubakar will fly that of the PDP. So, in build up to the two parties presidential primaries, both were the candidates to beat at their various platforms. And as projected, Atiku Abubakar was nominated as the Presidential candidate of PDP, just as Tinubu emerged the standard-bearer for the APC. The die is cast! Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, popularly known as JAGABAN, is a political colossus who fits perfectly into late Chief K. O Mbadiwe’s description of “Political Timber and Calibre, the political juggernaut.” He is a man of great political sagacity, and that helped him to avoid outright confrontation with his protégés, who challenged him at the party primary. However, some of his supporters and admirers were downright confrontational, castigating his protégés who stood up to the big man; and even threatened to cast the challengers to political wilderness, if their man, the JAGABAN wins. This was evidenced by the treatment meted to Prof. Yemi Osinbajo at the APC presidential Primary ground, where he was blocked from greeting delegates from his home state of Ogun. In exercising his political prowess, Tinubu embarked on courtesy calls to all the other aspirants including Prof. Osinbajo, extending his good hands of fellowship and bringing all of them on board for the greater glory, the Presidency of Nigeria come 2023. Quite in character with his humility and commitment to the progress of the nation, Prof. Osinbajo congratulated Senator Tinubu and pledged his support for the party flag-bearer. The Vice President promptly urged his supporters across the country to ensure the enthroning of Tinubu as the next President of Nigeria. These are hallmarks of great statesmen. I hope their followers would learn from the great men and imbibe the brotherly spirit of communalism deeply rooted in black consciousness.   Bayo Osinowo: Two years after, associates still grieving     Ekiti 2022: Three prominent candidates to watch     Igbo youths hail Okowa’s nomination as PDP vice…   The head-on collision of Senator Tinubu’s and Prof. Oasinbajo’s presidential aspirations, is now consuming their followers with talk of unchecked ambition and political backstabbing. Their battling of late is leaving some of their supporters with an uncomfortable choice. Both sides vowed a respectful race, but hurt feelings, and implicit broadsides, were inevitable. Many of them, dispensing with the diplomacy that has long surrounded the Tinubu-Osinbajo alliance, started to lash out. Both winning and losing are part of politics. If your party or candidate loses an election, it’s important not to over-react. Whether you won or lost, there are important lessons that can be learnt from the electoral process that has just been completed. If your party or candidate learns those lessons it’s quite possible they will win next time. Most importantly – do not think of trying to vindicate your campaign or take revenge on political rivals through violence, hate speech, or other acts of intolerance. Rather take a measured, calm approach to improving your candidate’s or party’s electoral fortunes. Unless there is clear evidence of fraud or other irregularities it is important to accept the result of the election rather than living ‘in denial’ and always believing there was a conspiracy against your candidate. If your party or candidate is used to winning elections but on this occasion lost at the polls, it is crucial to accept that your party or candidate is fallible and that your political competitors probably ran better campaigns and were more effective in reaching out to voters. It is apposite to state that such competition between the political godfather and godson plus horde of other aspirants for the party presidential primary is necessary to enrich and strengthen not only the party’s internal democracy, but also the entire democratic process. A democracy needs strong and sustainable political parties with the capacity to represent citizens and provide policy choices that demonstrate their ability to govern for the public good. With an increasing disconnect between citizens and their elected leaders, a decline in political activism, and a growing sophistication of anti-democratic forces, democratic political parties are continually challenged. Party leaders can, and usually must, be brokers, working out compromises and seeing that these are honoured. Strong parties emphasize points of commonality and discourage excess—not in the name of civic virtue, but in the name of winning elections. Parties by themselves do not preclude people seeking power through arms, bribery, the power of a charismatic leader, or the strength of the mob, and parties themselves are open to a range of abuses. But without them, citizens and societies have few genuinely democratic alternatives. Candidate nomination is a process often left to the discretion of poorly institutionalized parties, free from the involvement of election management bodies and out of sight of international election monitors. However, when nomination procedures fail to meet acceptable democratic standards, the democratic chain of electoral politics is broken even before the outset of inter-party competition. Given the high stakes involved in candidate nomination, it is hardly surprising that candidate nomination processes in Nigeria multiparty system have often turned violent. But thank God almighty, the presidential primaries of the two big parties in Nigeria, APC and PDP were peaceful with just isolated cases of violence; and therefore successful.