The World Health Organisation (WHO) has pledged to offer relevant support to the Ondo State government to help it recover from the effect of last Sunday’s terror attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State. It has sent emergency trauma kits and other support materials, including emergency medical personnel, to the state. The WHO Country Representative and Head of Mission, Nigeria, Dr. Walter Mulombo, stated this when he led a team of the global agency on a condolence visit to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu in Akure, the state capital. Dr. Mulombo, who applauded Akeredolu for his prompt response to the situation, despite being outside the state when the attack happened, described the attack as unspeakable. The WHO chief said the global body was trying to engage other UN agencies to come together and see how they could support Ondo State to recover from the unfortunate incident. He said: “I have been engaged in many response emergencies and I can count on my fingers the number of time I saw a governor like that in the field going round, making sure things are right. I’m very encouraged and impressed.   Owo Church Attack: Adeboye prays against recurrence     Owo Church Attack: Victims to be buried soon     UN urges govts to support plan to secure religious places   “The WHO is committed to support your state to respond to all hazards and emergencies, including following up such unfortunate incident. “I have come with my colleagues and also those working in the emergency departments, some specialists who can help in dealing with the situation, and our colleagues who will give social support. “We also came with some emergency trauma kits and some other support materials. This is just a contribution and solidarity. We will remain available for any additional support as Ondo State might require to deal with this difficult situation.” Akeredolu promised that such terror attack would never happen in the Southwest. The governor said the terrorists “came to maim and kill” and not to kidnap anybody. He said public places and religious centres were advised to install Close Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras in strategic places to enhance security. “Where else is safe, if that sanctuary is not safe? In a war situation, even soldiers could run into church for safety. These are mad people. I’m not too sure they are human beings. They have lost their own humanity and there is no way you can regard them as human beings. I think they are animals in human skin. “Initially, it was rumoured that the parish priest was probably kidnapped. But when we got there, the parish priest showed up and said nobody was kidnapped. Nobody. They did not go for the Sunday collection, and nothing was taken. Clearly, they were there to maim and kill,” Akeredolu said.