Acting Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH), Ikorodu, Lagos, Dr. Oluremi Olaleye, has said the institution is committed to the development and welfare of students through scholarships and library upgrade, among others. Olaleye said the institution had scholarship awards for outstanding students to encourage them and boost their academics. He spoke at a briefing on campus last week. He said: “The scholarships are Tokunbo Abiru Scholarship, Eko Club scholarship, Southwest Games Scholarship and Badminton Games Scholarship to insurance students. “In the last 18 months, the school has spent over 100 million in the development of its library. “We also illuminated the campus with solar system with over 200 solar lights, and currently are upgrading students’ accommodation facilities through the support of the government.’’   VC charges students to make the world better     Creating opportunities for youths     LASU: NUC accredits 49 courses   Olaleye said his administration had built an information-driven institution by creating internet facilities for online distance learning, interconnectivity of administrative services, e-library and digitisation of lectures. “This achievement is one of the nine-point agenda created for us to be globally-ranked the best polytechnic then. “We were able to do that through the provision of internet by the management and support of council, which provided 512 megabytes internet. “Other provision includes 50 megabytes bandwidth internet sponsored by Speaker of the House of Representatives Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila, and 25 megabytes bandwidth by Nigeria Communication Commissions (NCC),” he added. He noted the institution admitted about 800 students into its open, distance and flexible e-learning programmes before transmuting into a university. “Within the past 18 months, we were able to achieve a nine-point agenda which includes students’ welfare, staff welfare, infrastructure development, increased internally-generated revenue. “Others are ICT development, partnering with developers all over the world, special interest in agriculture, research and innovations,”he said. In February, the institution, formerly Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), was upgraded to a university, Lagos  State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH).