Following the gale of endorsements and solidarity coming from different quarters for Osun State governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, the Ogiyan of Ejigbo, Oba Omowonuola Oyeyode Oyesosin; Alawo of Awo, Oba Abdul-Rasaq Ajibade Ajiboye; and Aragberi of Iragberi, Oba Agbooade Makanju, said royal fathers in the state are resolute to return the governor for second term to reciprocate his good gesture in turning around the fortune of the state. Also, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Akanbi, has said the performance of the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, within three and a half years in office was enough to get him reelected while Olowu of Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude and Olu of Ile-Ogbo, Oba Abeeb Agbajelola, added that Oyetaola has satisfied the yearnings of the people of the state. The traditional rulers admitted that the style of governance of Governor Oyetola has further endeared him to the masses, particularly the monarchs who have benefitted tremendously since the inception of his administration. Oba Oyeyode reaffirmed his support for the re-election of the Governor. He acknowledged the numerous government’s interventions and supports the people of Ejigbo have benefitted  from his government saying, “We have seen all you have been doing, particularly for Ejigbo. You have done excellently well for us but like Olive Twist, we want more. We want more road infrastructure. We want most of our intra and inter-towns roads fixed,” Ogiyan added. Oba Ajiboye expressed confidence in the ability of Governor Oyetola to take the State to enviable heights. Oba Ajiboye assured that the people of his domain who have benefitted largely from some of the developmental initiatives of the government would reciprocate the kind gesture with their votes in the July 16 governorship election in the State.   Diri: Steering Bayelsa to path of prosperity     2023: A parliament of former governors?     Ekiti 2022: SDP’s Oni wins polling unit   Addressing journalists at the campaign ground in Awo, the former Speaker, Osun House of Assembly and Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Mexico, Barrister Adejare Bello, said the Governor has done so well for the people of the State, particularly Ede Federal Constituency, hence their resolve to return him for second term. Bello who named some of the modest achievements of the government in Ede Federal Constituency, said it was Oyetola-led administration that God used to bring succour to the people of the Constituency through the fixing of some of the road network, particularly the reconstruction of Ede-Ejigbo road that had been in deplorable condition for several decades. “This time around, it wont be business as usual. We are more determined, resolute and prepared to deliver our Constituency for APC in the forthcoming governorship election. By the grace of God, we will win all the four Local Government Areas in this Constituency for the ruling party. Oyetola is our choice because we are convinced that he has done so well across sectors. What he has done in three years is a testament that if he is given a second term, he will do much better. We are very prepared, resolute and ready to win Ede Federal Constituency. It is not about boasting. We have the resources. This is where PDP candidate comes from, but this time around, it won’t be business as usual. We will win all the four Local Government Areas in the federal Constituency”, he said. Speaking at the venues of the campaign, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola urged members of the party to begin door-to-door campaigns and mobilise the  electorate to vote massively for APC. He said his administration will not relent in its efforts to continue to champion the people’s welfare and ensure equitable distribution of resources for the betterment of the people and progress of the State. In their separate remarks, the State APC Chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun and Director General, Oyetola Campaign Council, Senator Ajibola Basiru, implored party faithful to continue to work collectively for the success of the party. The duo who educated the party loyalists, supporters and electorate on the voting dynamics, charged them to spread the gospel of the good works of the administration across their domains.