Ahead of the June 6 presidential primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the party on Wednesday night released a membership list of 19 sub-committees for the special national convention. The event holds from June 6- 8 in Abuja. The National Publicity Secretary of the party. Barr. Felix Mokara in a statement said Gombe Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya is to head the Budget sub-committee with Minister of Finance, Hajiya Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed as co-chair. Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu heads Finance and Logistics sub-committee, Accreditation and Decoration have Ondo Governor Dapo Abiodun; Ondo Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu is to oversee security and compliance with Gen. Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau (Rtd.), former Minister of Interior as co-chair. The election planning sub-committee has Kebbi Governor Abubakar Bagudu and his Imo counterpart Hope Uzodinma; Transportation Committee has (Dr.) Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje assisted by Minister if State for FCT Dr Ramatu Tijani Aliyu.   Insecurity: Police deploy air assets along Abuja-Kaduna…     OPEC increases Nigeria crude oil quota to 1.799b/d     Adelabu dumps APC for Accord   Accommodation committee has Borni Governor Babagana Zulum and his Osun counterpart Gboyega Oyetola while Nasarawa Governor, Abdullahi Sule heads the Media and Publicity committee. Minister of Labour and Employment Dr Chris Ngige and former Minister of Health Prof. Isaac Folorunso Adewole are to head the medical sub-committee. Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami SAN heads the legal committee; Zamafara Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle and Mohammed Musa Bello, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory are to coordinate the venue and site servicing committee while former National Caretaker Committee Chairman Governor Mai Mala Buni heads the Election Appeal committee while Plateau Governor Simon Lalong and Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development are in charge of hospitality and welfare sub-committee. The APC spokesman further said Katsina Governor Aminu Bello Masari will take charge of Protocols while his Kwara counterpart AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq heads digital communications while Kaduna Governor Mallam Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai and Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs are saddled with the responsibilities of pre-convention/management/ rapporteur committee. Presidential screening appeal committee has NIger Governor Abubakar Sani Bello and Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase as coordinators while the duo of Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama are to head the Accreditation of Diplomats committee.