The neck, fed to the bloodied machete, is one of the most frightful imagery of modern Nigeria. It depicts the innate, outward torment of our souls and affirms our tongueless sadism. Those who dare may speak meaning to pillage and its tongued violence; few weeks after the Katari-Rijana train bombing by armed bandits, gunmen attacked the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, located on Owa-Luwa Street in Owo, the hometown of the State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, leaving about 40 parishioners dead and several others injured. Such barbarity has become a pedestrian fact of our daily life. It disinters the bloody pagan spectacle of our “god-fearing” hordes: religious bigots, secret cults, armed bandits and their victims, terrorists and besieged communities. Add these to the random abduction and torture of underage school kids, college and university undergraduates – the supposed leaders of tomorrow. Through the scrimmage, the individual’s primitive instinct for self-preservation bursts through the mask of political correctness and good manners. Recently, it drove a so-called man of god to cheekily recommend a ‘Plan B’ (relocation abroad) to his congregation. The so-called pastor claimed to have smartly devised his family’s escape to an adopted nation, should Nigeria implode. At the backdrop of such disillusionment, agitators for good social infrastructure, stable electricity, affordable quality healthcare, and education are seen as vile rabble-rousers, usurpers of mirth and social stability. What we have failed to acknowledge, however, is that, for a long while, Nigeria has lived through semblances of mirth, militarized peace, and stability. Patriots who would normally, tenderly clasp and kiss peace and unity as a gentleman would a lady’s hand, are frantically seeking to sever all that bind us together. Yet no one must be singled out as the cause of our predicament. Together, we embarked on this Nigerian journey into savage nature, trading bromides of hope for caskets of peace. We cannot speak compassion to barbarism. Compassion isn’t speaking pity to pain either but healing with the pained and living it out. Nigeria kindles nightmarish ardour. Our national motto: “Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress” shrivel like branches of the Iroko caught in a bushfire, while we careen at the helm to self-seeking oligarchs, aided by kindred spirits among the electorate. The government and the governed jointly manifest like a coven of mythical orcs fanning our wildfire. But we all assume the pose of the proverbial foresters earnestly burning off our infested boughs. What if the foresters are the disease? From the northeast through the northwest and northcentral; southeast through the southsouth and southwest, men and women of doubtful intent habitually emerge chanting platitudes to hoodwink a criminally permissive electorate. In the southwest, for instance, some have chanted the late sage and political titan, Obafemi Awolowo’s name to endear themselves to the electorate. Among these are men of noble intent. Then there are those who wield and frantically drop his name to force open, hinges of opportunities, in their quest for political spoils and renown. Recently, Awolowo, who rested a long while ago, in the spirit house of statecraft, was dubiously exhumed to usurp the identities of a pretender to his wisdom and name. But the late sage’s ghost didn’t approve of the mischievous appropriation of his repute. It scoffed at its summoning to life by the public officer of impish character.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…     Fintiri picks female VC as running mate   The ongoing jostle for political spoils at the 2023 polls is the most incantatory of the latter’s political games. It is overtly ritualistic. Circuitous characters relentlessly pursue their personal interests amid widespread suffering and bloodshed. Even the self-appointed progressives have shunned the lilies and languors of virtue for the raptures and roses of vice as Dolores would say. Amid our suffering, they reconstruct Nigeria into a narrow commune, beholden to their selfish interpretations of power and political office. Their virtues are short, and their vices, extensive and implacable. Their lips, full of lust and laughter, attach to the country’s bosom like curled serpents that are fed from the breast. Every dispensation, they press with fanged lips where their reptilian predecessors have suckled. Nigeria thus becomes the doomed Cleopatra giving suck to their asps. When kicked out of office, they grudgingly recoil – but never quitting the corridors of power – to accord Nigeria the affliction of deadlier asps in the successive administration. Too many actors in nationhood intensely replicate our primitive experience. But they have done nothing but reenact the vast facets of evil that we groomed them to personify. It hardly matters whether we denounce them on the pages of newspapers, in the studios of popular TV, or the highly virulent comment threads of online media, Nigeria would never be rid of them until we set our grief’s needlepoint astride the prick of pain. We shall never attain true freedom from their affliction until we treat ourselves as the pathogens breeding the plague. Our homes, families, worship houses, schools, communities, to mention a few, produce and sustain our affliction by corrupt leadership and followership. We must surgically excise from within our penchant for corruption and yearning to self-destruct. At the moment, the average Nigerian manifests the electorate’s detachment from patriotic experience. Most guilty is the Nigerian in his youth. He samples dissent but will not commit to progressive intent. Rustling ‘wokeness’ out of tired bromides, his sterile passion stifles patriotic fervour. Our reality should scare us: unemployment rate rose from 27.1 percent in December 2020 to 33.3 percent in March 2021, said the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), stressing that the number of the unemployed rose to 23.19 million in the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2020 due to job losses occasioned by the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. This figure is projected to increase in 2022. Of the unemployed, many have taken to terrorism and other crimes in a country where more than 112 million people are living in extreme poverty, while our richest man cum federal government’s fortune-pet, would have to spend $1 million a day for 42 years to exhaust his fortune, according to Oxfam International. Heck! It’s his money. Yet we can’t but rue the cost on less fortunate Nigerians in a country where the government and banks foster a billionaires’ club through unjust concessions and illegitimate loans, respectively. This ruling class was borne of tragic citizenship. Nothing trumps our collective survival. No individual or group’s vanities should encroach on our collective well-being and survival. Separatists and terrorists comprising armed bandits, killer herdsmen, the southeast’s “unknown gunmen” and Boko Haram emerged to play devastating roles because the government failed us. The former assumes the proverbial mother’s parturient powers, yet terror’s nurslings evolve like vampires because they were suckled by predatory spirits. Eventually, they turn their lips to Nigeria’s bosom only to find her nurturant sacs rubbery and spent. So they drain blood instead of milk. They deploy organised strife, mass abductions, killing of our sons and fathers, and sexual assault of our mothers and daughters, as their ritual of coping -their sociopathic therapy to stave off mental breakdown. In the chaos, conscience manifests as a feeble tick, eluding creed by a protestant detour. And hunger sheds citizen blood to irrigate its spasms. Like Egyptian Ammit, it burrows deep to harvest hearts from fresh crops of the dead. Nigeria thus becomes the terror trove, where citizens live enchained in perpetual flight from the terror within. To sever our bond with such terror, we must shun toxic engagement with self and fatherland.