Chairman of Economic & Financial Crime Commission, Alhaji Abdulrashid Bawa, has commended Access Bank Plc and its partner, Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Polo Club as well as the  UNICEF for its leading campaign to alleviate the plights of vulnerable and orphans  in Kaduna State and its environs. The EFCC boss, who was the Special Guest of Honour at the finals of the just concluded 2022 edition of the international charity polo tournament in Kaduna, said the organisers and the their partners deserved a pat on the back for using the fund raising polo platform to enhance the educational and health well being of  indigent children in a most special way. “There is an important need for both private and public sectors to do a lot more in support  for the Nigerian child, particularly the orphans and vulnerable children to enable them look forward to a better tomorrow,” Bawa added. It was gathered that organisers have  over the years raised more than N300 million for UNICEF in support of projects aimed at alleviating the plights of the underprivileged children in Kaduna State and its environs following an  additional  N10 million donation by Access Bank which   was one of the major highlights  of  the prestigious polo extravaganza. Witnessed by a high profile crowd that including  governors, diplomats, first class emirs, top government dignitaries, UNICEF Officials and thousands of polo buffs  from within and outside the country, the grand finale of the charity polo extravaganza produced four great finals in the low, intermediate, medium and high goals categories. Revered as one of the biggest charity platform in Africa, the UNICEF polo tournament that pitted over ten teams climaxed in a fiercely fought final game where Fifth Chukker team held Jos Malcomines 19-18 in the final game, to retain the event’s biggest prize the Charity Shield.   APC presidential  Primary : Sports Minister congratulates…     Kudos as Pepsi refreshes World Corporate Golf Challenge     Road to Dankaro House:  Emeruwa wants improved football…   Other top winners of the international fiesta include the Murtala Laushi powered  debutants Jos AM&C  team, who turned their  outsiders rating to pure  gold with a 10-31/2 defeat to former winners, Kaduna Sublime, to clinch the glittering Access Bank Cup. Afden petroleum team   from Katsina, overwhelmed another first timers 8Twenty8 from Abuja for their first UNICEF Cup title, while the ambitious Badako Zaz team hanged onto their superior goals difference to edge their better mounted Kangimi opponents in the final, to win the Usman Dantata Cup Chief Host and Chairman Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Resort, Adamu Atta led top dignitaries including the  EFCC Chairman  Alhaji Abdulrashid Bawa, Kaduna State First Lady Ummi Nasir EL-Rufai, UNICEF officials and traditional rulers as winners and runners-up were handed their prizes  in a colourful closing ceremony of the 2022 edition of the charity polo fiesta. The Charity Shield Popo fiesta  began in 2003 as a platform to support local charity organizations in Kaduna. Since 2006 this humanitarian effort has been geared exclusively towards UNICEF intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children in Kaduna State. In 2008, the Charity Shield received a major boost when Access Bank agreed to a multi-year sponsorship deal, making the tournament one of the best-supported charity events in the history of Nigerian sport.   Polo Pix Caption: Founder of Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Resort Adamu Atta, EFCC Chairman Abdulrashid Bawa, Access Bank Manager, Buddy Alete-Omoni and others pose with players of Fifth Chukker and Jos Malcomines at the event.