The Senior Special Adviser (SSA) to President Muhammadu Buhari on Youths and Student Affairs, Nasir Adhama, has assured Nigerian youths that the President will ensure an election without interference in the coming General elections of 2023. He said the President wants to leave behind his best legacies which would include the non interference and electoral reforms before his departure from office. Adhama said this at the democracy day lecture, held in Abuja by the Nigerian Youth Congress (NYC) titled, ‘Election and Governance: Youth as watchmen against electoral violence.’ Adhama who was represented by his technical assistant, Dr. Aminu Kyaku said, “We all know that this country is blessed with a huge population and the youths make up a bulk of the population so basically there can’t be an election without the involvement of the youths, it is the youths vote that the politicians target to win elections. The question is what is in it for us as youths, for Mr. President, it is very clear, he is the father of Nigerian youths and I can tell you that if there is anything that this President wants to leave as one of his best legacies, it is election without interference and the electoral reforms that he has supported for INEC and the new electoral act 2022 passed into law.”   We’ll unite Southeast for Tinubu, says Enugu support…     No PVC, no salary – IPMAN warns employees     Yoruba Council rallies support for Tinubu’s…   President NYC, Blessing Akinlosotu, said the lecture which is a third of its kind by the organization, is to discuss, criticize and evaluate the good, the bad and the ugly situations the country has found itself in as a people. “The unrest in the country has also largely distracted the power players to an extent that good governance is nearly becoming the impossible in all strata of government. Whereas experience teaches that the most critical moment for bad governments is the one which witnesses their first steps toward reform. “The need therefore to take the steps needed for the reform of our dear country Nigeria necessitated the ideas to organize ourselves as young Nigerians, in a manner that will hold in view the mending of our impaired democratic system which has long since, thrown us to Insecurity as a result of lack in the mutual ineligibility informed by the ethno insensibility,” he said.