The peaceful community of Emudo Nenwe in Aninri Local Government Area of Enugu State has been thrown into chaos following the death of its traditional rulers some years ago. As a result of this, members of the Concerned Emudo Development Union— National (EDUN) Stakeholders Forum have raised concern over possible breakdown of law and order in their community. The Coordinator of the group, Mr Udeinya Ukegbu, said that the community had known no peace since the death of their traditional ruler several years ago as well as the vacancy created on the royal stool by his death. Ukegbu, while briefing newsmen on the security concerns in the community in Enugu, said that it had become necessary to speak out and seek government’s intervention following the succession crisis rocking Emudo Nenwe Community. He said that the community had delicately been polarized due to the several interest groups which sprang up, claiming to be in charge of the town union administration.   APC Deputy Women Leader vows to ensure Tinubu’s…     Femi Kuti @ 60     Group canvasses El-Rufai’s deputy chief of staff as Sani’s…   “Our traditional stool and town union administration have been in ruins since the death of our traditional ruler. The community has been thrown into despair and this could affect our generations unborn if nothing is done to resolve it,” he said. While appealing for the state government’s urgent intervention, Ukegbu disclosed that the Central Executive Committee (CEC) of EDU-N was the only standing constitutional organ that could intervene in the crisis in the community. “It is on this note that the Generation of Concerned Critical Stakeholders in collaboration with the CEC of EDU-N wishes to appeal to the various branches to prevail on the various factions to sheath their swords in the interest of our dear community,” he said. He added that the crisis in the community had affected the youth and women wings of the town union as well as the Elders’ Forum, and Council of Clans/Hamlets Chairmen and Secretaries, creating further tension. “We are, therefore, calling on the Federal and state governments to come to our aid because Emudo Nenwe is at the verge of total breakdown and anarchy,” Ukegbu said.