Sadio Mane officially became a Bayern Munich player, with a three-year deal confirmed on Wednesday afternoon. The Senegalese forward had been flirting with a departure from Liverpool for a few months and once the interest in Darwin Nunez became concrete it was clear Mane would be leaving Anfield. Since arriving in the English Premier League from Salzburg in 2014, Mane delivered double-digit returns in every season. No other player in the league’s history can boast such a record. Anybody who knows the Premier League will be able to tell you how such consistently high returns are impossible, unless you are a superstar – and Mane ticks that box. Under the guidance of former Borussia Dortmund coach Jürgen Klopp, the 30-year-old scored 22 goals in 36 games to finish as the league’s joint top scorer in 2018/19 – a season in which the Reds lifted the UEFA Champions League. He added 18 the following campaign as Liverpool ended a three-decade-long wait for a domestic league title, and scored 16 goals in the season just ended.   Messi eyes W/Cup, Champions League     Milan begin title defence against Udinese     City Football Group to buy Palermo   Such consistency is something Bayern fans are familiar with, having witnessed the exploits of Robert Lewandowski. The Pole has gone into double figures in each of his last 11 seasons and only once – in 2014/15 – scored fewer than 20. His 41 goals in 2020/21, meanwhile, set a new Bundesliga single-season scoring record. Raw talent alone does not guarantee such results, though, and even Lewandowski would not deny that much of his success in a Bayern shirt comes from the service he has been provided with. This is where Mane can expect to improve upon his own already outstanding statistics when he pulls on a Bayern shirt. With his electrifying energy and ability to read the game, Mane is bound to find and burst into gaps in a similar way to how Thomas Müller has been terrorising Bundesliga defences for over a decade. Indeed, the pair share several similarities in the way they can pull out of position, draw their opponents out of their comfort zone and menace them with their quick-thinking and movement. Mane is particularly productive coming in from the left wing, where he has operated from for Liverpool. With Leroy Sane and Serge Gnabry contending for a shirt with the new recruit, however, Julian Nagelsmann could find a more central role for him, in the Müller pocket or even up top as a decoy for Lewandowski. His movement and unpredictability may, once again, see him perform the same duties Müller has managed so masterfully. Yet the pair could also complement each other in a summit-narrowing ‘Christmas Tree’, just off Lewandowski’s shoulders and pushing up on either side of the Pole. Mané was born and raised in the village of Bambali in Sedhiou, near the Casamance River and the border with Guinea-Bissau. As a young boy, he was always kicking a ball on the streets, but his upbringing was far from easy having lost his father at an early age. However, he had a fighting spirit coupled with an extraordinary amount of talent. This was also recognised by the scouts at a trial in the capital city of Dakar when he was 15, where he managed to dribble through the defences and assert himself despite wearing worn-out boots.