An initiative that will shore up Nigeria’s revenue with N3.8 trillion from the non-oil sector and N160 billion from oil was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The initiative for yearly accruals was approved at the FEC session chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, said in a statement. Giving an update on behalf of the Minister of Finance, Budget & National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed  and the Attorney-General of the Federation/ Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami, Laolu described the new revenue generation plan as a derivative of the federal government’s strategic revenue growth initiative. The statement reads: “Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning on accelerating revenue mobilisation reforms, which is a derivative of the federal government’s strategic revenue growth initiative. The significant progress that has been made in that initiative includes the raising of the VAT from five per cent to 7.5% and other measures since 2019.   Inmate graduates with 2nd Class Upper from Open University     Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna     After N2.5m fine, court threatens Evans with more penalties   “This particular initiative is something that is meant to address some of the fiscal challenges of the federal government, as it is intended to raise Nigeria’s non-oil revenue potentials and oil revenue potentials. “So, it is estimated that with the implementation of this reform, it could result in a potential additional non-oil revenue and oil revenue generation of N3.8 trillion and N160 billion annually. “That is N3.8 trillion increase annually from non-oil revenue and N160 billion for oil revenue. Essentially, that was the memo presented by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. He said the AGF spoke of Nigeria’s accession to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrimes. Akande said: “There were also other significant memo presented by the Attorney-General of the Federation, which is on the accession of Nigeria to the Budapest Convention on Cybercrime, which was also approved. “The Convention is a comprehensive national legislation against cybercrime as a framework for technical assistance, as well as international cooperation between states parties to it.”