The National Progressive Solidarity Movement (NPSM) has warned the All Progressives Congress (APC)  not to let its efforts to retain power in 2023 go in futility. NPSM was reacting to yesterday’s anointment of Senate Ahmad Lawan as the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as the preferred presidential candidate by the national chairman Abdullahi Adamu. The group is backing the stand by 13 Northern Governors that power should shift to the South. The group said there is the need to hand the APC flag to the national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to lead the party to victory. The Group’s National Coordinator, Abdugafar Ozoya made these known while speaking with newsmen in Kano. “Tinubu is the only aspirant with all it takes to defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. “Tinubu has the intimidating credentials, competency and capability for the job.   Sunday Igboho breaks silence on Owo Church attack     FG investigates Wema Bank, Bet Naija over alleged data…     LIVE UPDATES: APC presidential primary   “He is a political colossus and an astute political strategist that has successfully built an enviable foundation for Lagos State and has the acumen to assemble the best hands across the country to actualise the dreams and aspirations of Nigerians. “Asiwaju held his last political office in 2007 when he completed his tenure as the second civilian governor of Lagos State. That is 14 years ago. Yet, his name is more recurring in political, social and economic conversations than the politicians in government today. “So the main reason we are rallying supporting for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is his ability to identify the best interest of Nigerians and identify competent people irrespective of tribe and religion to deliver democratic dividends to Nigerians and improve service delivery and system efficiency in the country. “Tinubu has stood true to his progressive credentials and precedence since he helped form the biggest and most successful political coalitions of all times in Africa –the All Progressives Congress. “He has worked tirelessly for the APC and has supported and is still supporting both President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to achieve the best for this great nation and now his time has come we should all support him and his ideas on how Nigeria can take her rightful place in the comity of nations. “Now that the kingmaker says he wants to become king, let us all come together to help him in the actualisation of his dreams. “The NPSM has resolved to work for the actualisation of Tinubu’s aspirations for the presidency of Nigeria come 2023 with intent to galvanise support across all political parties from the youths, women, men, the aged and physically challenged who are of voting age.”