It is quite unfortunate the media has been used in the past few days to run down the voices of some mothers in the society. The voices of such women were to be heard above the noises in the country if not negatively back lashed. The lubalu had been in the news that there is a committee of vice chancellors spouses in Nigeria and that they would be visiting Turkey for a conference. This came while the spouses of the vice chancellors in Nigeria felt it was time for them to raise their voices concerning the on going and lingering ASUU strike in Nigeria. They had planned to have a meet up in Lagos and strategize on how they can reach out to concerned persons and necessary parties concerning the on going ASUU strike. Speaking on behalf of the spouses of vice chancellors, Mrs. Edoumiekumo Adesewa R said there had been no invite or information to any wife of vice chancellor concerning any training in Turkey sent to her directly. It was sent to Secretariat of CVCNU. This so called invitation was not particular for the wives of vice Chancellors but for women in higher Education and other women in leadership. It therefore came as a rude shock and confusion to her and others when it was noised in the media that the wives of the vice chancellors will be embarking on a training in Turkey. It will be absurd at this time to deny the fact that some spouses of vice chancellors in Nigeria had been meeting. However, it will be pertinent to say there is no such Association of spouses of vice chancellors. The truth is that the spouses of vice chancellors who had been attending vice chancellors meeting with their spouses had been relating while their spouses were around to have the usual vice chancellors meetings. Most of the spouses of vice chancellors are also academia, lecturers, captains of industries and leading administrators who use the opportunities of the meetings to net work, do research and relax if necessary. It was from this unstructured meetings that the idea was initiated for them to have a meeting in Lagos and not Turkey as it’s been circulated. These type of meet up they believe would give the people concerned the opportunity to share experiences, over the sensitive offices their spouses are occupying and also strategize on how to raise voices concerning the long ASUU strike. It is worthy of note that some of the federal, state and private universities over the years have formidable women groups wherein the wife of the sitting vice chancellor becomes the automatic leader. The women group had embarked on very laudable projects in the universities which includes building of crèches, nursery and primary schools and hall of residence to mention a few.   If You Need Money, This Week, This Is For You!     How to Recognize Auto Insurance Fraud?     Purit Unveils Toyin Abraham as Brand Ambassador for 30 years…   However, in the midst of negative publicity and unedifying criticism, some wives of University vice chancellors along with some female leaders in the universities met in Lagos. This was to take the bull by the horns and add their voices to the many noises going on in the country on the prolonged ASUU strike. They came under the name ‘ concerned Mothers “. The meeting was held in a guest house in Lagos . Part of the meeting had Mrs Awosika in attendance who came to speak about requirements of leadership. The concerned mothers later visited the wife of Lagos State Governor, her excellency, Dr (Mrs) Ibijoke Sanwo-olu where they appealed to her to use her good office and position as a wife of the Governor to appeal to concerned parties to help look into how the strike would end so our institutions of study will be better off. The wife of the Governor was impressed at the visit of the concerned mothers and their interest in offering a voice to see to the end of the long strike. She there for promise to do everything in her disposal to see that such voice is raised very high. The women also took a trip to see the wife of Ogun state Governor. Her excellency, Mrs. Bamidele Abiodun. There they also appealed to her to kindly raise a voice among the Governors wives forum and also appeal to her husband to use everything possible to see that the strike ends. The wife of the Governor warmly welcomed the women and promised to speak at the governors wives forum about the visit of the concerned mothers. She promised to speak with her husband too trusting that the voices being raised will have positive effect on ending the strike . It will be note worthy to say that the spouses of the vice chancellors are people of high fliers in the society who can ordinarily raise funds on their own to attend conferences both at the local and international levels without needing to get financing of any type from the purse of University. The current ASUU strike is of great worries to the concerned women as they are mothers who also have children in the Universities in Nigeria. It will be necessary to further emphasise that the wives of vice chancellors have not been contemplating going on any frolic journey as it’s been insinuated in the media . This is seen as a quick way to destroy the reputations and integrity of such women of honour. This women are also women who have children in schools in Nigeria and who will rather go to all lengths to see that the federal Government and ASUU reach a consensus agreement so the long lingering strike can come to an end. Signed: Mrs Edoumiekumo Adesewa R.