After acquiring the single largest stake in the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), VFD Group Plc yesterday outlined its strategic growth plan to its shareholders with a commitment that the group will consolidate on existing businesses and seek out cross-border opportunities to drive growth in the years ahead. At the annual general meeting in Lagos, Chairman, VFD Group Plc, Mr. Olatunde Busari said the group remains optimistic about the general outlook and would position itself to take advantage of opportunities that present themselves during the year. According to him, the group would also focus on consolidating its existing business interests and drive its vision of becoming a commercially viable proprietary investment company with global influence. “We will continue to seek cross border opportunities that enable us access new market to help us aggregate the service offerings of our existing portfolio companies and collaborations outside our ecosystem to build a platform that allows us ring-fence stakeholder value chain,” Busari said. He pointed out that as an organization, VFD Group would always be measured by how much value it delivers to its shareholders, employees, community and all other stakeholders, assuring that the group remains committed to good governance and ethical business practices that promote the long-term interests of its stakeholders. He noted that the 2021 business year results again reflected yet another successful year of delivering across board pointing out that the group recorded its highest gross earnings during the year with growth at 49.4 per cent to N9.9 billion in 2021 as against N6.7 billion in 2020. He assured that the group has laid the framework for increased earnings and efficiency for the years ahead. “Our financial performance demonstrates the effectiveness of our strategy in maximizing shareholders value, and the ongoing expansion phase our company is in, with significant cost growth,” Busari said. Shareholders approved a dividend per share of N10.79 for the 2021 business year, N2.30 higher than the payout for the 2020 business. In addition, shareholders approved distribution of a bonus share of one new ordinary share for every two ordinary shares held as at qualification date. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts for 2021 showed that VFD Group grew gross earnings by 49.4 per cent to N9.95 billion in 2021 as against N6.65 billion in 2020, underlining continued headline growth from diverse income streams. Interest income grew significantly by 99 per cent to N7.33 billion in 2021 from N3.69 billion in 2020. Trading and other non-interest income grew by 156 per cent to N10.26 billion in 2021 as against N4.01 billion in 2020. Profit before tax stood at N3.94 billion in 2021 from N4.08 billion in 2020. The balance sheet showed 64 per cent growth in shareholders’ funds to N14.64 billion in 2021 as against N8.92 billion in 2020. Total assets rose by 26 per cent to N102.82 billion in 2021 compared with N81.68 billion in 2020. Addressing the shareholders, Group Managing Director, VFD Group Plc, Nonso Okpala  said despite the challenges in the macroeconomic and socioeconomic environment, the group has remained nimble as a company, ensuring quick decision-making across board and hastening its evolution to a mature company.   West African capital markets to harmonise frameworks     NGX, ICAN to deepen collaboration     MTN Nigeria raises N127b short-term capital   According to him, one of the critical decisions made concerned the group’s evolving business model as it used to operate as a group of companies, with a focus on the centre to provide shared services, but with significant increase in the number of its investee companies and the strain on the centre, it became necessary to give the investee companies a great deal of autonomy. He explained that to ensure aligned strategic direction and drive optimal performance, the group has effectively restructured its business model to that of an investment holding firm, with oversight on portfolio companies through the governance function. “We are creating an ecosystem unlike any other. Today, our ecosystem provides a mechanism for entities to leverage technology, improve operational efficiency through shared services, optimize service delivery through lower customer acquisition costs, and increase earnings through a developed cross-selling, up-selling, and loyalty framework. These, along with other benefits, represent the competitive advantage that our portfolio companies have today, and what future partners and portfolio companies can expect,” Okpala said. He pointed out that the group’s strategic acquisition of stakes in NASD Plc. and Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX), Nigeria’s two leading exchange businesses, was one of the recent investments that scored highly against the group’s assessment framework, noting that the group is convinced that technology will forever change the delivery of financial products and instruments via fintech platforms, and the exchange business will remain the most viable platform to ensure mass retail delivery within appropriate regulatory frameworks. “Regardless of how impressive the financials are, they do not provide a complete picture of our company’s unrealized, intrinsic value. I will mention a few things that support this claim. The first is the enormous ability to leverage the company’s and investee companies’ balance sheets for onward investments that complement our existing ecosystem. “Second, with our diverse portfolio of investments and products and services, we are well positioned to maximize synergy for improved delivery and efficiency through technology adoption and application. The group and its affiliated companies will benefit from significant cost savings in delivery, increased customer loyalty as a result of compelling cross-selling benefits, and improved adoption mechanisms for our early-stage businesses. This is reflected in the deals and opportunities presented to us by owners and promoters who will gladly offer discounted investment pricing in exchange for these ecosystem-based benefits. “Finally, several of our compelling investments have yet to be listed on Exchanges, creating a gap in marketability, and establishing true value. While this is to be expected as part of these companies’ developmental growth trend, it clearly demonstrates intrinsic value that is not reflected in the group’s annual report. “As previously stated, the full impact of the value created has not been reflected due to a lag period. We are, however, pleased with our progress thus far and, as such, urge you, our valued shareholders, to increase your support and investment in the business, as we are committed to building a brand that will provide a compelling return in the medium to long term,” Okpala said. He explained that the company has made significant progress toward its strategic goals during what was dubbed a “recovery year” including achievement of strategic initiatives which range from capital raising to capacity optimization, improved operational efficiency, and global expansion. In 2021, the group successfully raised additional capital of N4.1 billion through a rights issue to support ongoing expansion plans. This, together with retained earnings, brought shareholders’ funds to N14.8 billion in 2021, up from N8.9 billion in 2020. The group’s shareholder base grew from 111 to 139, broadening its investor base further. VFD Group also in March 2021, signed an investment agreement with Piggyvest Limited to acquire approximately 12 per cent of the company. With over two million users, Piggyvest is Nigeria’s leading savings technology platform. ABEG, the company’s social payment platform with over one million users, has also been spun off. As part of the group’s strategic focus for cross-border expansion, it also invested in Cashpot, a United Kingdom-based remittance company. This investment provided the group with a global remittance structure, allowing it to broaden service offerings within its financial service value chain and attract potential new customers from various jurisdictions. “A new fiscal year has begun, providing us with yet another opportunity to demonstrate our dedication to performance and value creation. While our focus in 2022 will be on accelerating our cross-border expansion plan, we will also build on our existing business success to drive growth and profitability,” Okpala said. He assured that while the group’s future is full of bold and audacious plans; it has a history full of similarly bold and audacious accomplishments, and it is with this assurance that all stakeholders should look forward to the year ahead.