Another injured victim of the auto crash involving members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Rivers State chapter is dead increasing the number of casualties to two. The APC members died on Thursday while returning from Abuja to Port Harcourt after the national convention of the party. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers commiserated with the families of the victims of the auto crash describing it as sad. The state Chairman of the party, Amb. Desmond Akawor, in a statement signed by the Publicity Secretary, Sydney Tambari Gbara, said it was regrettable that the incident happened “at this time in our political history”. Akawor sympathised with the injured receiving treatment in different hospitals and wished them speedy recovery.   Umahi, Akpabio pick APC Senate tickets after losing…     2023: Oyo APC chieftain plots PDP’s fall     Furore in Kwara over House of Reps rerun   A former governorship candidate of the APC, in Rivers State, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, further expressed shock over the tragic traffic event. Peterside, who condoled the party and its leadership expressed the confidence that the sacrifices made in their lifetime to build the APC in Akuku Toru and Degema LGAs, and by extension in Rivers State, respectively, would not be in vain. He said:  “Even as it is natural to grief when death strikes in families like in this instance, I have the confidence that the sacrifices they made in their lifetime to build the APC in their respective local chapters into a viable democratic institution, shall not be in vain. “They have planted, completed their parts and left, though, leaving us in tears, but their democratic credentials should always spur us to greater service.” The former Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) prayed God to comfort the affected families and grant quick healing to all those involved in the accident. He also sent his condolences to the leadership of the party in the state, urging them to bear the pains with fortitude. Peterside tasked APC faithful to rally round the bereaved families as they left young wives and children.