The Nigerian military on Friday retired 316 senior Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) with a charge to not fall prey to subversive elements who may want to make use of their expertise. The personnel comprising 283 from the Nigerian Army (NA), 27 Nigerian Navy (NN), and six from Air Force (NAF), were discharged from service after a three-month intensive reintegration into civil life and entrepreneurship training at the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), Oshodi. Thanking them for their unblemished service to the country, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Lucky Irabor reminded them that the country was currently facing myriads of security challenges and required their loyalty even in retirement. He urged the retirees to use the available feedback mechanisms to report criminals lurking around, who may want to use them to foster their ill intentions. “It is our expectation that after your graduation, the service and this centre will continue to get positive feedback as you gallantly soar through post-service life. Be bold and courageous, remain disciplined and focused, the sky is your beginning   Woman sues police for killing, burying son without her…     UK shuts down Nigerian-owned church for alleged fraud     Father Mbaka retracts ‘stingy’ comment, apologises to Peter…   “It is important at this point to let you know that the level of insecurity is high in our nation. So, as you retire into the larger society, please beware of subversive elements within your environment and do not associate with them in any form. Your loyalty to the Nigerian Armed Forces and the Federal Republic of Nigeria is non-negotiable. “You will from now on take full charge as planners and executors of your personal daily activities. This may sound exciting and promising but beware; you need to properly manage your freedom and make good use of your resources in order to be successful,” said the CDS. He urged the retirees to be proactive in their conduct in order to avoid or overcome post-service challenges, adding that they should utilise the various skills garnered during their pre-retirement training for peaceful and productive economic life. On the gains recorded in fighting insecurity, Irabor said collaborations with relevant security agencies were very effective and better than it used to be. Aside the discharge ceremony, the defence chief inaugurated a state-of-the-art diagnostic centre built beside NAFRC hospital with medical equipment donated by the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Oludayo Amao who was represented at the ceremony by NAF’s Chief of Logistics, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Olatokunbo Adesanya. In his welcome remarks, NAFRC Commandant, AVM Idi Lubo, said the centre was able to make the trainees’ stay memorable through innovative procedures and manpower development strategies that were adopted.