Fiery Catholic priest and spiritual director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has given reasons he believes the Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi cannot win the presidential election. The cleric accused the former Anambra governor of refusing to apologise to his church. Mbaka claimed he played a key role in returning Obi to the office after he was impeached as governor, but Obi did not show appreciation. He said by not rewarding Adoration, Obi “blasphemed” the altar and is therefore cursed. The cleric, who also accused Obi of being stingy, did not say how Obi should have rewarded him or his church. Mbaka said he warned Atiku Abubakar agaist picking Obi as running mate in 2019. The cleric, who spoke during one of his programmes in Enugu, had in an earlier viral video apologised to Obi over scathing remarks he made about him during the 2019 election. But Mbaka said he only apologised because his Bishop asked him to do so. He declared that Obi can only become the president when God ceases to exist. According to the priest, it was better to have an old man as president than a ‘stingy young man’. Mbaka said: “A stingy man that cannot give people his money, with this hunger ravaging the land, and you are saying he is the one you want. Do you want to die of hunger? Are you people insane? Where is the Holy Spirit? “It is now that Atiku is seriously contesting for President; now that he is contesting without Peter Obi; it is now that he is serious. “We want somebody that is serious. Unless Peter comes here to kneel, if he becomes president, he will close down this ministry. What we are doing is spiritual. “Listen, a good old man is better than a young wicked man; Peter Obi is going nowhere as far as God lives. If Igbos want a representative, it is not someone like Peter Obi. “I should not have talked but I saw my video going around everywhere as if Fr. Mbaka wholeheartedly came out and apologised. “No, I didn’t apologise wholeheartedly, it was out of duress. I had to obey my Bishop. In obedience I had to; it is not of my volition. I did it because I am a Catholic priest, my Bishop said, do it, my own is ‘Yes my Lord’. “I did not say he (Obi) is a bad man; I said he is a stingy man. A hungry man wants someone that is generous; the man has so much money, but he is ‘I, me, myself’. “But that money will not be useful to him. I am very happy now that I have spoken out. That apology is a poisonous curse against Peter Obi. “If he is wise he should have come here after that apology to say he is sorry but he waited. Anybody supporting him is wasting his money, he is going nowhere. “He is my friend. When he was chased out of the government house, he knew the role I played to bring him back, but how did he pay me back? “Night meetings we attended to bring him back. Ask him, ask Eselu Uga, ask Archbishop Anikwenwa, they know where and how we did it and he was brought back. “Ask Peter since then what he used to reward Adoration. If you like Peter Obi, tell him to come and ask for forgiveness. Let him come and redo what he did. There is an altar of God he blasphemed; he defiled an altar of God, the Holy Spirit. “I called Atiku in 2019; he was in Dubai. I told him that there is a revelation on your presidential election; that you are going to be the President of Nigeria on one condition, that Peter Obi is not going to be your running mate. “Peter Obi has incurred a curse to himself, which means that he is carrying a curse; if you want to be President, change him. “Atiku responded: ‘I cannot, Peter must be my running mate, we must win.’ You saw what happened. Atiku is still alive. That is why I said it is now that Atiku is preparing to be President.   Sanwo-Olu, NCC, others review ease of doing business     FAAN eyes seven per cent passenger growth     ‘Over 10m Nigerians actively engaged in fisheries’   “Never you quarrel with a prophet. If you must quarrel with anybody let it not be a prophet. “I didn’t ask Atiku to give me one Kobo. But do what you should do. Without that, you fail. He took Peter and failed. “Just like during (Goodluck) Jonathan, I told President Jonathan. He was my friend then. I called him (that) God has shown that you are going to win this election but on one condition; Jega should be changed. If you change Jega you will win Buhari, but if you don’t, Buhari will win you. “Goodluck told me, ‘Fr. I will not remove Jega, we will still win’. He held on to Jega and failed. Then, people started saying that Mbaka was supporting Buhari”. Users of the micro-blogging site, Twitter, criticised Mbaka for referring to Obi as a “stingy man”. The majority of the “tweeps” claimed that the cleric tagged the presidential candidate a “stingy man” because of his frugality. Sir David Onyemaizu said: “I can only blame whoever takes religious leaders like Father Mbaka seriously.” Chlorpheniramine #EndSARS tweeted: “Father Mbaka has never commented on ASUU strike, the killings in the country, the banditry, current inflation, the evil APC government, owed salaries of civil servants and general chaos in the country. All he needs is money from @PeterObi.” Everest added: “Mbaka is wrong. Peter Obi is a prudent man. Does not believe in wasting public funds. He is not a stingy man. What we need now is a prudent individual. We have a terrible spending problem. Printing money like there’s no tomorrow. Inflation is now at 17.1%. Think am.” Justice Jide said: “Being my pastor, priest, Spiritual leader etc doesn’t necessarily make you smarter than me. I won’t challenge your utterances, but I’ll definitely not believe or do it cos you’re standing on the altar in white. Mbaka is bad news both to Igbos and the Catholic church.” Ada Idemmili OGBANJE added: “People like Mbaka don’t want Nigeria to work, because if Nigeria starts working, most of you will stop sleeping in prayer houses or even donate your hard-earned money as tithe and seed sowing. “Travel outside Africa, you will understand na condition make you dey go adoration. MBAKA rejecting Peter Obi shows Peter Obi is the right candidate. IN 2015, Mbaka said Buhari is Nigeria answered prayer. Now you guys have seen that Mbaka’s prophecy is fake.” JADON said: “Election is around the corner, Mbaka has resurfaced again just to mislead his gullible followers. He should be reminded that we don’t rate him again.” Ome n’uko said: “Fr Mbaka said a ‘stingy man can’t be the Nigerian President.’ This man should stop disgracing the Catholic Church biko nå! Bishop Onaga should be warning this man. Felix! Area said: “Fr Mbaka is a perfect example of how you can be a priest and still consistently talk rubbish in public. Serious Catholic priests and Bishops are advocating for people to go get their PVC and vote for a credible candidate (whom Obi is), but here you are.” The  Enugu Catholic Diocese yesterday ordered   Mbaka,  to stop further provocative prophecies and utterances capable of heating up the polity. It also dissociated itself from the attack on   Obi and  LP by Mbaka, saying that all that he said represented his personal opinion. The directive is contained in a statement by the Auxilliary Bishop of the Diocese, Most Rev. Ernest Obodo;   Chancellor/ Secretary, Rev. Fr.  Wilfred Agubuchie and Vicar-General, Rev. Fr. Geoffrey Aguigwo. The statement    titled Inflammatory political utterances by Fr Camillus Ejike Mbaka, said Mbaka, by his political statements and prophesies breached  “Canon 220 of the 1983 Code  which prohibits anyone from illegitimately harming the good name of a person.” It reads in part:” Fr. Mbaka during his preaching attacked the good reputation of Mr Peter Obi, the Labour Party presidential candidate, . describing him as “a stingy man” and as “a joker”, contrary to canon 220 of the 1983 Code. “He also made fun of the LP and vowed that Mr Obi could not be the president of Nigeria. This is a clear violation of the provisions of canon 287 $2 which forbids priests from engaging in partisan politics. “The Diocese hereby condemns and dissociates herself from such unbecoming and divisive utterances by  Fr. Mbaka. We notify the general public that Fr. Mbaka’s views on the matter are entirely personal to him and do not represent the position of the Diocese of Enugu. “In an effort to keep him united to the Body of Christ, we enjoin him to refrain from making further provocative prophecies or utterances capable of heating up the polity. “We assure the people of God and the general public that the Catholic Diocese of Enugu is taking the due canonical process.”