President Muhammadu Buhari and Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu have directed security agencies to track down those behind the attack. In separate statements yesterday, Buhari and Akeredolu, described the killings as “heinous” and “satanic.” They prayed for the repose of the souls of the killed worshippers and commiserated with the bereaved families, the entire people of Ono State and the Catholic Church. Also, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), Southsouth Governors’ Forum,  Southeast Governors and Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila, condemned the attack and called for the arrest of the perpetrators. Others who criticised  the incident were the British Government, the  Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Nigerian Medical Association (NMA)  and  the Christian Association of Nigeria(CAN), Buhari, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, said “only fiends from the nether region could have conceived and carried out such dastardly act,”. He added that “eternal sorrow awaits them both on earth here, and ultimately in the hereafter.”. The President  restated that Nigeria would eventually overcome its security challenges because  “darkness will never overcome the light.” He charged emergency agencies to swing into action and bring succour to the wounded. The brief statement reads: “No matter what, this country shall never give in to evil and wicked people, and darkness will never overcome the light. Nigeria will eventually win, “No matter what, this country shall never give in to evil and wicked people, and darkness will never overcome the light. Nigeria will eventually win.” Akeredolu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, assured residents of the state that the government would do everything possible to hunt down assailants. The governor said the “vile and satanic attack “  was “a calculated assault on the peace-loving people of Owo Kingdom, who have enjoyed relative peace over the years.” Akeredolu, who explained that he had to cut short his official engagements in Abuja, to race down to Owo, added that “the enemies of the people”  had “violated the peace and tranquillity” of the state. The governor, who is the Chairman of the Southern Governors’ Forum, heads the   All Progressives Congress(APC) Convention Security and Compliance Sub-Committee for the ruling party’s presidential primary holding from today till Wednesday in Abuja. Expressing  anger over the killings, he vowed that his government “would every available resource to hunt down these assailants and make them pay” His statement reads in part: “We are deeply saddened by the unprovoked attack and killing of innocent people of Owo, worshipping at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owa-luwa Street, on Sunday(yesterday). “The vile and satanic attack is a calculated assault on the peace-loving people of Owo Kingdom, who have enjoyed relative peace over the years. “It is a black Sunday in Owo. Our hearts are heavy. Our peace and tranquillity have been attacked by the enemies of the people. This is a personal loss, an attack on our dear state. “I have spoken to the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Ondo, Most Reverend Jude Arogundade, who is presently on his way to Owo. “Similarly, I have had to cut short my party’s national assignment in Abuja and visit Owo immediately, “This is an unexpected development and I am shocked, to say the least. “We shall never bow to the machinations of heartless elements in our resolves to rid our state of criminals, “I commiserate with my people in Owo, particularly families of the those who lost their lives to this ugly and unfortunate attack. “I extend my condolences to Olowo of Owo, Oba Gbadegesin Ogunoye as well as the Catholic Church,” he stated. “I urge our people to remain calm and vigilant. Do not take laws into your hands. ” I have spoken to the heads of the security agencies. I have equally been assured that security operatives would be deployed to monitor and restore normalcy to the Owo Kingdom,” Vice President Osinbajo in a  post on his Twitter handle, expressed grief over the incident. “I am saddened by the senseless massacre of innocent people in Owo. “My deepest condolences go to the families whose hearts are broken and are grasping for answers. “We are united in grief and a resolve to defeat the cowards who unleash terror on defenceless people,” he said. The Vice-President condoled with families who lost loved ones in the attack. The NGF said it considered  the  attack by “extremely wicked and warped minds” as “gruesome.” The umbrella body of all the 36 governors in the country once again pledged to work with Buhari to secure the country. The group’s position is expressed in a statement by its Chairman and Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi. The statement reads: “The NGF  wishes to express its deepest sympathies to the Owo community, the government and people of Ondo State and the country, in general, following the attack on worshippers at the St. Francis Catholic Church, Owo in Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State in which scores of people were reportedly killed.   NNPP strengthens Southwest base     Firm to launch instant messaging app     National Assembly workers vow to begin indefinite strike   “The NGF considers this a gory, ugly, and gruesome act by extremely wicked and warped minds meted out to innocent victims on a holy day. “However, in the spirit of all our faiths, we pray for them. May God forgive and grant them mercy. “As governors, on our oath, we solemnly pledge to work with Mr President, all citizens and residents of our dear country, Nigeria to assure you of a fully secure environment. ‘Our goal is to halt brutalities, address unresolved criminal acts and ensure all killers are ultimately brought to face the consequences of their actions.” Fayemi had earlier in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, described the attack as barbaric and callous. He commiserated with  Akeredolu and the people of Ondo State over the incident. In solidarity with the sister state, Fayemi also directed state Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Banji Filani, to immediately send human and medical resources to Ondo State. The Southsouth and Southeast governors in separate statements by their chairmen, Ifeanyi Okowa and Dave Umahi respectively,  also expressed anger over the incident. Speaker Gbajabiamila, in his reaction,  wondered why anybody would attack people at their place of worship, saying only a wicked mind could kill in such a  manner. The Speaker said it was alarming that activities of terrorists, kidnappers and other criminal elements were becoming a daily occurrence in Nigeria. He, therefore, challenged security agencies to double their efforts in bringing the insecurity under control, especially by stepping up intelligence gathering. Kalu called on security agencies to deploy their skills in fishing out perpetrators of the “wicked act.’  He also appealed to appropriate authorities to guarantee peace and unity in the country. In its reaction, the British Government, through its  High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, called the attack a “horrific crime.” “Terrible news today (yesterday) from Owo in Ondo State. I condemn those responsible for this horrific crime. I extend my sympathies to all those affected,” Laing tweeted late yesterday. The PDP also criticised the killings, saying it was alarmed by reports of how the attackers invaded the church and freely used explosives. The opposition party urged the government to be up to the task of providing security and welfare for its citizens. It said the  President should immediately address the nation on measures to stop killings the killings. “The PDP deeply commiserates with the families of the victims of this senseless attack and other terrorist attacks in our country, the Catholic Church, the Government as well as the people of Ondo State. “PDP charge our security agencies to leave no stone unturned to apprehend the perpetrators,” the party said in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo  Ologunagba The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has called on all doctors in Owo,  to mobilise and participate in the treatment of the injured victims of the attack. It also appealed to Nigerians in “the affected area of Ondo State”  to donate blood for the treatment of the injured survivors. Commiserating with the state government and people of Ondo State, the  association  lamented that “condemnations and reassurances”  by the Federal Government and persons  entrusted with leadership  were “no longer comforting.” “We call on all doctors in Ondo State and the environs to mobilize themselves to participate in the treatment of the injured. NMA also calls for the release in good health of those abducted. Let’s all join hands to build a safe and secure Nigeria,” the association said in a statement by its President Uche Ojinmah. The statement reads: “The recurrent shedding of innocent blood in our dear country has been going on for far too long and it is the position of the NMA  that explanations, condemnations and reassurances are no longer comforting. “The NMA hereby calls for quick intervention by our governments and security agencies to protect the lives and properties of Nigerians in every part of this nation. “The NMA  commiserates with the government and good people of Ondo State over the loss of lives and prays for the quick recovery of those injured. We appeal to Nigerians in the affected area of Ondo State to kindly go to the hospitals where the injured are being treated to donate blood to save lives.” The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) also denounced the attack and called on Buhari to immediately overhaul the nation’s security architecture. Besides, CAN enjoined governors to meet with the President to find a lasting solution to the killings The association said in a statement by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, media assistant to  its  President,     Samson Ayokunle,  that  “mere press statements of condemnations and what looks like empty threat are  apparently not a way out of  the security challenges facing the country.” The statement partly reads: “This is sad, wrong, condemnable, outrageous, unacceptable and satanic. There is no explanation for this unprovoked attack and assault on a place of worship. This is raw persecution. “These people are possessed, demonic and are not working for the good of the country. May God descend heavily on them and fight them mindless agents of Satan from their roots. “We are once again reiterating our quest for a total overhauling of the security architecture and are asking President Buhari to stop the recycling of those criminals and terrorists in the name of de-radicalising programme. “We call on the state governors to meet with the President to find the lasting solution to these killings. Issuing mere press statements of condemnations and what looks like an empty threat is apparently not a way out of it.” The Ondo  State chapter of CAN described the killings as barbaric and wicked. “The killing of some innocent souls in the name of whichever guise is the highest criminality everybody should rise up and condemn in our society,” said the chapter’s chairman, Rev. Anselm Ologunwa, Ologunwa called on the government to address the security challenges confronting the country because “nowhere is safe.”