Ahead of next month’s governorship poll in Osun State, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Senator Ademola Adeleke has intensified mobilisation across the 30 local governments. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on his struggle to occupy the Bola Ige House, Osogbo. Hope is the elixir of life. Thus, Senator Ademola Adeleke is undettered by the past failure. He is mobilising again to sustain his struggle for the seat of Osun State Government. How far can he go? He was not a politician until five years ago when his charismatic brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, Third Republic governor of the state, passed on. A fierce intra-party succession battle ensued. Many expected the Action Congress of Nigeria(ACN) to pick a replacement from the Adeleke family. Ademola Adeleke put himself forward, but the pendulum swung towards the direction of Senator Mudashiru Hussain. An aggrieved Adeleke defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), got the senatorial ticket for Osun West and defeated the ACN candidate. Like a populist, Adeleke dazed people with his street wise approach, dancing at rallies to impress the local electorate and firing salvos at the ruling party. He subscribed to no ideology. He never pretended to be an intellectual. He was just dancing. The senatorial victory provided the tonic to forge ahead. About two years later, it appeared Adeleke had  become the face of the PDP in Osun. As the governorship candidate in 2018, he failed. The elite loathed the prospects of a governor who, to them, lacked depth and finesse. But, his style was captivating to some local people. The poll was inconclusive. But, by the time the exercise was concluded, Gboyega Oyetola, former Chief of Staff in Rauf Aregbesola government, had won. He was declared winner by the electoral agency. Today, Adeleke is back on the podium for the second time. A lot of waters has passed under the bridge. Oyetola has stabilised. The governor is consistently warming himself into the hearts of voters through his achievements. In three years, he has deployed the meagre resources to achieve much. However, Adeleke, son of Senator Ayoola Adeleke of Ede, cannot be ignored. He has increased the tempo of dancing. He relies on his support base, and his die-hard supporters are not likely to desert him. His major headache is the lack of reconciliation in his party, following the post-primary crisis that has continued to tear the chapter apart. Also, since Oyetola is perceived as a performer, many indigenes and residents are endorsing him for a second term. Also, the last may not have been heard about the allegations against Adeleke by party members. This means that Osun PDP is not putting his house in order. The purpose of the petition was to get Adeleke disqualified. In a letter of January 27, 2022, those against the flag bearer forwarded a petition to the national chairman, Dr. Iyorcha Ayu, alerting him to certain dangers ahead. They anticipated litigation, unless certain issues about eligibility are resolved. A group, ‘Concerned Members of PDP in Osun State,’ had appealed against the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC), which gave Adeleke the nod to stand as candidate, following the reports of the screening and appeal committees. Other aspirants were Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi,Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Prince Dotun Babayemi, Mr. Dele Adeleke and Sanya Omirin. Two of them have defected and emerged as governorship candidates of smaller parties. This may imply an impending split vote for PDP in the July election. On January 10, 2022, the group, led by Akinloye Adeyi, had written a petition to the Osun State Gubernatorial Screening Committee. Copies of the petition were sent to the chairman and members of PDP Board of Trustees(BoT), chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and other PDP governors, Deputy National Chairman(South) and Vice Chairman (Southwest).   French Open : Birthday boy Nadal eyes 14th final     Akeredolu: why APC must rotate power to retain power     WHO predicts 94% reduction in Africa’s COVID-19 deaths   But, the group lamented that the petitioners were not invited by the Screening Committee to substantiate and prove their allegations against Adeleke. Thus, the flag bearer was not confronted with the allegations. According to the group, the allegations were not properly scrutinised and evaluated by the Screening Committee, adding that the committee came to the wrong conclusion that when the petition was reviewed, it was found to be speculative. Instructively, the committee had pointed out that the allegations had been determined by the court, which discharged and acquitted the aspirant. Also, the Appeal Panel unanimously agreed that the petition had failed to address substantial issues to warrant the disqualification of the senator. It also stated that Adeleke has the constitutionally required educational qualification to contest the election. The Appeal Committee said “as to irregularities or discrepancies” in names as alleged by the petitioner, the sworn affidavit by Adeleke is sufficient evidence that the names belong to him. Therefore, the panel strongly recommended that all documents relating to Adeleke be properly scrutinised and streamlined before submission to the electoral commission. However, Adeyi disagreed, saying:”No court of competent jurisdiction has made definite pronouncement on the discrepancies on the information supplied by Senator Ademola Adeleke as contained in Annexures 1-15 attached to the petition, with respect to his name, date of birth, admission number, number of O’Level subjects he sat for at the May/June WAEC Examination, PDP Membership Card Number.” Besides, he said it was erroneous for the Screening Committee to rely and act on a judgment which were never submitted before it by Adeleke for assessment and evaluation before arriving at its decision. Adeyi wondered why Adeleke was given the treatment of a candidate in Paragraph 4 of the report before the primary, saying that it smacked of bias. He made some demands from the National Executive Committee (NEC) and National Working Committee. The petitioner said NEC should consider the Supreme Court ruling that the way a person writes his name can make him look like another person. Also, he said that another Appeal Panel should be set up to take oral evidence from Adeleke and scrutinise his documents. Despite these allegations, the opposition party cleared Adeleke to run. Adeyi warned that the cloud of controversy over the discrepancies in the information and documents submitted to the party and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not fizzled out. Four discrepancies were pointed out by Addeyi and his group. These are discrepancies on admission number, discrepancies in the date of birth, discrepancies in the name and discrepancies in the number of O’Level subjects. The group maintained that “the documents presented by Senator Ademola Adeleke from 2017 till date to the party are marred with severe irregularities,” adding that they cannot be glossed over.” Fears are rife that, if the allegations are not false, PDP may play into the hand of the ruling party, which may fuel the allegations and bring it to the front burner, before and after the poll. However, a party chieftain close to Adeleke dismissed the petitions, saying they were motivated by bile, bitterness and desperation. He said: “Senator Ademola Adeleke has been cleared to run. He has won the ticket. He is facing the election. The party is behind him. Everyone in the party should give him support.”