AS the Real Housewives of Lagos enters episode 10, Laura and Carolyna take their animosity to Dubai. The reality show’s characters, Iyabo Ojo, Carolyna Hutchings, Laura Ikeji-Kanu, Chioma Ikokwu, Toyin Lawani, and Mariam Timmer were all on an emotional rollercoaster as they jet out to Dubai to celebrate Lawani’s 40th birthday. On the six ladies’ luxurious trip to Dubai in celebration of Lawani’s birthday, the drama started when Iyabo asked Carolyna which of her lovers gifted her the missing $43,000 diamond bracelet and the question did not sit well with Carolyna as she felt it was unnecessary. Iyabo defended herself by saying that she did not ask the question to be spiteful and just asked to know the possibility of replacing the bracelet.   Burna Boy: Back in trouble with the law     Excited lady delivers art work to Obi Cubana     Claiming married on BBNajia show was a strategy – Tega   The animosity between Carolyna and Laura continued even after she tried starting a conversation during lunch. Carolyna wouldn’t have it as she ignored Laura and refused to enter into a reconciliatory move. The episode continued with the ladies moving to the villa they will call home for the duration of their stay in Dubai. Toyin went with the paper picking method for rooms and this did not sit well with Mariam who won the prize to get the biggest room at Toyin’s cultural party back in Lagos. Mariam got more furious when she picked the smallest room which she tagged “Kiddies room”. Mariam eventually got a better room when they moved to a bigger villa. Drama queen Laura was on an emotional roller coaster as she felt left out of the conversation and believed that the ladies planned to ignore her on the trip. She apologised to the ladies and promised to do better concerning her attitude, even though it did not seem to them like she meant it. The ladies spent the next day at the Safari having fun and Mariam capped the night by bringing Toyin’s husband to Dubai much to the birthday girl’s surprise and delight.