The senator representing Delta North, Peter Onyelukachukwu Nwaoboshi, has won the All Progressive Congress (APC) primary election that took place at the Sports Arena of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Asaba, the state capital, last Saturday. The Oracle-turned Miracle of Anioma Politics, as he is popularly called, was said to have been returned unopposed because he had no challenger in the party’s primary election. A statement yesterday in Abuja by the Director of Publicity of Senator Peter Nwaoboshi Campaign Organisation, Stanley Mbulu, explained how the senator was returned unopposed at the party’s primary. Mbulu said the venue of the shadow election was animated as early as 10 a.m on Saturday, as a large crowd of teeming supporters from within and outside APC flooded the open field. The campaign chief said the event was “overwhelmingly colourful as it could have been mistaken for a carnival, with different cultural dance and support based groups, displaying their dancing skills and entertaining the crowd”.   Gbagi dumps PDP, wins Delta SDP ticket     Fulani deserve a ministry like Niger Delta, says Gumi     Lawan appoints Kalu as Campaign DG, others   He added: “All the delegates from the nine local government areas that made up Delta North Senatorial District were represented at the venue, as everyone was eager to be part of the history-making event. “The hierarchy of APC personalities in Delta State and the senatorial district was all fully on the ground in solidarity with the man of the moment, Senator Nwaoboshi. “It was a lone context as the distinguished senator was gallantly returned unopposed by the entire delegates.” He quoted some party leaders who spoke at the event as saying the significance of the “lone context” in the primary election was that the people unanimously wanted Nwaoboshi to return to the Red Chambers to continue the good work he was doing. Mbulu said an APC leader in Delta North Senatorial District, Evangelist Moses Kamanya, who is also the Director General of Senator Peter Onyelukachukwu Nwaoboshi Campaign Organisation, reiterated the fact that the people were pleased with the efforts of Nwaoboshi and wanted him to continue to represent them in the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly. According to him, Kamanya said: “It will be unwise and unheard of that a winning team is changed, except such mind is unprogressive.”