At a ceremony to mark the first purchase of artisanally-mined gold in Nigeria in July 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari hinted of the several benefits the country stands to gain when it develops its potential in the sector: generation of about 250,000 jobs and over $500 million in monetary value annually through the payment of royalties and taxes to government coffers. A report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) titled ‘Trade in Goods Statistics,’ shows that Nigeria realised a paltry N10.3bn from the sale of the commodity classified as ‘Gold unwrought or in semi-mfr. forms, or in powder form’ exported to Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates in the first quarter of 2022. This is not much; but it is a good beginning. However, for a commodity that is found in at least 14 states of the federation namely: Zamfara, Kaduna, Kebbi, Niger, Kogi, Ogun, Osun, Bauchi, Cross River, Edo, Sokoto, Oyo, Ebonyi, Kwara, and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, it is unfortunate that the country still lacks the capacity to produce it into consumable products like jewellery. Sadly, this is the fate of several other commodities that Nigeria has comparative advantage over. Here, we are talking about crude oil which the country is a major producer of but is also a net importer of finished products like petrol. This is despite the fact that the country has four refineries which have largely remained moribund despite the infusion of several billions of dollars into their Turn Around maintenance (TAM). The same thing applies to the agricultural sector where we export raw agricultural produce at cheap prices only to import finished products from the same produce at exorbitant prices. Why we continue along this trajectory is baffling because the country’s major foreign exchange earner, crude oil, is susceptible to the vagaries of the international market over which the country has no control. The resultant unpredictability has also led to unpredictable revenue and budgetary expectations. For a country willing to learn, we have had a lot of shocks to make us pay diversification of the economy the desired attention. That we have not is not only saddening, it is equally regrettable.   Bill to increase retirement age for people with disability…     Alleged fraud: Okorocha seeks court’s permission to travel…     Fintiri picks female VC as running mate   About two years ago, precisely in June 2020, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo had, at the inauguration, via a Zoom virtual meeting, of Nigeria’s first Gold and precious Metals Refining Conglomerate, an operation of Dukia Gold a Precious Metals Raw Materials Buying Programme, in collaboration with Heritage Bank disclosed that ‘’Nigeria has potential reserves of 200 million ounces of gold and the launch of this expansive project, Dukia Gold, creates new opportunities for us to mine these reserves properly, trade responsibly and refine locally.’’ An optimistic Osinbajo added, rather enthusiastically that ‘’what we are looking at here is an extremely valuable new source of trade, jobs and foreign exchange.’’ So, what has happened to this seemingly promising project? Two years down the line, Nigeria is yet to take concrete steps at modernising mining of the commodity as it is still mostly extracted by artisan miners who use the crude form to extract them, unlike some other West African countries like Ghana and Burkina Faso that have fully developed their mining potential. To reverse the trend, the Federal Government must tackle headlong, the problems of illegal mining and smuggling that President Buhari said Nigeria lost $3 billion to between 2012 and 2018. Not only is the country losing revenue through these illegal activities in the gold subsector of the mining sector, the activities of the illegal miners and smugglers have also compounded insecurity in Zamfara State. It is high time the government activated its Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMDI), an artisanal and small-scale gold mining that would enable the miners send refined gold to the Central Bank of Nigeria, in accordance with the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) standards. This is the only way by which the country can realise its full potential in the sector, boost foreign earnings, create jobs as well as enjoy other multiplier effects that the sector holds for those doing the business according to international best practices.