Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu on Monday explained how the Upper Chamber would fill the vacant Majority and Minority Leaders’ posts. The posts became vacant following the defection of the Majority Leader of the Senator Yahaya Abdullahi and Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe from the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) respectively. Abdullahi (Kebbi North) had formally joined the PDP while Abaribe (Abia South) has also pitched his political tent with the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Abdullahi and Abaribe dumped their respective political parties following their failure to secure governorship tickets during the just concluded primaries. While Abdullahi will return to the Senate as a bonafide PDP member, Abaribe will return on the garb of APGA.   Police graduate six PhD holders, 169 others as spies     Kiriku acquires two Mercedes Benz cars     Troops kill bandit on Kaduna-Abuja highway   Kalu, in a statement in Abuja, said the posts will be filled in earnest. He said the respective party caucuses are expected to nominate replacements and convey their choice to the Senate President who would then announce the appointments. Kalu said: “During the primary elections of all political parties and for senate re-elections in particular, some senators including Principal officers of the Senate fell out with their political parties and switched to other political parties . This switch automatically overturned the principal office position earlier held by the distinguished Senators. “This vacancy created is expected to be replaced in earnest. The vacant positions do not call for election on the floor of the senate . “It therefore falls on the Senate caucus of the zone that produced the principal officer to select a replacement from their zone. “The caucus is expected to write their party about the nomination for onward transmission to the Senate President.” The Nation had reported that six Senators including Senator Ajayi Boroffice, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, Shaibu Lau, Lilian Uche Ekwunife, Chukwuka Utazi and James Manager are currently to occupy the positions created in their respective parties.