Insurers within the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub- region have settled a total of 3,442 cross-border motor third party claims in the year. The motor third party is handled by the insurers through a combined product known as the ECOWAS Brown Card Insurance Scheme. Over 500,000,000 FCFA or N 334 million was recorded as compensation to the third party victims of road accident. Claims worth more than N84 million has been paid to Nigerian third party victims of accidents as at last December 31. The ECOWAS Brown Card established on May 19, 1982 for the settlement of accidents claims. It is similar to the Green Card in Europe.   Consolidated Hallmark pays N433.6m dividend     Lagos govt, World Bank addressing grid supply deficit     Prestige increases gross premium by 32%   The Chairman, Council of Bureaux, in ECOWAS, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, who made this known, said the Brown Card has enhanced the inflow of funds generated to serve stakeholders, especially insurance firms. He said the operators’ funding and capacity to perform their role, harmonised motor vehicle third party liability laws and compensation regime in various states and fair and prompt payment of third party international claims arising from ECOWAS Risk involving liability for death, property damage and bodily injury, among others, incurred whether an insured vehicle is within or outside the shores of the country where the motorist resides. “Let me reiterate that Nigeria has the largest market in the ECOWAS Space with 22-member companies. The implementation of Automatic ECOWAS Brown Card will bring on board motor insurance underwriting companies. This implies that your local insurance cover will be issued along with a Brown Card cover to insure the ECOWAS risk we are exposed to. This situation would be addressed further with the ongoing automation of the issuance of the ECOWAS Brown Cards,” Musa, who is the Nigeria National Bureau  Chairman, noted. The Secretary-General, Nigerian National Bureau, Mrs Henrietta Anyanna, said though the Automatic Brown Card regime is yet to be adopted in Nigeria, the scheme is fulfilling its establishment and could unlock the potential of the motor insurance industry, if the resources are judiciously managed. “Claims worth more than N84 million have been paid to Nigerian third party victims of accidents as at December 31, 2021, even in the absence of an Automatic ECOWAS Brown Card regime. Imagine what the situation will be like, after the official implementation of the Automatic Brown Card in Nigeria. The scheme is putting smiles on the faces of victims as well as transforming lives of the less privileged forever. “Motorists have psychological freedom from fears that they may be assailed in case of accident in a country different from their country of residence. Also, motorist covered by the scheme are well treated as if the basic Insurance policy were underwritten with a company operating in the country visited by the motorist or through which he/she is transiting,” she added.