All Progressives Congress (APC) National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omisore has said that the ruling party will retain power in the Southwest state of Osun. He said the party will build on its victory at the Ekiti governorship poll. Osun poll will hold next month. “We are poised to deliver successful elections in Ekiti in June and Osun in July this year,” he had told delegates at the recent presidential primary in Abuja. Omisore pointed out that the party was growing in leaps and bounds, with his membership rising to 43 million, stressing that the obedience to the APC Constitution has fostered inclusion, fair play and accountability. He said the pathway to the primary reaffirmed APC’s internal democracy, which has led to defections into the fold. The secretary said the party has deepened unity, strengthened core functions in the national secretariat and positioned itself to sustain its leadership of democratic governance in the country. Party chieftains and other Nigerians have congratulated the national secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, for his role in the recent successful presidential primary. A scholar, Professor Mike Itesiwaju, hailed the secretary’s contributions, particularly his principled position on power shift.   2023: Battle of Titans in Abia     NEMA receives 178 stranded Libya returnees     Nigerian start-up wins $10,000 at Commonwealth Youth Forum…   He said: “A big congratulations to you on Asiwaju’s victory. The whole country knows your involvement was the saving grace.” Omisore, Apesin-Ola of Ile-Ife, was also praised for his capability and display of experience, and his perseverance and boldness. To his fans, the proverbial rejected stone has become the cornerstone. Hailing him as a courageous party officer, a political scientist, Prof. Tunde Babawale, said: “Your imprint on the excellent organisation of the programme is unmistakable. Your best is yet to come.” Osun delegates also saluted Omisore “for rejecting bribe. A delegate said:”I am so proud of your astute capability.God continue to abide with you,nurture you and make you relevant in all areas,” adding: “You’ve written your name in gold.” To Yusuf Usman, “the entire Yoruba and Nigeria at large commend your tenacity and sagacity, on zoning the presidential slot to the Southern part of the country and the victory of Asiwaju. You are blessings to us.” In a congratulatory message, another delegate said: “For leading the “struggle” within the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) to pick a candidate from the Southwest, we thank our two champions-have a *SW zone candidate beconme APC presidential candidate*, we thank our 2 champions-Senator Iyiola Omisore and Hon Isaacs Kekemeke, the APC National Vice Chairman for Southwest.” Oyewale Adesiyan said: “The National Secretary of APC, Senator Iyiola Omisore, stood his ground in Abuja. He resisted all attempts to force a consensus candidate on APC delegates and insisted on convening the APC Special Convention. “We, your associates, can raise our heads high. We are proud of your actions. God bless you dearly for the Yoruba race. You will continue to be counted  amongst the defenders of Oodua. Your arrangement for our delegates at the convention was also superb.”