I know of no numerological indicator which suggests that 22 June 2020 is a unique date in the cosmic calendar. But what do I know? All I can say is 22 June 2022 is the date Ash Mufareh has chosen to close the register of O founders of ONPASSIVE. Ash Mufareh is the founder and chief executive officer (CEO) of onpassive which he has been building up since 2018 to offer the latest global technological advancement in artificial intelligence (AI). The closure of this register on which about two million subscribers worldwide from about 200 countries are listed is programmed to trigger other business activities which will end in the launch of Onpassive, an internet digital solutions company with about 50 product departments designed since 2018 to be the largest single company worldwide in its class of business. Response to Onpassive subtle marketing efforts in Nigeria has been that of doubting Thomases waiting to see the end of the script. The script began to unfold in 2018 when Ash Mufareh, an American multilevel business and digital solutions marketer, began to put together an international O founders group who would help to bring to fruition his dream of establishing the biggest internet digital solutions company on earth. He wanted that company to not only provide the most-effective digital products at the cheapest prices but to also be owned by not only himself or a small group of investors, but by millions of persons in every country. It was a new dream in business with an in-built guarantee for success from the launch date. This is because those  millions of O founders in all countries would abinitio be part of a new ecosystem of customers and products. Whereas the void world companies struggled to build the customer base after launch, dissipating energy and money in ceaseless and needless competition, Onpassive would already before it’s launch have standing by millions of “ready made” customers who, as it’s co-founders, are, if you like, also it’s shareholders. Every o founder was asked to express interest in the dream with the payment of 95 USD. In reality, the payment could go up to between 105 USD or 120 USD in Nigeria, because of the cost of “handling” or “service” charges. After the launch, there would be an additional payment of between 250 USD and 300 USD per account. But this has not been decided. Such decisions are usually made after global webinars where opinions are sampled and together with a small group of associates, Ash Mufareh takes a decision which is later communicated to o founders at webinars and in the back offices of their onpassive internet accounts. On 2nd June 2022, Ash Mufareh personally announced the register of co-founders now known as O founders which would be officially closed at midnight on 22 June 2022. CLOSURE EFFECTS Closure of the register will usher in many activities, perhaps in quick succession before the launch, including 1) No new o founder would be admitted to the project. 2) Existing o founders would add between 250 USD and 300 USD to their original payment of 95 USD. 3) All O founders would belong to the inner caucus of the company and earn, everyday, something from the profit it will be making globally. 4) The o founders would not pay for using Onpassive internet services and products. These products are the onpassive’s version of Google, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, play store, zoom and many more. There are to be 50 departments of these digital products, each department furnishing various products. 5) O founders will not pay for using these products because their bills will be financed exclusively from their earnings. For every account they paid for, they would have two wallets. One wallet would be for their earnings. The other would be fed by the main wallets to finance their use of the various products. Thus, they would not need to bring money from out of their dress pockets or borrow money from the bank or the service provider to purchase “recharge cards” or “credit”. Their income or bonus credit would be fed from their daily earnings. 6) While business is going on in the “inner caucus” o founders club, Onpassive will also open its doors for business to non-o founders. But these would enjoy only customer benefit, including rock-bottom prices, and their activities would yield additional income to the o founders group. The customer group would earn no income from Onpassive. But it would enjoy efficient and effective products at prices far cheaper than they now do. Besides, every customer will enjoy free use of Onpassive products for seven days trial. 7) O founders who are unable to pay up the 250-300 USD after the onpassive launch would not earn an income from the company until this has been done. But Onpassive makes it easy for such o founders. Their bonuses would pile up in their wallets but they would not be able to make a draw on them until the wallet has made the mark or has enough money in them to finance the budget. 8) An e book in the back offices of o founders in the onpassive website which explains how Onpassive has been working and would work in the future, subject to policy updates. Onpassive is not a multi-level marketing (MLM) company. Thus, the company does not pay referral bonuses to o founders whose efforts, such as this article, to introduce it to potential o founders. What I am saying is that (A) I am an o founder. (B) I have written this article to introduce you to Onpassive and to encourage you to be an o founder like me. (C) Onpassive will not reward me with a referral bonus if you accept my invitation and become an o founder like me. The e book explains that Ash Mufareh had done marketing for MLM companies, For several years, I observed the deception of many of them, witnessed crashes and personal loss of huge chains of downlines, upline insincerity and how uplines often stole the downlines of their downlines. The question arises: Of what benefit to an O founder is an effort such as this one to share the onpassive opportunity with other people before the register of o founder is closed on 22nd June 2022? A simple answer is: Through the documentation of registrations, artificial intelligence (AI) will recognise the effort of every o founder and reward them with daily bonuses from transactions. This is because o founders are classified into groups or teams on the basis of the sources of their invitation to the company. Thus, for bonus payments, the different groups will be wait differently with more money flowing to the heavier groups then the leaner groups. An o founder who invited 100 o founders will, thereby, earn four times  more than the one who invited 25. A greater benefit is that Onpassive marketing campaign will help every o founder through artificial intelligence AI to populate his or her team . This, however, is a small picture of the reward system. A larger picture will be how much money traffic o founders in one country help to attract to their own country from what will be the biggest internet business on earth. What I mean is this: right now, NIGERIA’S economy is drained abroad whenever Nigerians use Facebook, Instagram, Zoom or Twitter. No Nigerian earns anything for spending his or her hard-earned money on these digital products. All the money they put into them will go abroad, save for the one retained by the service provider which, in any case, is foreign owned and pays only token tax in Nigeria. When Onpassive begins operations and Nigerians patronise it, the money drain will continue unless there are many Nigerian o founders who will not only earn from the income from the Nigerian market but earn also from the income in, say, far away Bangladesh, Canada or India. This is a way to attract foreign currency influx into the economy and depend less on petroleum. It is a way to create wealth for the individuals and the country and discourage quarreling on ethnic or religious grounds over the blessings of Mother Nature beneath the soil. This was what Alex Okonkwo, a security expert, beautifully advocated on Jordan fm radio station in Lagos this week with host Babalola Fage.   Five reasons to drink enough water     World Menstruation Day…a bow for the circle (2)     World Menstruation Day…a bow for the circle (1)   LEGITIMATE FEARS In the Nigerian personal finance market, e-commerce and digital businesses are distrusted. Behind many of them are gold diggers. They fall upon the nation like a whirlwind, conscripting willing radio and television stations for their wild business campaigns. The economy is down. The banks are not encouraging savings with interest on deposits. They invest deposits, make money from the investments, pay depositors no interest but even charge them all sorts of fees for bringing their monies for safekeeping and lending to other people which brings profits to the banks. Thus, it is tempting to put money to productive use for passive income rather than keeping it idle in the banks where it depreciates. It is this longing that has been grossly abused by crooked purveyors of digital marketing businesses in Nigeria, especially those in forex trading and Bitcoin ventures. Not so long after they open shop for business, their websites like their operating platforms, disappear from the air waves without a trace and humongous sums of investment from hard-earned money go down the drain with them. Soon after, these crooked businesses surface under new names and new operating platforms, change their tactics, and it is business all over again. Unfortunately, the law against financial and internet fraud is not strong and smart enough to catch up with them. So, like armed robbery and banditry, Nigerian internet fraudsters and their collaborators from America, Europe and Asia rule the waves. Who in this horrible jungle of a market and environment would not be skeptical when invited to a business that has been on the drawing board for four years since 2018 (2018-2022)? In this environment, many Nigerians want quick fixes for all investments. They are hardly futuristic. They have been so psychically badly hurt by financial losses that they hardly appreciate that only thoroughness breeds dependability and that, in dependability, resides continuity and the investment peace of mind that they are longing for. They hardly realise it took Mark Zuckerberg no fewer than three years from his days at Harvard to build Facebook, an idea he had been toying with since the age of 11. It probably hasn’t registered well with them that while Elom Musk has just bought Twitter for 44 billion USD, Onpassive o founders have already put together more than one trillion U SD with two or three times more of that due to fall in when the register closes. In other words, even at the present value of one trillion USD, Onpassive, which has not begun business, can buy more than 20 Twitters at 44 billion USD per Twitter. There is a lot to say about a company which has not begun business but has this huge liquidity which Ash Mufareh regularly transparently discusses in the open. There is a lot to say also about Onpassive, which is not owing anyone a Kobo despite the huge business eco system it has cultivated.  There are no more than five such companies in the United States, we are told. Ash Mufareh discusses the finances and capacities of onpassive in the public. A man and his company intent on defrauding will not do this, in my humble opinion. It is legitimate and rational in the Nigerian emasculating business environment for a traumatised investor to become paranoid about the next investment news or offer. I consider it even a duty for such an investor to adequately protect himself or herself. But for how long in that environment can one survive by closing one’s eyes and stuffing one’s ears? Do we not sometimes or always carry rationalism too far? Do we not see clearly through our tears even when we cry our hearts out? Does a baby learning to walk not cry when he or she falls but gets up soon after, a smile on the face and tries all over again, laughter in the heart after the first few sure steps? Was there no Lot in Sodom and Gomorrah? Was there no Noah on this Earth when, reportedly, water effaced a civilization? If we fear internet business because we cannot verify the brains behind them and the addresses of their operations, Onpassive is not one of such businesses. Ash Mufareh is well known in the business circles of the United States. As for the veracity of the operational offices of the company, pls listen to the Onpassive e-book: ONPASSIVE is an American Company. Our IT Hub is located in Hyderabad, India but we are headquartered in Orlando, Florida. An impressive fact: We are 100% debt-free! Think about that for a moment. How many new, globally-operating companies are completely debt-free? The foregoing are my counsel for people who, bitten several times, have become despondent and immobile in the personal finance market. I, too, like Mufareh, have gone up and down the waves, but I have refused to knock out or give up. I have found, in the midst of these financial calamities, honest businesses which work. They are not noisy or flamboyant with rewards, the Hallmark of the tricksters, and they took some time to diligently plan their platforms which are unique to them, not operating platforms that can be purchased two for a Kobo or naira and slammed on the market. POST-22 JUNE “By their works ye shall know them” We are told. After the closure of o founders register on 22 June 2022, Onpassive will embark on a number of activities that would build up to it’s launch . 1) Early this year, it unveiled 21 applications, a major activity since it’s drawing board days in 2018. About 80,000 engineers and support staff had been domiciled in India for their design, research and development. From the company’s information available online, the venues and these activities can be verified. So can update information from the webinars from country to country. 2) After the o founders register closes on 22 June 2022, Onpassive will embark on a massive business campaign to promote it’s digital products from one country to another. 3) To prevent hackings and system collapses which are some of the reasons behind the failure of some organisations which are not self reliant on security matters, Onpassive is hosting its own platform. Accordingly, it is migrating it’s present website and the special website of “o founders” from the present host to its own data hosting system.  FINALLY… I have written this report not in respect of the launch date or of the activities which will herald it, but in respect of the impending closure of the register of “founders” to invite attention to the fact that the rare opportunity of becoming something like a “shareholder” in what is promising to be the biggest internet company on earth is only a few days away. Only the lion heart, only the ones who are not afraid of risk taking, those who believe that “something good can come out of Israel” will summon the courage, clear aside all the dross which scammers have strewn on their way and all around them, and see the light shinning bright afar off, yet so nearby, at the end of the dark tunnel. My prayer is that many Nigerians will avail themselves of this rare opportunity to become o founders before 22nd June 2022, so that our country will not suffer another haemorrhage and drain to other countries when Onpassive finally blasts off. I am available for further discussion on this subject on 08034004247(Telephone, and WhatsApp),.