Chairperson of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL)  Aisha Falode, has been confirmed as  the Super Falcons’ Chef de Mission (leader of delegation) to the 2022 CAF Women’s Africa  Cup of Nations (WAFCON) in Morocco. The president of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick noted that Falode who  led the Super Falcons  when they won  the 2018 Women’s Nations Cup in Ghana ,  said  she had been found worthy to lead  Nigeria to yet another victorious outing as the team seek their  tenth  WAFCON title . Pinnick offered: “She, in her capacity as leader of delegation can ask anybody not part of the team to leave the team’s camp. She is the eye of the Nigerian government for the team in Morocco. “She is going to be with the team from the beginning to the end of the tournament. Of course you know her antecedent, she was in CAF for 10 years even before I came into CAF. She has been able to rebuild and rebrand the women league in  Nigeria, Africa and indeed in the world as one of the best.   Applause as Dare hosts victorious Golden Eaglets     Oregon 2022: World Athletics defend Nigeria’s expulsion from…     Aston Villa, Nottingham drop interests  on Aribo   “I believe strongly that in the nearest future, she is going to be rewarded for changing the fortune of women’s football league by CAF and FIFA. And also for her ability and leadership capacity in the organisation and advancement of women’s football in Africa.” In her remarks,  Falode  promised to ensure harmony in the team’s camp and ensure  the Super Falcons win their tenth title  as well as  qualifying  for the 2023  FIFA  women’s  World Cup to be co-hosted by Australia and New Zealand “We know the focus of all the teams coming to Morocco is to defeat the Super Falcons even if subsequently they don’t win the cup because of the dominance of the Nigerian team; but we won’t allow them, “ she said. “As the  defending champions, we are going to Morocco with the trophy and by hard work, dedication and grace of God, we shall come back with the trophy and the tenth title after playing in Morocco as one family. “With this spirit, the team will surely play as one unit, one family, with one love, the chemistry to win all games and the spirit of Nigeria,” she added.