The Kaduna State Government may be heading for another showdown with organized Labour following the decision of the Kaduna State Universal Basic Education Board to sack 2,357 teachers for failing a competency test. The leadership of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) has threatened to embark on a nationwide strike if the State Government fails to reverse the decision to sack the teachers, including its National President, Audu Amba. The union made its position known on Wednesday during its National Executive Council meeting at the Teachers House, Lugbe, Abuja. The Nigeria Labour Congress on May 18, 2021, commenced a one-week warning strike cutting off services to protest the alleged anti – labour postures of the State Government. The strike was suspended on the third day following the invitation of the NLC and the Kaduna State government for dialogue by the Federal Government led by Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen Chris Ngige. However, on June 19, the Kaduna state universal basic education board announced the dismissal of 2,357 teachers who failed the recently-conducted competency test. Its spokesperson, Hauwa Mohammed, in a statement on Sunday in Kaduna, had said the board conducted a competency test for over 30,000 teachers in December 2021. She said that 2,192 primary school teachers including the National President of the NUT, Amba, had been dismissed for refusing to sit for the competency test. Mohammed noted that 165 of the 27,662 teachers that sat for the competency test were also sacked for poor performances. But addressing reporters in Abuja on Wednesday, Deputy President of NUT, Dr Kelvin Nwankwo said Amba did not fail the test and remained its national president. The union also said the action of Governor Nasiru El-Rufai was clearly to intimidate the NUT President and embarrass teachers in Nigeria, while accusing the governor of using the tactics not to pay owed salaries. The NEC urged the State Government to embark on a continuous Teacher Training Programme, which would improve knowledge and service delivery by teachers in the public schools of Kaduna state as obtained in other professions such as Nursing, Medicine and Law. He said: “The very concept of competency test is an aberration and absurd having regards to the fact that the teachers in Kaduna State have prior to their recruitment in the State Public Service attended schools and institutions statutorily saddled with the responsibility of teacher education and these institutions have certified them to be competent, fit and proper to be teachers.   Many States would’ve gone under without bailouts – FG     Why I returned $4,050 to passenger, by Bolt driver     Ohanaeze to Buhari: request for IPOB’s proscription…   “In addition, the same Kaduna State Government had subjected the teachers to scrutiny and test to ensure their suitability or otherwise for employment as Teachers before they were recruited. “It is in the context of the above that the whole concept of a competency test which is only peculiar to Kaduna State is akin to a cocktail of absurdities and leaves a sour taste in the mouth, thereby validating the position of NUT that the intentions of the Kaduna State Government on this issue is everything but altruistic.” Nwankwo said Kaduna was the second most indebted state in Nigeria, adding that the state government was on a free roller coaster move to satisfy the conditionalities handed down to it by its creditors, which normally includes downsizing of the public service without even the remotest regards to our peculiar circumstances. He added: “The whole concept of competency test was designed by the Kaduna State Government to achieve its inglorious aim of casualisation of the teaching profession in Kaduna State. “Otherwise, how else can one attempt a rationalisation of the fact that the same Kaduna State Government in the year 2018 dismissed/retired in one swoop 21,780 teachers purportedly for not passing its unilaterally and arbitrarily administered competency test and purportedly in replacement thereof recruited about 20,000 new teachers, who according to it were subjected to vigorous test and confirmed to be competent before they were recruited into the Kaduna State Public Service. “In accordance with the Kaduna State Public/Civil Service Rules, these purported 20,000 teachers were employed on a temporary basis and placed on a one year probationary period. “Their appointments were to be made permanent and pensionable after the one year probationary period. However, rather regrettably five years down the line, these teachers are still under temporary appointment with the result that the Kaduna state government can whimsically and shamelessly ask them to leave the public service without any terminal related benefits. “These 20,000 constitute the bulk of the 2,357 teachers, who are said not to have passed the latest in the series of competency tests in Kaduna State.” He noted that the intention of the Kaduna state government was to prey on the rather unfortunate existing non-employment status of “our teeming school leavers by recruiting them as teachers only to subsequently subject them to the raw deal it subjected the purported 20,000 teachers, thereby achieving its aim of casualization of the teaching profession in Kaduna State.” He added: “He was not dismissed then for failure to write the competency test. The question that readily agitates the mind in the circumstance is, what has changed in 2021/2022? “It is also rather very sad and curious that the dismissal letter relative to the NUT President was in the public domain via the social media even when it has not been served on him. “The intention clearly is to intimidate the NUT President and embarrass the Teachers in Nigeria. This like other anti labour and people policies of the Kaduna state government has failed on arrival. We got news for His Excellency Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai and his co-travellers to wit: power is transient.” He reaffirmed the commitment of the NUT to stand with its “revered President Comrade Audu Titus Amba and all the teachers in Kaduna State, who have fallen victim to the anti-labour policies in Kaduna State and which policies have defied all logic and are lacking in the milk of human kindness.”