Ooni of Ife, Oba Babatunde Ogunwusi has appealed to rich Nigerians at home and in the diaspora to invest their resources in the country. Oba Ogunwusi said this at Ogbondoroko in Asa Local Government Area of Kwara State at the commissioning of $15 million HMA Medical intravenous fluid manufacturing company. The monarch said:  “The joy of origination is the greatest joy in the World, it is better to remember your root and give back to the society where you come from after your sojourn in a foreign land and that is what Dele organization has done. “I’m celebrating him because I want to encourage others who have migrated abroad in search of greener pastures to come back home and contribute to the society”, Oba Ogunwusi said. Oba Ogunwusi appealed to the state government to rehabilitate the road leading to the company. In his remarks, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq said that the government was providing an enabling environment for both foreign and local investors in the state. Represented by his deputy, Kayode Alabi, the governor said that for the government to change the narrative in the State, the administration is committing resources to infrastructure for the overall wellbeing of its citizens and businesses in the state.   2023: Imams, alfas tasked to preach peace, unity to…     ‘Ex-military men ruined 23yrs of Nigeria’s…     Shun unholy acts, Abiodun cautions Ogun Muslim pilgrims   AbdulRazaq commended the initiative of HMA Medical Limited and invited other well-meaning indigenes of the state to join hands with Government to improve the living conditions of its people. ‘The big step you have taken by establishing this allied medical company will not only provide job opportunities for our people but shall also fix challenges occasioned by non-availability of medical consumables and intravenous fluids at the crucial points of needs.’ “We also encourage collaborations, partnership, and mutual relationship towards the provision of deliverables to our citizens in keeping with the Goal 17 of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)”, the governor added Group Executive Director of HMA Medical Limited,  Damilola Shittu, said that the company was established to fill the gap in the shortage of intravenous fluid production in the country adding that it was sited at Ogbondoroko in Asa Local Government Area of the state to provide employment for the youth and halt the rural-urban migration in the state. Shittu, said that the factory has the capacity to produce over 500 million syringes and over one billion needles per annum. He stated that the first phase of the project has the capacity to produce 60,000 litres per day of different formulations of IV fluids and medication, using best practices and adhering to global standards. “Presently our group employs about 1,000 people directly. Our five-year plan has a potential of employing about 2,000 more Nigerians directly while attracting over $100 million in foreign direct investment,” he said.