The South-West Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu (SWAGA 6) on Saturday described Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as the most prepared presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for 2023. The SWAGA 6 made this assertion at a press conference shortly before a solidarity walk in support of Tinubu’s ambition around major streets in Maitama, Wuse 2 and other parts of Abuja. National Publicity Secretary, of SWAGA 6, Comrade Babajide Akinbohun, described Tinubu as an enigma that needs no introduction on account of his political dexterity. Akinbohun said: “Ahead of the National Presidential Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) slated to hold on the 6th of June, 2022, there has been intense search for a competent, credible and capable leader to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in office. “This search for a credible leader to occupy the number one exalted position in the country has thrown up the Presidency seat into a very serious contest among the frontline liners for the coveted seats — Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu remains the most prepared and the number one choice of majority of Nigerians. “At this point, it is visible to all discerning mind that what the country need is someone who is highly experienced, a bridge builder, networker, a manager per excellence and one who has the capacity to leverage on the gains and successes that we have recorded so far as a nation under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is an enigma, who needs little or no introduction on account of his political dexterity, forthrightness and his ability to unite the country; galvanize for peace, restoration and unity. “More so, amongst the crops of Presidential Aspirants within our party, who are all eminently qualified for the coveted position, Asiwaju remains the most popular, acceptable and the most astute ideologically, and a political juggernaut of our time. Read Also: I have high regard, respect for Buhari – Tinubu   We are ready for APC Presidential Primary – Akeredolu     Survivors recall horror scenes at Port Harcourt church…     From pulpit, Alia Hyacinth makes grab for power   “Nigeria is in dire need of Asiwaju’s visionary, pragmatic, and purposeful leadership. Tested and trusted, Bola AHMED Tinubu is endowed with the all the attributes required to take Nigeria to an enviable height and cement its rightful place among the committee of nations. “Asiwaju’s political reach transcends across the Northern and Southern region of the country. “With Bola Tinubu on the ballot, the All Progressives Congress will extend its electoral run of success by securing victory in all elections for the party and further shut the door on the opposition PDP from having access to our national treasury and once again, harvesting our collective common wealth as they did with reckless abandon during their 16 years in government.” He insisted that Nigerians are more determined than ever to improve their standard of living and are earnestly yearning for leadership that caters to the needs and aspirations of all. “A leadership that will tackle head-on the various challenges bedeviling our country and set us on the path of economic recovery, growth, national cohesion and development. “We, therefore believe strongly that Asiwaju is the man to take over the baton of leadership from our indefatigable President and Commander-in-chief of the armed forces – President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR. “We hereby use this medium to prevail on the founding members of the party, its leadership and all relevant stakeholders in ensuring that due process is followed and ensure that a level playing field is given in electing who leads the party. “No doubt, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu possesses all the right qualities to lead us to the promise land and by God’s grace, we’re confident that he will emerge as the party’s flag bearer on Monday ahead of the 2023 general elections,” he said. According to him, “the SWAGA 6 movement – a pan-Nigeria group made up of members from the country’s six geopolitical zones, having examine critically the profiles and credentials of the various contenders and based on their pedigree and antecedents, our group as part of our mandate to contribute our quota in the policies and decision making of our dear country, we have considered it necessary to lend our voice on the choice of a suitable leader for the office of the President, Federal Republic of Nigeria. “In addition, the South West Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu (SWAGA 6), is immensely grateful to our convener, mentor, and philanthropist per excellence, Alhaja Kafilat Ogbara for her kind support, courage and commitment towards the realization of the lined up activitiesof this movement in support of our leader – the Jagaban of Borgu, Bola Ahmed Tinubu.”