The National Pension Commission’s (PenCom) objective to appoint 173 Law and Accounting firms to recover pension liabilities is yielding fruits. According to PenCom, in its report for the first quarter of the year,  N422.34 million representing principal contribution of N124.89 million and penalty N295.45 million was recovered from 23 defaulting employers by the recovery agents. PenCom Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahiru, in a statement, said through the agents, the commission has been able to recover unremitted pension contributions along with the accrued interest from defaulting employers. She stated that the sums were paid into the RSAs of the affected employees; and not to PenCom. She pointed out there are liabilities in the formal and informal sectors. She said: “The challenge of recovering pension liabilities was a necessary hurdle for PenCom to achieve the objective of ensuring every retiree gets paid as and when due. It was in that regard that the Commission appointed agents to recover unremitted pension contributions from defaulting employers.   Court restrains Oyo Assembly from impeaching Deputy Governor     Three die in Lagos-Ibadan road accident     Sultan directs Muslim to look out for new moon of…   “Section 93 of the PRA 2014 empowers the commission to appoint agents or qualified persons to carry out such duties as inspection, examination or investigation of the employers in relation to pension records or pension funds or assets. The recoveries are to include interest penalties to compensate affected employees for loss of income that would have been earned from investment returns if their pension contributions were remitted into their RSAs within the stipulated timeframe. “The recovery exercise ensures that there is full compliance of private sector employers with the provisions of the PRA 2014. Specifically, Section 11 (3) of the Act provides that an employer shall deduct at source the monthly pension contribution of the employee (8 percent) not later than seven working days afteraries are paid, and remit same along with the employer portion (minimu Dercent) into the employee’s Retirement Savings Account (RSA), opened ployee with the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) of his or her choice”. She further stated that Section 11 (6) of the PRA 2014 also provides that an loyer who fails to remit the pension contributions of the employee wit lated time shall be liable to a penalty. “The penalty prescribed shall not be less than two per cent of the outstanding on contributions for each month that it remains unpaid. This is in line w rovisions of Section 24(g) of the 2014, which empowers PenCom to administrative or civil sanctions or fines on erring employers. “Employers are enjoined to provide the cooperation to the recovery agents who assist and represent PenCom to ensure compliance wit ons of the PRA 2014. It is, therefore, expected that the recovery agents are granted access to inspect the pension records of the employer and assisted with the requested documentation to carry out successful pension audit in the interest of all concerned. The identities and records of the rcovery agents appointed by PenCom can be found on PenCom’s website (www.pencom.gov.ng),” she added.