The Plateau Police Command has confirmed one person killed by gunmen at a community in Kuru, Jos South Local Government Area. The attack, which happened on Friday, was rumoured to have been carried out around Government Science School Kuru, leaving one student dead and two students and a middle aged man sustaining gunshot wounds. The gunmen suspected to be armed herdsmen attacked Kuru community on Friday Night with sporadic gunshots heard ringing throughout the area. The attackers were alleged to have been resisted by some community local forces who engaged them in a duel to forestall further casualties. Other reports claimed that the victims where on their way back to the school premises when gunmen opened fire on them. The body of the deceased student is said to have been deposited at Plateau specialist hospital while the injured have been taken to Jos University Teaching Hospital for treatment. However in a swift reaction, the Police Command debunked there was an attack on the Science School Kuru.   Nurse gets support after losing legs in Owo terror attack     Igweship throne tears Enugu community apart     APC Deputy Women Leader vows to ensure Tinubu’s…   A statement by Plateau Police spokesman DSP Alabo Alfred, reads: “The attention of the Plateau State Police Command has been drawn to news making the rounds in some sections of the media space alleging erroneously that Science School Kuru, Jos is under attack by some groups believed to be terrorists. “The Command wishes to set the records straight that on 10/06/2022 at about 200hrs, information was received at our end that some unknown hoodlums were firing along Mararaban Jama’a, Riyom road not Science School Kuru Jos as it is reported by cross section of the media. ” Upon receipt of the report, a high powered team of Policemen and other security agencies responded swiftly mobilised to the scene of the incident but on reaching the scene, the gunmen had fled leaving behind one person dead and three others injured. “The injured persons were conveyed immediately to the hospital for treatment. Meanwhile the Police are still on the trail of the fleeing suspects. “The Commissioner of Police Plateau State Command, CP Bartholomew N. Onyeka, psc (+) advised members of the Public to go about their lawful business as normalcy has already been restored in the area. “He also assured that his men are on ground to contain any further disruption of peace. “The CP further advised members of the Press to always cross check their facts before reporting such issues of high security importance to members of the public in order not to mislead them.”