Members of the Tinubu Support Groups (TSG), in Enugu State, weekend vowed to unite the Southeast in support of the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2023 elections. Speaking in Enugu during a party held in celebration of Tinubu’s victory during the just concluded primary election of the ruling party in Abuja, coordinator of the group and immediate past state chairman of the APC, Dr. Ben Nwoye, said the group was united in making sure that the APC candidate emerged victory not only in Enugu State but the Southeast at large. “We are united in our mission; the goal is victory for our leader and presidential candidate, His Excellency, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu come 2023”, Nwoye said. He explained that the reason was because Tinubu is the only man that can protect the interest of the Southeast. Nwoye stated, “We shall look forward to moving forward. The unity of purpose demonstrated today is next to none. We shall work hard to unite all supporters of our presidential flag bearer across every internal and external party divide.   Running mates: Worry less about religion, NPSA urges…     Presidency assures youths of credible elections     No PVC, no salary – IPMAN warns employees   “The various  groups you are seeing here today are supporters of our leader and  presidential candidate, His Excellency, Senator Ahmed Bola Tinubu, (the Jagaban) the next president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria by the special grace of God. These support groups are committed and are going to ensure that we mobilize enough voters for our candidate during the 2023 presidential general election, adding that the APC presidential flag bearer remains the best amongst all the candidates of the various political parties. “There were Southeasterners who were commissioners and Special Advisers when the Asiwaju was the governor of Lagos State. So, we want to assure our people that what Asiwaju started as a governor by bringing Ndigbo close to his government, will be replicated better when he is president of Nigeria.