While  many players are involved  with mega transfer deals across  clubs  in Europe, Nigeria’s high-profile players are largely still at the clubs they were at last season fuelling suspicion  that the country’s  failure to qualify  for the forthcoming  FIFA World Cup Qatar  2022  may have accounted  for the glitches. TUNDE LIADI reports. Europe’s big leagues appeared to have little interest in Nigeria’s top footballers and there’s little sign that will change as the Summer Transfer Window gathers momentum. In the lead up to the current transfer window, hitman Victor Osimhen garnered attention from many big clubs as a clutches of English Premier League clubs including Manchester United, Arsenal, Newcastle as well as Bayern Munich. Yet nothing has happened and the longer the offseason goes on, the less likely that will be to happen. It certainly seems like aeons ago that Austin Okocha became Africa’s most expensive player when he moved from Fenerbahce to Paris Saint Germain for $15 million in 1998. These days, that transfer does not even register in the top 10 African transfers of all time. Even worse so, few Nigerian players has managed to crack into the current top 10  while Osimhen’s $96M  deal from Lille to Napoli  remains the continent’s highest transfer deal ever. Incidentally,  this could shape up to be one of the busiest summers for European clubs as they hunt for quality addition to their squads ahead of the  new season but  prospects for Nigerian players are looking so bleak. Former African Footballer of the Year Emmanuel Amuneke told NationSport that a consistent failure to develop players from the grassroots which means that the country continues to export quantity rather than quality is among the reasons for the present norm. “The reality is that football has evolved a lot compared to the 1980s and 1990s and this is  2022,” explained the former Barcelona winger. “The game is in the process of change with new rules of the game and new dynamics. “From grassroots, we have not been able to develop our players from technical and tactical points of view for the players to have the understanding and the ability to interpret the game from tactical and technical points but in football nowadays,  talent alone can’t give you the result or win something for you,” Amuneke said. Amuneke  further stated that while other nations have sought for ways to improve their players which in turn has helped to attract top clubs from top leagues in Europe, Nigeria has failed to do anything significant on human development. He continued: “You can’t blame why Nigerian players are not signed by established clubs because other countries  have been able to develop their players. They have players that are competing in the top leagues and that has afforded the opportunity for top clubs to look into their directions. “But I don’t think the Super Eagles’ inability to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup has any bearing on our players not attracting move to top clubs but I t could have been a big opportunity for them to showcase their talent knowing that the World Cup is one of the biggest stages in football,” he further explained. Former  BCC Lions midfielder Bolaji Douglas disclosed that Nigerian players are not transfer targets of top clubs because they need to improve  their performance for their clubs and country, even as he dispelled the notion that Nigeria’s omission from the Qatar 2022 World Cup may have affected  the Eagles players during the on-going  transfer window. “I doubt if it has anything to do with the Eagles inability to qualify for Qatar, although we might say this next year that our presence in the World Cup could have given the players a platform to showcase their ability,” Douglas began. “But I think the scouts and those who handle the transfers, rely more than one tournament. “Players are scouted over a period of time ,if such makes it to a major tournament it helps needless to say. I believe the inability of our players to be amongst the top transfer targets has to do with a couple of compelling issues. “Throughout last season,  apart from  Victor  Osimhen at Napoli, Taiwo Awoniyi at Hertha Berlin , Calvin Bassey  who finished  strongly in UEFA with Rangers, our boys did not really set their leagues ablaze. “For some time there have been transfer speculations around Ndidi for a big move ,bit that is yet to happen. He had a decent season, but in comparison to previous season ,I think he came short , this of course was due to his injury problems. “Quality wise those were the key guys that really tick the marks performance and quality wise. We have so many players now in the European leagues but only a few have really demonstrated that they deserve to play at a bigger stage.” Douglas noted  that some Nigerian players are content to sign for moderate clubs at the right fees and he assumed that most nation’s players are at the clubs that befit their performance presently. He said: “Personally I think most of our players are playing at the level they belong to at least for now. I want to believe that if Osimhen had not struggled with injuries, he had the momentum to propel him into the elite transfer list. But the injuries and then of course, the high price tag, became a stumbling block. “To sum it up I believe there are so many points to take on board, I don’t see anything anyone can do, but there are factors that can help improve their fortunes in the transfer market this include getting  good agents. “Secondly,  they  should make themselves  an indispensable asset to their  clubs “ The third one can be likened to an icing on a cake. While not qualifying for Qatar might not have been a dampener, I would love to believe that the performances of the team over the qualifiers and the AFCON undersold their value. “The super Eagles have not looked anything super since 2018 WC.” Meanwhile, Super Eagles Coordinator, Patrick Pascal emphasized on the complete overhaul of existing structures, including regulating academies, setting minimum standards of training and creating viable pathways to the national teams and then to Europe. He said Government should see football as business venture and not as an instrument to settle political allies or as youth empowerment scheme if the quality of the Nigerian league is to improve for it to attract sponsors and also impels top clubs from Europe to droll over the league’s stars. “Most league players are anxious to leave for foreign clubs when they are yet to learn the rudiments and what it entails to go abroad. They most times settle for any foreign club in their bid to survive,” Pascal stressed.   Gara Gombe sues for caution on NFF elections     CELEBRITY CORNER: Messi, Fabregas enjoy holidays with their…     Kaduna Profile sweep stakes at Sallah Polo Tournament   He offered: “Some good players are owed by academies. They don’t want to allow their players to go abroad. They will brainwash them that traveling abroad remains the best for them because NPFL clubs don’t have money to pay them. Academies only organise scouting programmes for them. “Academies normally should serve as breeding ground for NPFL clubs to have players before these players gain the necessary exposure and finesse that will help them when they go overseas. “The target of academies is to have players in the national teams. Academies have some quality players that you may not get in the various leagues but these players are groomed with the intent of traveling abroad when they must start from the youth team of the club they signed for irrespective of how good they are. European clubs like to go for Academy players because they will get them young and very cheap. “We must go back to how it was when academies are serving as breeding grounds for various leagues. “Another issue is that most Nigerian clubs are owned by the government. In some states, the Governors do not know what is happening around their clubs. Most have clubs as means to empower the youths and not with business intentions. Government goes to the extent of buying match tickets for fans to watch senior national team games. Facilities are not available too because most of our stadiums have gone bad.” The former Genclerbirligi player clamoured for the return of sponsors for the Nigeria Professional Football League so that league games could return to television and such more global attention would be on Nigerian players. Similarly, former Nigeria international, Edema Fuludu, decried  the poor state of the Nigeria Professional Football League, adding authorities should  do more to enhance the profile of the league in order to provide a better platform to improve the fortunes of domestic league footballers. “In spite of the effort by the League Management Company to reposition our league in order to make it viable, we are still not there yet,” he noted. “We can assess ourselves during transfer windows like this when top league clubs jostle for our players like we used to have in the 1990s which showed that scouts can see the potential in us.” Yet  former Super Eagles Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr noted that Nigerian players too could be snapped up by top clubs if they are consistent for their clubs and the national team citing the example of Sadio Mane’s transfer from Liverpool to Bayern Munich. “Nigerian players too will have offers also but it depends on what they are doing in their clubs and the national team. Sadio Mane will be at the World Cup which is always good for the players to have more values and to have the interests of the big clubs,” Rohr said. One-time Super Eagles winger, Tijani Babangida hinted that ensuring that the senior national team attends all major competitions is a blessing to both the country and the players. He said that most European clubs measure the standard of the players they are chasing based In their performances for their present clubs and their national team. The former Ajax star noted  that  the Super  Eagles failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup would no doubt affect their market rating. “Most clubs in Europe check players’ performance from their clubs and national team hence our players should know that playing for the national team is a privilege,” Babangida counselled. “Most times , clubs and scouts do watch African Cup of Nations and World Cup with keen interest to see players they can acquire. “A player can be playing same thing in his club but the moment he hits it on the national team and a big tournament like World Cup all the big deals will no doubt come his way. “Even during our time, we always fought to participate in big tournament not only playing but showing our skills and ensuring we bring victory  to our nation because victory for our nation is a self-victory,” he added. FOR THE RECORDS:  Africa’s  10 most expensive transfers 10: Sadio Mane: Southampton to Liverpool , 2016 – $42.5 million 9:Hakim Ziyech: Ajax to Chelsea, 2020 – $43.5 million 8:Mohamed Salah: Roma to Liverpool, 2017 – $44.5 million 7:Achraf Hakimi: Real Madrid to Inter Milan, 2020 – $53 million 6:Naby Keita: Leipzig to Liverpool, 2018 – $64 million 5:Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang: Dortmund to Arsenal, 2018 – $71 million 4:Riyad Mahrez, Leicester City to Man City, 2018 – $76 million 3:Cedric Bakambu: Villarreal to Beijing Guoan, 2018 – $83 million 2:Nicolas Pepe: Lille to Arsenal, 2019 – $94 million 1:Victor Osimhen: Lille to Napoli, 2020 – $96 million