No fewer than five persons have been reportedly killed by suspected herdsmen in Ogbede-Mgbuji Eha-Amufu community in Isi-Uzo local government area of Enugu State on Tuesday. In the neighbouring Ikem community in isi -Uzo LGA, no less than four indigenes have been kidnapped in the past two weeks with different sums of ransom paid for their release. While the deceased could not be identified, the kidnapped victims include the Catechist of Saint James Catholic Church, Ishioroto-Ikem Mr. Lawrence Ndu; an Italy based evangelist, Mr. Emeka Odo and his brother Ikechukwu Odo; and the most recent victim, Ejike Agbodo, a bus driver who was kidnapped while on commercial duty along Ikem- Benue state road. Narrating his experience, the Italy-based Evangelist, Emeka Odo disclosed the over 10 kidnappers who abducted them along Ikem- Obollo Afor road were all Fulani terrorists that welded AK-47. Odo, who quickly went back to his base shortly after he regained freedom, narrated that they were flagged down in their car, commandeered into the bush and were taken through bush tracks to Eha-Amufu and Benue state boarder, adding that they paid ransom before they were set free. At Eha-Amufu, the invading herdsmen were also said to have destroyed scores of houses and sacked 14 farm settlements where over 3,000 farmers lived and farmed. Some community leaders who spoke with newsmen on Wednesday, said that members of the community were no longer going to farm either to cultivate or harvest their crops.   Abductors demand N10m ransom for Abia journalist     I’ll run for presidency again in future – Yahaya…     What you probably didn’t know about Peter Obi   Addressing journalists on the constant killing of their people by herdsmen at Eha-Amufu town on Wednesday, Chief Jerome Odo, said they were constantly living in fear of attacks as no one knows who will be the next to be killed. He said that their women were being are raped in the farm, citing a woman seven herdsmen raped few days at the troubled community. Enugu Police Command confirmed the attacks. The Command’s spokesman Daniel Ndukwe, who confirmed the incident in a text messages, said manhunt had been launched against the assailants whom he said were yet to be known. Ndukwe said: “Police Operatives responded to a distress call, alleging the murder of two (2) male victims by yet-to-be identified gunmen and some others said to be missing, at Ogbede-Mgbuji, Eha-Amufu, on 13/06/2022 at about 11.45pm. “The operatives took the two (2) lifeless bodies to the hospital, where they were confirmed dead by doctors and deposited in the mortuary for autopsy. “Meanwhile, manhunt of the assailants has commenced, while there is no report of any burnt house(s). Further development will be communicated, please”.