According to an elder (name withheld) who claimed he knew singer right from when he was a little boy of about ten years old, Habeeb Okikiola was a quiet little boy growing up under his mother and step-father. “We lived in the same compound with his mother on Moshalashi Street, Sango Ogun State. He was a little boy of about ten years old; his mother was married to another man. Their mother had three children: Amina, Shukura and Habeeb. “From all I remember of him, he was a quiet little boy; he never showed any traits or love for music or singing. At least, none that I knew of. Even all this rascally behaviour he now exhibits, he never exhibited them. He was in primary school. “Later, their family left there along with her husband, who was my friend. They went to rent a house in Agbado around Kollington area. Later they went to live around High Court Area in Ota. It was at about that time that their mother died. He was a teenager then. By then, his eldest sister Amina had become matured. It was their stepfather who got them that rooming apartment at Oke Osa, where she lived with Habeeb, whom you people now know as Mr Portable. Of course you know that environment always influence a child.  When a child grows up in a bus stop or motor park area, what do you expect. That was where he started mingling with all sorts of characters who influenced him. ” Make no mistake about it, he has also been through tough times before fortune smiled on him. Of course it is now that people know him, but he has been in the wilderness for long, singing, struggling to make a name for himself with little success.”   CALVIN BASSEY: I’m aiming for the sky     Buhari, North’s govs clear coast for Tinubu, Osinbajo,…     Man stoned, burnt to death, in Abuja over alleged blasphemy   About his hemp smoking habit, the community leader said, “the marijuana he started taking along with all other stuff are the things which have influenced the type of person he has become. He used to be promoted by a certain promoter, Ija Omode, who was a leader of the okada riders in that area. He saw his potentials and decided to promote him to stardom, using his resources. “Later, they had a misunderstanding in which he accused Ija Omode of trying to kill him. later they settled the rift. I witnessed one of their fights; I was coming from my office and met them where they attacked him and destroyed his car. I had to interfere. It was when he came with policemen and saw me that he prostrated to me and said, “Baba, please, they want to kill me. I don’t know what I have done to them. “So, he has been through a lot. Now you see him buying a car for his dad, but where was father all that time he was suffering? Back then, we never saw his father. Even his step-father, whom I know played a big part in their upbringing, even after their mother’s death, I’m not sure he remembers him now.” On his habit of sharing money, he said, “Of course he never expect to come this far in life. He never knew he could come across such humongous money, that is why he is indulging in such excesses. he also sees it as his way of reaching out to the masses. About the viral video where he was accused of stealing a tricycle and stripped him naked, the elderly neighbour corroborated Aminat’s version: “That was when he had a clash with Ija Omode, the promoter. It’s a long time ago, when he was not this known. He actually never stole the tricycle; it was just a set-up to get back at him. He later came back, when he had become a star, to fight Ija Omode on his birthday, as a form of retaliation.