Brains and Hammers,  a real estate company, has blazed another trail with the inauguration of 101 units of mixed housing in Lagos. Tagged CoopEast Resort Estate, the project, situated in the Lekki area of Lagos, was developed in partnership with the Cooperative Societies  of Shell, and ExxonMobil, as well as a handful of individual subscribers. On the importance of the landmark achievement, the Chief Operating Officer (West) Brains and Hammers, Mr. Omo Osobase,  noted that the project was a testament to the three fundamental tenets of being the partner of choice of private and public organisations, developing projects that meet best global practices and providing a sense of investment and humane comfort for our clients. “When we announced this first-of-its-kind real estate development partnership with the cooperative societies of Shell and ExxonMobil in the third quarter of 2019, we were very clear on the task ahead and the audacity of our ambition. This ambition was solidly rooted in our determination to deliver not just high quantity, but quality housing units built to the best global practice and at a price that would not break the bank despite the unique location.”   BAT Nigeria to address climate change, environmental issues     Adron Homes offers N10m fuel to 3,000 Nigerians     NIQS to MDA: track constituency projects   “Despite the onslaught of Covid-19 and the very volatile economic situation in the country between 2020 and today, we have weathered the storm to deliver this project below the projected 24 months construction timeline. Today, we have commissioned units of 3-bedroom flats, 4-bedroom terrace duplex, 4-bedroom semi-detached duplex, and 5-bedroom detached duplex with BQ’s.” The Chairman of Brains and Hammers, Mr. Adebola Sheidu, noted that the company was on a mission to reshape the residential and commercial real estate landscape in Nigeria. He said the company had proven with over 10,000 completed projects in Abuja, Kano, Lagos, and Oyo State. The Kano Economic City, arguably the biggest Economic City project in West Africa, and the Oyo State Agri-business industrial hub projects speak to the importance of public-private partnerships to the company. Mr. Sheidu said: “I am proud of our work on this project, and my sincere thanks to our partners, Shell, and ExxonMobil cooperatives. They not only trusted in our ability but showed a great sense of belief in our resolve to complete this project in record time despite the pandemic and economic challenges of the last two years.” The President of Shell Cooperative, Martins Amos, expressed delight with the project and praised Brains and Hammers its professionalism while delivering the project.