Controversial Catholic cleric and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), Reverend Father Ejike Mbaka, seems unable to stay out of the boiler room in his priestly calling, no thanks to an unruly tongue. It is one season, one trouble for him with the Catholic Church, and those troubles often derive from his unique penchant for vocally pitching into partisan frays where an overseer’s reserve and dispassion would have made better judgment. Mbaka is one man who fights battles on many fronts – outside of his calling with partisan interests, and within his calling with the Catholic establishment. Call him a political priest and you’re the deal. Against the run of stiff disposition and shyness from murky politics that characterises the clergy, he swims in the murk and openly pitches camp with, or against political actors as negates conventional priestly neutrality. By all accounts, he falls into a class of his own. Not for the first time, Mbaka’s Adoration parish is presently under some interdiction by the Catholic Church. Enugu Diocese Catholic Bishop Callistus Onaga, penultimate weekend, slammed a temporary ban on Catholic faithful from attending activities at the parish, following scathing remarks by Mbaka against Labour Party (LP) presidential candidate Peter Obi. Onaga, in a statement, explained that the ban owed to Mbaka’s refusal to heed several “fraternal corrections and admonitions” extended to him by the diocesan leadership. “In fulfillment of my pastoral duties as chief shepherd with obligation to promote and safeguard the Catholic faith and morals in Enugu diocese, I hereby prohibit all Catholics – clergy, religious and lay faithful – henceforth from attending all religious and liturgical activities of the Catholic Adoration Ministry until the due process initiated by the diocese is concluded,” he said inter alia. Mbaka incurred the big stick with his diatribe against the 2023 presidential aspiration of Obi who he described as stingy, saying the politician would not succeed with his bid unless he returned to Adoration ground to apologise for refusing to make a donation when he was requested to. Speaking during ministrations penultimate Wednesday, he declared that Obi could only become president if God ceases to exist, adding that the former Anambra State governor was cursed. The priest argued that it is better to have an old man as president than a “stingy young man,” adding: “Unless Peter comes here to kneel, if he becomes president, he will close down this ministry. What we are doing is spiritual. If Igbo people are looking for a representative in Nigeria, they are not the kind of person Peter Obi is. Whoever refuses to donate to the church should not be president.” Those comments drew the flak from Obi’s sympathisers and there were moves immediately after, both by the Catholic establishment and the controversial priest, at damage control. The church, in an initial statement, condemned Mbaka’s comments as provocative and divisive, saying the views he expressed were entirely personal. It further held the comments “a clear violation” of the provisions of Canon 287(2) that forbids Catholic priests from engaging in partisan politics, and also Canon 220 of the 1983 Code of the Canon Law that prohibits anyone from “illegitimately harming” the good name of a person. In a dark hint at possible excommunication of the priest, the church stated: “In an effort to keep him united to the Body of Christ, we enjoin him to refrain from making further provocative prophecies or utterances capable of heating up the polity.” Mbaka himself soon returned – quite uncharacteristically at that – with a gushing apology to Obi and his sympathisers, explaining that his intention was not to malign the politician but to pray for him. “In any way the supporters of Mr. Peter Obi feel offended by my utterances or however I was misunderstood by them, I ask for their understanding and forgiveness. As a servant of the Most High God, I pray that it shall be well with my people,” he said in a statement he personally signed, adding: “My intention is not to fight or malign Mr. Peter Obi. He is my friend and remains my friend and brother. I love him and I wish him success…God’s will be done in his political endeavors.”   Cech joins list of Chelsea departures     Mane gets jersey No. 17 at Bayern Munich     Ex- Nottingham legend tips Awoniyi for EPL  glory   It was despite this effusive apology that Onaga banned Catholic faithful from Adoration ground. And in unprecedented show of submissive contrition, Mbaka swiftly followed up with a statement of his own shutting down all activities of the ministry. When his followers demonstrated penultimate Sunday in rejection of Onaga’s ban and called for his  removal as diocesan bishop, Mbaka threw them under the bus, disowning them; and last Wednesday, he told members who dug in on Adoration ground in defiance of the ban to go home and stop castigating Onaga. “I’m a priest of the Catholic Church and the Bishop is my father. I swore an oath to obey him and his successors. I cannot do otherwise,” he said. The eager contrition by Mbaka was a novel track for the priest whose radical ministry has always strained against the conservative mould of the Catholic church. Why he has not cut lose from the church and asserted clerical independence remains a curiosity, since he has a cult following that oftentimes dares the authority of the Catholic establishment. Besides, he is a parish priest who has a big individual profile on national canvass, and his fiery political activism tips him now and then onto a collision course with the larger church. He has built for himself an image personal and distinct from the church, but it was crass expedience by the political class that gifted him the prominence he commands. Because he takes hard positions openly through prophetic projections that he has been quite lucky with fulfilment rate, political actors court his alliance. But there is mercantilist element Mbaka injects in those alliances he forges, such that his ‘spiritual’ fidelity to an alliance is hinged on material payback by the ally.  He once had a sizzling romance with President  Muhammadu Buhari, and when he visited Aso Rock in the aftermath of the 2015 election – even being a private citizen – he was received in audience jointly by the President and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. But that romance subsequently soured on disputed grounds: the presidency said his demands for pecuniary favours were rebuffed, not being in line with due process, whereas Mbaka cited mandate failures on the part of the administration. Along the line, however, he openly chided the President for being tight fisted though he yet supported him for the 2019 poll. With the uneasy courtship, parting of ways was a matter of time, and it came in due course. In all of Mbaka’s exploits until the latest instance, his causes resonated with his cultural / community base, and that was one reason the Catholic Church couldn’t hold him in check. In 2021, he was in the trenches against the church over his approbation of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Leader Nnamdi Kanu who commands sympathy from a large segment of Igbo people, and censure of the Buhari administration for which there was no much love lost with the people. And so, when the Catholic leadership assayed to rein him into isolation, his disappearance triggered a riot in Enugu that compelled his being let out of isolation, and he returned unbowed though he cooled off for a season on controversy. The difference this time, apparently, is that Mbaka frontally sacrificed  context resonance with the subject he picked upon. In other words, he miscarried with his tongue. Amidst widespread Igbo sympathy for Obi’s aspiration, Mbaka talked himself into isolation, which was why he quickly pedalled back in penitence. That must also be the motivation for his contrite submission to the church. But the Catholic establishment itself leaned overreachingly into interference with constitutional freedom of association by banning members from where they preferred to worship. You do not tell people where to go, or not in servicing their religious convictions within lawful limits, and die-hard followers of Mbaka made that much point by digging in on Adoration ground in defiance of Onaga’s ban. Besides, the sensitivity of the Enugu Catholic diocese to the subject matter may not be entirely disconnected from Igbo mood on Obi’s aspiration, perhaps more so than abuse of priestly codes by Mbaka. This would mean the church was as well, wittingly or unwittingly, partisan. The church should search its own soul.