He broke out as a FIFA football licensed agent otherwise known as intermediary, by fishing out many Nigerian youngsters and ferried  them  abroad for professional football career,  but Victor Macdonald   is now a fisher of men in God’s vineyard. A man of many parts ; and aside his football-related and pastoral activities,  the Orlu-born MacDonald  is also a writer,  publisher and philanthropist who  is highly revered in  the Kingdom of Swaziland. Regarded as one the most renowned personalities in that Southern Africa region of the continent, his fame received further boost when he recently authored and published the biography of the country’s ninth Prime Minister, Absalom Themba Dlamini who held sway between November 2003 and 2008. The book  aptly titled ‘A.T. Dlamini: A  Future That Came Early’  was presented  to the public late  February at an octane event that attracted the crème de la crème in  the Southern Africa region including  the current Prime Minister  of Swaziland,  Prince Cleopas   Sipho  Dlamini , high-ranking ministers ,  Members of Parliament  as well as the Governor of the Central Bank of Swaziland among others. The  founder of the  God’s  Glory Ministry of  Swaziland, is reportedly known for his prophetic evangelism which has made him a darling of both the low and might  making his  Makholokholo ‘s place of worship  a must be for worship and crusade on Wednesdays and Saturdays. “ The pastor of God’s  Glory Ministry of  Swaziland, McDonald’s prophetic prowess  has  earned him a large  following  and respect in the  Southern Kingdom of  Swaziland because his ministry has being of help to both the rich and the downtrodden, “  Danusa Ocholi, a media practitioner  told NationSport.“ In fact, it is a common knowledge out there that many people visit his church, pleading for one assistance or the other due to various challenges. “ He is well-loved  because of  prophetic  assistances, he’s known to offer practical ways of assisting so many financially too.” “ Such spiritual and financial assistance has seen many who  have received  such help  return to deliver testimonies with  concrete proofs  of  positive changes in their lives.” Meanwhile, McDonald  said his evangelism  journey  had long being with him  right from his early days, adding he only took it to a higher pedestal  at God’s appointed time. “I have always been a working for God and humanity right from when I’m in Nigeria working as a football agent,” the soft spoken MacDonald further told NationSport. “  I just decided to make it a full-time thing after realising that God gave  me this gift for a purpose and  he would not sustain me until I serve  him full-time.   Super Eagles goal king race Legends tip Osimhen to break…     SWAN seeks rancour-free election     Mane returns to village, plays in muddy local match   “ Frankly, I do not have  any special powers to perform  miracles but relies on prayer and faith in  God  Almighty who answer the prayers and supplications rendered to  him together with those  who  come to seek his  interventions,”  he noted. Macdonald  was quick to point out that he does  not  presently have a church as such, but only  organises  prayer meetings on  Wednesdays and Saturdays and would continue  to do as such  rather than open a  church for now. “ Though I have other things I’m doing, players’  management is  only taking just   10 per cent of my  time while the remaining  90 per cent is for  doing God’s work and this is what I’ve been doing for about 17 years,” he noted. “ This is just my way of   giving back to God  as well as humanity what God has done in my own life; giving back to the people and  helping the less fortunate  to find a way to a better life that God has intended for them is the least I can do .” McDonald said he reached the decision to serve God with vigour  after consultations with his family who are  happy with his evangelism. He disclosed that he conducts  a programme called ‘God’s  Prison Fellowship’ by  visiting the Matsapha Maximum Correctional facility on Wednesdays to spend at least  about four hours sharing the word of God and His wonderful works in order to help the inmates retrace their steps and serve God. Yet MacDonald is proud of his humble beginning, adding he would forever be grateful to many Nigerians who contributed immensely to his growth from the outset even as he lauded the likes of  Elder Paul Bassey , a frontline journalist and current  chairman  of Akwa United Football Club,  former Nigeria International Justice Adokiye Amiesimaka ;  the CEO of  Brila FM Larry Izamoje,  the late Publisher of  Complete Football Dr. Sunny Ojeagbase;  MD of Complete Football  Dr. Mumini Alao, Mr. Football Ejikeme  Ikwunze, the CEO of ScoreNigeria  Samm Audu, Chief Rotimi Amaechi, Chief Ambrose Iwegbe   as well as  Ifeanyi  Mmeromuku ; Femi Fasetire ; Afolabi Gambari, Morakinyo Abodunrin  among others. He remarked : “I will  ever remain grateful to  both Elder Bassey and  Chief Amiesimaka for introducing him to the business aspect of  sports especially players’ management. “Elder Bassey has  being great influence and I appreciate his financial contributions towards the burial of my   mother, Mrs  Nneoma Ukozor  Patricia Mercy. “ There are several others too that I have mentioned and they all in one way or the other contributed their quotas towards whom I’m today and I would forever be grateful.”