Nigerians from different walks of life have continued to condole with the Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of the THISDAY Media Group/ARISE News Channel, Prince  Nduka Obaigbena. Obaigbena’s mother, Princess Margaret Obaigbena died at the age of 88. President Muhammadu Buhari, commiserating with the THISDAY publisher in a message, described the late Princess Margaret as a pillar of strength for the family, an accomplished mother and revered community leader, whose absence would be felt far beyond her immediate environment. The President also noted that her demise would create a great vacuum in the community. Buhari, therefore, urged the family to take solace in the understanding that she lived her passion by caring for the distressed and disadvantaged. President also condoled with the government and people of Edo and Delta states on the loss of the illustrious citizen who contributed immensely to the development of the two states. The President prayed that God Almighty grant her soul eternal rest. Tinubu: Princess Obaigbena made her mark Also, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asíwájú Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in a condolence message to Obaigbena released on Friday by his Media Office in Abuja, prayed for the repose of the soul of Princess Obaigbena who made important contributions to the development of Nigeria and Delta State in particular. He said: “By way of this statement, please accept my condolences over the passing of your mother, Princess Margaret Obaigbena née Usifoh. “Princess Obaigbena made her mark as a nurse of great standing, rising to the zenith as Chief Nursing Officer of the defunct Bendel State Government and later Delta State Government. “While recording significant milestones on the job, she also made important contributions to the development of Nigeria and Delta State. “Princess Obaigbena would be remembered for her service to mankind through her care for the sick and distressed. “We must thank God that Princess Obaigbena died at an advanced age and left worthy children including you and your other siblings. I commiserate, through you, with other members of the family, particularly your siblings. “I must also extend my sympathy to Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, his Edo State counterpart, Mr Godwin Obaseki, and the Royal Palace of the Obi of the Owa Kingdom in Delta State over the passing of their eminent daughter. “While praying that Almighty Allah comforts all of you over this passing, I also beseech Him to grant the soul of Princess Obaigbena eternal rest.” Sanwo-Olu condoles with THISDAY publisher The Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu in his condolence message to Obaigbena, issued on Friday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, urged the deceased’s family, friends, associates and the entire people of Owa Kingdom and Delta State to immortalise the good name and legacy of the deceased. He said the death of the matriarch of the Obaigbena family was a loss not just to her children and family but to the people of Owa Kingdom, Delta State and the society at large because of her positive impact on the lives of many people during her lifetime. “On behalf of my family, the government and the people of Lagos State, I commiserate with the Chairman of the ThisDay Newspapers and Arise TV Group, Prince Nduka Obaigbena on the demise of his beloved mother, Princess Margaret Obaigbena. “The elderly and wise counsel of Princess Obaigbena will be sorely missed not only by her children and family but the entire people of the Owa Kingdom and Delta State at large.” Uzodimma: We share in your loss Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachuku,  said the governor, government and people of Imo State share in Prince Nduka Obaiegbena’s loss, particularly at a time like this when her mother’s wise counsel was needed most in the country.   Bayo Osinowo: Two years after, associates still grieving     Police debunk claims by lady who tweeted about abduction…     Nigeria to end kerosene use in 2030 – Buhari   The governor acknowledged the late Margaret Obaiegbena’s contributions to her community,  state and country,  using her nursing profession. Uzodimma urged the Obaiegbenas to take solace in the fact that their matriarch left a legacy of an astute community leader, devout Christian mother, dependable politician and committed family woman of which many people will bear witness. Saraki: She was a great woman Former Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki, described the late Princess Margaret Obaigbena as a great woman who also lived a good life. Saraki in a press statement signed on his behalf by Yusuph Olaniyonu, the head of his Media Office, said though Mama Obaigbena attained a ripe age before she transitioned to glory, she would be sorely missed by all those who came into contact with her during her lifetime. “Mama Obaigbena was a good woman who saw all the friends and associates of her children, particularly, Nduka’s friends as her children and always prayed for their progress and safety. “My family and I commiserate with the whole of the Owa Kingdom which has lost a great Princess and mother, the government and people of Delta State who Mama served as a nursing officer and Special Adviser to three different governors as well as the Obaigbena family who have lost a matriarch.” God will grant her soul eternal repose –Okowa Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, while commiserating with the Chairman of THISDAY/Arise Group described Madam Obaigbena as “a great mother and an accomplished Nigerian who dedicated her life to the service of mankind through her profession and philanthropy. Okowa said, “On behalf of my family, the government, and the people of Delta, I mourn the exit of the matriarch of Obaigbena Royal family of Owa Kingdom. “The news of the passing of Princess Margaret Onyemakonor Obaigbena, came to me last night as a shock, especially when my nomination as the Vice Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had just been announced. “We know that death is the ultimate end of all mortals; I, therefore, encourage the children of Mama and all who mourn her departure to be encouraged by the good legacies she left behind. “It is my prayer that God will grant her soul eternal repose and grant the family and loved ones she left behind the fortitude to bear this loss.” She lived an exemplary life worthy of emulation—Ogun governor Mourning the passage of the Martriach of Obaigbena’s dynasty, the Ogun State governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, described the deceased as a woman of substance, thoroughbred, caregiver and great influencer of social justice while alive. Abiodun said the vacuum Madam Obaigbena left behind would not be easy to fill. The governor, however, urged the Obaigbena Family, particularly Nduka, to take solace in the fact that their mother lived an exemplary life worthy of emulation. The governor, in the statement, prayed for the repose of the soul of the departed. He also prayed that God will give the Obaigbena’s family members the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Lawan mourns Nduka Obaigbena’s mother The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in a statement by his media aide, Ola Awoniyi, in Abuja, commiserated with members of the Royal Family of Owa Kingdom, as well as the government and people of Delta State over the loss. “My heart goes to Mr Obaigbena and other members of the Royal Family of Owa Kingdom over this great loss. “But we can all take solace in the fact that the departed Princess lived an exemplary life as a wife and mother and delivered meritorious services in her nursing profession and as an Adviser to the government of Delta State. I pray that God will grant all who love her the fortitude to bear the loss and also grant her gentle soul eternal rest,” Lawan said.