All Progressives Congress (APC) National Women Leader, Dr. Betta Edu, has continued her advocacy for women seeking elective offices in the 2023 general election. She sought the support of Chinese government for such women as the country’s contributions towards deepening democracy in Nigeria. Edu spoke at a roundtable hosted by the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, His Excellency, Cui Jianchun. The parley was aimed at creating synergy between political parties in Nigeria and the Communist Party in China for shared experiences. The APC Women Leader restated the resolve of the ruling party to continually mainstream women and include them in playing significant roles in governance and nation-building. She acknowledged the unique roles women had played in the past and in the current dispensation. But Edu argued that women’s capacities could be further enhanced, if they get the needed support from the Chinese Government and other developmental partners. She said: “It is very important to note at this point that several women have played very significant roles in Nigeria’s nation-building but this can be improved if we are supported. “This can be improved if we are given a voice at all levels – from the grassroots all the way to the top and, of course, as it concerns every policy and decision made, giving us that place on the table to make our inputs.   Wike hosts Orubebe, other high profile PDP visitors     Buhari to Nigerians: let’s tolerate one another     Ekweremadu, wife deny allegations of human trafficking,…   “We said this because we want you to be specific in supporting women. We are going into the next general elections and we want China to support women in the various parties that are running to emerge victorious in their elections. “As we go into the next phase of development as a country, we seek specific assistance in providing jobs, educational programmes, providing scholarships that are directly targeted at women and giving them the rightful place. “I want to appreciate this giant stride and move by the Chinese Government to create a Nigeria-China symphony. It is one that will help in experience-sharing, strengthen the bond between both countries, and it can deepen our reforms as well as our democracy. “Today, we are looking at the Communist Party of China, which basically is over 100 years and has contributed immensely to building the economy of China, to making China the fastest developing country in the world and, of course, as well as fighting corruption and empowering women and youths in their country.” Ambassador Jianchun said in China, several governors are women and in different positions of leadership. He urged Nigeria to immediately imbibe that culture and support women to become governors, President, chairmen, senators, members of the House of Representatives and other political leadership positions. He added: “Parties should become more deliberate about ensuring that women are victorious and contribute their quota to national development. Remember, if we must make speed, women must be given their rightful place. “I have seen the five plans that have been listed. We want to put the sixth in your agenda and that number six will be women empowerment and inclusion in deepening of democracy and development.”