The Nigeria Women’s cricket Team rounded off their campaign at the 8th Kwibuka campaign with a win over Brazil to claim the fifth place at the Gahanga Cricket Oval in Kigali Rwanda at the weekend. The 30 run win returned the team to winning ways after a string of loss mid-tournament to Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda. “The team struggled at some point, but honestly, those were teams that ranked higher and played better, ” team’s coach Oyede, said.“But we have taken the lessons along the way and you will see that in the way the team played her last match.” Nigeria opened the tournament with three successive wins against Brazil, Germany and Botswana before the team crashed, one which the Coach has attributed to both stronger oppositions. “We lost to all teams that were naturally higher than us in ranking, but I believe we could have salvaged one or two wins from the four loses. But the team is growing and those games presented deep learning curve for the players individually and together as a team,” he added.   World Athletics tip Amusan for medals in Oregon     CAF Awards hold 21st July in Morocco     Rangers target former MFM striker Odey   Meanwhile, the Tanzanian team emerged overall winner of the 8th Kwibuka Tournament by posting a 44-run win over defending champion, Kenya. The win leaves the Kenyan team short of their fifth Kwibuka title. Tanzania became the Kwibuka Women’s T20 tournament champions for the third time and the second time since 2019 as they failed to participate in the 2021 edition after the majority of the national team’s players and the coaching staff tested positive for covid-19. Tanzania Head Coach Kelvin Njilinji said: “We could not attend the 2021 edition due to the covid-19 pandemic but we’re excited to be back to the tournament as champions. “We had enough time to prepare for this tournament and I am happy that my players were the difference not only in the final but throughout the tournament. I am proud of the whole team,” he added. Tanzania’s Perice Kamunya was voted player of the final match during which she made 29 runs to inspire her team to the title. Host, Rwanda, fell to the firepower of the Ugandan Women in the third-place match and had to settle for the fourth place while debutants at the Kwibuka , Germany and Brazil, had a win each.