Programme Manager, YouthHubAfrica, Segun Medupin has said there is a need to involve citizens in the budgetary processes for basic education. He spoke during the Good Governance in Education stakeholders’ meeting in Abuja. The stakeholders meeting was organised by YouthHubAfrica in collaboration with Development and Integrity Intervention Goal (DIG) Foundation, Kayode Alabi Leadership and Career Initiative, Women’s Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative (WRAPA) and Bridge Connect Africa Initiative and funded by Palladium Scale. He said the goal of the GGE is to achieve an increase budgetary allocation for basic education by 2023 at national and state levels. “On the Accountability for Good Governance in Education project, we hired a consultant to conduct a desk review on the income and expenditure of UBEC and SUBEB. Medupin said: “Today, we are sharing with the stakeholders to receive their input, validation and possible disagreement on the review.   Group canvasses El-Rufai’s deputy chief of staff as Sani’s…     Alia wins Benue APC governorship primary rerun     Workers trapped as aggrieved Abuja youths ground FCTA…   “One goal we plan to achieve is an increased budget for basic education by 2023 at national and state levels. “We also want citizens to be a part of the budgeting processes when it comes to basic education in Nigeria.” An Education Finance Consultant, Femi Aderibigbe, noted that the five-year grace period required for states to provide their 50 per cent counterpart funding as recommended in the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) guidelines was not in line with the political realities of the four-year tenure of governors. “If a governor is given a term to complete a 5-year payment in 4 years, it defeats the purpose of that provision created,” he added. Advocacy and Engagement Advisor at Palladium SCALE, Iliya Yohana, noted that the Accountability for Good Governance in Education project was concerned with policy implementation that would guarantee good governance in the sector. “Education is a critical sector for us, so we work through the cluster members, and they have identified transparency and accountability as one of the major hindrances to policy implementation in basic education,” Yohana said.