No fewer than 7, 460 primary school teachers on Grade level 13-15 have been promoted by the Oyo State Government. This was revealed on Friday by the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Aderemi Adeniran during the symbolic presentation of 2017-2020 letters to the newly promoted teachers. He said the presentation of the promotion letters was in fulfillment of Governor Seyi Makinde’s promises to teachers in the state. Adeniran noted that the category of teachers who received their letters of promotion was placed on six year waiting period by the previous administrations, adding that this policy had affected the morale of teachers in public primary schools because their counterparts in the secondary schools were not affected by the policy.   Lagos commences 2022 promotion exercise     Schools’ audit not for tax purpose, says LASUBEB     Ondo, Oyo APC chieftains congratulate Tinubu   “I am pleased to be here this morning at the official presentation of promotion letters to our teachers from the grade level 13 to 15. You are all aware that a similar programme was held in October, 2021 for teachers and non-teaching staff”, he said. Adeniran appreciated Governor Makinde for his love for teachers, which was demonstrated by the approval granted, that six years waiting period be reverted with immediate effect. “This by implication means that all teachers affected are going to enjoy their promotions with a month’s arrears and this takes financial effect from the month of June 2022”, he said. Adeniran said, “The present administration has positively impacted the lives of both public and Civil Servants because of its people-oriented policies. In view of this, I want to admonish all our teachers to ensure that, to whom much is given, much is expected”. Speaking earlier, the NUT Chairman, Com. Raji Oladimeji assured that the gesture of the state government would never be forgotten, adding that this would further encourage teachers in Primary schools to deliver good, qualitative and efficient education to the pupils across the state.