The families of Alori Kadunmishe have petitioned the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu over flagrant disobedience of court orders and the unlawful destruction of landed properties, belonging to the Alori Ataye Ewuwunmi Kadunmishe Chieftaincy family of Igbo Ilogbo in Ayobo. The properties are allegedly destroyed by officials from the State Ministry of Environment and the Office of the Surveyor-General. The petition written by their solicitors stated that the family is the owners of the entire parcel of land situated at Ilogbo, Ayobo, Lagos State, with the subject matter in suit No: ID/3274LMW/2016. Explaining that some years back, the Lagos State Government claimed to have acquired the said landed property without due regard to the provision of the law on acquisition of private properties. Afterwards, the family approached the court to challenge the purported acquisition with the above suit number which is still pending in Court till the date of writing this petition. In the said suit, the Attorney General of Lagos State, Commissioner for Housing, Lagos State, and the Land Use and Allocation Committee, Lagos State among others were sued as the 1st, 2nd and 3rd defendants respectively.   Osun businessman man uses customer’s money for betting     ‘No reprisal on Hausa community’     I wasn’t banned from wearing crown, says Ekiti chief   According to the petitioner, the court in line with the suit ruled on the 24th, of May 2017, 12th, of July 2019, and 9th of February 2021 that all parties should maintain the status quo, halt further demolition, and give an interlocutory injunction to that effect. The petitioner added that despite the rulings, the Lagos State Ministry of Environment and the Office of the Surveyor-General are still coming with thugs, urchins, and some members of the law enforcement agency without name tags in flagrant disobedience to the order of the Court to demolish and destroy properties with heavy equipment, tractors, and Armoured Tanks. The petitioner also mentioned the names of the government officials involved in the flagrant actions including; Engineer Omotosho of the MoE, Surveyor Ogundipe, and Surveyor Yusuf of SGO. Others are Reverend Odeleye, Olusegun Odedina, Arowosaye, a Scheme Officer, and Samsondeen, the Scheme Officer in charge of Ayobo. They lamented that the said officials of the Lagos State Government are not only destroying their properties but allocating and putting people to possess same, using heavily armed policemen to harass members of their family who are also extorting people in the neighbourhood and motorists at night. The family also used the petition to extol the virtues of the Governor who they described as a stickler to due process of the law that would not turn a blind eye to a situation wherein the order of Court is being desecrated. The petitioner is asking for the Governor’s intervention to halt the flagrant disobedience to Court orders by calling the government officials to order and enforce compliance with the rulings.