The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed its anger against former President Olusegun Obasanjo over his recent comments that he made a mistake by appointing Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as his Vice President in 1999. The party threatened to expose the former President if he fails to clarify the statements within 48 hours. Addressing reporters in Kaduna, the Chairman of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin, said he and the party hold Obasanjo in high esteem. But the BoT chairman said it would be unfortunate if the statement credited to the ex-President and carried in almost all the national dailies was true. He said: “I wish to appeal to former President Obasanjo to come out openly to repeat what he has said; whether he was misquoted or meant what was credited to him. “Although he has not debunked what was reported, one can assume that what was quoted to have been said by him is correct. But if he fails to openly come out and say which is correct in 48 hours, you will hear the bombardment. I will have no option but to break the egg and tell the whole world and Nigerians who Obasanjo is.   Herders kill man for knocking down cow in Badagry     Bridging skill gaps in plumbing     5G: Nigeria begins race for 4.4b global subscriptions   “There is no doubt that Obasanjo may still be angry with Atiku, even after helping him to succeed, but perhaps for truncating his third term agenda. In any case, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku is our presidential candidate and I can tell you for sure that he will be the President in 2023, in shaa Allah.” On the outcome of the presidential primaries and subsequent picking of Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as the running mate to Atiku, which may have angered Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, the BoT Chairman announced that a high-powered reconciliatory committee will soon be constituted to placate Wike. He said: “Governor Wike is a great party man who fought for the party. When the committee is constituted, in which we will also bring other contestants together, we will go and meet with Governor Wike and appeal to him, even if it means kneeling down to beg him. “It is our belief that in any contest, there will always be a winner and a loser. We must take whatever comes our way as the will of God who gives power to whatever he wishes at the time He wishes. “Atiku is a great man, a man of honour and integrity who will lead Nigeria to greatness. We will bring our headd down; in fact, very low and respect every Nigerian as a party. That is why we are calling on party members to be united to ensure that we win the next election. We must unite and avoid speaking against ourselves in a manner that portrays the party in bad light. “We lost Ekiti election because there was no unity among party members. But we have learnt our lessons. That is why prominent persons have been appointed to handle the Osun election. I can tell you that Senator Ademola Adeleke will be the next governor of Osun State.” Jibrin added: “The PDP is kicking very well and we will rule Nigeria again and do better. We will do all within our powers to ensure victory for Atiku and Okowa in the 2023 presidential election.”