Yoruba movie stars on Wednesday, publicly endorsed the All Progressives Congress presidential candidate, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu ahead of the 2023 general elections. The thespians in collaboration made a video where they spoke in turns declaring their unwavering support for Tinubu. They guaranteed the former Lagos Governor of their support and votes describing him as an indefatigable leader, a bridge builder across regional, ethnic and religious lines that is capable of uniting the country. The campaign video, which was shared by Yinka Quadri via his Instagram page features the 62-year-old with Jide Kosoko, Taiwo Hassan, Adebayo Salami, Femi Adebayo, Fathia Balogun, Saheed Balogun, Murphy Afolabi and several others. Captioning the video, Quadri on behalf of his colleagues shared a statement whose title and end reads: “ASIWAJU BOLA AHMED TINUBU FOR PRESIDENT 2023.” Explaining reasons for their support for Jagaban as the best man who the presidential cap fits, he began: “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a bridge builder across regional, ethnic and religious lines that is capable of uniting the country. We have identified him as an exceptional manager of resources and a seasoned administrator and we are convinced that the nation needs him in the next dispensation.   5 die, nine injured in Lagos-Ibadan road crash     Inmate graduates with 2nd Class Upper from Open University     Two shot dead, 16 abducted in Kaduna   “We have discovered a man who is ready to sacrifice all he has for his fatherland…the least sacrifice we can make is to let the whole country see the Leadership we have seen, feel the compassion we have felt; and move the maker of modern Lagos (Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu) to the moulder of a greater Nigeria.. “Nigerians, we need to rise and give Tinubu an unequivocal charge: to springboard Nigeria into a growth phase several leaps ahead, the way Lagos State — under his guide— left the launch platform two decades ago, has stayed the positive course and is now the 5th biggest economy in Africa (rated as a nation). “We must not fail to give this indefatigable leader with such an audacious spirit, a creative instinct and a striking mission a clear mandate to make the biggest difference possible to our collective trajectory of growth and development as a nation. What would it take? Our massive turnout and count of votes in the 2023 presidential election.” He continued: “Show me a man with a bigger heart and I will show you Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “I, Alhaji Olayinka Quadri pledge my full support for BAT not because I was paid to do so but because of Asiwaju support and influence to all and sundry over the years. Majority of actors who venture into politics today do so because of the influence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. “By God’s grace, Asiwaju will move from Jagaban of Borgu to Jagaban of Nigeria; from Asiwaju of Lagos to Asiwaju of Nigeria. For all your sacrifices, for all your effort, God will reward you this time.” “If we look at the rotation of leadership in Nigeria over the years, it is very crystal clear It is Yoruba turn to be president. BAT, Eyin lo kan, (you’re the next),” he added.