The rush to the election tribunal by losers has become a staple of Nigerian governorship elections. However, litigation of election results need not be normalized as standard practice for various reasons. First, it makes a mockery of the electoral process when virtually every loser rushes to the tribunal to seek redress. To be sure, there are losers, who are clearly cheated. However, such losers will only need to go to court, if the margin of cheating was so thin that redress could lead to a reversal of the result in the loser’s favour of if a rerun election was ordered due to recognized malpractices that could lead to the disenfranchisement of certain voters. Such was the case in Osun state in 2018, where the Peoples Democratic Party candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, led the All Progressives Congress candidate, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, with less than 500 votes. The rerun led to the victory of the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, which the PDP challenged in court but without success. It must be acknowledged, however, that some reversals had been based on technicalities, even when the purported loser did not even participate in the election. Such was the case of Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi in 2007. He won the governorship primary election but his party, the PDP, substituted another candidate for the election proper. The Supreme Court faulted the substitution and gave the victory to Amaechi. It was a resounding message to political parties not to unilaterally substitute candidates, who legitimately won primaries. It is very clear, however, that, based on available data, there is no way in which victory could be reversed in the governorship election held in Ekiti state last Saturday, June 18, 2022. The victory of the All Progressive Congress candidate, Abiodun Oyebanji, was so overwhelming that neither of the two candidates contemplating litigation ever came close. They are Engineer Segun Oni of the Social Democratic Party and Ms. Josephine Kemi Elebute-Halle of the ADP. Oyebanji of the APC polled 187,057 votes (53.16%), whereas  Oni of the SDP polled 82,211votes  (23.37%)  and Elebute-Halle polled a paltry 3,455 votes. Even Mr. Bisi Kolawole of the PDP, who came third by polling 67,457 (19.17%) of the votes, readily congratulated the winner of the election without delay. This is what incumbent Governor Kayode Fayemi of the APC did to former Governor Ayo Fayose of the PDP, who defeated him roundly in 2014. That is how it should be, if our democracy were to be appropriately nurtured. Another implication of losers rushing to the tribunal is the dampening effect such action poses for the significant gains recorded by the Independent National in conducting elections. Besides, frivolous litigation poses serious problems for recognising legitimate winners of elections, thus making a mockery of the electoral process. Of what value is an election if it is automatically bastardised by litigation, which the courts would eventually throw out? Moreover, such litigation often ends up as an abuse of the court process, even now that the courts are complaining about poor welfare. To be sure, a candidate, such as Oni, who had expected to win, would be under the illusion that victory was snatched from him. The leadership of his party and his frontline supporters have a duty in ensuring that such illusion gives way to reality. Rather than spend more money on a case his is sure to lose, he should count his losses and disregard money-grabbing lawyers, who would assure him falsely that he has a good case.   Meet the Vice President     The semiotics of the Owo massacre     Why the APC should head South   In the Ekiti case, losers should sit down to review the election and ask themselves why they lost. Simultaneously they also will be reviewing the factors that led to the victor’s emergence. Clearly, Oyebanji of the APC had several key factors going for him. One, he is a “home-grown boy”. He had his primary, secondary, and much of his tertiary education in the state. He had occupied various positions in the state, including Special Assistant on parliamentary affairs; Chief of Staff; Commissioner for Integration and Inter-governmental Affairs; Head of Ekiti’s Office of Transformation Strategy and Delivery; Commissioner for Budget, and Economic planning; and Secretary to the State Government. No one can deny that he knows Ekiti state and that the Ekiti people know him. True, Oni had been Governor of the State before (2003-2007) but he entered Ekiti politics from the top and, unlike Oyebanji, who served in the current government, Oni’s service had been relegated to history by many young voters, who might not have known him well. Second, Oyebanji has two prominent political godfathers in the state, former Governor Niyi Adebayo and current Governor, John Kayode Fayemi, who served the as Governor for a combined 12 years. They provide Oyebanji with a wealth of social and political capital that paid off during the election. Thus, third, days before the election, the godfathers participated the organisation of a mega rally in which leaders of the ruling party, including 14 serving Governors, participated. Central to this event was the participation of former Governor Ahmed Bola Tinubu and the APC National Leader participated as the flag bearer of the party. His presence and resounding victory in the presidential primaries energised the voters and led many of them to vote APC in the hope that Tinubu’s victory in 2023 might rob off on their state. Oni made yet another mistake by veering into the Social Democratic Party for the purpose of the election as a way of venting his anger against the APC. Perhaps except Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, formerly of the Labour Party, and the candidates of All Progressive Grand Alliance in the Southeast, no candidate of a minority party has won the governorship outside the two major political parties. There is yet another deterrent to litigation in the just concluded Ekiti governorship election. Local and international observers viewed the election as free, fair, and transparent. Of course, there were notable hiccups, such as vote-buying. However, voters confirmed that all four frontline political parties in the election, including Oni’s SDP, participated in the practice. To be sure, there were differences in scale and in the amount involved, but that does not exonerate the SDP. Besides, the culprits are being investigated. Hopefully, many would be charged and punished according to law. I know Segun Oni. He is a fine gentleman. I trust that he will allow reason to prevail.