Security operatives have taken over the entrances of Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu and residence of Bishop Callistus Onaga at Independence Layout, Enugu over protest by supporters of Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka. The protest followed the ban on Catholic faithful from worshipping at the Adoration Ministry of Mbaka in Enugu. Our correspondent learnt the deployment of security operatives to the two premises was to avoid a repeat of last year’s incidents. Hundreds of the followers of Fr Mbaka last year stormed the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu and destroyed valuables worth millions. They were protesting the sudden disappearance of their Spiritual Director, who was allegedly invited to the Cathedral by the operatives of the Department of State Services(DSS). Our correspondent, who visited the residence of the Bishop at Independence Layout, Enugu observed three patrol vans fully loaded with police operatives barricaded the two entrances to the street.   Abductors of 13 mourners demand N60m ransom in Edo     Three storey building collapses in Abia     Ekiti 2022: APC presented sellable product to win election…   At the Old Market Road, Enugu where Holy Ghost Cathedral is situated, security operatives were stationed at various entrances to the church. A source told our correspondent that they were at the venue to forestall any breakdown of law and order. “Didn’t you hear about these Church people and their wahala? That’s why we’re here to prevent any problem,” the officer who declined giving his identity said. Members of Mbaka’s Adoration Ministry on Sunday trooped to the streets of Umuchigbo to protest the ban on the Adoration Ministry Enugu, headed by the priest. The Bishop of Enugu Catholic Diocese, Most. Rev. Callistus Onaga on Saturday banned all priests and Catholic faithful from attending Mbaka’s Adoration Ministry, following the priest’s scathing remarks on Labour Party presidential candidate, Peter Obi. Mbaka on Wednesday at his Adoration ground said Obi would never be the President because he is a stingy man, adding that the politician is cursed. The Priest’s remarks drew heavy criticisms from various quarters, prompting the under fire priest to backtrack and apologise for maligning Obi and injuring his supporters.