The burning national issue today is who becomes the running mates of the presidential candidates of the two leading parties. The national discourse became intense after Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s emergence as the standard-bearer of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). It is as if the whole country was waiting for him to pick his party’s ticket so as to raise the tone of the debate. Is it a debate, as such? In the true sense of it, it is not. At the same time, it cannot be called noise of the market place. Call it the ventillation of a wish, and you may not be wrong. The wish of people who feel strongly that the candidates and their running mates must not be of the same faith. Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar is the presidential candidate of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He is a Muslim like Tinubu. The two of them are in the race with 15 others, who cut across the Islamic and Christian faith. So, voters who believe that the contestants must be from a  particular faith have a large pool to pick from. Let us look at the other candidates and the faith they profess. Former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi of the Labour Party (LP) is a Christian. Former Kano State Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso, New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) – Muslim; Christopher Imumolen, Accord Party (AP)- Christian; Hamza Al-Mustapha, Action Alliance (AA) – Muslim; Omoyele Sowore, African Action Congress (AAC) – Christian; Dumebi Kachikwu, African Democratic Congress (ADC) – Christian; Peter Umeadi, All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) – Christian; Yusuf Dantalle, Allied Peoples Movement (APM) – Muslim. Yabagi Sani, Action Democratic Party (ADP) – Muslim; Okwudili Nwa-Anyadike, National Rescue Mission (NRM) – Christian; Kola Abiola, Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) – Muslim, Adewole Adebayo, Social Democratic Party (SDP) – Christian; Malik Ado-Ibrahim, Young Peoples Party (YPP) – Muslim; Dan Nwanyanwu, Zenith Democratic Alliance (ZDA) – Christian; and Sunday Adenuga, Boot Party (BP) – Christian. From this wide field, the electorate are free to make their choice. Those who think that they will be better off with a Christian as the president are free to vote for such a candidate in the February 23, 2023 election. Those who prefer to go with a Muslim are not also inhibited from making that choice. We are faced with this faith issue in the forthcoming election because of the way we have taken religion in our daily life. We tend to see issues from the myopic prism of not only religion, but also region. We believe that only people of our faith and ethnic nationality can be of benefit to us. We have jettisoned competence on the altars of religion and region. This is highly unfortunate. Where we come from and the God we serve have now come to determine us as a people. Are we no longer serving one God, whether as Muslims or Christians? In a country of over 200 million people where talents abound, thoughts, ideas and the innate qualities of man to bring out the best in him, even in the harshest of conditions, have been thrown overboard for these twin issues of religion and region which have been dividing us as a people. Yet, as a nation, we crave development.   On his mandate, they stand     APC’s consensus war     Super weekend   How can our country grow, if we continue to think in terms of religion and region? Who says a Muslim or a Christian must be the President or Vice-President? Can’t a traditionalist or an atheist, for that matter, also aspire to lead the country if they have what it takes to do so? At this juncture of our life – Nigeria will be 62 on October 1 – we should be looking for capable hands to lead the country, whether they are believers or not; Igbo, Yoruba or Fulani. In the past 61 years, we have had either a Muslim or a Christian as our leader, either in agbada or khaki, but what have we got to show for this leadership? Nothing! Many of them left the nation high and dry. This is why till today, we are still searching for a true leader who will take us out of the woods. We should not spoil the search with religion or region. We have an opportunity of a lifetime to make the right decision in next year’s election. Before us are 17 candidates seeking to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Our civic duty is to sift the wheat from the chaff. Little wonder that bookmakers have reduced the contest to a two-horse race between Tinubu and Atiku. Indeed, the duo have political antecedents which others cannot boast of. But they cannot run alone; they have to do so with running mates, who must be known by tomorrow to fulfil a vital component of the race. If they fail to meet the deadline, they will be disqualified from running. No serious candidate will want to be disqualified at this stage after coming this far. Tinubu and Atiku are in a dilemma over picking a running mate within the short time left for them to do so. They are confronted with many choices, with input from several sources. However, they have the last say on the matter. What should engage their minds is the quality of their choice and not that person’s religion or the region he comes from. Most importantly will be the person’s electoral value. Does he have what it takes, that is the numbers, to help the candidate win the election? A running mate is what and who he is; he is not the candidate. He is running as an appendage of the candidate and only becomes a face, if the candidate wins. That is when he becomes vice-president-elect on the strength of his principal’s election. Tinubu should not allow himself to be pushed to pick a liability as his running mate on the grounds of religion. As a strategist and thinker, I trust him to make the right choice. I am not saying that religion does not matter. It does; but it is  not all that is required to be a running mate. Whether a Muslim-Muslim, or Christian-Christian, or Muslim-Christian ticket, all the people are yearning for is a running mate that can complement the candidate and make a good team in government, if they win. Tinubu cannot afford to make any mistakes now that he is looking the State House right in front of him, as someone put it on Tuesday. Truly, numbers, faith and ability count in electoral matters, but as Asiwaju well knows, ability trumps all others. He should go for the man with the ability to do the job. May God guide him aright.