THE Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone ‘2’ Headquarters, (Lagos, Ogun) AIG Adeleke B. Adeyinka, mni has assured the creative community in Nigeria of his full support and that of the Nigerian Police in the war against the infringement of intellectual property of creative people in the Nigerian film sector. AIG Adeleke, who warmly received Nollywood stars in his Onikan, Lagos office on Friday, June 3, 2022, said that he is very proud of the actors and the impact their movies and films are making across the globe and that the police will work closely with stakeholders in the film industry, to ensure that the commercial and public use of audiovisual works is done within the ambit of the law and that no infringer of copyright will successfully escape paying for the commercial use of audiovisual works in their business premises within the zone.   Achievas Entertainment signs gospel singer Onyinye     Lagos, Africa Film Academy to train 200 youths in filmmaking     Residents applaud unique programming as GOtv launches in…   The delegation of Audio Visual Rights Society of Nigeria (AVRS) was led by its chairman, Mr. Mahmood Ali-Balogun. On the AVRS team to the visit to the AIG were three members of the AVRS Board, High Chief Olurotimi Aina Kusoro, Mrs. Monalisa Chinda-Coker, and Mr. Yemi Solade, Nollywood stars, and members of AVRS including Mr. Francis Onwochei, Otunba Adebayo Salami (Oga Bello), Mr. Adeoye Adewale popularly (Elesho), Ms. Funke Etti and Ms Aisha Raji as well as AVRS Acting General Manager, Mrs. Olubukola Adeyemi. Also on the team was the AVRS Consultant, Prince Biodun Eguakhide. Addressing the AIG, Ali-Balogun said, “We are here today as a follow up to our last visit, to thank you and the police for the huge support so far given to AVRS in the legal discharge of its mandate in the Lagos and Ogun zone and to further request for the continued support of the AIG and police, to ensure that commercial users of our films and movies within the jurisdiction of the AIG fully comply with the extant law.