Lionel Messi stole the show as Copa America holders Argentina powered to a 3-0 win against European champions Italy in the Finalissima at Wembley on Wednesday. Inspired by the peerless Messi, Argentina raced into a two-goal lead in the first half of the prestigious friendly thanks to strikes from Lautaro Martinez and Angel Di Maria. Paulo Dybala capped Argentina’s rout, but after a disappointing season with Paris Saint-Germain by his sky-high standards, it was the sight of Messi back to his imperious best that took the spotlight. The 34-year-old’s eye-catching display featured two assists and was worthy of his rare appearance at one of football’s great cathedrals. It was another memorable moment for Argentina, who have qualified for this year’s World Cup as they extend the golden afterglow from the victory over Brazil that ended their 28-year wait to win the Copa America in 2021. Argentina were already established as one of the leading contenders to win the World Cup and defeating Italy was another statement of intent from La Albiceleste, who are now unbeaten in 32 matches. If Messi can play at this level in Qatar, Lionel Scaloni’s side will be a force to be reckoned with as they chase a first World Cup title since 1986.   Manchester United confirm Lingard’s departure     Paul Pogba to leave Manchester United on free transfer     Adiatu :Tulcan Energy won’t stop NWFL Super Six…   For Italy, it was a disappointing return to Wembley 11 months after they beat England on penalties in the Euro 2020 final. Roberto Mancini’s team have gone into a steep decline since that memorable triumph. They failed to qualify for the World Cup after suffering a humiliating loss to North Macedonia in their play-off semi-final. Mancini admitted the Finalissima represented the “end of a cycle” for his European champions. After the World Cup failure, Mancini is transitioning to a younger generation, with the forthcoming Nations League matches against Germany, England and Hungary his real focus. Mancini’s overhaul effectively started at half-time when Italy said farewell to 117-cap skipper Giorgio Chiellini, who was substituted in his final game before international retirement. This was only the third Finalissima contest between the respective champions of Europe and South America and the first since Diego Maradona’s Argentina beat Denmark in 1993.