The world is characterized by the growth and production of materials, which we use in carrying out daily activities. The frequency of which production occurs makes recycling a very important factor in maintaining a stable working environment. There are many materials that shouldn’t be discarded after use because recycling them can reduce the production costs of new ones. To avoid running out of resources, it is needful to make prudent use of available materials by keeping them for recycling purposes. Materials that can be recycled include the following; * Tire: The rubber powder recycled from the scrap tires are wildly used in the industries. It is mainly used as modified asphalt for highway construction and it is one of the biggest consumption markets for rubber granula. There are more volume of applications for the rubber, steel and fibre derived from recycling tyre which makes tyre recycling an attractive opportunity for the recycling industry. * Plastic: There are many plastic materials in our homes, which we discard when not in use. It is better to keep these for recycling purposes. The systems are capable of processing a wide range of plastic materials with varying levels of contamination including extremely heavy contamination such as oil-based substances and agricultural waste and converting them into something new.   Five divorced Nollywood actresses yet to remarry     Inside Nigeria’s organic fertiliser producing plant     15 things to know about Patrice Lumumba   *Cardboard: The first step in recycling cardboard is to separate it from other paper such as office paper and newspaper. The cardboard is then baled and sent to a mill, shredded into small pieces, and put in a pulping machine to introduce water/chemicals and break down the cardboard into fibers. Over half of the cardboard collected is used to make new cardboard boxes, and additional cardboard can be downcycled into cereal boxes and shoe boxes. *Steel: Steel can be infinitely recycled because it is such a widely used material, the range of possible uses for it are endless. It can be found in an incredibly diverse variety of products from train tracks and cars to bicycle frames and paperclips and of course new food and drinks cans. *Glass: Glass is 100% recyclable and can be recycled endlessly without loss in quality or purity. Glass is a very important inorganic material which is one of the largest productions of industries. It can be made into a variety of different products used for man’s daily living. As humans, we should be able to differentiate between recyclable and non-recyclable waste so that we will be able to utilise resources properly and help the continuous production process.