The Federal Government has stated that Medical and Dental degree certificates from medical Schools in Ukraine will not be honoured until normal academic activities resume in Ukraine. The MDCN advised students who are studying medicine or dentistry in Ukrainian medical schools to seek transfer to other accredited medical or dental schools in other countries for completion of their programmes. It further stated that online medical training being organised by schools in Ukraine, China and other countries is short of acceptable standard and therefore not recognised by the MDCN. In a statement by the Management of the Council, it instructed Chief Medical Directors/Medical Directors of Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres to stop entertaining applications for one year internship from students undergoing medical and dental degree programmes from foreign universities without clearance from it. It said: “Medical and Dental Degree Certificates issued by Medical Schools from Ukraine from 2022 will NOT be honoured by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria until when normal academic activities resume.   APC supporters sad despite winning polling unit     Wike makes first public appearance, attends Aguma’s…     Ekiti 2022: INEC sets up collation centre as results trickle…   “In addition, the Council’s attention has been drawn to information that some students are carrying out online medical training being organised by schools in Ukraine, China and some other countries. “For the avoidance of doubt, Council categorically states that online medical training done in any part of the world is short of acceptable standard and is not recognised by the MDCN. “In the light of the above, the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria will not honour any Medical Degree Certificates issued at the end of any online medical training.” It added: “Therefore, any application received from any student studying abroad who is seeking internship in Nigeria should be referred to the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) attaching relevant documents. “The Chief Medical Directors/Medical Directors/Medical Superintendents of Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres, other Tertiary Health Facilities and related Institutions are hereby advised to abide by this instruction.”