Defender Chidozie Awaziem  has assured  the  readiness of the Super eagles when they face Ecuador in an international friendly on Thursday in the United States. The Eagles fell 2-1 to Mexico in the early hours of Sunday in the first test game  under  coach Jose Peseiro and Awaziem told NFF Tv that they had  very good training session and are looking forward to the fixture with Ecuador with optimism. “We are all prepared for the second game against Ecuador. The training session went well. Everyone is ready for the game. It will be a tough one but we are in top shape,” Awaziem told NFF Tv. He described his impression of new coach, Peseiro within the few days they have trained together and assures Nigerians that the Eagles will fly against Ecuador. “He is someone who likes to play football and likes his team to enjoy themselves in the game and have control of possession. He is a coach that appreciates his players a lot. “He pushes us a lot. Nigerians should expect nothing but the best from us. We will always give our best to come out with victory because we know Nigeria will always want to win. It is our culture. We are focused on the game with Ecuador so that we will come out with a good one.”   Ecuador vs Nigeria: Peseiro orders Eagles to shoot on sight     African Athletics Championships: AFN lists Amusan,…     UCL: Heineken ends season in style with fans   Meanwhile, striker   Emmanuel Dennis  has joined the other Super Eagles  in New Jersey as players in camp yesterday  rose to twenty-one. The in-demand Watford star  scored 10 goals and assisted six  last season for the Hornets and contributed to about 50% of their goals as they failed in their relegation battle. With Leeds, Aston Villa, West Ham and Galatasaray all reportedly interested in the former Club Brugge forward, he has put discussions on his future on hold as he joined the national team. Dennis featured in March as Nigeria failed to pick a World Cup ticket against Ghana in Abuja. He’s considered one of Nigeria’s best attackers in Europe after a beautiful individual season saw him shine in a struggling Watford side. His club teammate, William Troost-Ekong and a host of others are in already in camp as Portuguese coach, Jose Peseiro put them through their paces.