There was a markedly mystical dimension to her life. Not surprisingly, her death on June 1, reportedly at the age of 137, made the headlines. She was notably the traditional guardian of Olumo Rock, a major tourist attraction in Abeokuta, Ogun State, believed by traditionalists to be an abode of divinity. The site, among Nigeria’s most popular tourist attractions, is a mountain that served as a natural fortress for the Egba people during inter-tribal warfare in the 19th century. Its highest point is 137 metres above sea level. Chief Sinatu Aduke Sanni was better known as ‘Iya Orisa Olumo,’ which reflected her role and devotion to the deity believed to reside in the rock. Her grandson, Olawale Olaniyan, said in an interview after her death: “She was initially a Muslim. It was delayed childbearing that made her turn to a traditional worshipper. After she got married, she experienced delay in childbearing. She prayed for many years to no avail. She was later told by a spiritualist that she would not have a child unless she worshipped orisa (deity). She heeded the advice and started worshipping Orisa Igun, which is the deity at Olumo Rock.” She eventually had two female children. This reinforced her faith in the deity. According to Olaniyan, “She made arrangements to improve on the state of the shrine (around the rock). She told us she completely stopped being a Muslim.” Her fortunes changed when she became ‘Iya Osa,’ the custodian of the deity, said her grandson, “as she built her first house at the age of 80.” She was said to have built three houses.   Kogi‘s keg of gunpowder     13 candidates ready for 2023 presidential poll     Federal Government links Owo church attack to ISWAP   Her elevation from worshipper to priestess was a tribute to her qualities. The position is not hereditary, and the custodian is said to be chosen by the deity through an oracle. She was a trader, and sold clothes before she became a priestess. That was the turning point in her life. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, in a posthumous tribute, described her as “a custodian of our histories, culture and tradition,” and highlighted her contribution to tourism. She became “a tourist centre, in view of the way people jostled to see and hear from her,” the governor said. Interestingly, this depiction of her was corroborated by her grandson, who said white people who visited Olumo Rock often asked to see her, and “some even approached her to teach them about Ifa.” Many visitors to the place asked to take photographs with her. She was said to have witnessed the coronation of four Egba traditional rulers. The priestess is said to be responsible for presenting coronation leaves to the king, known as Alake of Egba land, during installation rites. Sanni was respected not only because of her cultural service, but also for her concrete interventions. She said in an interview: “I have enjoyed a privileged position of being used by the gods as a channel of blessings to many people. People travel from all over the world for spiritual assistance and I have been doing it for a long time. Those who are barren come here; those who are in search of employment also visit here. Those who are afflicted by strange illnesses and sicknesses also come here.  I worship Igun, Obaluaye, Sango and Ogun here. I offer special prayers for people.” Importantly, she prepared for her departure and was said to have chosen her successor about six years ago, under the guidance of the deity to whom she had devoted her life. She was a significant figure in Yoruba traditional religion, and remained relevant till her exit. It is laudable that she left a legacy of cultural continuity.