In the aftermath of the Owo terrorist attack, Ohanaeze’s call to southern governors to strengthen Amotekun (South West), Ebubeagu (South East) and equivalent security bodies in the South-South makes eminent sense.  That heinous attack felled 40 worshippers in a Catholic Church; and sent no less than 61 others to hospital battling for their lives. But the pitch for strengthened geo-political security outfits, outside the central Nigeria Police, ought to be pushed as a national imperative.  The near-meltdown in security nationwide amply shows the central police alone cannot cope with the sheer gravity of the challenge.  Police cadres are spread simply too thin, leading to large swathes of ungovernable spaces, forests and remote rural communities. Besides, mass insecurity is no combat, in which one region, or geo-political zone, or state, is locked in war with another.  Indeed, it is a clear and present national plague to which everyone must face down — or else everyone stands consumed.  While there may have been cross-ethnic criminals wreaking havoc all over, it is contrary to reason that these criminals are noble ambassadors of any region, or of any ethnic group or even of any religious creed.  They are just criminals fishing for camouflages for their unbridled evil; and everyone reels under their base assault. This bears restating: insecurity is not limited to any particular region.  The plague blights everyone and everywhere: East, West, North or South.  Indeed, the gravity and intensity of bandit, terrorist and other violent attacks are more rampant in the North, with its vast forests, near-excellent refuge for these murderous dregs. Yet, these “northern” scum, blamed for most of the outrage, hold their area under siege more than any other part of the country. That the North has a raft of Joint Civilian Taskforce (JTF) cadres, as local vigilantes, again underscores that the Nigeria Police cannot face this arduous task alone — not in the North, not anywhere.   Blasphemy killings     Food for life     Exit of a priestess   True the Ohanaeze, speaking through Alex Ogbonnia, its publicity secretary, spoke in the context of the Owo vile attack; and the kidnap and ransom with N100 million, of the Prelate of the Methodist Church of Nigeria, Samuel Uche.  Both outrages occurred in the South West (Ondo State) and South East (Imo State) where both Amotekun and Ebubeagu are active. So, the Ohanaeze plea for southern governors to strengthen these outfits, and also improve operational coordination and intelligence-sharing between the two, is not only timely, it makes a lot of sense.  It also pushed for more funding and enhanced technology to boost operational capacity and intelligence gathering. Still, to the extent that insecurity is a national malaise, that pitch would even be better if directed at every part of the country.  Imagine the situation where all these geo-political outfits are linked together, exchanging seamless intelligence-sharing, with boosted technology all-round? That is the way to go.  First, these cadres are closer to their respective grassroots and they intimately know their terrains.  The governors, now that state police is not yet achieved, should invest more in these vigilante groups.  With their intelligence-gathering capacity boosted; and their operational and patrol capacity enhanced, they would be improved assets to the central police. But the ultimate goal is to formalise state police.  This is an idea whose time has come.  Even with abuse in the past by regional authorities, it is glaring that a central police rooted in Abuja is ill-equipped to combat and quell galloping terrorism, banditry and allied violence now rocking our country. Investing heavily in their training, making them tech-savvy and boosting their operational capability also prepare our country for state police.  Now, Amotekun et al are state police without state police.  But they can be solid preparation for state police, which will happen sooner than later.  Again, it’s an idea whose time has come.