Former Minister of Petroleum and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Don Etiebet, has warned the party might not have valid governorship and presidential primaries if the issue of valid delegates in Akwa Ibom is not addressed. He handed down the warning on Wednesday in Abuja while addressing reporters on behalf of party leaders from Akwa Ibom state. Etiebet alleged the party is foisted with persons who did not win any election at any congress monitored by INEC, as State Executives in Akwa Ibom State. He warned the National Working Committee (NWC) the June 6 Convention presidential primary with a flawed delegates lead could spell doom for the party. He noted that the party has been constrained to seemingly conduct primaries that are not consistent with the provision of Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act which states:   Group seeks transparent APC presidential primary     Lawmakers that lost return tickets to House of…     Why Tinubu should be president, by Dibal   “A political party seeking to nominate candidates for elections under this Act shall hold primaries for aspirants to all elective positions which shall be monitored by the Commission. “In line with this provision, the Commission shall, in monitoring primaries, only recognize delegates that emerge from Congresses duly monitored by the Commission. “The consequence of such conduct of primaries remains clear that our Party in Akwa Ibom State may not be in the position to present any validly nominated candidate in Akwa Ibom State except the issues are redressed immediately. “We hasten to warn, that the Akwa Ibom State challenge of using delegates that were not voted for, in line with the extant Electoral Laws if not addressed, the same delegates may be used for the Presidential primaries. Surely if that happens then the Presidential primaries run a risk of not producing a validly nominated candidate in line with the Electoral Laws. This should not happen. “We fail to see what anyone stands to gain should this fate befall our great Party in Akwa Ibom State,” he said. The elder statesman, who was with the former National Secretary of the defunct Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, Hon. Iquo Inyang and some elders of the party, advised the National Chairman Senator Abdullahi Adamu to address the petition before him over the illegal governorship primary in the State.