Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts, and Culture, Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf has expressed the readiness of the State Government under Babajide Sanwo-Olu to partner with filmmakers in the diaspora to produce world-class movies that will showcase the state and project it positively before the international community. The commissioner made this disclosure recently while speaking during a roundtable discussion with filmmakers at Oxford University, the United Kingdom, stating that the State Government believes that the proposed partnership with household names in the film industry will also create more jobs for creative youths who are residents of the State. The roundtable discussion with filmmakers in the United Kingdom was facilitated by the Africa Film Academy, the curators of Africa Movie Academy Awards, AMAA, in collaboration with the James Currey Society.   Entertainers thrill on International Music Day in Lagos     Having great voice is a tip of iceberg, Raquel Hage     Day I got N800 for looking good, by Ada La Pinky   “This is an epoch event, which is a partnership between the Africa Film Academy and Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture under the auspices of the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. On her part, Peace Anyiam-Osigwe said the event is in pursuit of a diversified economy, which the Lagos State Ministry of Tourism Arts and Culture is striving to achieve since the inception of the administration of Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu. “In 2021, Gov. Sanwo-Olu announced that Lagos State Government will host AMAA for the next  three years. Also, recently, the state government gave funds to filmmakers to produce films and also engaged Africa film Academy to train over 600 filmmakers in Lagos, these are some of the efforts made so far by the State Government in the film industry”. “In addition to these past efforts, this Roundtable discussion with filmmakers in Oxford is another venture. It is part of the deliberate plans by the government to use film as a tool for promoting indigenous languages, partnerships, and filmmaking in the city of excellence,” Anyiam-Osigwe explained.