The July 18 governorship election in Ekiti State is an indication that things could yet be better in the country. The Professor Mahmoud Yakubu-led Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has been adjudged to have acquitted itself well in ensuring that things went well in the first election held under the new Electoral Act. Unlike previous elections when the commission failed in delivering sensitive and non-sensitive materials for the purpose, monitors, observers, journalists and participants testify to the prompt opening of poll last Saturday. In most of the 1,445 polling units in the state, all reportedly went well. The officials were well trained and demonstrated high level of maturity. This is very different from previous experiences when the clerks and presiding officers complained of non-payment of allowances, poor treatment in terms of accommodation and transport, and some even refused to report at their stations as they were poorly motivated. The election commission deserves commendation for its conduct. It is an attestation to its contention that it had held a series of engagement with the stakeholders, including observers, the media and other agencies of government involved in conduct of elections in the country. While many had commended the Anambra State election held late last year, the Ekiti poll was certainly an improvement. This is what we expect, going forward. In Osun State, we hope the commission would have taken care of the few imperfections pointed out. The security men deployed, too, were reported to have cooperated with the electoral commission. While there were a few cases of violence, it was nothing near what had been the experience in the past. The police, civil defence personnel and other security officers were said to have conducted themselves well, and professionally, save for a few cases where some of the opposition parties complained of connivance with the ruling party. However, this has largely been denied.   Emefiele lists benefits of e-Naira to trade, investments     Warning shots from kigali, by Femi Adesina     Solving Nigeria’s energy crisis with renewable energy   The deployment of technology for accreditation and transmission of results made the process more transparent and thus acceptable to many of the participants. However, one area that has been roundly condemned was voter inducement by the major political parties. For this, the Social Democratic Party’s (SDP) candidate, Chief Segun Oni, has promised to challenge the verdict that gave victory to All Progressives Congress’s candidate Abiodun Oyebamiji. This is his fundamental right, but it appears the first time that anyone would challenge election results on the basis of financial inducement. The result declared and published by the electoral commission shows that the winner polled more than 50 per cent of the votes, and won in all the 16 local government areas. The Peoples Democratic Party whose candidate, Bisi Kolawole, was third, has congratulated the winner, declaring the conduct as free, fair and credible. The stakeholders have however, called attention to the low turn-out at the poll. Only about 36.5 per cent of the almost one million registered voters came out to exercise their franchise. This is the lowest since 1999. This is a call to duty for INEC’s Voter Education Department and the political parties. More than two decades after restoration of democracy is not the time to be guessing the position of majority of the people. When only a third of registered voters have spoken, can we say the majority is ruling the state? In 2003, 43 per cent voted, while the percentage in 2014 and 2018 stood at 49 and 44, respectively. We hope that the commission and political parties would take note of this as Osun people go to the polls next month. The time to mobilise the electorate is now. All organs of the government at state and federal levels should go to work. When the people speak, it must be discernible and loud. We also call on the security agents to be up and doing with regards to preventing vote trading in Osun, and ahead of the 2023 general elections. Both the buyers and sellers are not only violating the laws of the land, but presenting a poor image of the country. Nigeria has come of age; vote trading is certainly not the way to go.