The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Ali Pantami, has said the ministry has emerged the highest contributor to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) with about 17.8 per cent. Represented by the National Commissioner/Chief Executive Officer, Nigeria Data Protection Bureau (NDPB), Dr. Vincent Olatunji, at the 13th  Beacon of ICT Awards at the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos at the weekend, he said this development had made the Federal Government to prioritise the provision of digital infrastructure. On the occasion, inq. digital, a leading-edge solution provider, won in three different categories in the award coasting home with Enterprise Solutions Provider, Emerging Technology Provider, and Enterprise Broadband Service provider of the year. Dr. Olatunji said inq. Digital emerging winners in three different categories is an acknowledgement of the quality innovative business-relevant services like Intelligent Connectivity, Edge AI, IoT, SDN/NFV for Edge and Cloud Secure Access Services provided by the company.   Stay away from election, IG warns thugs     Tinubu, Adamu, governors drum up support for Oyebanji     Roadmap for a more effective policing system   He said the theme of the event:  Impact of Blockchain Technology in a Digitalized Nigeria was apt and was close to the heart of the government.  According to him, the theme is very relevant and has resulted in the formulation of policies and frameworks that will enable a better industry. Managing Director of inq. Digital Nigeria, Valentine Chime said the firm is on a quest to provide simpler, seamless, solutions to its clients which will aid them to re-imagine a better future. “We are in a state of evolution for market satisfaction, and we are flexible in structure and nature in line with global best practices,” he said. He commended the organizers of the award, members of the industry, and stakeholders for recognizing inq. Digital in the industry and dedicated the awards to the stakeholders, partners, and associates of inq. Digital Nigeria. In the past two years, inq. Digital has consistently emerged as winners in different categories of Beacon of ICT that show the brand is advancing the culture of innovation. Founder and Editor-in-Chief of Nigeria Communications Week and convener of the Beacon of ICT award, Ken Nwogbo, said the BoICT lecture aims to explore efforts to put Nigeria on the global information and communications technologies. The award recognizes organizations’ and individuals’ contributions to ICT advancement.