All over the world, political parties go into conventions preceding general elections with two clear objectives: to elect the most popular candidate and to emerge with a united front. Nigeria’s ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) appears to be working to achieve the direct opposite – going into the 2023 polls with bitter and disaffected members, labouring under the weight of an unpopular flagbearer. Yesterday, the party’s chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, stunned many when he announced to an equally astonished National Working Committee (NWC) meeting, that Senate President Ahmad Lawan, was the ‘consensus’ candidate. He said he arrived at the position after consultations with President Muhammadu Buhari. It was the first that members of what is supposedly the party’s management would hear of a consensus candidate. But we shouldn’t be shocked because a few days ago two Vice Chairmen – Salihu Lukman and Isaac Kekemeke – penned a joint open letter to stakeholders, accusing Adamu of dropping Buhari’s name to browbeat them and running a one-man show. This was the ultimate confirmation of that management style. Reacting to this dramatic development, eleven APC Northern governors who had collectively announced to the world on Saturday night that the presidential ticket must move South, stormed Aso Rock for showdown talks with Buhari. The outcome was revealing. First, the president denied anointing any candidate. He asked the governors to resolve all issues about zoning and the flagbearer with the NWC. What Buhari told the governors immediately put Adamu out on a limb and called his integrity to question. If you say the president picked Lawan and he says he didn’t, that’s called lying. With his honour called into question shouldn’t the chairman be considering his position. In other climes he would resign because his position is now out of sync with that of the president. Despite the fact that in its short history APC has picked its candidate seamlessly through the ballot, the party appears to have suddenly developed an inexplicable dread for that most basic of democratic devices – elections. For over a year rumour mills have been inundated with talk of powerful forces within the party working to pick the candidate by ‘consensus.’ The common meaning of consensus is a process through which an outcome is reached by universal agreement or compromise. But given the conspiratorial way it was discussed within APC ranks, this ‘consensus’ simply meant the president picking somebody and getting everyone to line up behind him. It worked a treat when he forced Adamu down the throat of his party men, but in the contest for the presidential ticket the stakes are much higher. The threshold was further raised with the amended Electoral Act which makes parties choosing this route, to not only require aspirants to indicate in writing that they were withdrawing and but also to state they were backing the consensus candidate. APC tried to work around this by getting contenders to append signatures to a form committing them to accept a consensus candidate. As we have now learnt, all bar one did so. Initially they were told it was optional. In reality, it was a booby trap that was no better than signing an undated resignation letter. People who would like to be seen as experienced politicians should have known better. Many played along because they had been bewitched into believing they were Buhari’s favourites. They gladly signed on, waiting like Godot for the day when the president would gather all aspirants at Aso Rock to announce their name. Now, he’s reiterated “he’s for nobody.” The fiasco should embarrass and annoy all aspirants who have been encouraging ‘consensus.’ In the end, they’ve all been had because Lawan was someone’s agenda all along, and the price tag for the rigmarole well over N100 million for each person. What the world would like to know is where in its constitution APC empowers its chairman or the president or both to consult and pick its candidate. In a bid to calm the raging storm, a party spokesman said last night that Adamu was only speaking for himself. But the damage had been done.   APC’s 2023 Options: Facts and Fallacies     2023 presidency and the error factor     Kamikaze aspirants and decaying institutions   A process where the chairman is supposed to be a neutral figure assuring all contestants of fairness and a level playing field, has been compromised by his brazen partisanship. He has damaged the party’s brand. Put side by side with what PDP accomplished last week, APC’s attempt at organising a convention is nothing short of a shipwreck. With Buhari’s denial Lawan automatically becomes Adamu’s project. Clearly, APC never chose a consensus candidate despite the president’s preachments. The furious reaction that greeted the chairman’s power play confirms this. The party should seriously worry whether its processes would pass muster with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which has warned that party primaries must be in line with the provisions of their constitution and the amended Electoral Act. Can this conjured consensus pass that test? Why this is such a scandal is that the NWC had no role in Lawan’s selection. Collectively they have been embarrassed and made to look like window dressing. It is not just them who have been humiliated but a wide range of stakeholders at all levels. How did the ruling party come to this pass where it’s being run like a parade ground? On Saturday night, eleven Northern governors who issued the statement backing power rotation as a matter of honour and equity, were widely hailed as patriots. There was so much positive energy generated by their action, with many saying they had cut the ground from beneath PDP. They indeed deserve all the plaudits for rising above sectional sentiments and putting a lie to so many caricatures about them. They understood the grave electoral danger APC faces if it presented another Northerner after Buhari would have served eight years in office. It’s shocking that in a polarised country, anyone could have conceived such an idea. Obviously, Adamu and his co-travellers know something that the governors and other stakeholders don’t know. One item in the governors’ reporting of their encounter with Buhari intrigued me. He reportedly said he would neither adopt nor exclude anyone. It’s great that he’s not anointing anyone, but unhelpful that he’s opened a little chink that could be exploited to undermine the growing consensus within the party for power shift. By not “excluding” anyone there’s the chance of a northern candidate emerging after him. Is that a prospect he would be comfortable with? The minority within the ruling party pushing this agenda tried and failed to get Jonathan involved, calculating that he would serve just four years and their region would be back in power. But what is four or eight years in the life of a nation? The presidency rotating South doesn’t mean it would take permanent residency there. So, the desperation doesn’t make sense. It bears pointing out that despite his strutting around, Adamu is a general with very few, if any troops. How does he hope to actualise his agenda when 12 out of APC’s Northern governors have put their honour on the line by publicly backing power shift? Among them is Mai Mala Buni, governor of Lawan’s home state of Yobe. The trouble with the ruling party is that it’s overcome with hubris just like the PDP before it crashed. It has an exaggerated sense of its electoral attractiveness. In reality it’s not exactly flavour of the month given extreme hardship across the land. So, foisting upon itself an unpopular candidate can only be a recipe for disaster. If the one-time ruling party, at the height of its powers could lose, nothing says the same fate cannot befall APC. Grave damage has been done to the ruling party internally and externally by those who have been entrusted with its leadership. Nigeria would be a laughing stock in the international community given the bungled, underhand attempts by some forces within the party to impose a candidate. To have Adamu just announce someone is unbelievable and unacceptable. Every time we show up now to lecture our ECOWAS neighbours about democratic culture, they would have a hearty laugh. But all is not lost if the strong within the ruling party can rise up to fight for their collective future. They must ask themselves whether they want to remain in power after 2023 or return to the opposition wilderness. They must interrogate whether their chairman’s approach is the best way forward. Will they watch one or two individuals drive them over a cliff or will they secure their future political relevance by firmly standing against imposition? Buhari has less than a year left in office. What sort of legacy does he want to leave? Does he want to be remembered as APC’s last president? If the ongoing chaos isn’t contained and sanity returns, this may the convention where the presidency was donated to Atiku Abubakar and the PDP.