Omolúàbí!  — Yoruba for good breeding of the purest crust — seized South West public imagination from 2011, after the final collapse of the Olusegun Obasanjo willy-nilly mainstreaming, which left the region of Awolowo dazed with electoral capture. As Rauf Aregbesola, in November 2010, regained his stolen Osun governorship — the last of the slew of PDP-stolen mandates: after Edo, Ondo and Ekiti, spanning almost four years —Omolúàbí  reverberated among the Yoruba electorate. It was severe electoral beauty against Obasanjo’s brutal political thraldom.  Ogun (Obasanjo’s home state) and Oyo (the Yoruba political capital) would be free of the conservative shackles after 2011’s general election; thus confirming the supremacy of political Omolúàbí in the old Yoruba West. Needless to repeat: the main gladiators, in that progressives’ counter-attack from 2007, were Chief Olusegun Obasanjo (from retired Army General, the ex-president had become generalissimo of conservative forces) and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Lagos governor, who led the progressives army. Aregbesola was first to capture the essence of the moment.  In an elaborate rebrand, he re-made Osun as Ìpínle Omolúàbí, (State of the Well-Bred, against the original moniker: State of the Living Spring). Kayode Fayemi’s Ekiti would weigh in with its new variant: Oni Uyì, Oni Eye — Ekiti dialect for “People of Honour”, another Omolúàbí variant. But in the brutal run-up to the APC presidential primaries, which Asiwaju Tinubu eventually won, pretty little of the Yoruba political Omolúàbí played out.  Rather, it was elements from the North that stood firm. For context, see the political trajectory of Governor Fayemi and former Senator Dayo Adeyeye.  In 2007, Adeyeye huffed out of the Action Congress (precursor to the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria and today’s APC) because he alleged the AC Ekiti gubernatorial ticket was skewed for Fayemi against him and others.  Those miffed, back then blamed Tinubu for it all; and for that, Adeyeye stormed into political Siberia in PDP. In 2022, Fayemi (the “favoured boy” of 2007) was contesting the APC presidential ticket against Tinubu while Adeyeye, the complainant-in-chief back then, was rooting for the Asiwaju as chair of SWAGA — the South West Agenda for Asiwaju!  How roles change! Yes, Governor Fayemi redeemed his honour, on the convention grounds by stepping down for Tinubu.  For this, he earned due plaudits: it was a remarkable act in courage and common sense, with such high and electrifying stakes. Yet, in the Omolúàbí cosmos, such last-minute redemption could hardly excuse not knowing the ètò (Yoruba for norm) and not respecting the eto (legitimate due).  The hallmark of Omolúàbí demands you know the eto and respect the ètò. It’s the Yoruba equivalent of the Biblical golden rule: do unto others as you want others to do unto you; to teach that English aphorism: prevention is better than cure. That the Ekiti governor ran against his age-old benefactor at all violently breached Fayemi’s own “Oni Uyì, Oni Eye” credo.  Still, Fayemi saved himself — virtually by the bell, to borrow that evocative imagery of boxing.  Kudos! Now, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (PYO), Vice President of the Federal Republic, Tinubu beneficiary and eternal ally?  Well, before you judge him too harshly, witness how others in history — well, literature — fared at critical junctures, when stakes were really, really high.   Cost of an eye     Fanatics or lunatics?     Before South East self-destroys   Rehoboam, heir to the throne of King Solomon, the wisest man that ever lived, gobbled up the fatal folly of “useless young men” — as a version of the Bible described his debacle — and fulfilled the dire prophesy that the self-exiled Jeroboam would rule over 10 of the 12 tribes of Israel!  That was 931 BC, thus splitting old Israel into Samaria and Judah. Mark Anthony, in Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, was the swashbuckling general who led the forces that crushed the conspirators that killed Caesar, when Octavian (later, Augustus), Caesar’s adopted son, was but only a callow subaltern. Yet, in Anthony and Cleopara, the same Anthony, lost in the seductive bosoms of alluring Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, threw a party on the eve of a crucial battle against Augustus.  That was the beginning of his end as co-ruler of Rome, in the post-Caesar triumvirate of Anthony, Lepidus and Augustus Caesar. The Omolúàbí purists are within their bounds if they insist on the ètò and the eto; and lampoon poor Prof. Osinbajo as no more than, to put it in spicy Yoruba, “eni rí n kàn he, tó fé kú pelú e; owo  eni tó ti sonù n ko?...”(Remember the evergreen Ebenezer Obey lyric?) That translated into English could mean: “If you’d rather die than part with a chanced treasure, what would the one that lost that trove do?” It’s the ultimate moral censure in the Yoruba cosmos, without which Yoruba politics is incomplete. Yet, culture is culture; politics is politics though one is incomplete without the other.  That the British Constitution is “unwritten” yet it has run for centuries underscores the crucial role of culture, mores, conventions, etc, in politics. Unlike Fayemi, Vice President Osinbajo didn’t step down at the last minute.  Yet, he has congratulated the victor and pledged his full support — a cardinal democratic canon of gallant loss and graceful win.  That might not be enough for culture but it’s certainly decent closure for politics. PYO, in his post-defeat address to his TPP (The Progressive Project) coalition, even hinted at building a future network on that movement.  That can’t be bad for democratic deepening. Still, were that to mature and PYO become a formidable political force, perhaps he would appreciate the deep feeling of hurt, from brazen plots, to prise you off the network you’d built and nurtured all your political life. That triggered Tinubu’s Abeokuta “Eléyìí” thunder; and Adam Oshiomhole’s  jumpy foxtrot at the Eagle Square, after the Asiwaju’s triumph. The fear of Asiwaju cost Oshiomhole his APC national chair; and rubbed in his Edo Obaseki humiliation. You can’t therefore grudge Oshiomhole his dramatic “toast” to those two Pyrrhic victories! Reggae great, Jimmy Cliff, once crooned: “Every tub has to sit on its own bottom; every man has to stand on his own two feet.”  The Yoruba too would say: ”Ojú àwo l’àwo fi n gb’obe”: the dish soaks in the stew with its dominant part.  In other words, take your destiny in your hands.  That about captures the Abeokuta Eléyìí spirit. But the morning after, the Asiwaju had moved on — not given to base gloating and allied destructive passions, though every inch human. That is just as well — for Tinubu would need every help in his titanic tangle with Abubakar Atiku, the PDP candidate, Peter Obi, the Labour Party candidate, and others for the Nigerian presidency. Let bygones be bygones.  It’s a new day!