As Nigeria’s finest athletes converge in the ancient city of Benin to battle for places to represent the country at the World Athletics Championship in Oregon and the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, the older champions’ reign at the top are being threatened by a group of younger and much hungrier teenagers.  OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA  here  X-rays the incredible young talents to watch this weekend at the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) trials in the Edo State capital. First, we can recall that former national stars like Mary Onyali, Fatima Yusuf, Falilat Ogunkoya, Bisi Afolabi, Shade Abugan, Chidi Imo, the Ezenwa brothers David and Osmond, Olapade Adenekan and Innocent Egbunike all came to limelight through the age grade athletics meets and later went to win medals and put Nigeria has a strong force to reckon with in Athletics both in Africa and at the world stage. And now it seems athletics is back on track in Nigeria after years of mixed fortunes. With the engagement of private organisations coming in to partner with the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) in organising meets for raw talents to be discovered, Nigeria for the first time in decades has many futures star lining up to take over from their much older, more experienced compatriots by posting brilliant times and constantly beating their personal best in other to be better. It is no surprise that at the World U-20 Championships in Nairobi, Kenya last year, Nigerian youngsters were shattering records in what would be the country’s best performance ever at the competition. Team Nigeria amassed 7 medals- four gold and three bronzes- to finish third on the overall medals table, behind the host Kenya and Finland. One of the shining lights in Nairobi was Imaobong Nse-Uko. The teenage quarter-miler became the first Nigerian in her category to qualify for the 2022 World Championships after she ran a Personal Best time of 51.24 seconds in the 400m at the Big 12 Championships in Lubbock in May. 18-year-old Imaobong is definitely one to watch in the future. She came into the national limelight when as a 14 year-old she became the National Sports Festival champion in the 400m, winning the title in a personal best time of 52.36s. The Akwa-Ibom starlet caused an upset which surprised the journalists and officials as she beat older and more experienced athletes to take the title. The much touted pre-tournament favourite, Yinka Ajayi, had been in superb form that year, making the Commonwealth Games final and becoming the African Championships Bronze medallist in the 400m, so was expected to take the title. However, Ajayi had to settle for second place behind the little known teenager. Since then much was expected from the petit Imaobong. And she did not disappoint. Imaobong would later clinch the 2019 Nigerian U18 Champion in the 400 meters and successfully defended her NSF title in 2021. Her performances later secured her a place on the plane to the United States where some selected athletes were sent to train ahead of the Tokyo Olympics Games. She would later fulfil her Olympic dreams when on Friday, 30 July 2021 she ran the second leg of Team Nigeria’s 4x400m mixed relay team which set a new 3:13.60 African record to place seventh in the first of two semi-final heats. She later became the poster-athlete for Nigeria in Nairobi where she picked up two relay gold and an individual 400m title to become the fourth Nigerian woman to win gold in the event. Her three gold medals are the most any Nigerian athlete has won in the history of the Championships.   Revealed :Why Nigerian stars missing from big summer…     Gara Gombe sues for caution on NFF elections     CELEBRITY CORNER: Messi, Fabregas enjoy holidays with their…   Another youngster expected to perform big feats for Nigeria in the future is Udodi Onwuzurike. The US-born 19-year-old specialises in the 200 meters and won the gold medal in Nairobi. The Stanford University freshman has been running impressive times this season and the highlight was when he clocked a time of 20.15s (0.6) to finish third place at the NCAA Track & Field Championships in Eugene, Oregon earlier in the month. He is currently the fastest Nigerian athlete this season with 10.03s, a Nigerian 100m Junior Record and broke his school’s record in Arkansas, running a new PB of 20.08s to qualify for the NCAA doubles. Onwuzuruike is currently the fastest Nigerian athlete in the 100m and 200m in 2022, and he is poised to run his first sub 20s should he get into his element in Benin. For Tima Godbless, the last one year would definitely one to remember, from bronze medal podium finish the women’s 4x400m relay event in Nairobi in 2021 to partnering with Tobi Amusan, Praise Idamadudu and Praise Ofoku to win the women’s 4x100m relay at the recent 22nd African Athletics Championship in Mauritius. The 17-year-old Bayelsa State-born sprinter defied all odds by reaching the 100m final in Mauritius but narrowly missed out on a podium place after running an impressive 11.27s but ended up in fourth place as Gambia’s Gina Bass won in 11.06s. Niger’s Aminatou Seyni Moumouni (11.09) and South Africa’s Carina Horn (11.14) came in second and third respectively. Another new kid on the block is Chinecherem Nnamdi Prosper who set new records in the men’s javelin throw at the recent 2022 NCAA West Regionals with a 81.22 meters throw. The 19-year-old’s throw set a new school record as well as a new national record (NR) as he broke Pius Bazighe’s previous NR set in 1999, improving it by 14 cm. The last of the fearsome teens is Nathaniel Ezekiel, who is set to be the cynosure of all eyes in Benin. The Baylor University freshman has improved from a 51 seconds runner over the 400m hurdles last year to 49.89 seconds at the World U20 Athletics Championships in Nairobi, where he finished fourth in the finals. Ezekiel would later break Henry Amike’s 35-year old 400m hurdles record set at the World Championships in Rome in 1987 by running 48.42s last month.