The US Supreme Court yesterday ended the right to abortion in a seismic ruling that shreds half a century of constitutional protections on one of the most divisive and bitterly fought issues in American political life. The conservative-dominated court overturned the landmark 1973 “Roe v Wade” decision that enshrined a woman’s right to an abortion, saying that individual states can now permit or restrict the procedure themselves. “The Constitution does not confer a right to abortion; Roe and Casey are overruled; and the authority to regulate abortion is returned to the people and their elected representatives,” the court said. In the majority opinion, Justice Samuel Alito said “abortion presents a profound moral issue on which Americans hold sharply conflicting views. “The Constitution does not prohibit the citizens of each State from regulating or prohibiting abortion,” he said. Dissenting were the three liberals on the court. The ruling will likely set into motion a cavalcade of new laws in roughly half of the 50 US states that will severely restrict or outright ban and criminalize abortions, forcing women to travel long distances to states that still permit the procedure.   Omo-Agege rewards heroic tanker driver with N1m     Japan reviewing 1,000 scholarship applications from…     Art Master Africa kicks off   In his reaction, US President Joe Biden, addressed the nation from the White House’s Cross Hall, calling the apex court’s decision ‘a very solemn moment’ and a ‘sad day for the court and the country.’ ‘Today, the Supreme Court of the United States expressly took away a Constitutional right from the American people, that it had already recognized. They didn’t limit it, they simply took it away. That’s never been done to a right so important to so many Americans,’ Biden said. ‘But they did it.’ ‘Now with Roe gone, let’s be very clear, the health and life of women in this nation are now at risk,’ the president said. Biden pointed out how Republican-appointed justices, including by President Richard Nixon, decided Roe and upheld abortion rights in subsequent cases over the years. ‘It was three justices named by one president – Donald Trump – who were at the core of today’s decision to upend the scales of justice and eliminate a fundamental right for women in this country,’ Biden said. Biden said the laws going into effect in the states are ‘so extreme’ that a woman could be forced to bear their rapist’s child or the child that is the ‘consequence of incest.’ ‘The court literally taking America back 150 years,’ Biden said, pointing out some of the statutes from the 1800s that were referenced in the Dobbs decision. ‘It just stuns me,’ he uttered.