The Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) and the TEKAN-ECWA Bloc of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have expressed shock over the killing of worshipers at St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, last Sunday. ECWA President and Head of TEKAN-ECWA Bloc, Rev. Stephen Baba Panya, said this in a statement yesterday in Jos, the Plateau State capital. He said: “We received with great shock, pain and sorrow, the sad news of the gruesome attack on St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church in Owo, Ondo State, by bandits, leading to the death of over 50 innocent Christian worshippers, including children. “In consonance with what our esteemed National President of CAN has said, we do assert that this is nothing but pure wickedness and evil as there could be no justifiable reason for this brazen and dastardly attack. “This attack is clearly a well calculated assault on the peace-loving people of the Owo Kingdom and the entire Christendom in Nigeria. It is barbaric, vile, wicked, Satanic, and a deliberate action to wipe out Christianity in the country.   Owo Church Attack: OPC seeks tight security for Southwest     Owo Church Attack: WHO pledges support for govt     Owo Church Attack: Adeboye prays against recurrence   “That the attack was carried out on Pentecost Sunday, the generally acknowledged ‘birthday’ of the Church, clearly shows it is a continuation of the relentless but futile effort of the devil and his agents to exterminate the Church in Nigeria. “We, therefore, join all people of good conscience in Nigeria and around the world to condemn this dastardly attack on innocent citizens in its entirety and in the strongest terms. “On behalf of ECWA and the TEKAN-ECWA Bloc of CAN, I convey my deepest condolences to the families of the victims, the Catholic Church and the Christendom in Nigeria. “It is a cross we all are jointly bearing. We pray for the comfort of the Holy Spirit, and the healing and restoration of all the injured and the Church of God in Nigeria.” While calling for severe actions against perpetrators of the attack, Panya also said: “The greatest honour that can be done to the victims of this attack is to get to the root of the matter and bring the perpetrators to justice, no matter who they are and where they come from.”