The National Youth Service Corps has said the Call Up Letters for prospective corps members that will participate in the 2022 Batch ‘B’ Orientation course will be available on Sunday. Director-General, NYSC, Brig-Gen Muhammad Fadah disclosed this during a webinar jointly organised by the NYSC and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as part of efforts to sustain the safe conduct of Orientation Exercise. In a statement by the Director of Press and Public Relations, NYSC, Eddy Megwa, the Director-General said though there was a decline in COVID-19 cases worldwide, there is the need “not to let down our guards until the disease is totally eradicated”. Fadah added that the NYSC had made adequate preparations to ensure the safety of all camp participants across the 37 camps nationwide. He said since the post-lockdown resumption of Orientation Courses, the NYSC had adopted strict compliance with all safety guidelines before, during, and after the exercises. The NYSC Chief enjoined all PCMs to ensure strict compliance with all the established safety protocols in the camp. The Director-General used the webinar to advise all PCMs to be security conscious, especially when travelling to their States of deployment.   My takeaways from the various presidential primaries (1)     Moghalu: Abrupt end of a dream     Rivers: Enter Fubara’s private army   The statement partly reads: “You are strongly advised to board vehicles at only officially designated motor parks. You must also avoid night journeys at all costs.” Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr. Ifedayo Adetifa said all PCMs, including other camp participants, must undergo the COVID-19 test, and only those that test negative will be admitted to the camps. He stated that in the event of any positive result, arrangements have been made with the NCDC and State Health officials for the cases to be handled in designated treatment Centers outside the Orientation Camp. Adetifa said the NCDC would continue to practise and demonstrate preventive measures against COVID-19. He added that no single death has been recorded in any NYSC Orientation Camp since the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria till date. The NCDC Project Lead for Safe Camp Re-opening, Dr. Ladun Okuromade in her contributions said every part of the country had been affected by COVID-19. She advised the PCMs to utilise the opportunity of the NYSC Orientation course to complete their COVID-19 vaccination. She said COVID-19 screening is compulsory while COVID-19 vaccination is optional.”