The European Union’s pledge to ban most Russian oil is forcing it to rewire an economy that is geared to run on cheap Russian fuel—and threatens to deprive Moscow of revenue from its most valuable export. Senior EU officials are expected to sign off on the oil embargo in the coming days, raising the intensity of the bloc’s economic retaliation against Russia for the war in Ukraine. Leaders of EU member states said late Monday they had agreed in principle to ban Russian crude and refined fuels that arrive on ships, which accounts for at least two-thirds of imports from Russia. Fuel imported via pipeline was exempted from the deal to get holdout Hungary to agree. The ban will be phased in over several months. By the end of the year, the embargo would cover 90 per cent of previous Russian oil imports, EU officials said. The deal drove oil prices higher Tuesday as traders braced for a loss of Russian oil supplies to international markets. Brent, the global benchmark, rose 1.9 percent to $119.84 a barrel earlier in the week, trading at close to its highest level in more than two months. U.S. marker West Texas Intermediate rose 3.5 percent to $119.06 a barrel, playing catchup after trading was closed for the Memorial Day holiday. The ban would end Europe’s decades long reliance on Russian oil to power its economy and force the bloc to find new sources of crude and refined fuels. It could fan global inflation, already running at its highest rate in decades in major economies, and exacerbate a shortage of fuels in poorer regions that will compete with Europe to import oil. The eurozone’s annual rate of inflation rose to a new high in May, hitting 8.1 percent, the EU said.   Energy transition: The African challenge     Fed Govt to maximise local content opportunities, says Sylva     Falcon Corp, others in $25m gas infrastructure deal   In 2020, 29 percent of the EU’s crude-oil imports came from Russia, with the U.S., the second-biggest supplier, providing nine percent. Russia is also a major exporter of refined fuels to Europe, supplying 10 percent of the region’s diesel demand in 2021, according to the International Energy Agency. The stakes are high for Russia, which depends on its energy exports to fund government spending as international sanctions have cut off much of its economy from the West. The EU currently pays around $10 billion a month to Russia for crude oil and oil products, according to Brussels-based think tank Bruegel. The pipeline exemption won’t provide much respite for Moscow. Before the war, the EU imported about 2.5 million barrels of Russian crude each day of which 800,000 barrels was via the Druzhba pipeline, the world’s longest pipeline network at 5,500-kilometers-long. By year end, Russian crude oil flows into the EU will be 500,000 barrels a day, 20 percent of prewar levels, said Amrita Sen, founder of Energy Aspects, a consulting firm. That equals roughly $170 million a day in lost revenue for Russia, at the current discounted prices for Russian crude. Europe has already shifted away from Russian oil in recent months, dialing down purchases from Moscow and sourcing crude from West Africa, the U.S. and elsewhere. Germany, which imports Russian oil through the northern branch of the Druzhba pipeline, rapidly reduced its purchases of Russian oil after the war broke out, reducing its reliance on Moscow to 12 per cent from 35percent before the invasion.