As the first election to be held in the wake of some key reforms introduced, following the passing of the Electoral Act 2022 into law, last Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State was another important milestone in many respects for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and Nigerians in general. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI, who monitored the election in Ido-Osi Local Government Area, captures some of his observations. One of the interesting features of monitoring elections in this clime is the ease of driving from one community to another, with the restriction of vehicular movements usually enforced during the exercise. It is a driver’s ultimate paradise to commute from one place to another with the roads virtually free from vehicular movement. Last Saturday’s governorship in Ekiti State was not an exception. Many communities in Ekiti are very contiguous; so it was a pleasurable experience driving from one community to another in the state described as the Switzerland of Africa because of the terrain, which is similar to that of the European country noted for the ambience of its environment. As our reporter commuted from Ido-Ekiti, the council headquarters to Ifaki-Ekiti, a distance of about seven kilometres, there was no single security checkpoint on the way. The reporter passed through two different towns, Ora-Ekiti and Aaye-Ekiti before getting to his destination. The security agencies conducted themselves professionally; without molesting and intimidation and without interfering in the electoral process. Besides, the number of security operatives deployed is considerably low. At the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Segun Oni’s polling unit, at Illogbe Quarters, only two police officers were noticed in the early hours of the day; though a patrol vehicle visited the area once. Voting began at the unit at about 8.30 am. The SDP candidate came to the polling unit, which is in front of the town’s customary court and adjacent to his father’s house, at about 10 am. He did his accreditation without complications and voted at about 10.22 am. He was accompanied by his wife, Kemi. After voting, he urged his supporters to utilise the next few hours to go out and vote for him; saying he had received reports of intimidation and vote-buying in other parts of the state. Being the underdog in the race, Oni’s aspiration had generated some interest among the populace, particularly in his hometown, Ifaki-Ekiti. Indeed, the number of reporters that covered his polling unit outnumbered the people who came to vote at the time he addressed the media. It was a herculean task to get close to him and observe the proceeding. The election generally presented many interesting lessons about the progress being made to improve the conduct of such exercises in the country. For instance, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) can be said to have improved progressively on the conduct of elections over the years. This can be gleaned from its conduct in many regards. Take the Bimodal Voters Identification System (BIVAS) for instance; the commission has tried to respond to complaints and criticisms of the people, observers and participants. The performance of INEC, with regards to accreditation and verification of voters during last Saturday’s election, can be described as an improvement on previous elections. Indeed, there were complaints of delays in some polling units, such as in Ifaki-Ekiti as witnessed by this reporter, owing to the slow pace of the process attributed to hiccups associated with the BIVAS technology. This happened, for instance, in Ido-Ekiti and Ifaki-Ekiti, both in Ido-Osi Local Government Area. But, at the end of the day, the commission intervened and the accreditation of voters appeared to improve. The idea of simultaneous accreditation and voting, introduced by the commission during the last general election is also a key improvement that has aided the conduct of the recent Ekiti election. Hitherto, prospective voters had to do their accreditation in the morning and return later in the day to cast their votes. At the time it was introduced, INEC said it did so based on the recommendations made by the Commonwealth Observer Mission, which observed the 2015 general election. INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu said the report of the Commonwealth Observer Mission to the country in 2015, led by former Tanzanian president, Dr Jakaya Kikwete, contained 32 recommendations, as well as identified institutions that should implement the recommendations.   Buhari order security chiefs to rescue train attack victims…     Buhari for 26th CHOGM in Kigali     Re: Train of two traitors   INEC also appears to have improved considerably in the area of logistics, particularly concerning the deployment of officials and materials on time ahead of the election. In places monitored in Ido-Osi, INEC ad-hoc officials and materials arrived at various polling units before 7 am, ahead of the kick-off of the election at 8 am. Ekiti people, young and old, also deserve commendation for their effort to come out as early as 7 am to their polling units to cast their ballot and their resolve in many cases to remain there until the end of the exercise, to witness the counting of their votes. In Ifaki-Ekiti, 102-year-old Felicia Fayomi was full of joy after casting her ballot. The old woman, who walked almost practically unaided, danced to the delight of everyone around, to celebrate the occasion. Mrs Fayomi told onlookers that she took the trouble to come out and vote, to be part of those that would vote to elect a governor that would bring peace to Ekiti; perhaps an indirect reference to one of the campaign slogans of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) candidate. Her words: “I want peace in Ekiti; that is why I am voting.” The people enthusiastically trooped out in their numbers to vote for candidates of their choice. The electorates queued up in their polling units for hours, patiently waiting for their turn to vote. The exercise was largely free and fair, with no incidence of violence. Aside from one reported case of fighting between two hoodlums in Ido-Ekiti, there was no incidence of violence throughout the exercise. As witnessed during the election, vote-buying appears to have become a regular feature of elections in the country. In Ido-Osi, for instance, the three major political parties that participated in the election gave voters between N2,000 and N10,000 per person to vote for their candidates. Last Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State could also be regarded as part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s legacy of allowing credible elections during his tenure. The result of the election was released on time, without unnecessary delays. Aside from the fact that cities and cities in Ekiti State are very contiguous and there is no difficult terrain that would constitute a logistics nightmare for the organisers of the election, the introduction of electronic transmission of results for the first time, with the passage of the Electoral Act 2022 into law must have contributed in the sense that it must have reduced dispute over figures in the process of collation. As of 6.55 pm last Saturday, according to reports, results from no fewer than 2,084 units out of the 2,445 polling units across the 16 local government areas had been uploaded on the portal: https://www.inecelectionresults.ng/. The uploading of results began shortly after the close of voting and sorting of votes in various polling units across the state. Chief Victor Olawoye, a historian and the Odofin of Ido-Ekiti, believes that the conduct of the election was a success in many respects.  He said: “Contrary to earlier indications that heavens will fall and that thunders will strike, the election was largely peaceful in Ido-Ekiti where I monitored the developments dying the contest. People defied the early morning dew to come out to exercise their franchise. “Initially, there were complaints about the slow pace of the voter verification process because the machine was malfunctioning. But, within one hour, INEC rectified the fault.” Chief Olawoye said he did not witness the reported threat of violence in Ido-Ekiti but only heard about it. He said: “Apparently, it was a case of ‘two fighting’, which had nothing I do with the electioneering process proper. Another thing I witnessed while trying t cast my ballot is the issue of vote-buying. Although I did not witness anybody collecting money, I understand that the various political parties gave between N2,000 and N7,000 to voters that voted for them.” Olusegun Akinola, an Ado-Ekiti-based lawyer and former commissioner of the Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission (EKSIEC), said everything went well where he voted in Ido-Ekiti. He said: “The polling went well, but I noticed while trying to cast my vote that the growing incidence of vote-buying has come to stay. Akinola added: “It is not as if money was being given to the voters openly. But, it was obvious that agents of the various political parties were inducing voters to vote for their candidates. All the parties were involved; it is just a matter of degree. From all indications, the security operatives were aware, but they simply looked the other way. To be able to collect their money, some voters made efforts to show who they voted for. “There was no violence as such during the election. But, there was a reported case of two hoodlums who were involved in a mild confrontation that would have ended up affecting the election if it was not nipped in the bud by security operatives.”