The Director-General, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh, has said its automation  have reached over 80 per cent completion. He also assured that NIMASA’s commitment to automation is to reduce human interface, while  plugging revenue leakages in the system. He spoke at the fourth Heads of Maritime Agencies meeting in Lagos. In a statement by the Assistant Director, Public Relations, NIMASA, Osagie Edward, a copy of which was obtained by The Nation, Jamoh said:  “In line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order on Ease of Doing Business, we are committed to full automation to attain reduction of human interface in majority of our transactions with our stakeholders and this is in our bid to ensure transparency and professionalism which the sector requires to grow. The goal is to align with the National Single Window initiative, when all the internal processes of the various Agencies have been concluded.” According to the statement, Jamoh sought the removal of the country war risk insurance for Nigerians. “Therefore, we will keep advocating the total removal of War Risk Insurance by the international community, so that Nigerians can benefit from that,” he stated.   Nigeria to deploy unique identifiers to stem capital market…     How to end multiple exchange rates, by BDCs     ‘42.6% of bank accounts linked to BVN’   At the meeting, which comprised  the agencies under the  the Federal Ministry of Transportation, an agreement to digitalise their processes, while also maintaining focus on actualising the National Single Window (NSW) regime in the  transportation sector was reached.   The Registrar of Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN), Barrister Sam Nwakohu, disclosed that full automation of the internal processes of the various Agencies represented at the meeting, is a pre-requisite to achieving the much anticipated NSW regime in the sector.   Nwakohu, who presided over the meeting, said the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of the various Agencies have agreed on timelines to achieve full automation of internal processes. “We have agreed that all Agencies under the Ministry of Transportation should as a matter of priority, attain full automation. This process will be well coordinated and we also gave ourselves timelines to achieve this,” he said.   It may be recalled that the maiden edition of the meeting was in 2020, with the aim of enhancing synergy and cooperation of parastatals under the supervision of the FMOT, which is intended for a more effective and efficient maritime sector.   The meeting also had in attendance the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mr. Mohammed Bello Koko; Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Emmanuel Jime; Managing Director, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Dr. George Moghalu.   Others are the Managing Director, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Mr. Fidet Okhiria; Rector, Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN) Oron, Commodore Emmanuel Effedua and Director General, Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT), Zaria, Mr. Bayero Salih-Farah Zaria.