Anchor Insurance Company Limited  has unveiled a cover for air travellers. It is known as Local Passengers’ Flight Welfare Scheme. Its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Ebose Augustine Osegha, said the product also compensates lost wages during temporary or permanent disability. Ebose maintained that this insurance protection would be run in accordance with the stipulated regulations on obligatory personal accidents insurance on transport, stating that passengers are considered insured from the processing of the check-in to unboarding and receipt of luggage(s).   PTAD complaints and solutions     Pension complaints and solutions     PenCom recovering pension liabilities, says DG   The policy, he said, terminates from the point the passenger collects or takes his/her luggage at the arrival hall, adding that the passenger from his/her airport of take-off to that of destination in the country. He said: “The benefits acruable from the product, he submitted from the time of announcement of boarding to the point of taking his/her luggage at the destination airport), any affected passenger shall be entitled to the following benefits: Financial lump sum payment to the passenger’s named beneficiary upon the occurrence of fatality or death of a passenger as a result of an accident while boarding or onboard the aircraft. Term payments to the passenger for injury sustained leading to disability as a result of accident occurring while boarding or onboard the aircraft. “Other are term payments to the passenger for injury sustained leading to temporary loss of capacity to labour as a result of accident occurring while boarding or onboard the aircraft and medical expenses of up to N50,000 for passengers who suffer any injury as a result of an accident occurring while boarding or onboard the aircraft.” He added: All claims, including loss of baggage, are to be reported within 24 hours of the happening of such event. Incidence or cases of suspected or possible loss of luggage must be reported to Anchor Insurance Company Limited irrespective of the chances that the luggage would be later found. “Claims payment would be made between thre and five working days upon complete documentation of the claim.”