Given the frequency and dexterity with which the presidency walks back some of President Muhammadu Buhari’s statements on national issues, it has become increasingly difficult to tell which of his views and refutations really belong to him. For instance, he denies the widely held belief that a sinister cabal lurks around his administration and policies, insisting proudly but unconvincingly that he is his own man; yet, since the inauguration of his administration, he has been indifferent to what most people think of him, of his independence, and of his direction. However, his recent Bloomberg News interview, widely disseminated across Nigeria last week, shows a disturbing, if a little disjointed, streak of the president projecting the ideas and perspectives of vested interests. Two of his answers underscore this fear. Bloomberg did not ask him any question, directly or obliquely, about the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), but he dragged the issue in anyway, seizing the opportunity of the question on insecurity and his performance in office to declaim on the south-eastern crisis. He rightly began addressing the question with a recount of what his government had done to degrade Boko Haram, and then he lauded the help his government had received from some foreign powers, praised the role recently purchased military hardware was playing in counter-insurgency operations, and, almost out of the blue, called on the same foreign powers to proscribe and label IPOB as a terrorist organisation. Hear the president: “Their (IPOB) leadership enjoys safe haven in the West, broadcasting hate speech into Nigeria from London, spending millions lobbying members of the US Congress, and freely using international financial networks to arm agitators on the ground. This must stop.” Ignore the president’s impatience. What really worries many analysts is his obsession with the Southeast-based and Nnamdi Kanu-led Igbo self-determination group. Recent reports suggest indeed that IPOB could be contributing to insecurity in the Southeast, but whether in the Bloomberg interview or elsewhere, neither the president nor anyone in his administration has been able to provide conclusive evidence that IPOB really masterminds the abominable killings that have horrified the Igbo themselves and the rest of Nigeria. For instance IPOB started the so-called sit-at-home order to pressure the government to free Mr Kanu, but it has since suspended the policy and distanced itself from its violent enforcement, including even providing clues to the public about the identity of those behind the elongation and enforcement of the order. Now, this of course does not absolve IPOB of responsibility for the nefarious order, or its gory enforcement, or the perpetration of the much crueler torture and killings going on in the Southeast allegedly by the inappropriately named Eastern Security Network (ESN). There are indications that IPOB might have sired a monster, and that the monster is now beyond its control, the organisation having splintered irretrievably with each faction acquiring a terrifying life of its own. The president was at liberty to make reference to the killings in the Southeast as a component of the insecurity plaguing Nigeria, even though he was for a long time contradistinctively indulgent towards the activities of bandits and violent herdsmen whom foreign powers have labeled as terrorists. But to zero in on IPOB without significant substantiation gives the discomfiting impression that what angers him is their self-determination campaign, and their offensive vituperations, rather than their alleged terroristic leaning. In the same breath, and still responding to the same question, the president eulogised the policy on livestock breeding widely regarded as placatory of herdsmen instead of cognisant of the plight of farmers with whom some armed cattle rearers have engaged in deadly feuds. The policy, called the National Livestock Transformation Plan, is sold as unimpeachable; but it is bitterly divisive and hugely controversial. Said he:  “My administration is the only one in Nigeria’s history to implement a solution to decades-long herder-farmer conflicts, exacerbated by desertification and demographic growth. The National Livestock Transformation Plan, putting ranching at its core, is the only way to deplete the competition for resources at the core of the clashes. Governors from some individual states have sought to play politics where ranches have been established; but where they have been established disputes have dramatically reduced.” It is not clear, however, whether describing the policy as ‘the only way’ is not an exaggeration. There are obviously less divisive and less acrimonious ways of fostering amity between farmers and herders, just as there are far more imaginative ways a country can respond to the twin pressures of uncontrolled demographic growth and desertification.   NECO commences school-based SSCE tomorrow, denies…     IGP pays N22.24m to families of deceased police     NCPC boss to Pilgrims: Practice what you have learnt from…   But what perhaps takes the biscuit is the president’s disingenuous response to the blatant and offensive politicking of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele who desecrated his seat and waddled in the murky waters of presidential politics at the prompting of a few power mongers. Not only did the president fail to condemn that provocative intrusion into politics from the august seat of the apex bank, he even excused Mr Emefiele’s indefensible behaviour on the grounds of the CBN’s controversial embrace of a new and radical economic orthodoxy, “an alternative economic model that puts people at the heart of policy”. But the CBN governor’s immersion in politics, apart from being opportunistic and deviant, is inexcusable. Glossing over that misguided action encourages public officers’ aberrant behaviour. Reluctantly, the president finally conceded that the CBN board would have the last word on the governor’s behaviour. After the president had defended him? There are many significant policy footprints the president will leave when he vacates office next year. Those footprints will burnish his legacy. But there are also many other controversial footprints he will be leaving behind, many of them interred with his government’s bones. But on IPOB, herders-farmers conflict, and Mr Emefiele, it is inconceivable that anyone can find the word or the logic to defend or applaud the president. The Bloomberg interview merely reinforces what is already known of the Buhari administration: that it harbours an unpredictable mix of laudable and obnoxious policies and programmes. If only the president had mustered the right team to galvanise the country and repair its broken hedges. In three obscene and eventful weeks, Rivers State governor and former presidential contender on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nyesom Wike, had witnessed two resounding defeats of enough amperage to singe the feathers of any politician of lesser mettle. No one is certain exactly how the governor is taking the PDP rebuff, having been conspired against and betrayed, as he put it, in the presidential primary, and then passed over for the running mate position. Both in Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s explanation that followed the selection of Delta State governor Ifeanyi Okowa as running mate and the needless justification by former Niger State governor Babangida Aliyu indicating that Mr Wike was rejected for his unpresidential temperament, the Rivers governor’s pride was unconscionably injured. Mr Wike gives as much as he takes, and has always defended himself admirably in the face of mostly unprovoked attacks. He has derided Mr Aliyu for his current irrelevance in politics, and dismissed another of his critic, billionaire Ned Nwoko, as an unparalleled hedonist whose brain has been addled by concupiscence. Now, it is feared he could be on his way out of the PDP, despite swearing that as a loyal party man, probably the most loyal in recent times as he put it, he would never countenance leaving a party he had grown to love. But after two rejections in less than three weeks, it is not clear whether he does not consider himself to have been tested beyond human and political endurance. If Mr Wike will accept entreaties from Alhaji Atiku, it will soon be known. Meanwhile, some of his men have defected from the PDP, almost as a precursor movement. But whether the governor will follow suit, after his double humiliation, is uncertain. What is certain is that if he leaves the PDP, it will make it much harder for the opposition to dethrone the ruling party, especially with a certain Peter Obi, Labour Party presidential candidate, snapping at the heels of the major parties.