Olowo of Owo in Ondo State, Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye III, has urged well-meaning Nigerians to put pressure on the Federal Government to take legislative steps that will enable states have their police. The monarch said it had become necessary for women groups, civil society organisations (CSOs) and similar lawful bodies to march on the National Assembly to demand an amendment to the constitution for the creation of state police. He expressed sadness that innocent children and other worshippers were killed in the June 5 attack on the St. Francis Catholic Church in his town. Oba Ogunoye spoke yesterday when women groups and the apex association of the town’s unions, Owo is One Association, visited his palace to donate drugs and money to victims of the attack currently receiving treatment at various hospitals. The monarch, who expressed optimism that the attackers would soon be apprehended, said Nigerians had to be assured of security to life and property. “There is no reason why the Federal Government should have exclusive preserve of the police. The state government should take over the policing of their states. “Let us begin to advocate for true federalism and creation of state police…” Leader of the Owo is One delegation, Mr. Oluwale Daramola, said the association set aside N5 million for the recuperating victims. Daramola, who presented the items to the management of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owo, and St. Louis Medical Centre, said the donation included antibiotics, infusion and consumables. Also, the Southwest Security Network, codenamed Amotekun Corps, has promised to forestall any future terrorist attack on the region. Amotekun Commanders in Ondo, Oyo, Ekiti, Osun and Ogun states made the promise when they visited the scene of the June 5 attack on St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo. They promised to ensure that tight security prevails across the region. The Ondo State Commander and Chairman of Amotekun Corps in the Southwest, Akogun Adetunji Adeleye, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, said they were on the scene to assess the security situation and proffer solutions. He urged the residents to be vigilant and purge themselves of the notion that security should be the business of law enforcement agencies alone. “We feel very sad about this attack because these hoodlums invaded this ever-peaceful town and massacred defenceless worshippers. It is a sad moment for us.   Olanipekun seeks review of NJC, FJSC compositions     Owo church killings: School’s Old Boys mourn member Ajanaku     Protests rock APC Secretariat over alleged plans to…   “To Ondo State people, we want to reassure them that the executives of all the Western states are determined to continue to ensure the security of your lives and property. “We want you all to rest assured that even the Federal Government and all the security agencies are not leaving any stone unturned in apprehending the perpetrators of this dastardly act and ensuring that we prevent a repeat of it,” Adeleye said. Bishop of Ondo Catholic Diocese, Most Rev. Jude Arogundade, who received the corps commanders at his residence, urged them to fish out the perpetrators. Oba Ogunoye III, who commended the Amotekun Commanders for effectively securing the Southwest, said they would burst more crimes if the Federal Government allowed them to carry sophisticated weapons. Also, the House of Representatives yesterday mandated the police authority to fish out and prosecute those who attacked St. Francis Catholic Church in Owo. The House condemned the attack and urged the Federal Government to immediately declare a state of emergency in various forest reserves in Owo/Ose Federal Constituency to comb and fish out the perpetrators of the crimes. It revisited the issue of the state police to ensure that it is included it in the Constitution. This followed a motion of urgent national importance brought to the floor of the House by the lawmaker representing Owo/Ose Federal Constituency of Ondo State, Adelegbe Oluwatimehin, on the need to end such attacks. The lawmaker recounted other attacks in other parts of Ondo State this year. He noted that without drastic security measures in place, similar attacks would continue by criminal groups. Also, Owo is One Association urged the Federal Government to seek assistance from foreign nations that have successfully dealt with terrorist activities to tackle insecurity across the country. Addressing reporters in Lagos, the association’s National Coordinator Akinboro Aruwajoye said the mayhem unleashed on Owo town had thrown up a lot of gaps and lapses in the nation’s security set-up, prevention and responses. “Despite the near war situation in most parts of the country, it does not seem any part of the agencies picked up any information about this attack. A total lack of intelligence support to guide our security response activities needs to be rejigged. “So, the Federal Government should immediately seek assistance from foreign nations that have dealt with terrorists successfully in the past,” Aruwajoye said.