The World Cup heads to Qatar this year with 32 nations competing for victory in the Middle East. Holders France and hosts Qatar are among the teams competing in the competition. Belgium finished qualification unbeaten, finishing ahead of Wales and the Czech Republic. The Red Devils will want to improve on their third-place performance in Russia. Argentina sealed their World Cup spot last November following a goalless draw with arch-rivals Brazil. Lionel Scaloni’s side won the Copa America in July and will compete for their third World Cup title. Brazil was announced as the first team to advance from South America’s CONMEBOL qualifying section after a 1-0 win against Colombia last November. Tite’s team would love to win their first title since 2002 after winning the World Cup a record five times. Cameroon qualified for Qatar on away goals following a 2-2 aggregate tie with Algeria. Karl Toko Ekambi’s 124th-minute effort canceled out Ahmed Touba’s strike and settled the tie in favour of Rigobert Song’s side. Canada qualified for the World Cup for the first time since 1986 with a 4-0 win against Jamaica in their last qualification game. The current generation, led by English head coach John Herdman, contains a number of European-based players such as Lille’s Jonathan David and Bayern Munich’s Alphonso Davies. Their golden generation that finished as runners-up in 2018 may be fading, but they will still be able to call on greats such as Luka Modric and Ivan Perisic in 2022. Croatia advanced past Russia to claim a spot in Qatar after an own goal earned them a 1-0 win. Denmark, a semi-finalist at Euro 2020, maintained their good record into World Cup qualification, where they qualified for the tournament with a 1-0 home win against Austria last October. This will be Denmark’s sixth World Cup appearance. Ecuador needed just a point against already-eliminated Paraguay to finish in the top four, but were defeated 3-1. Despite the shock loss, Uruguay’s victory over Peru allowed La Tri to qualify for their fourth World Cup. England secured their place in Qatar 2022 in stunning fashion, with a 10-0 thrashing of San Marino enough to seal Gareth Southgate’s team as group champions. Defending champion France qualified for the finals with an 8-0 victory against Kazakhstan in mid-November. France will aspire to become only the third team in history to win back-to-back World Cups if they win in Qatar. Germany became the first team to officially qualify for the World Cup after defeating North Macedonia 4-0 in Group J of the European tournament in October. Seven wins from their first eight games were enough for Die Mannschaft to secure their place in Qatar. Ghana qualified for the World Cup on away goals following a 1-1 tie on aggregate with Nigeria. A penalty by William Troost-Ekong cancelled out Arsenal star Thomas Partey’s 10th-minute strike, but the Black Stars advanced. Porto forward Mehdi Taremi scored the game-winning goal in a 1-0 victory over Iraq, sealing Dragan Skocic’s men a place in their third World Cup in a row. Japan qualified for the World Cup by defeating Australia 2-0 in Sydney, owing to a last-minute Kaoru Mitoma double.   Buhari names Uzodimma, others Council members of…     Ex-Commissioner excited as Tinubu visits Gov Yahaya Bello     Lawan meets with NASS workers over indefinite strike   It will be Japan’s sixth appearance in the finals in a row. Mexico finished second in CONCACAF qualifying, tied with Canada on 28 points, to secure their eighth consecutive World Cup appearance. The co-hosts of 2026 will be hoping to reach the quarter-finals for the first time since 1986. Morocco beat DR Congo 5-2 on aggregate to qualify for the World Cup in style. The first leg ended 1-1, but an emphatic 4-1 victory in the second leg booked the Atlas Lions’ place in Qatar. A 2-0 victory against Norway guaranteed the Netherlands’ World Cup place as Group G winners. Poland won the World Cup qualifying play-off finals against Sweden 2-0 to secure their place in Qatar. Portugal defeated North Macedonia 2-0 in the World Cup qualifying play-off finals thanks to a brace from Bruno Fernandes. Fernando Santos’ men defeated Turkey 3-1 in the previous round and advanced by a similar margin against the minnows who eliminated Italy. Qatar, as the host nation, is guaranteed a spot in the championships without the need for qualifying and will be making their World Cup debut. Only South Africa failed to reach the knockout stages as a host nation in the previous 21 tournaments, and Qatar will have their work cut out to avoid a similar fate based on official rankings. Saudi Arabia’s World Cup place was clinched in March when Japan defeated Australia 2-0. The Green Falcons have appeared in the competition five times but have never advanced past their group since their debut in 1994. Senegal beat Egypt on penalties in a repeat of the Africa Cup of Nations final. A 1-1 aggregate draw led to a shootout, which the AFCON champions won 3-1. Serbia qualified the hard way, with a comeback victory over Portugal in Lisbon, ensuring their place in the Jules Rimet Trophy fight. Aleksandar Mitrovic made up for the Eagles’ penalty mistake that saw them miss out on Euro 2020 by scoring the game-winning goal in the 90th minute. South Korea qualified for their tenth World Cup in a row after defeating Syria in AFC qualifying. Spain only needed a point against Sweden to secure their place in Qatar, but they earned all three thanks to Alvaro Morata’s late strike, which sent the Scandinavians to the play-offs. Switzerland snatched automatic entry in dramatic fashion, edging out European champions Italy to win their qualifying group. The Swiss will be making their 12th World Cup appearance. Tunisia qualified for the World Cup by defeating Mali 1-0 on aggregate. After missing out in 2018, the United States squeezed past Costa Rica on goal difference to earn their place back at the top table. Uruguay, the two-time world champion, qualified for Qatar with a 1-0 victory against Peru in March. This will be the 14th finals for the South American country. Rob Page’s side faced Austria in their play-off semi-final after becoming runners-up to Belgium in Group E of their qualification group. Gareth Bale scored twice to secure a 2-1 victory, then the Dragons defeated Ukraine 1-0 with Andriy Yarmolenko’s own goal to secure World Cup qualification for the first time since 1958.