41 vote-buying cases recorded in six LGAs —CDD The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) reported 41 cases of vote buying and selling in six local government areas (LGAs) during yesterday’s governorship election in Ekiti State. The Chairman of CDD’s Election Analysis Centre (EAC), Prof. Adele Jinadu, named the affected LGAs as Ado-Ekiti, Ijero, Ikole Irepodun/Ifelodun, Ise/Orun and Moba . He told reporters in Abuja that reports from CDD observers indicated that vote-buying took the pattern of cash collection in brown envelopes to disguise the content in order to avoid arrest by the anti-corruption agencies. The CDD-EAC chair stated that in some cases were young voters who openly displayed the money, explaining that the universities strike influenced some of them to perceive the election as an opportunity to solve their economic challenges. BIVAS helped to douse tension, says group The Centre for Transparency Advocacy (CTA) yesterday acknowledged the contribution of the Bimodal Voters Identification System (BIVAS) in dousing tension across Ekiti State during the governorship polls. Executive Secretary of the group, Faith Nwadishi, said in Ado Ekiti that the election was an improvement on previous polls. Although she was not happy about allegations of voters’ inducement, she said it was gratifying enough that “some culpable party agents were arrested by the agents of EFCC.” NSCDC disperses suspected vote buyers in Ado-Ekiti Operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) yesterday dispersed a group of voters allegedly being bribed at a filling station around Ajilosun area of Ado-Ekiti during the governorship election. The NSCDC operatives were led by acting Deputy Commandant, Haruna Muhammed. Mr Musa Faruk, a resident of the area, said that some suspected political agents had been distributing between N10,000 and N12,000  to voters. Another voter, Veronica Famigun, who was in the midst of the crowd, said that vote buying had been ongoing for hours, expressing happiness over the way in which those engaging in the act were dispersed by NSCDC operatives. … seizes money at polling unit Officials of the NSCDC seized a bag said to contain money at polling Unit 9, Ward 10, Ikere Local Government Area. The money was said to be part of the allocation by one of the parties to buy votes. Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Funminiyi Afuye, who was sighted at the polling unit, said the money supposedly seized did not belong to his party, APC. The action of the security operatives disrupted voting at the unit for about 39 minutes. Many voters who had hoped to collect money were said to have been disappointed with the action of the security agents. Spokesman for the Ekiti NSCDC, Afolabi Tolulope, said he was not aware of the incident. Oni disappointed by alleged vote-buying The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Segun Oni, and his wife, Kemi, cast their votes at Ward 2, Unit 6 in Ifaki-Ekiti, his hometown. The couple arrived at the polling unit around 10 am and were allowed to vote before others they met on the queue. They had no issue with their accreditations. But the SDP candidate told journalists after casting his ballot that he had heard of alleged vote-buying in Ado-Ekiti and Oye-Ekiti. He urged security agents to move quickly to stop the development which he called a violation of the Electoral Act. He said: “I have been told that selling and buying of votes are going on in Ado and Oye. This is not allowed by the law. “I want security agents to move in and stop those doing that.” APC supporters sad despite winning polling unit Supporters of the All Progressives Congress in Unit 7, Ward one, Ado Ekiti were not particularly happy yesterday despite the victory of the party in the area. The party had polled 221 votes, as against PDP’s 53 and SDP’s 66.   Okowa: Ayu, PDP elders begin fence mending ahead of…     2023: A parliament of former governors?     APC may not field candidates in some Oyo constituencies,…   The APC supporters said their target was 260 votes. They did not jubilate when the result was announced Ikere polling unit with only 15 registered voters Unit 12, Ward 4, Ikere Local Government Area had only 15 registered voters as at yesterday.  Seven of the 15 showed up for accreditation and eventually voted. An electoral officer said the unit was new. “That is why we have this low turn- out,” he said. Voters protest absence of stamp in Unit 4, Ward 2 Voters at Unit 4, Ward 2, Ikere Local Government Area protested delay in commencement of voting owing to absence of stamp. Many of the voters who had been accredited, including elders, could not vote because the ballot papers were not stamped. Prof. Aye Matthew, one of the voters, said it was absurd to prepare for election without provision for stamp. “There is a lot of delay here. Ordinary stamp is delaying us from starting voting,” he said. “We are waiting for the stamp and we will wait until the stamp comes. We have been here since 8:30am. “The BVAS is not functioning well. It is not capturing everybody.” Ikere, battle ground for deputy governorship candidates The three main parties in the election –APC,PDP and SDP – picked their deputy governorship candidates from Ikere Local Government Area on account of its large voting population; the highest in Ekiti South Senatorial District. And the residents did not disappoint as they turned out massively to flaunt their relevance. ADC candidate decries electoral process in Ekiti election Dr Wole Oluyede, governorship candidate of the African Democratic Party (ADC), condemned the conduct of the ongoing governorship election in Ikere-Ekiti area of the state, describing it as a shambles. Oluyede told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in his country home, Ikere-Ekiti, that the election was “opaque and vulnerable to manipulation and characterised by many problems”. He identified logistic shortfalls, alleged disruption of electoral process by some party agents at the polling units and intimidation by security agents as part of the problems. The ADC candidate said that many of his supporters were arrested while trying to exercise their civic responsibilities in various polling units in Ikere-Ekiti. Oluyede said he had reported the incident to the Brigade Commander, adding that nothing had been done so far to arrest the situation. “This is an indication that those arrested will be disenfranchised. “Lots of my people have been arrested for just no reason and I am totally disappointed in the security agents as they have all compromised,” he said. Election peaceful, transparent, free, fair- Olukere The Olukere of Ikere, Oba Obasoyin Ganiyu, commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the smooth conduct of the ongoing governorship election in Ekiti. Ganiyu told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ikere-Ekiti that the simultaneous accreditation and voting saved a lot of time. According to him, the process cast away tension which also simplified the process. The traditional ruler said that before now, it used to be a long process that wasted much time and at the end many electorate lost interest in voting. “A situation where you come and vote at the same time is so impressive and a good development in our electoral system,” he said. The Olukere commended INEC for the new technology being used in the election and the timely supply of every material needed. He, however, urged INEC to keep the good work going.