Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has assured the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers that the commission will conduct a credible governorship election ‘where votes will count’. Prof. Yakubu gave the assurance when he met with the traditional rulers in Ado-Ekiti. He hinted that the pending Ekiti East House of Assembly I by-election will be held with the June 8 governorship election. The INEC chairman, who lauded the traditional institutions for the peaceful political climate, urged them to sustain it before, during and after the poll. He promised that the commission will be neutral and stand by the obligatory mission of ensuring that no extraneous interferences are allowed to affect the poll’s credibility. He added: “I assure all voters in Ekiti that their votes will count. We would still return to interact with other critical stakeholders on how to have a peaceful election. The atmosphere now for the conduct of the 2022 election is so calm, unlike what we had in 2018. I asked myself what has changed, I was told the royal fathers had been working to ensure the situation is calm and I can see it is really very calm. “In this election, there will be two ballot boxes in Ekiti East Constituency 1 because they will elect their assembly representative together with the governor. There will be 16 political parties for the governorship election, but only two for the by-election in Ekiti East”   Alleged N2.9b fraud: Court grants Okorocha N500m bail     Three ‘global scammers’ arrested in Lagos, Benin     Give us prepaid metres, Lagos communities plead   “The number of registered voters is 989,202. We expect the stake to go higher because people are still collecting their PVCs. Let me say that we are ready for the election; our staff are being trained.” Yakubu added that the Bimodal Voters Authentication System (BVAS) invention had ousted the use of righting-prone Incidence Forms and the malfunctioning Smart Card readers, for the conduct of elections. “The BVAS had been introduced and, with this, smart card readers have been fully retired. As far as technology is concerned, there will be a seamless and fantastic election in Ekiti. There was a mock election here on Monday across the state and the machine worked 100 per cent. “Where the machine is unable to get the fingerprints, we will get the facial appearance of the voter. There won’t be an incidence form as we have abolished that. INEC is not a political party; we don’t have a candidate and all we want is to leave who leads Ekiti in the hands of the citizens and that we shall achieve. “So, we appeal to our traditional rulers to ensure peace. The atmosphere is peaceful and we want it to remain so. I assure you that the election will be credible, don’t doubt the neutrality of INEC.” Chairman of Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers Oba Gabriel Adejumo praised INEC for the voter registration exercise it had undertaken, saying it would help widen citizens’ participation in the exercise.