President Muhammadu Buhari, leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is leading the ruling party into its much anticipated presidential primary next Monday. No fewer than 2,322 elected delegates are expected at the Eagle Square in Abuja to elect or select, through affirmation, a standard bearer who will face the opposition candidate, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, in next year’s general election. If any supper or statutory delegate strays into the venue, he will be a spectator. None of the aspirants will also vote. The President, APC governors, ministers, senators and party officers are not eligible to participate in the voting. Their fate has been decided by the Electoral Act. It appears the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is ahead of the APC in the preparations for the 2023 polls. While the ruling party postponed its primary, the main opposition converted its primary into a campaign ground for the poll. Also, a challenge was thrown to the ruling party, judging by the democratic and transparent manner the PDP conducted its shadow poll, which was transmitted live. The venue, MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja, was not rowdy. As at Thursday, aspirants were yet to receive the list of delegates from the ruling party’s national headquarters. Screening was conducted. Two days after, the report was not ready. But, the hope that the primary would take place at last brightened four days ago, following the setting up of the Primary Planning Committee and other sub-committees. It seems many presidential aspirants have winded up their mobilisation two weeks ago. In the last 15 days, the only contender visible on the field criss-crossing the nooks and crannies of the vast country is the frontline aspirant and national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Up to this morning, the former Lagos State governor was still holding consultations with delegates. Many challenges are confronting the APC. The party leadership is not cohesive. In the week of presidential convention, top party officers seem to be up in arms against the national chairman. They have accused him of running a one-man show. APC has also overcome its phobia for emergency. The invasion of three strange men – a former President, manager of apex bank and former minister – was resisted. Although the chief banker promised an inexplicable news or surprises, they never happened. However, the party has been adamant on one important issue. It’s position on zoning or rotation is unknown. It is a core source of division in the fold. What Nigerians expect today is the exhibition of democratic tenets by the ruling party. Any mistake made at this stage by the APC will be to the advantage of the PDP. There is also anxiety over plans by the President to unveil his preferred candidate. As a citizen, politician and leader, he is at liberty to anoint an aspirant. Of course, the President aptly described the party’s flag bearer he would name as “my successor,” to the consternation of PDP leaders, who pointed out that a person who fits that description can only be known after the election. It appears President Buhari is tactful at the party level. He is seeking collaboration with party stakeholders to avoid a situation whereby his action would not be interpreted as imposition and dictatorship. Throughout history, political leaders always had profound thoughts about who would succeed them. Monarchs even identified and groomed royal children as successors. The only exception is the military regime where the Head of State hopes to enjoy a permanent tenure. An outgoing President, or any ruling executive for that matter, could not be expected to be indifferent to the nature, tendency, sentiment and idiosyncrasies of his would-be successor. Political scientists have adduced two reasons for the inclination towards a guided succession plan. The first, according to them, is the need to protect the legacies of the administration, especially if it has lived up to expectation, and ensure that the successor has the capacity to build on the sound foundation. The second motive is personal, or self-serving. It is the morbid desire for protection of vested interests, self-preservation and insulation from the long arm of the law outside power, particularly if the head of government has been reckless, unpatriotic, corrupt, dubious and dictatorial. It is thus seen as the latent desire to cover up past misdeeds. But, a wise President would look beyond these factors in contemporary democratic setting. In searching for a successor or trying to anoint a candidate, the leader is expected to consider three issues. The first is the public mood. If the mood of the vast majority of voters cannot accommodate his choice, the candidate will fail. Therefore, any choice should reflect national interest and popular expectation.   Delegates, beware     2023: Obi in shaky start     ‘My daughter’s killer tied her, slit her throat,…   The mood of the country today can only accommodate a tested and trusted leader as successor, a performer, detribalised Nigeria, bridge builder, a patriot, a man of sound intellect, a financial surgeon, a crowd puller and a father-figure. The second is to consider the mood of the party. Since the party is the platform that will field the aspirant as its standard bearer, consensus should be built within. If the emergence of the flag bearer is not the outcome of collaboration or collective endorsement, there will be prospects of internal sabotage. The party will be comfortable with a found ing father who understands the philosophy of the platform, a party builder who has toiled for it, a resilient actor whose blood runs in the veins of the APC. The third issue is that the party has to be guided by the worth and weight of competing parties. Only a party that fields a candidate who can win the election has a chance of survival at the poll. If the candidate is less popular than the candidate of the rival party, or if he is inferior, he faces a gloomy prospect at the poll. Thus, it is imperative for the President and other party leaders to explore public perception. What are the people saying in town about competence, capability, experience, antecedents, pedigree as well as past and present achievements? Who is that aspirant who towers above other contenders? These challenges stare President Buhari and his party in the face. Yet, the President’s choice may not be final, unless it is a product of “cohesive consensus”. The imitation is that if a candidate is to be picked based on consensus, other aspirants must support the option. Each aspirant is a critical stakeholder. According to the electoral law, all aspirants that have been screened and cleared by the screening committee set up by the party are eligible for participation at the shadow poll. Therefore, if the President anoints an aspirant, other contenders are expected to legitimise the action by writing letters of consent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). If a single aspirant objects by refusing to write the letter, the consensus may be a nullity. It means a lot of ground work has to be done. President Buhari, it can be said, began the process on Tuesday. The question is: who will the President pick that there will be no uproar or controversy against? Will the choice be acceptable to the majority of party members or delegates who are warming up for the primary? Will his choice obey zoning? Apparently, President Buhari was conscious of the governors’ tacit rejection of consensus, which the party had adopted in choosing its National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. He alluded to the process when he said: “The party has successfully established internal policies that promote continuity and smooth succession plans.” The President observed that since APC had encouraged its second term governors to nominate their successors, he is also entitled to the same privilege. Observers believe that it smacked of subtle blackmail. But, the criteria he has laid down tend to dwarf the semblance of dictatorship. The President said the outcome of the primary candidate should reflect the changing dynamics of public expectation and the positive quality of the APC regarding democratic principles. In particular, the President emphasised that the candidate to choose must be someone who would give the Nigerian masses a sense of victory and confidence, even before the elections. To avoid a brick wall, President Buhari will need to keep the promise to sustain the consultation involving all aspirants and stakeholders up to the day of convention. The President appears to have anticipated the tension likely to be generated by his course of action. Therefore, he said that consultation is critical to the diffusion of “anxiety occasioned by different factors”. APC should not leave the Eagle Square as a mortally divided and wounded party. This is a very delicate moment in the life of the party. Unity, according to the President, is very important. If the ruling party is polarised by the outcome of the primary, the ensuing post-primary crisis may lead it to doom. It will be reminiscent of the 2014/2015 when the PDP, unable to resolve its crisis, became decimated and weakened. The logjam heralded its fatal fall at the polls. There are hurdles. Will the convention hold for the mere ratification of the presidential choice of candidate the same manner that his choice of Adamu was ratified by the governors and, later, by the April convention? How can the primary be organised in a way and manner that it would engender unity, cohesion and transparent in the party? Will the presidential option herald an implosion or strengthen the platform ahead of the general election? The choice of the candidate should unify and not divide. The tools of choice should not be associated with  exclusion, alienation, intimidation, discrimination and oppression. Only a free and fair selection or primary will satisfy the yearnings of all and sundry.