The Rule of Law and Empowerment Initiative also known as Partners West Africa Nigeria, PWAN sponsored by Mac Arthur foundation has Inaugurated a 10- man monitoring committee for administration of Criminal justice in Gombe State. PWAN Project Manager, Hadiza Usman said the committee was provided for by the administration of criminal justice law 2020 of Gombe State. She said the committee is saddled with the responsibility of oversight duties on administration of criminal justice in the State. “This is going to improve access to justice for the detainees and the indigents. The administration of criminal justice law of Gombe State now provides for speedy dispensation of justice. “Like we know, the correctional custodian centres are congested, the police stations are congested and a lot of citizens do not have access to justice,” she said. According to her, by the inauguration of the committee that has members from all the criminal justice sectors as members, it will ensure proper coordination, proper synergy and discharge of roles in consolidation with each order. Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, who was represented by Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Malam Zubaru Umar, while inaugurating the committee said if the committee function efficiently and effectively, it will result in decongestion of correctional centres and quick administration of criminal justice in the State. He said the present state of administration of criminal justice in the state is very slow and not encouraging.   Female journalists unveil book on Kogi Gov     1,700 people with disabilities get agricultural inputs,…     Ishaku flags off 35km Pamanga-Dakka road   “The system is just too slow, cumbersome and bedeviled by typical Nigerian factor but with the inauguration of this committee, we believe we will see some changes certainly,” he said. The Chairman of the Committee, Justice Paul said all the institutions working in the criminal justice sectors need to work together to make the responsibility placed on the committee by law to be smooth and efficient. He urged members of the committee to work together to justify the confidence reposed in them. “I know that our partners are willing and available to support us as they have supported elsewhere. We will do all that is in our own abilities to ensure that we work together with you and to make sure that the monitoring committee for administration of Criminal justice in Gombe State work perfectly well,” he said. Chief Judge, Joseph Hammed Awak, said the inauguration of the Committee is a welcome development adding that the state is now being position for the smooth administration of criminal justice in the State. He added the existence of the Committee will enhance the speedy administration of criminal justice in the state stressing that when cases are properly investigated by all those concerned, there will be no cause for anyone to complain on the administration of criminal justice in the State. Justice Awak admitted that the judiciary in the State lacks some facilities and funds but he was in constant touch with the state Governor to improve the situation. Members of the committee include Justice Paul Idi Apollo’s, Chairman, Mr. Abubakar Jungudo, Secretary, Mr. Yakubu Chidama representing Correctional Service, Mr. Umeadi Thomas representing Nigeria Police and Barrister Umar Tukur, the state Chairman Nigeria Bar Association. Others are Kombo Gayos Pile, Legal Aid Council and Mrs. Nwalim Naomi Abdul, Civil Society.