Despite global slowdown and macroeconomic constraints, the Nigerian stock market remains liquid, the benchmark index showed yesterday. According to the index, investors in Nigerian equities netted about N1.81 trillion in capital gains last month. The benchmark index closed yesterday with average return of 6.23 per cent.  The average year-to-date return for the five-month period ended May 2022 stood at 25.57 per cent. The aggregate market value of all quoted equities on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) closed yesterday at N28.568 trillion as against N26.761 trillion recorded as the opening value for the month, equivalent to net capital gains of N1.807 trillion in May 2022. The All Share Index (ASI), which tracks the share prices of all listed equities on the NGX, rose by 6.23 per cent to close yesterday at 52,990.28 points. Market analysts said the continued rally at the stock market was due to dividends and improved earnings during the first quarter. Most analysts however expected profit-taking transactions to moderate market performance in the period ahead. Some analysts at Arthur Stevens Asset Management noted that the market may retrace its step if profit-taking continues. “Still, stock fundamentals should guide all investors and investment decisions in subsequent sessions. As usual, we would like to reiterate that investors should go for stocks with good fundamentals as regards to their portfolio,” Arthur Stevens Asset Management stated. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Wyoming Capital & Partners, Mr. Tajudeen Olayinka, traced the bullish performance to the 2021 performance by listed companies and improved performance by many of them in the first quarter 2022 results.   Sleepy driver kills conductor, injure four others in Anambra     Atiku to get Certificate of Return Wednesday     INEC: 4.5m youths completed online voter registration in May…   Olayinka said: “Increased local investors’ participation in the market, and reinvestment of 2021 annual dividends by investors who received such dividend payments recently from listed companies. “Liquidity overhang is making it practically difficult for investors in the fixed income space to factor in current high inflation rate to the yields obtainable in the market. “The negative real return in the fixed income market had forced some of these investors to embrace the equity market as an alternative investment class, before the recent 13 per cent hike in Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) by MPC of CBN. “Even with the hike in MPR, we still have some traditional investors showing interest in equity market, which is known to readily adjust to inflation from time to time. Equity market is an inflation adjusting market.” Other analysts at the United Capital noted that Nigerian equities have witnessed a clear case of divergence with the global equity markets. They pointed out that Nigerian equities are currently trading over the psychological 50,000-level for the first time since the 2008 crash, as opposed to the broad-based bearish performance experienced in global markets. According to them, “at the forefront of the rally in Nigerian equities have been domestic investors who have executed 79.6 per cent of all equity transactions on the local bourse year-to-date, according to data from the Nigerian Exchange. “The uptrend has been particularly driven by domestic institutional investors whose investment options have now been somewhat limited to the equities market. “Since the turn of second quarter, 2022, yields on domestic bonds have trended higher, causing Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to book mark-to-market losses (particularly those that mark-to-market their bond portfolios) on their bond positions (which constitutes 60 per cent of their portfolios). “Meanwhile, alternative outlets like fixed deposits and Nigerian Treasury Bills (NT-bills) have continued to remain unattractive. “On the other hand, we have seen listed companies return solid results in the first quarter 2022 earnings season. As a result, we have seen these institutional investors increase exposure to domestic equities, while reducing bond and other money market exposures,” the United Capital stated