Ifeanyi Okowa, medical doctor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain is a household name in Delta State, where he had served as Secretary and Chairman of Ika Local Government, Commissioner, Secretary to State Government and Senator before becoming the governor. Yesterday, he started gazing at the Aguda House, Abuja. In the intra-party scheming, Okowa triumphed over Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, former Senate President Pius Ayim, Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu. Okowa, according to former Aviation Minister Osita Chidoka, was screened, following his nomination as running mate by the presidential candidate, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He is now on the weighing scale as running mate. The puzzle is: what value can he add? Will his choice boost the chance of the Waziri Adamawa in next year’s election? The main opposition party has been enveloped in anxiety as its leaders were locked in intrigues over the choice of the vice-presidential candidate. A National Advisory Council (NAC) was set up to conduct the search. At the end of its brainstorming session, the panel picked former presidential aspirant, River State Governor Nyesom Wike, who lost to Atiku at the primary. Obviously, Atiku was not favourably disposed to Wike’s choice, although many party chieftains felt that the platform needed him. But, he had given a tough battle to Atiku at the primary, where he came second. Unlike Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, who stepped down, Wike fought on, insisting that power should shift to the South in accordance with the PDP constitution on zoning. Suddenly, another screening panel headed by Chief Tom Ikimi was set up to screen Wike. The move generated controversy because the Rivers governor had previously been screened for the presidential primary by a committee headed by Gen. David Mark. A section of the party was taken aback by the choice of Ikimi as leader of the committee. Ikimi belongs to the Obaseki faction of Edo PDP, which worked for the emergence of Atiku at the primary. The Obih faction, which is up in arms against Governor Godwin Obaseki, supported Wike at the shadow poll.   Okowa: my choice won’t disappoint Wike     International Award for 800 young Nigerians     How Southeast governors frustrated Igbo president, by…   With the rejection of Wike, PDP has shown hostility to a faithful and committed party man, and a mobiliser. This may also widen the gulf in the Edo chapter. In 2019, Atiku had picked former Anambra State Governor Peter Obi, without extensive consultations, particularly with the Southeast Caucus, which complained that it had no input into the calculations. Did he consult widely, ahead of 2023? Okowa has experience. He has served the party in various capacities as a reconciliator and chairman of presidential primary and party convention. In the PDP, he has paid his dues. PDP insiders said Atiku opted for a seemingly soft chieftain to pair with him. The factor at play is loyalty. This is key . But, is loyalty a sufficient factor? The Delta governor has an Igbo name. But, he is not from the Southeast, which has consistently been the stronghold of the PDP in the South. Okowa is from Southsouth. Does his influence extend beyond Delta? How influential is he is other five states of the Southsouth? What surprise can he spring on poll day? There are more questions begging for answers. Is PDP taking the Southeast for granted? What explanation can be given to the Southeast Caucus for not zoning the vice presidential ticket to the zone? There is a sort of repressed tension between Igbo in the interior of old Bendel State and Igbo of Southeast. Okowa, who is from Ika, is not perceived as a core Igbo. He is not from Asaba, Ibusa or Oguachukwu, which tend to have affinity with Igbos on the other side of River Niger. It was even suggested that being from a tiny part of the state, he became governor through former Governor James Ibori’s endorsement. At the home front, there is said to be a gulf between him and his former godfather. Ibori’s anointed candidate for governor, who is the House of Assembly Speaker, defeated Ibori’s candidate, David Edevie. People were shocked that he could challenge Ibori. The bitterness has not fizzled out. With Okowa’s emergence as running mate, Southeast is now left in the cold. How will PDP leading lights from the region react to the scenario? How will Atiku make it without the support of the zone? Igbo who are scattered across the country are looking up to Obi. Will Igbo at home retain loyalty to the PDP, which, apart from blocking zoning to the region, has also refused to concede the second fiddle to the zone?