The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has praised the Federal Government for enrolling corps members into the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). Its Director General, Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, gave the commendation at the formal closing and passing out ceremony of the 2022 Batch “A” Stream I corps members, marking the end of the orientation course at Mangu in Plateau State. Represented by the NYSC State Coordinator, Ms. Caroline Embu, the NYSC boss urged the corps members to take full advantage of the initiative, called the NYSC Group Individual Family Social Health Insurance Programme (GIFSHIP), by registering under healthcare providers in their service locations. The director general advised the corps members to always report for medical attention in the event of ill-health. He added that corps members would also visit any NHIS-accredited hospital during their official leave period outside their service locations. Ibrahim urged them to serve as good ambassadors of the scheme by offering selfless service and be instruments of unity in their host communities. Also, the NYSC boss has praised the National Assembly for the progress made on the Bill for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund. Ibrahim, who was represented by NYSC Kano State Coordinator, Hajiya Aisha Muhammad, spoke yesterday during the terminal parade/closing ceremony of the 2022 Batch “A” orientation course at Kusalla in Karaye Local Government Area of Kano State. Ibrahim also appealed to employers to accept corps members posted to them.   ‘Nigeria yet to realise full potential of civil service’     Women’s protest at National Assembly enters eighth day     Nigerian researchers, innovators to benefit from EU’s…   The NYSC boss spoke at the closing ceremony of the 2022 Batch “A” Stream I orientation course at Damare Orientation Camp at Girei in Adamawa State. He spoke through the NYSC Adamawa State Coordinator Ibrahim Tukur. Ibrahim urged the state, local government authorities, traditional rulers and other stakeholders to assist the corps members to do their community development assignments. The NYSC boss advised corps members to remain patriotic, hardworking and resilient, as demonstrated at the orientation course. In Lagos State, the NYSC urged employers to expose corps members to befitting challenges during the service year. The NYSC State Coordinator Eddy Megwa made the remark yesterday at the passing out of 2022 Batch “A”, Steam I at its Orientation Camp in Iyana-Ipaja. “Over the years, we have always said that our youths are the leaders of tomorrow. But the NYSC is making a statement that Nigerian youths of today are ready. “They are strong, intelligent, and good to go by way of being leaders of the present-day Nigeria. That is how they can turn the paradigm of our country to greatness,” Megwa said. Also, Ibrahim has urged corps members to always board vehicles only at registered motor parks to avoid falling prey to criminals and ritualists. The NYSC boss gave the advice during the closing ceremony of 2022 Batch “A” Stream 1 orientation course at Ikot Itie Udung in Nsit Atai, Akwa Ibom State.”