Publisher of Hallmark Newspaper, Prince Emeka Obasi, has died. A statement by the deceased’s family said Obasi died on Tuesday at an undisclosed hospital in Lagos. The publisher had been battling a medical condition in the past few years. “He is survived by a wife, Dr. (Mrs.) Betty Obasi and children – Emeka (Jnr.), Onyedikachi, Kamsi, Miracle – as well as siblings, aunties and uncles. “Further burial arrangements will be announced in due course,” the family said in a statement yesterday in Lagos. The award-winning journalist was one-time Commissioner for Information in Abia State. He founded Public Policy Research and Analysis Centre (PPRAC), organisers of the annual Zik Prize in Leadership Awards. In 2018, the publisher launched a book, titled: Saved for His Praise, in which he chronicled how he survived an unknown illness that almost claimed his life.   VC urges industrialists to commercialise innovations for…     Pedro inaugurates health centre     Foundation lifts 100 widows, aged, single parents   In a condolence message to the widow and family of the late publisher, the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN), through its President, Kabiru Yusuf, said: “It is with great shock that we received the news today (Wednesday), of the death of our brother, friend, colleague and your better half, Prince Emeka Obasi. “His passage is more shocking, coming at an unripe age of 58 years. “A quintessential journalist and media guru, Prince Obasi until his death, was a member of our esteemed association as the Publisher of Business Hallmark Newspapers. “Though Prince Obasi died in his prime, we are consoled by the enviable legacies he left within and outside our esteemed industry and the nation at large. “We cannot but recall his establishment of the National Mirror Newspapers, which he nurtured to the point that it attracted the attention of billionaire businessman Jimoh Ibrahim, who bought it over…” Also, Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma has described Obasi’s death as shocking. In his condolence message in Owerri, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachuku, Governor Uzodimma said the late Obasi was a thorough-bred media practitioner who devoted his time, energy, intellect and resources for the advancement of the media profession in Nigeria. He prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased a peaceful repose and those mourning him the fortitude to bear the loss.