Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski expressed his surprise at the fact that Lionel Messi didn’t vote for him for the Best FIFA Men’s Player Award. The Argentine forward stated in the Ballon d’Or ceremony that Lewandowski deserved to win the 2020 Ballon d’Or award. However, Messi voted for his Paris Saint-Germain teammates Neymar and Kylian Mbappe, as well as Real Madrid striker Karim Benzema, in the Best FIFA Men’s Player Award. “It is difficult for me to relate to it,” Lewandowski told the Polish publication Pilka Nozna. “I voted for Messi because I appreciate what he did in 2021 and, of course, earlier. Messi voted for me in the Ballon d’Or, and I don’t know why his point of view changed later. “However, I have no regrets, no complaints, I accepted it, he made his decision and that’s it.”   ‘We have taken steps to reposition Lobi Stars’     Nigeria v Ghana: Ighalo’s inclusion raises doubt     Troost-Ekong ruled out of clash against Ghana   Lewandowski went on to compare the two prizes and broke down the reasons why he believes that FIFA’s award is more objective despite being less prestigious. “I’ve been thinking about these two awards lately: The Best FIFA Men’s Player Award and the Ballon d’Or,” he added. “I have come to the conclusion that the FIFA award does matter more than the Ballon d’Or. “Only journalists vote in the latter. There is no clear verification, as many experts or former and currently playing footballers have said. “Professionals and journalists vote for the FIFA [award]. Team captains and national team coaches, and they can realistically and objectively evaluate our achievements, because they know how much each match, each record, each injury costs us. “Maybe in the prestige ranking, the Ballon d’Or is positioned higher than the Best FIFA Men’s Player Award, but it makes me proud being aware that I have received the world’s best footballer award for the second time in a row after being voted by coaches and players, because I know how hard I have worked for many years.”