Aviation Minister  Hadi Sirika has said that Nigeria’s strategic geographical location and its large population put her in good stead to float a successful national carrier. He expressed the hope that when the carrier comes on board, it will run smoothly without undue government interference. The minister spoke at the ongoing World Government Summit (WGS) in  Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE),  where experts are discussing the future of the global aviation sector. Sirika said: “Nigeria is situated at the centre of Africa, equidistant from all locations in the continent, 30.4 million square kilometres and very green land. If Central and Eastern Africa is the belt of the continent, then Nigeria is the buckle. “200 million people and a rising middle class, the propensity to fly is high. Nigeria is a candidate for national carrier.. “ “The airline would be private, yes.  five per cent government and no government stepping right in that company, no government control, no membership of government on board. Totally private and committed.” Sirika  stated that because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s “promise and do” attitude, many successful airliners “jostle for multiple frequencies and multiple landing points in Nigeria.” His words: “Whatever we say we will do as a government since 2015, it has happened. That is why, Emirates, Qatar Airways and all of them are looking to go into Nigeria at multiple frequencies and multiple landing points because Nigeria is the right place for the airline business.”   PDP suffers setback as Fayose’s associates join SDP     Satisfaction in Christ Alone (3)     Reps accuse NNPC of shielding subsidiaries   The minister explained that in spite of warnings by aviation experts, many countries, including Nigeria,  locked down during the peak of  COVID-19  to save lives. Sirika said: “The countries had to do it. Look at the case of Nigeria. We have 200 million people in Nigeria and most of them live close to each other in cities jam-packed. “We closed the country immediately at that time. And that is why in Nigeria, up till today, only 3,500 deaths have been recorded from COVID-19, with about 250, 000 infected and 245,000 discharged from hospitals.” Emirates Chief Executive Officer Tim Clark described Nigeria as a powerhouse with regard to traffic, stressing that there is enormous business in the country as its people seek to travel. “ Nigerians are seeking to travel all over the world. Nigeria is a powerhouse in Africa. We are over interested in flying there because it is a rich nation in terms of demand for services,” he added. He also extended Emirates’ offer of assistance with regard to implementing a master plan for the planned national carrier.. “It is a very rich If the minister needs some assistance in how they go about practising a blueprint, we are very happy to help but I would say not to be too disingenuous to ourselves if they got the wherewithal they clearly understand what they are doing and they are doing it and probably in the next year, they will a very good carrier flying and please come to Dubai because there is so much demand, Clark added.