Convention commences late The convention was scheduled to commence at 3.30 pm with the national anthem but was yet to take off at 7.30 pm, heightening the tension that had engulfed the venue. A serving senator from the Southwest confided that party leaders had been unable to resolve the crises in the Northeast and Southeast. They could not agree on zoning and micro-zoning. The National Caretaker Committee, led by Mai Mala Buni, was worried. He said the Committee never wanted an inconclusive convention. At about 3 pm, leaders from Southeast and Northwest asked for a three-hour permission to iron out the differences. That caused the delay, said the senator, who is also a lawyer. The triumph of Omisore There was apprehension over the fate of Iyiola Omisore after the Buhari camp insisted on Ife Oyedele, a CPC chieftain. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu maintained his stance that he could not sacrifice Isaacs Kekemeke, who had been tipped for National Vice Chairman (Southwest). But Omisore never let down his guards. He had mobilised beyond the Southwest. He was confident of winning the ballot if it came down to voting. Governor Kayode Fayemi also had a commitment to Omisore, who he had drafted into the Osun governorship contest in 2018 to beef up support for Governor Gboyega Oyetola, following the stalemate with Ademola Adeleke of the PDP. The feeling is that Omisore has become a bride who will still be needed in Osun, especially now that Rauf Aregbesola and Lasun Yusuf are not likely to support Oyetola’s bid for a second term. Tinubu, Osinbajo supporters in mild drama Some men and women decked in black Osinbajo T-shirts were at the venue to campaign for the rumoured vice president’s presidential ambition. But they were countered by supporters of Adebayo Adelabu Adegoke from Oyo State. A noise making and dancing competition soon ensued. The Oyo group had no drummers but resorted to composing hot intra-party competitive songs that dwarfed those of the Osinbajo group. It was fun for the two groups. No violent clash. Tinubu makes grand entry Asiwaju Bola Tinubu made a grand entry into the venue at about 7 pm, sending the delegates into a frenzy. The Jagaban Borgu moved from one pavilion to another, greeting and receiving cheers from delegates across board. He showed agility, moving faster than the crowd that was hailing him. The former governor of Lagos State raised his right hand above his head, cheering the delegates non-stop for almost 30 minutes. He later took a pre-eminent seat at the VIP pavilion. Water scarcity hits convention venue The hot Abuja weather caused many throats at the venue to go dry and thirst for water. But there was not enough to go round. A bottle of water soared to N300 where it was available. The quantity brought by each state delegation was consumed in no time. To hell with COVID-19 Less than five per cent of the delegates wore face masks. Only a few VIPs did. People hugged and shook hands without let or hindrance. There was no washing of hands while only a few people came with sanitisers. Is the COVID-19 pandemic really over? Emefiele posters Campaign posters of the governor of Central Bank, Godwin Emefiele, were sighted around the venue. His supporters showed up, dancing around, but reporters could not sight the Agbor-born banker either at the Delta or VIP pavilion. Reconciliation effective in Ekiti Ekiti State Governorship aspirant Opeyemi Bamidele was at the state pavilion. He was seen shaking hands with governorship candidate Biodun Oyebanji and they spoke for about 15 minutes. Bamidele also exchanged pleasantries with key Ekiti delegates. Other aggrieved aspirants were not as visible at the Ekiti pavilion. Police repel attack, recover charms, weapons from hoodlums Security operatives, including the police yesterday prevented hoodlums from wreaking havoc at the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Abuja. Some of the hoodlums came with charms while weapons were recovered from others. The security personnel had a tough time putting them in check. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Josephine Adeh, confirmed the incident. But he said there was no breakdown of law and order. The arrested hoodlums were taken to the FCT police command. A police surveillance helicopter was also noticed hovering round the entire city and particularly the convention ground. Tear gas, tasers, stampede as convention kicks off Security personnel deployed at the Eagle Squre, Abuja venue of the APC national convention were overwhelmed yesterday as thousands of delegates and non-delegates alike swooped on the grounds. The crowd became very unruly and at a point pulled down the barricade at the gate to force their way in. Despite providing accreditation to journalists and delegates, APC officials had a difficult time allowing accredited persons into the Eagle Square venue of the convention.   One killed as scores of bandits shutdown Kaduna airport     2023: I’m not running for president, says Amaechi     APC affirms Adamu as Chairman, Omisore National Secretary   In order to calm the situation, the police and other security agencies resorted to using tear gas and tasers to control a near stampede at the gate of the venue. “Where is my phone, please if you see an Android phone, please give me,” a distraught man who was trying to get into the convention venue was heard saying. Several persons sustained injuries in the ensuing stampede. The two entrances into the Square, through the Office of the Head of Service axis as well as the Federal Secretariat car park axis, were jam-packed with hundreds of supporters and delegates trying to make their way into the venue. At the Head of Service axis, the crowd overpowered the policemen on guard and pushed the gate wide open and dozens of people, including those who were not accredited, poured in. The police resorted to tear-gassing everyone before they managed to close the gate and resume admitting only persons accredited despite the rowdiness. Security agents arrest three pickpockets Security agents arrested no fewer than three suspected pickpockets at the venue after they were caught snatching mobile phones at the gate. A security agent said the suspects took advantage of the commotion at the Eagle Square gate to snatch the mobile phones from their victims. “The three of them are operating in a syndicate, snatching people’s mobile phones and money,” the agent said. “They took advantage of the mad rush by delegates at the gate to snatch phones and money. “What happened was that they didn’t know that we had stationed eagle-eyed policemen at the gate, watching as delegates entered the venue. “So, that was exactly what happened. Our officer caught them in action after they had snatched individuals’ mobile phones,” he said. The officer said that the suspects would be taken to the police headquarters for further investigation. Supporters of presidential aspirants take over convention grounds Supporters of presidential and other aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday took over the national convention grounds in Abuja, singing their praises amidst drumming and dancing. The supporters, who wore different colours and costumes, arrived as early as 9 am displaying posters and banners of aspirants. Some of the groups included those rooting for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi and Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi. Some members of the group interviewed said they were in Abuja to showcase their aspirants. Mr Musliu Ajani, a member of the Tinubu Supporters Group, said they decided to draw support for Tinubu on their own. ”We decided to come together to raise funds and campaign for Tinubu because he is the best aspirant to take over from Buhari in 2023. “We believe that he has all it takes for the job,” he said. Orji Kalu hails Buhari for intervention ahead of convention The Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his timely intervention in resolving some of the crises rocking the party ahead of the national convention. Kalu said in a statement that President Buhari played a pivotal leadership role in restoring peace and clear direction to ensure that the party conducted a peaceful and successful national convention. He asked party members to remain committed to the APC ideology to enable the leadership of the party achieve its mandate to the party. Kalu also appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to help the party resolve the pocket of crises rocking some state chapters of the party like Kano, Oyo, Osun, Akwa Ibom, Abia, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi and Kwara, among others. Police, Civil Defence shield Amaechi from hoodlums Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi had a hectic time entering the venue yesterday. Hoodlums prevented his convoy from going in for about 30 minutes before a combined team of policemen and Civil Defence operatives cleared the way for him and guarded him in. Oshiomhole steals the show Former APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole got a hero’s welcome as he arrived the venue with party members shouting ‘Oshio! Oshio Baba!’ The former Edo State governor responded by waving his hands. Clad in his usual brown khaki attire with a fez cap to match, Oshiomhole walked around the venue acknowledging cheers from state delegates and shaking hands with some of them. Edo delegates send away health minister, senator from state’s stand It was boos all the way for Health Minister Osage Ehanire and Senator Domingo Obende from the Edo State delegates. Ehanire and Obande are indigenes of the state. The Edo delegates denied the duo seats at the stand designated for the state Lagos settles for Dayo Israel, Lateef Ibirogba as national youth leader, organising secretary The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) settled for 36-year-old Dayo Israel and former Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Lateef Ibirogba, as National Youth Leader and South-West Zonal Organising Secretary respectively at yesterday’s national convention. The decision of the Lagos APC was announced by the party chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi, during a dinner organised for party chieftains and delegates at the Lagos Governor’s Lodge, Abuja on Friday night by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The dinner was attended by Governor Sanwo-Olu, his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Lagos APC chairman, Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi; members of the Governance Advisory Council (GAC), the apex leadership body of Lagos APC; members of National Assembly from Lagos State; Lagos State House of Assembly members; State Executive Council members and chairmen of the local governments in Lagos State, among others. Speaking during the dinner, Governor Sanwo-Olu, who commended all the party leaders and delegates for traveling from Lagos to Abuja to participate in the APC national convention, expressed his support for Israel and Ibirogba as chosen by the party to represent Lagos in the National Working Committee as well as the South West level of the APC. “They have shown our two candidates that we are bringing forward: the National Youth Leader, Dayo Israel from Lagos Island in Lagos Central and Mr. Lateef Ibirogba from Alimosho in Lagos West. We are sure that they will represent us very well,” he said.