SOME homeowners at Atlantis Estate, Ikate, Lekki, Lagos have accused the developers of the 18-unit residential estate of personalising the running of the estate. One of them, Mr Adebowale Ajayi, alleged that Samson Nnadi and Jeremiah Erondu, directors of Carter Tech Limited, the real estate development company that owns Atlantis Estate, are using their sister company, Prime Facility Limited, as facilities managers of the estate. Ajayi said the owners refused to resolve the problems of potable water, constant staff members and security guards change, non-recognition of their residents’ association and the non-rendering of accounts. “Their non-rendering of account to the residents and the Federal Inland Revenue Service has allegedly exposed the estate to tax evasion issues. Carter Tech Limited from the onset amended the Atlantis Estate residents’ handbook which forms part of the legal deed of assignment. “Part of the problem is one, amending the handbook to empower PFL to manage the estate without possible replacement as contained in the original handbook. Secondly, increment in service charge without the agreement and knowledge of the assignor who PFL represents on behalf of the assignees.   Lagos govt warns against illegal building     Experts fault White Paper on Fourscore Tower     Journalists condemn attacks on estate road arc   “It is good to know that some residents have taken legal steps to redress the injustice in the estate, but the resident directors have resorted to using police to harass and intimidate the residents. Amid the harassment, they have gone further to bar residents from purchasing electricity token, thereby throwing a house  into darkness since August 2021.” Corroborating Ajayi’s claim, Mr Bobo Nwandu, a home owner in the estate, said: “Of the 18 units in the estate, six landlords have moved out. My plan is to quietly park out of the estate and rent out my apartment.’’ Another home owner in the estate, who preferred anonymity, said: “Nobody in the estate is happy with the way the affairs of the estate are being run by the developers. But everybody has his or her strategy in handling the matter. But, Nnadi and Erondu said: “Ajayi’s action is borne out of envy because he boasted to people that he is ready to pull us down because we are too proud and we don’t listen to people. “Right from the onset, we never told him we were directors to just one company, and no law in Nigeria says you cannot be director in more than one company. Our business is based on one referrer. The estate runs on full service. You have to pay your full service charge to enjoy the services in the estate. The estate is run on the basis of ‘pay as you go’. “Yes, we refused to recognise the Residents’ Association in the estate because about six of them out of 18 apartments came together to form the association. So, we said we will not recognise such an association.”