All governors are largely ‘kings within their kingdom’. However even kings must perform. We have a superbly qualified HRH Olubadan Balogun in Ibadan. The new governor in Anambra State is widely known with a value-added CV and his comprehensive inaugural day speech plans great things for the state. Of course, words in Nigeria seldom equal actions. This will not be the case with Prof Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Amen, who takes over from a quite active Governor Willie Obiano. We await the outcome of Obiano’s interrogation. In fact, this routine post immunity interview for all political office holders may help sanitise the system. All governors and governors-to-be in 2023 should initiate study the methodology of the tech-driven progress coming to Anambra State 2022-2026. Many who elect persons from any political party who then change party midstream should go back to confirm that the electorate want to follow him or her into a new ideology and political track record. This was ‘cross-carpeting’ and the voters called ‘carpet-bagging’ i.e. following power and the money trail. People vote party and the party ideology. When an elected politician changes party he is forcing his voters to also change ideology. Can it be right that the voters also want to change ideology even though their party political actions differ little sometimes? The ‘slumping’ of family members of persons arraigned in court is Act 1 Scene 2 of a well-rehearsed political and financial crime trial. If it is genuine, my sympathy goes to the family but we have seen so many such tricks with the ‘slumper’ achieving the goal of accumulating sympathy from the gullible among the audience and also getting a further postponement of the day of judgement. Whatever the circumstances, we should soon expect other key players in the court drama to also take their turns to slump. Perhaps they should go to medical or art school to perfect the technique to be more convincing to the sometimes live social media press. It is pity that in none of these cases did friends and family slump when the crimes were active and ongoing. No one ever slumps at millions of naira in a beer carton, briefcase or in the wardrobe or $600,000 under the hat or on receipt of bag of cut diamonds-ABCD, or those stuffing their agbadas with enough cash to make them potbellied.   2023-Vote women: Cut NASS Salaries & Perks 75%     ‘NASS-No: Election ‘VOTE-WOMEN-2023’ Yes’     Evans; 25% female politicians inadequate in 2022   Let us ask Nollywood-what next? Pretend suicide? That will need a lot more cooperation with doctors, although the spate of sicknesses requiring VIP hospitalisation, sick leave tenable most only abroad and usually arising only after being caught suggests some doctor collusion already. Of course stress of capture can cause hypertension and increase in pre-existing hypertension so perhaps some are actually medically correct. The very light sentence and even lighter option of an immorally low fine given to the minister who received and passed illegally obtained money on to the owner is being questioned as no deterrent at all and an encouragement to political criminals to carry on as normal. There should be no difference between a ‘financial crime in political circumstances and a financial crime in non-political circumstances’. In addition, it is seen as a poor return on investigating time and such a difficult crime to track. It could also be seen as something that will seriously demoralise the financial crime investigators. Maybe there were mitigating circumstances like maximum cooperation of the minister with the investigation team. Perhaps the prosecution had appealed for leniency because of this and unknown to us. Certainly the judgement itself empowers many other potential victims to stand up and say ‘no’ when such political financial crimes are being forced on them by their political superiors and pressure groups. Quoting this case, future political appointees can stand and refuse to deliver or even take themselves and not risk being sacked or roped into some conspiracy against the party stealing the money. I believe this is the essence of this judgement. It is one more stepping-stone to tightening the noose against politically motivated corruption. This ‘pass the corrupt parcel’ is sometimes used as a test requirement to demonstrate political loyalty by being roped in even as a mere unpaid conduit pipe for flow of corruption related funds is well known. This is a deliberate attempt to intimidate into silence some good persons among the bad ones because once they have been involved, they will be afraid of exposure and therefore keep quiet when even worse financial crimes are being committed for fear of someone bringing up their own case of ‘Did you also not take money to so and so on so-and-so date?’. It is called ‘I’ve got the goods on you’ in financial criminal parlance to make witnesses refuse to come forward and a guarantee of silence. The minister would have been thoroughly investigated by the authorities and has probably not been found wanting. This is good. In future, political appointees can face politicians and say ‘No, did you not hear what happened to so-and-so. Hopefully this will end the use of such conduits, by force or as a favour do such wrong and encourage them when they get a bag of money to ‘forward to so-and-so’, to stand up and refuse. Those who are involved in the appointment and many not involved sometimes pretend that they are key to the political appointee keeping the job and mount pressure on them to do wrong. Learn the lesson.