A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja on Monday issued a warrant of arrest against a former member of the House of Representatives, Chuma Nzeribe for disobedience to a court order. Justice Halilu Yusuf, who issued the warrant, ordered operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies to arrest Nzeribe in any part of the country and bring him to court to face judgment in criminal charges against him. Nzeribe, a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant, was put on trial by the Federal Government on charges bordering on impersonation, possession of false Federal Government documents and using the same to cheat. Although judgment in the trial was initially fixed for March 11 by Justice Yusuf, the former lawmaker was absent in court. Then Justice Yusuf on March 11 granted a request for shifting of the judgment to March 21 but to the chagrin of the court, Nzeribe did not show up without any cogent reason.   Court strikes Gov Umahi’s bid to stay execution of…     NAFDAC alerts Nigerians on recall of 5 brands of male s3x…     BREAKING: Ex-Anambra Gov Obiano gets EFCC administrative…   Acting on the request of EFCC, the Judge invoked a provision of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act ACJA 2015 and ordered security operatives across the country to arrest the former federal lawmaker anywhere he is found and bring him to court. The Judge directed that Nzeribe be detained by security operatives until he is brought before the court. Nzeribe’s lawyer, Charles Ndukwe, had on March 11 told the Judge that a relative of his client sent a letter that the former House of Representatives member was down with chronic hypertension. The letter from Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital dated March 10 was presented in court. The Judge had directed the lawyer to contact his client on phone to know how long it will take him to recover. However, following the inability of the counsel to give a particular date, Justice Yusuf fixed March 21 with an order that the defendant must be physically present in court for the judgment to be delivered.