Hoodlums, numbering over 30 with stones, cutlasses and other dangerous weapons, on Wednesday attacked task force of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) at Kuchingoro community in Abuja. Five officers of the task force sustained varying degrees of injury while 10 suspects were handed over to the police for investigation and prosecution. The task force was in the community in continuation of its ongoing massive demolition and clampdown on commercial motorcycle riders violating traffic rules along the Lugbe-Airport road axis. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Ikharo Attah, who was among the officers who escaped unhurt, said the hoodlums were angered the shanties and illegal structures housing them under electrical high tension installations were being removed. Attah reaffirmed that the taskforce will not be deterred by the serial attacks by residents opposed to the enforcement of orders and regulations needed to make Abuja a model City. According to him, while lawless people remain defiant to orders and policies of the government, the enforcement team will also remain committed to its mandate.   Lagos fire: Traders under bridges get ultimatum to vacate     Obeying court order on Electoral Act 84 (12) work in…     FEC approves N92.123bn contract for Abuja second runway   He said: “We came here to remove illegal structures that are painted Airport road in bad light, we were clearing the roadsides of traders, Okada riders, all of a sudden, some hoodlums appeared and started throwing stones. “We were able to push them back because we have to clean up the roads. Unfortunately, about 5 of our personnel sustain various degrees of injury from the stones that hurt them. “We also learnt that the leader of the mob was also hit by the stone of his group, we have taken him to the hospital. We arrested about 10 persons suspected to have participated in the attack. “We are not deterred, the Airport road must be cleaned. So many of the structures were built under high tension wire, and we are pushing Okada riders and taxi drivers back to the community”, he added. The Islamic cleric of Kuchingoro Community, Imam Usman Yahaya, who was caught up in the attack, condemned the actions of the hoodlums, saying he supported the removal of the illegal structures and fight against criminalities in the area. Yahaya, who claimed he has lived in the community for over 20 years, noted that the actions of the hoodlums have brought a bad image to the place. He pledged to support the Taskforce in fishing out all criminal elements and those who jeopardise government’s developmental efforts.