HAMZA: Good Day. God bless you for the updates and solutions you have been finding to retired and non-retired persons’problems. I am Hamza. I retired from NIPOST. I have been verified and enrolled. But up till this moment, I have not received any information on my accrued right or total balance of my RSA. Kindly help me. PENCOM: Please, forward the photocopy of your verification slip, which was given to you upon completion of the enrolment for us to investigate further. MUJA: My name is Muja from Suleja, Niger State. I worked at a  private security firm, where they do not give letter of appointment or  disengagement. I have been out of job for over six years. I have some money with my PFA. I need it to sustain myself. I called a staff member who said I have to do some documentation which employer doesn’t give as I earlier stated. Please, what do I do to get my money? Muja. PENCOM: Please, visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) who will guide you to access your Retirement Savings Account (RSA). JOE: My name is Joe, the next-of-kin to the late Daniel who worked with the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC) as a contract staff. He was deputy director in charge of Warri office. His contract expired in 2013. He died in 2020. I have submitted my documents to Stanbic IBTC for the payment of his RSA contribution and others but I am yet to hear from them. The last time I was at their office, I was told that PenCom had not sent it back or approved it. Please, I need urgent response from PenCom. PENCOM: Investigations have shown that Daniel’s benefits are being processed. Please, be patient as you will be contacted by the Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) once payment has been effected. AMIRIUGO:  My father Mr. Amuriugo worked with the Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Drilling Section, Abuja. He died on April 14, 2013. I am his next-of-kin. My complaint is the non-payment of his pension. PENCOM: Please, forward his details such as his Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, name of Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) and other  information that will assist in resolving your complaint. ADEBUKOLA: I am Mrs. Babalola. My late husband, Gholahan, worked with  the National Commission for Refugees and Internally Misplaced Person in Abuja. He died in 2018. His PFA is First Guarantee Pension Limited. But PenCom has refused to pay his pension. I was told his accrued right had been released but nothing has been paid.  Kindly help me. PENCOM: Please, be informed that your late husband’s benefits have been paid. Kindly liaise with his Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more information.   Pensioners threaten to sue Ondo Govt over N68b pension…     Akwa Ibom, teachers reach truce on unpaid entitlements     PenCom sanctions 28 employers over pension non-remittance   UWEM: Good day, my uncle,  Godwin Uwem, was a teacher at the Poly Staff School, Ibadan for many years. He was retired five years ago without gratuity. At present, he is languishing. He has turned to a beggar. Worse still, his children roam the streets of Ibadan daily in search of what to eat. Every effort to meet the Provost of Ibadan Poly proved abortive. Please, how can you help to salvage the elderly man and his suffering children? PENCOM: Please, provide your uncle’s PFA and RSA PIN details to enable the commission investigate further. HASSAN: I am Hassan. My RSA shows that there was no remittance by my employer in 2015, 2016, 2017 and part of 2014 and 2018. Please, help find out why. PENCOM: Please, write to the commission, stating non-remittance of pension contributions by your employer. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from the Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for annuity. I am being owed 24 months.The Federal Government has released funds to pay 2.5 per cent out of the 10 per cent it is owing. When and how will this money be paid? PENCOM: Please, be advised that if the amount payable is less than N100,000, it will be paid into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider. ABDULLAHI: Good day, my name is Abdullahi, the son of late Inspector Etubi. You earlier informed me that everything had been settled. We were asked to provide our father’s name and RSA PIN to enable the commission to investigate further which we have provided. We were told in The Nation that we are among the next batch to be paid. But we are yet to be paid. Kindly help. PENCOM: Investigation has shown that there is no submission of such details in our database. Kindly visit your PFA to ensure that your documents were further submitted to the commission. OGUNLEYE: My name is Ogunleye. I retired from NIPOST. The issue of 2.5 per cent approved by President Buhari sometime ago has not been paid up. My question is: What is delaying the payment to the affected retirees? I understood that PenCom had directed the PFAS to spread it in our monthly pension. I think this decision should be rescinded. PENCOM: Please, note that the eligibility for the arrears of 2.5 per cent employer portion of pension contribution took effect from July 2014. It was paid based on regulations on how additional retirement benefit income are treated. Please, visit your PFA as the payment has been made if you retired anytime from July 2014.