Nigerians have started to enjoy the great benefits of the rail system. From the north with the Abuja-Kaduna project, from which even the rich and mighty take a ride as shelter against the depredations of the kidnappers and militants; to Lagos-Abeokuta-Ibadan Expressway to cushion the pressure on the busiest highway in the West African region, the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The Buhari administration has made leaps in this regard as more work is on the way to install a network of such projects across the country. But some unpatriotic Nigerians are profiting from vandalism on the rail tracks in nefarious activities that bode ill for the lives of Nigerians and the rail infrastructure project entirely. It is therefore a trend that must be treated with urgency. Managing Director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Fidet Okiria, lamented the trend. “So it is becoming alarming and very serious. I don’t want to mention particular regions but people are sabotaging the tracks so bad mostly on the narrow gauge, up till the extent of going to the standard gauge. We have had issues between Papalanto and Abeokuta. We have had issues close to Kaduna on the standard gauge and we have issues close to Ajaokuta where some people are trying to vandalise the tracks and even steal the coaches,” he cried. He made this lamentation in the context of the arrests of three persons. They are Kelechi Ononiwu, 36; Kalu Egbe, 30, and Stanley 27. The suspects were no mere thieves. They were gun-handed goons who engaged the security forces in a duel until they lost out and one of them sustained injuries. The incidents indicate that it is a big-time crime involving people of high net worth, who are commissioning the thefts for business purposes.   Only Nigerians can save Nigeria     NPF and imperative of contributory pension      Yahoo-yahoo, ritual killing and get-rich-quick syndrome   There have been such reports in the past few years. In Nasarawa State, the culprits included men of the law. Last year, the following were arrested: Richard Joseph, an inspector of police; Mali Peter, a sergeant; Ibrahim Usman, an official of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps; and three others who were arrested at the crime scenes. An extensive investigation into the case led to the arrest of one Mr Musa and 10 others. Others arrested included Mohammed Isiaka, a former supervisory councillor on education, Nasarawa Eggon LGA; Marra Thai, a Chinese national and the Manager of Yong Xing Steel Company, Tunga Maje, FCT Abuja, and Samuel Shagbaor, a staff of the NRC. The arrest of Thai is instructive because he manages a steel company. It means that the racket steals the slippers, melts them so as to sell them, possibly back to the railway authorities. Okhiria said the corporation is taking some steps to curb the menace. One, they are deploying sensors as well as satellites. This is a good step, but sensors are a technology that seem to track broken tracks but not anticipating the criminality in Nigeria. But it will add its benefits. The second step is position security personnel. Railways tracks are vast, and so they cannot be monitored without having personnel everywhere. That is well-nigh impossible. The NRC wants to make the tracks harder to unplug. They are also focusing on community communications, sensitising the nation to the perils and repercussions of such thieving. To the extent that sensors are limited, we urge that walls be installed. It is a big expenditure, but lives are at stake. Broken or missing tracks can derail trains. The consequence for lives and trains is enormous. Hence, we also recommend life sentence, if not capital punishment for culprits. They are committing murder by their actions. Only severe measures will do.