Following the rejection of the Cape Coast Stadium to stage a playoff game against the Super Eagles by the FIFA cum CAF inspection committee, the continental soccer ruling body, has given its approval for the crucial first leg game to be played at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi. Incidentally, it was at this Baba Yara Stadium that Nigeria’s Under 23 team saw their dream of qualifying for the 2011 All Africa Games messed up following a 2-0 defeat by Ghana. Nigeria had won the first leg 3-1 only for the ‘star loaded’ side to capitulate in Kumasi under the watch of coach Eguavoen and crashed out of the race for Maputo 2011 on the superior away goal despite a 3-3 aggregate scoreline. Eleven years on, coach Eguavoen will lead out the Super Eagles against the Black Stars after CAF granted ‘a one-match approval for Baba Yara Sports Stadium in Kumasi to host the World Cup Qatar 2022 playoff match between Ghana and Nigeria.’  The approval came as a huge relief to the under pressure Ghana Football Association(GFA) with initial speculations that the first leg fixed for Match 25 will be held outside the country following the rejection of the Cape Coast Stadium.   Oyo govt begins selection of female football team     Ukraine crisis: Sylvester Igboun quits Russian club     Eguavoen pencils Antwerp’s Yusuf for Eagles   The GFA announced via its website yesterday that CAF has indeed approved the Kumasi Stadium after ‘a CAF Licensing Inspector visited the Baba Yara Sports Stadium last Sunday to inspect the facility’; adding certain conditions will have to be met before the decisive game can be held. In a letter signed by CAF Development Officer, Raul Chipenda and sent to the General Secretary of the Ghana Football Association, Prosper Harrison Addo, Esq. and copied to FIFA, CAF stated that: “Reference to the CAF stadium inspection conducted to Baba Yara Sports Stadium (Kumasi) for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 African qualifiers playoff round match, Ghana Vs. Nigeria scheduled for the 25th of March 2022, following the analysis of the report we have taken the following decision: “Grant a one-match approval for the use of Baba Yara Sports Stadium (Kumasi) in the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 African qualifiers playoff round match Ghana Vs. Nigeria.” Upon conclusion of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 playoff round match, the stadium is automatically removed from the list of CAF approved stadiums and will only be approved for any subsequent CAF/FIFA international senior national teams matches and CAF men’s Interclubs competitions following the implementation of all the CAF remarks, ” CAF noted. The Baba Yara Stadium is one of the oldest stadiums in Ghana, and it is the stadium with the highest seating capacity, at 40,528. The playing surface is natural grass and it has hosted some crucial games, including seven at the 2000 Africa Cup of Nations.