There are many aspirants itching to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari on the platforms of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Lagos East Senator Mukhail Adetokunbo Abiru, banker and former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance said one contender stands out, if two basic criteria are considered “There are two qualities I expect in the person that should be the next president. It should be somebody who understands the complexity of Nigeria, its ethno-religious clevages, its economic and security challenges; somebody who has history of problem solving; a courageous leader,” he said. The second quality is the ability to channel the abundant resources; somebody who can harness the resources for the greatness of Nigeria, somebody who can optimise the opportunities for economic growth and recovery, and achieve progress along that line through cost reduction. Abiru said: ” I think our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has those qualities.” He described the former Lagos State governor as a knowledgeable, experienced and competent leader, who has paid his dues, adding that his commitment to national unity, socio-economic development and welfare of the masses are not in doubt. Urging constituents to gird their loins for the challenges of 2023, the senator said: “As we also know that 2022 is the penultimate year to the general elections of 2023, it is important to begin to assess our individual aspirations towards ensuring that Nigeria becomes a better place and this can only be achieved by ensuring that we all get registered as eligible voters and prepare to exercise our civic responsibilities without fears.” Abiru spoke with reporters at his constituency office, Ikorodu, at the weekend on his activities in the Senate in the last 15 months. He was accompanied by his aides-Dr Saheed Ibikunle, Enitan Olukotun and Bosun Odeyemi. He spoke on : ‘Our good story in one year.’ Times have changed in Nigeria. Gone were the days when National Assembly members would exclusively focus on the primary functions of law making and oversight duties. Constituents now expect senators and representatives to bear their burdens and plough back to the society. Federal law makers are now assessed by voters, not only by the quality of bills, motions and resolutions, but also by multiple empowerment programmes targeted at the indigent-women, youths, widows, students and the aged. In the last 14 months, Abiru has tried to maintain a critical balance in the discharge of his constitutional responsibilities on the floor of the Senate and social obligations to his people. He was sworn-in on December 15, 2020 as senator. He succeeded the eminent politician, the late Senator Bayo ‘Pepper’ Osinnowo. His inauguration coincided with a critical period in the nation’s history. Nigeria was slowly coming out of recession, which was also worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic. It was a trying period for many households and the nation at large. What Abiru, as a trustee of the peoples’ sacred mandate had tried to do, was to deliberately and continuously keep the hope of the people alive by working assiduously to deliver on his campaign promises ahead of the by-election. In fulfilment of his legislative agenda, Abiru has sponsored many Bills and motions covering diverse sectors, including banking and financial services, the economy, copyright, health, infrastructure and the provision of the legal framework for the reduction of the cost of governance. That underscored effectiverepresentation. Never a bench warmer in the Upper Chamber, Abiru has often articulated the problems of Lagos East on the floor. “Every matter that concerns my constituency has received its deserved and prompt attention and has always been treated as such, like the petition I recently presented on the floor of the Senate on behalf of the Magodo Residents Association over the invasion of the estate by security agents from the Office of the Inspector General of Police and the Attorney General of the Federation, he said. In October last year, the senator became the Chairman Senate Committee on Industries. The jurisdiction include standardisation and quality control, industrial development matters generally; incentives for, industrial development; national industrial planning; small-scale industries; aid to industries; heavy industries set up by the Federal Government, participation of small business enterprises, procurement and government contracts; promotion and administration of technology transfer programmes; industrial financing; privatization and commercialisation: Industrial Training Fund; and annual budget estimates. Abiru said he has brought to bear his background and experience in the discharge of his responsibilities as chairman, adding that the committee’s intervention is yielding fruits. He stressed: “The importance of industries to national development as a driver of industrialization through creation of jobs, generation of wealth, diversification of the economy, import substitution and enhancement of exports among others is gaining prominence in our national life and receiving attention.” To his credit, Abiru has 13 bills and four motions. On these alone, his party leaders in the East District that his election as senator has not been in vain. The bills are: Copyright Act repeal and re-enactment Bill, 2021 (read the second time), Dishonored Cheques Act Cap D11 LFN 2004 (Amendment) Bill 2021 (read the first time), Federal High Court Act (Amendment) Bill 2021 (read the first time), The Federal Polytechnic, Epe (Establishment, etc) Bill 2021, The Utilities Charges Commission Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021, The Control of Delegated Legislation (Control and Procedure) Bill, 2021, The National Boundary Commission, Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The National Economic Intelligence Committee (establishment, etc) Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021. Others are The National Economic Reconstruction Fund Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021, The National Productivity Centre Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021, The National Metallurgical Development Centre Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021, andThe Energy Commission of Nigeria Act (Repeal) Bill, 2021. The four motions are: Motion on the ban of cryptocurrency in Nigeria; motion on the urgent need for the rehabilitation of the Ikorodu-Shagamu and Ikorodu-Itoikin-Epe roads to further bridge the infrastructural gap and enhance economic growth in Nigeria; and motion on the need to position Nigeria and Nigerian businesses for continental growth through the African continental free trade zone (Afcftz). Abiru said: “All the bills have been read the first time on the floor of the Senate while the Copyright Act (repeal and re-enactment) Bill, 2021 has been read the second time with the public hearing concluded and is awaiting presentation of the report on the Bill by the Committee. “Also, sequel to motion I moved calling on the Federal Government to urgently intervene in the Ikorodu/Sagamu Road and Ikorodu/Itoikin/Epe Epe Road, our intervention with necessary follow-up and leveraging on our network has yielded positive outcomes as the Federal Government has included the funding of Ikorodu-Shagamu, in the SUKUK Financing program and the Ikorodu-Itoikin in the 2022 budget.” Many constituents have applauded the senator for conducting a need assessment as the baseline for his various intervention programmes. It is akin to a leadership approach, which, in his view, is modelled around a Human-Centered Design. “This approach mitigates against assumption of People’s needs and planning of solutions without their involvement,” he pointed out.   2023 polls: Nigeria needs credible alternatives, says…     Unending controversy over Section 84(12) of Electoral Act…     PDP should treat South south with fairness, Justice- Wike   Shortly after his inauguration, he commissioned a survey to ascertain the urgent needs of constituents. The scientific study revealed startling and disturbing facts about the state of public infrastructure, and socio-economic conditions of people at the grassroots. Based on the findings,  Abiru kicked off the COVID-19 Relief Scheme for the vulnerable people in the Lagos East. The programme has been running since then. The beneficiaries include widows, women, unemployed youth, aged and people with physical disabilities drawn from the 98 wards in the 16 local governments and Local Council Development Areas. “As of today, we have about 2,500 vulnerable members of the society being catered for,” he said. Abiru has tried to defend education in his district. The Aga Primary School in Borokini area of Ikorodu, which was overstretched due to high enrolment of pupils and the four classrooms had become distressed and inadequate, he facilitated four blocks of 24 classrooms equipped with complements of furniture and 16 toilets and Solar-Powered Borehole. Hailing the gesture, Teachers and pupils said infrastructure has greatly improved learning outcomes. In Ibeju-Lekki, two blocks of six classrooms have been completed at RCM Primary School, Iwerekun. In Agboyi-Ketu LCDA, one block of three classrooms have also been delivered at Ajelogo Primary School. An ICT centre has also been facilitated at the Igbobi Junior High School, Somolu Lagos. In the health sector, Abiru facilitated the construction of a 40-bed health facility and Dental Centre at the Ikorodu Campus of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), now known as the Lagos State University of Science and Technology. A 200-solar-powered street lights were attracted to the institution. Also, a 30-bed health facility at Mascara Health Centre in Agboiyi Ketu LCDA was provided. Another 40-bed is under construction at Isiu, Ikorodu North LCDA. In Epe, a 960-spectator capacity mini-stadium was also facilitated for the benefit of the youth. The two-pavilion sport facility is equipped with Basketball and Volleyball courts. The senator said it is almost ready for commissioning. The popular Oluwo Fish Market in Epe has also been remodeled. In fact, Abiru has rehabilitated the entire market and increased the number of shops from 259 to 319, comprising of lock-up shops, open sheds and 48 toilets. To further empower businesses to thrive through the creation of enabling environment, he also facilitated the supply and installation of transformers in several locations in the district. These include Ito Progressive CDA, Ito Isiu,   Igbopa Ifesowopo CDA, Ijede; Ire Ifelodun CDA, Igbogbo-Bayeku; Magodo Community CDA Oke Ota Ona, Ikorodu; Ikorodu GRA 2, Ibeshe Igbogbo-Bayeku; Ifeloju Abule Eko,Ijede Ikorodu; Sekungba CDA ikosi Ejirin; Isale Agoro CDA, Epe LGA; Ideraoluwa CDA, Eredo LGA and Olugayan CDA, Imota. Abiru has contributed immensely to rural electrification in a number of communities, including Idegun CDA, Imota; Gbaga Olorunda CDA; Adamo (Ikorodu North); Agura Central Gberigbe ( Ikorodu North); Garden Estate (Agboyi Ketu LCDA), and Agunbiade CDA ( Somolu). Also, no fewer than 600 brilliant, but indigent students have benefited from the endowment instituted by the Tokunbo Abiru Constituency Foundation. Abiru’s Constituency Office, in partnership with The Fate Foundation and Chartered Standard Foundation, organized a Business Workshop/Clinic for 1000 MSMEs across the senatorial district. The training which attracted Executive Leadership of business-related regulatory agencies and partners-BOI, SMEDAN, CAC, LIRS, NAFDAC and LSETF-enhanced the capacity of MSMEs in the district. In addressing the dearth of knowledge which is one of the major reasons why MSMEs fail, a knowledge pack containing seven valuable books covering Financial Management, Human Capital, Legal, Strategy, Marketing and Communication, Digital Technology and Tax Management authored by reputable corporations, including Deloitte, KPMG, and Verraki were given free of charge to trainees. Participants also received Enterprise Development Certificates after the training. Abiru also announced a N100 million Constituency Intervention Revolving Loan at a very low concessional six percent interest rate per annum, which will be topped by an additional N100 Million  from the Bank of Industry (BOI). The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) also pledged to add N100million, totaling N300million. The N300 million Constituency Intervention Revolving Loan Scheme will be unveiled next month for the benefit of MSMEs, artisans and tradesmen in Lagos East. The senator has set up a Community Innovation Space known as Senator Abiru Innovation Lab (SAIL), in partnership with a renowned technology and social enterprise company, The Co-creation Hub (Cc-HUB) in Lagos,  to train youths in the district on relevant digital and innovation skills, and build the best entrepreneurs that can compete in the ever-dynamic global economy. The Center is currently situated in Ikorodu. It has taken off at the constituency office. But, plans are underway to move it into a bigger facility in July. Five pilot programmes have been put together, with a view to proffer solutions to some of the challenges identified. No fewer than 4,000 young people across the district applied for the SAIL programmes. Currently, over 150 students are participating in the Five Pilot Programmes at the SAIL Centre in Ikorodu while over 1000 eligible applicants will be trained online. The programmes are as follows: Lagos East Teachers’ Fellowship, Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Education for Senior Secondary School Students, Business 101 for Artisans and Creatives, Tech Talent Development, Startup Accelerator for Businesses – is for young people who have business ideas that can be amplified by technology. Abiru said: “These programmes shall run for between three and six months and more applicants shall be admitted in the subsequent classes after this pilot phase.” He promised to facilitate more people-oriented projects this through collaboration with the leadership of the Senate, the National Assembly, Ministries, Departments, Parastatals and Agencies, in the areas of health, education and  infrastructure. Abiru said: “I have been able to facilitate projects worth over 1 Billion Naira in key areas for our constituency in the 2022 Appropriation Act. ” The senator  acknowledged the economic and security challenges facing the county, and the threats to peace and unity. He urged his constituents to be hopeful. Abiru said: “I will not let our people down. In 2022, the tempo of #DoingGood won’t wane. We will neither be distracted nor deterred. Expect more.”