Two operatives have been feared killed when gunmen bombed Obowo Police Division with explosives on Monday morning. They also bombed the police transit camp in the area where some damages were recorded. But the Imo Police Command said apart from the minimal damage on the transit camp and a vehicle, no life was lost during the attack. It also said the police operative who sustained minor gun shot injury has been treated. Other officers who sustained injuries have been taken to an undisclosed hospital for immediate medical attention, it was gathered. A source said that the attack lasted for about three hours. The source added that the gunmen used explosives to bomb the station after they ambushed and overpowered the officers. “The attack started around 2:am and lasted for about three hours, we had the sound of various firearms and dynamites during the attack.   Osinbajo, Obasanjo, Jonathan condemn coups in Africa     BREAKING: Opposition planning another #ENDSARS protest…     Court frees Jonathan’s ex-Minister of money laundering…   “Police re-enforcement came after the attackers had fled the station but we do not know if they carted away riffles in the station,”he said. However Deputy Police Commissioner in charge of Operation, DCP Mama Giwa, who visited the scene around 7am, commended the officers for their gallantry and advised them not to relent in their efforts in combating violent crimes in the State. The Nation reports the latest attack brings to four such incidenf in March with no fewer than seven officers killed. When contacted, the spokesman of the Command, CSP Michael Abattam CSP alleged that latest bombing was carried out by members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB )/ Eastern Security Network ( ESN ). “They came in their numbers from the rear of the division, which is an ungoverned forest, threw petrol bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices(IED) that fell on the transit camp where police men stays temporarily before getting accommodation and hit a vehicle while shooting sporadically, he told our Correspondent. “Engaging the hoodlums in a fierce gun duel, we prevented them from gaining entrance to the station and in the process forced the hoodlums into retreating and they escaped back into the forest with various degrees of bullet wounds. “The police operatives gave them a hot chase and while combing the bush the following items were recovered on the spot: three(3) undetonated Explosives, four(4) expended AK 47 rifles, ammunition, five(5) live cartridges, thirty three(33) expended cartridges, two mask, one pump action gun and a motor saw machine,” he said.