Supporters of Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello from Southwest states gathered in Lagos yesterday to drum support for his presidential ambition. The youths vowed to rewrite what they described as “Nigeria’s political history, ” adding that they will continue to push for generational shift. The youths under the umbrella of ‘Rescue Nigeria Mission,’ said, like their counterparts in the Northern states, they were ready to mobilise for the Kogi State Governor despite zoning in the All Progressives Congress (APC). The coordinator, Shola Saheed, said: “Over 20 million youths (PVC holders), at home and abroad, are already actively involved in the struggle to install Governor Yahaya Bello as President. We are set to rewrite political history.”   Family sues for compensation over property acquisition     ‘Govt should curb vessel pollution’     Senator, council chair lose mum   He added: “Our involvement in politics is not tied to any political party. With the capacity Governor Bello had displayed in Kogi State and within his party, we will queue behind him to rescue Nigeria.” The Chief of Staff to the Governor, Abdulkareem Jamiu Asuku, who was invited to witness the South-West declaration, thanked the youths for their unflinching support for his principal and promised that he would not let them down on the call on him to contest. He said: “Governor Yahaya Bello is the face of the youth in the Nigerian government system. Kogi State is the centre of Nigeria, being the only state bordering 10 states, including the FCT. Governor Yahaya Bello came on board as governor and governed Kogi State without a porous border. “The economy and IGR of Kogi State tripled within the short period. Such a man who has been able to transform the economy of Kogi State, unite the people and fix security issues in record time is the man Nigeria needs.” “The South-West youths of Nigeria are here in Lagos to call for a replication of what is happening in Kogi State in the larger Nigeria. Thank you for standing by the truth. Only the truth can address the challenges of Nigeria.”