Two Lagos-based international health and hospitality brands ­- Duchess International Hospital and the Lagos Marriot Hotel – have pioneered the first-ever three-day comprehensive medical screening and disease prevention services in Nigeria known as the Duchess Royal Medical Check Up. Speaking at the launch of the programme in Lagos, Duchess International Hospital, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Adetokunbo  Shitta-Bey, said: “Nigerians travel all over the world to countries such as Germany, the United States and major cities such as Dubai in search of comprehensive health screening, disease prevention services and treatments for a variety of long-term (chronic) diseases, all of which we now offer exclusively at the Duchess International Hospital. “The hospital’s mission is to reverse medical tourism by delivering the highest standards of care, using the most advanced technology and treatments to give our clients the fastest, most convenient access to the best medical expertise available anywhere in the world.’’ “The Royal Medical Check-up is our most in-depth and comprehensive health and wellness evaluation, comprising a two-day full-body medical assessment and complete clinical evaluation in the environment and comfort of the Royal Duchess Suites. It uses the most advanced testing technology and specialised medical expertise to deliver the best clinical outcomes on behalf of our clients based on their lifestyle, age and complete medical history. It combines excellence in healthcare with a unique experience of hospitality and offers the reassurance of a robust clinical assessment with maximum flexibility and convenience to cause little or no disruption to our clients’ busy schedules.”   Lagos unveils new health insurance products to improve…     So Fresh kicks off healthy eating challenge     Depression after childbirth: A silent killer   Shitta-Bey explained that the  screening is affordable. “This is a wellness and lifestyle screening, people don’t have to be sick before coming for screening,” he said. Managing Director, Mac-Folly Hospitality Limited, owners of the Lagos Marriot Hotel, Mr. Chike Ogeah, said the programme was ‘’carefully designed to address the needs and circumstances of individuals and busy executives residing in metropolitan cities across Nigeria and West Africa. It provides a high level of service comparable to standards observed in tourist destinations such as Dubai, Europe and the United States, and offers the significant economic advantage of conserving much needed foreign exchange.’’ According to him, providence has brought the two brands together as they are sited few metres from each other  in Ikeja GRA, Lagos; hence the synergy to give Nigerians the best of services from the two organisations. Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, who was special guest at the event, said Nigerians spend an average of $1 billion yearly on medical tourism. He said with the facilities at Duchess International Hospital, Nigerians do not need to waste scarce foreign exchange to go for diagnosis or treatment abroad as the hospital is well equipped and staffed to meet their health  challenges.