No one should deny Ezra Yakusak, executive director of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), his deserved crow.  At an export-promoting seminar in Owerri, Imo State, Dr. Yakusak rolled out the sweet export stats. Nigeria, he crooned, speaking through a representative, exported non-oil produce and products worth US$ 3.455 billion in 2021, up from US$ 2.210 billion in 2020 — a net rise of US$ 1.245 billion. An enthused Dr. Yakusak said Nigerian crops as palm kernel shells, breadfruit, cashew nuts, bitter kola, egusi, ogbono, oha, ogiri, uziza ofor and crayfish had “gone international” — thanks to NEPC’s “export for survival” mantra, pushed under the export facilitator’s one-state-one-product comparative advantage strategy. The NEPC boss, apparently pushing for value-added before export, also extolled local manufacturers in Imo State who, between 2016 and 2021, had exported products worth over US$ 2.3 million non-oil manufactured goods to Poland, USA, Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Italy and Australia. Dr. Yakusak’s celebration would fall within an agricultural push, between 2015 and now, that has levitated Nigeria to be Africa’s No. 1 producer of rice and world’s No. 1 cultivator of yam tubers. Still, the not-so-good story is that the agricultural boom has not been met with a processing boom, which should have turned the country into an agro-processing dynamo: from rice mills, to cashew processing cottage plants, to cassava processed into industrial starch.  That should have fed the export market, earned the much needed forex and boosted the parity of our struggling Naira. That that has not happened has shown a huge deficit in non-oil column, in Nigeria’s export account ledger, despite the NEPC decent strides that Dr. Yakusak enthused.  Until agricultural processing becomes routine and mainstream therefore, it can’t be uhuru for NEPC or for the country.   Spring Alliance     A big risk     A minister’s strange alibi   Indeed, at no time than now is agro-processing better placed to seize the commanding heights of Nigeria’s international trade.  Yet, it has done pretty little towards that end.  If you doubt, check comparative stats for Q4 2021, which the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) just released. Crude oil, even with a shrink of -8.06 per cent, still posted a thunderous N4.269 trillion earning, netting 70.04 per cent of total exports — just for the fourth quarter of 2021.  Now, compare and contrast this figure to the US$ 3.455 billion, (N1.4 trillion, at the Naira/Dollar exchange of N415.971/US$ 1) for the entire 2021 that NEPC celebrates, it is clear that agriculture is still punching very much below its weight. Still on the NBS statistics: next to crude oil, other top exports were natural gas (N573.85 billion, or 9.95 per cent of total exports; and urea: a key oil and gas derivative  to manufacture fertiliser (N208.05 billion: 3.61 per cent). What is more?  Durum wheat (wheat grown in arid regions that yield flour used to manufacture pista), one of the Q4 imports, could easily have gone the opposite direction: export from Nigeria instead of import into the country.  Had that happened, perhaps Nigeria’s fourth quarter 2021 posting of a N173.96 billion trade deficit could have been a trade surplus — or at worst, a healthy trade balance. The simple moral from all of this is that agriculture — processed agriculture — holds the ace for Nigeria in terms of exports.  In this sector, Nigeria holds a robust comparative advantage.  With progressive disinvestment in global fossil fuels, Nigeria should start positioning processed agriculture to take the place of oil, if not gas, as the centrepiece of Nigeria’s exports. So, as NEPC continues efforts to make non-oil exports easier and seamless, using the instrumentality of the African Continental Free Trade Area ( ACFTA) and other international trade protocols, the Nigerian government should make solid efforts to add value to agricultural produce, to boost these commodities’ export value. That will also expand local manufacturing and create millions of jobs.  That is the way to go though it could be a bridge too far without better and reliant electricity.