Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal has advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to concentrate on winning the presidency in 2023 before considering sharing power. He argued once the party is in power, it can decide on how to allocate important positions to deserving members. He spoke on Tuesday in a meeting with former presiding officers of States and House of Representatives at the ballroom of the Fraser Suites in Abuja to deliberate on his aspiration. Referring to the calls for zoning of the presidential nomination to a section of the country by some members of the party, Tambuwal reminded the PDP of how the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015 ignored zoning and decided on retaining the presidential slot in Katsina from where late President Yar’adua hailed. “You can share tickets because you can tear it up but you must plan to win. PDP must accept this reality. The ticket must be balanced as zoning or any Muslim-Muslim ticket or Christian-Christian ticket would be dead on arrival and recipes for disaster,” he said. Looking at how governorship and House of Representatives elections were contested and won in Anambra and Plateau States respectively, he analysed factors that the party should take into consideration if the PDP wants to win the elections next year.   Ekiti 2020: APC stalwart predicts landslide victory for…     Atiku on the march again     Qualities I expect from next president, by Abiru   These, he said, include demographics, intra-party wrangling rife in the APC, voter education and rigging. He said with the APC being strong in the Northern with 16 governors and the PDP sharing the same positions with it in the Southern region, the PDP would have to “think well, plan well and win this election.” Giving a long, historical and incisive insights into his political trajectory, which was devoid of ethnic jingoism and religious zealotry, he assured the PDP and its adherents of his competence, capabilities and capacities as an experienced legislator, economical administrator and consummate ‘life bencher.’ “I am coming with my pan-Nigerian content, competencies in handling federal and governance issues, in addition to having references in all the 360 constituencies in the country who can vouch for me. “It has never been this bad for governance in this country, therefore, the President we need is one that understands the country, inclusive in his dealings and one that will allow the rule of law to flourish,” Tambuwal said, explaining that he has all the qualities and what the other aspirants in the PDP lack. “From the array of those running for President now, I dare say that I am closer to the youths,” he emphasised, noting that “age is a factor for what we are doing today”.