Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, is a past master at the art of the political insult. He has no use for the elegant putdown; his words are often bruising, brutal, guaranteed to leave a mark. His latest verbal bomb lobbed at his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, ticks the usual boxes. Reacting to his colleague calling him a “bully” for rebuking Deputy Governor, Phillip Shaibu, Wike said: “You came to beg a bully for you to have a ticket. A bully was your DG Campaign and a bully bullied you into Government House. What a shame. You came back with your wife to thank the bully saying that after God, the bully made it possible for you to be there”. He went on to call Obaseki a “serial betrayer,” apologising to former All Progressives Party (APC) National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who had predicted that his erstwhile political godson would soon turn on his new-found benefactors. The two governors have been feuding over the power struggle in the Edo chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which has pitched Obaseki against old warhorses like Chief Dan Orbih and others who controlled the party before the local APC crisis gifted them a governor. A convention adopted by Nigeria’s two leading political parties makes the governor defacto ‘leader’ in his domain. In that capacity he has the power to impose and depose. His word becomes law and heaven help the dissidents who would not bow before the emperor. In some states, governors have made the pragmatic choice to cohabit and share power with powerful individuals, while casting envious glances at neighbours ruling like lords of the manor. For some, that adjustment became a bridge too far – leading to nerve-wracking battles with those who helped them climb up the ladder. This was case with Obaseki who chafed at attempts by Oshiomhole to exert political control over a successor he personally chose and imposed. Rather than suffer the indignity of an Akinwumi Ambode who was denied the ticket for a second term in office as Lagos State governor and took it with equanimity, he leapt into the “enemy’s” embrace, cutting whatever deal guaranteed him the platform to run again. He took it for granted that the old ‘governor as leader’ formula would subsist, not knowing he had landed in shark-infested waters. His attempts at imposing his will have been robustly resisted not just because those who called the shots formerly were powerful; they were also age-old allies of Wike – whose influence is far-reaching within the South-South PDP and across the party nationwide. The frustration reached a peak triggering suggestions that Obaseki might just have another attack of Sokugo – that famous wandering disease – referenced by Cyprian Ekwensi in his classic ‘Burning Grass.’ His deputy Shaibu openly declared that if those resisting them would not bend, there were other options to the PDP. Obaseki had clearly not reached that point, warning the resistance at one point to either accept him as leader or leave the party. These were not the words of a politician who understood compromise, but those of a conqueror fresh from vanquishing an acclaimed godfather. They spoke of the giddy power of governors who can determine everything from who becomes local government councillor to who gets elected president. What Obaseki and Shaibu haven’t considered is that the conditions and dramatis personae that enabled them prevail over Oshiomhole are different from those of their latest battle in PDP. Equally, their direct opponent is made of sterner stuff. For while the former APC chairman was known as a pugnacious fighter right from his days as president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), he also has a softer, philosophical side – realising when to fold his tent and go home following his political humiliation. The same cannot be said of Wike who has clearly not heard of the saying that he who fights and runs away lives to fight another day. He embraces every new clash with gusto and plunges into fresh conflicts headlong.   Zoning: Anxiety in PDP over presidential ticket     Wike, Obaseki fight dirty in bid to control Edo PDP     Appeal Court urged to reject El-Rufai, others’ plea in…   I think of the Rivers governor and I am reminded of the boxing style of such iconic heavyweight champions as Joe Frazier and Mike Tyson. It doesn’t matter what you throw at them, they keep coming back at you – grinding you down slowly, relentlessly. Wike is not an elegant boxer; he’s not averse to throwing the odd below-the-belt punch. In his latest broadside against Obaseki he managed to drag some allegations about the Edo governor’s face-off with the Oba of Benin over returned Benin artefacts, into a matter that was purely about internal party intrigues. Check his never-ending war with his erstwhile boss and current Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi or his bitter break-up with former PDP chairman, Uche Secondus, a man he helped install in office and you find the same pattern – relentless counter attack with no quarter given. In some ways the two governors are alike: both love a good scrap and don’t like to back down. They love to have the last word, but the Rivers governor is in a special class when it comes to this. So Shaibu hurling threats at the PDP was akin to waving a red flag in the face of the bull in a bullfight. Obaseki, couldn’t understand why Wike was so enraged, telling him the PDP wasn’t his personal property. How wrong he is! Maybe it wasn’t eight years ago. After the loss of federal power and patronage there was need for someone to step up and sustain the party. There were not too many takers – leaving the Rivers governor to pay the bills and call the shots. Post-2015 his influence over the party has been well-nigh suffocating. Some governors have fled the opposition ranks citing his supposed overbearing ways. Wike has a vice grip on the party. If the Edo governor doesn’t get that, then he doesn’t understand APC is not PDP! As things stand Obaseki may no longer enjoy his stay in his new home unless he’s willing to crawl to Port Harcourt with his tail between his legs to beg the king. That’s not a viable option for a guy who boasts about putting godfathers out of business. But with his newly-minted foe, who doesn’t look like the forgiving sort, threatening: “Let me tell you Obaseki, I know your cohorts and I will smoke all of you out,” he’d better watch out. One theme Wike kept harping on in his statement was ‘betrayal.’ But what did he expect? In the amoral defection politics that has prevailed in Nigeria through the years, people change parties to get elected into office. They don’t make the switch because of deep ideological convictions or anything so elevated. When Obaseki was negotiating with the PDP many speculated his heart wasn’t really in it; he only wanted to use the platform to secure re-election and return to APC. Since achieving his objective he has often stated his desire to remain in his new home. But at the first sign of trouble talk of defection has been revived. It’s all about control and hanging on to power. That said, Wike’s sense of moral outrage does seem a bit overdone. He bemoans Obaseki’s “betrayal” and swears he’s never done anything similar to anyone. It would be interesting to know what his former boss Amaechi thinks and what words he would use to describe their parting of ways. Betrayal, perhaps? Politics is a bitch. This isn’t just a clash of two individuals with outsize egos. It is all so revelatory of the depth of the internal crises raging within Nigeria’s two largest political parties. Both are bitterly riven with factions. The APC is staggering under a cloud of confusion towards a national convention with no clue whether it would come out whole or in bits. The PDP is no better as the politics of zoning threatens to rip it apart. Unfortunately for the country, there are no other options to take advantage of these parties going into elections divided. Those who claim to be offering a third way are reverting to the old formula of gathering names. No one is making any effort to capture the imagination of the country with the power of their ideas. That’s why, in the end, one of the jaded big two parties that is better able to manage the fallout from ongoing clash of egos, would find itself in power, leaving us all with that sense of déjà vu.