As the 2023 general elections draw near, many states are boiling over as political gladiators plot the rise or fall of their opponents. Enugu State is no different, except that the temperature somehow simmers near the boiling point. But it has not always been peaceful in the eastern front, especially at the beginning of the present republic. We recall that it was while Senator Chimaroke Nnamani from Enugu East senatorial zone held sway as state governor that the political alliance was forged in blood, tears and sorrow. Perhaps, it was the usual business of a maternity ward that was at play? Despite the misgivings of many, the Ebeano family has survived several political transitions, even if regicide remains its ascension policy. When Governor Nnamani ascended the throne, the rules of the family were carved. The high points were that the state governor should deal ruthlessly with any opposition, hound any putative godfather into political exile, and reign as the czar of the political family, apologies to Russian Vladimir Putin, the butcher of Ukrainians. So it was that Chief Jim Nwobodo, who championed the election of Governor Nnamani, while he took the senate seat as his redoubt, sooner than later became a persona non grata in the state. Hounded by his political children, he was retired after only a term in the senate. With Nwobodo out of the way, Nnamani reigned as the supreme commander of the new political family he forged. He allowed no opposition, and the consequences of defiance were too steep. At the end of his eight-year tenure as governor, Chimaroke installed Sullivan Chime from Enugu West senatorial zone, his erstwhile commissioner for justice, and moved over to the senate, which road he had paved in advance, by tactically upstaging Senator Nwobodo after only one tenure. The godfather and his followers believed that all will be calm in the eastern front. But as soon as Governor Chime consolidated as governor, Senator Nnamani faced the fate of his own political godfather. Governor Chime unceremoniously retired Chimaroke from the senate, and became the reigning czar. It was in this political environment that Senator Ike Ekweremadu was chiselled and forged. As the campaign manager of Governor Nnamani in 1999, he was there at the beginning. And he has seen the rise and fall of political gladiators in the state at the behest of the state governors. But perhaps he has not taken note that Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from Enugu north senatorial zone is a different kind of czar. Ugwuanyi has not only rehabilitated former Governors Nnamani and Nwobodo, his immediate predecessor Governor Chime, is enjoying his new political life unhindered. But before I delve into what may have changed in the Ebeano political family, with the emergence of Governor Ugwuanyi, let me attempt a deconstruction of the Ekweremadu political persona. Perhaps, having closely witnessed the treatment meted out to others, the five-time senator has learnt the survival instinct better than any other person in the political family. Arguably, within the Ebeano political family, Ekweremadu has fared better politically than any other member. Following the triumph of Nnamani, in 1999, he started off as secretary to the state government.   Enemies of Buhari     Prize of Putin’s folly     Police recruitment fiasco   In 2003, as part of his consolidation effort, Governor Nnamanni apparently sent Ekweremadu to the senate as his forbearer to the national political scene. I recall that Governor Nnamani with his nation-wide lectures was assiduously positioning himself as a national intellectual and a potential presidential candidate in 2007, before the Obasanjo’s third-term political tsunami sent everyone scampering for safety. Before the tsunami, with the hope of going to the centre, Nnamani had sent the young political Turk, Ekweremadu, to help prepare the way. Unfortunately, not only that Nnamani’s presidential dream suffered a still birth, his underbelly was thoroughly exposed by the EFCC probe, and Senator Ekweremadu joined the winning team, led by the reigning Governor Chime, to decapitate his former boss politically. Ekweremadu also succeeded in taking the price of the deputy senate president, and so became de jure and de facto superior to his former boss, who was a rookie in the senate. By the time Chime had done two terms as governor, and perhaps feeling that the two-term deputy senate president Ekweremadu was morphing into an uncontrollable political behemoth, he decided to retire the senator. Again in fairness to Governor Sullivan, strong political interests in Enugu west senatorial zone were clamouring for rotation of the seat to another cultural zone, with the retiring governor who is from the same senatorial zone touted as a potential replacement. But Ekweremadu had become a primed survivalist. Instead of begging for the senate seat, he went for the political jugular of PDP in the state. Again, instead of joining the breakaway PDP at the centre co-led by the then senate president Bukola Saraki, to join APC, Ekweremadu stayed in PDP, and with cunning and federal support, organised the recognised 2015 state party primary election. With that manoeuvre, the political hold of godfather Governor Sullivan Chime became traumatised, and a political compromise was reached, with Senator Ekweremadu taking his prize of returning to the senate, unhindered. Arguably, with the privileges as deputy senate president, Ekweremadu has substantially raised an army of followers in his senatorial zone and beyond. So in 2019, instead of begging for his senatorial seat from the governor, as is the custom in the state and across the country, he had the opportunity to nominate and sponsor some of his own followers for political offices. But that opportunity is also because Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, with a staggering peaceful political persona, was the governor in 2019 that Ekweremadu did not need to fight to return to the senate. No doubt, Governor Ugwuanyi, popularly called Gburugburu, has brought a different panache to the leadership of the political family in the state. The result has been tranquillity in the political arena, and this column as an interested party urges all sides to emulate the governor, in the interest of the state. While Ekweremadu is entitled to contest the governorship of the state, as he has vowed recently, it will be disingenuous for him to claim that there is no agreement to rotate governorship position in the state. While the political gladiators may not have signed off on it as he claimed recently, they have been practising it in the state, since 1999. If Ekweremadu wants to torpedo the delicate political arrangement in the state, which has served him and his political family well in the past, he should not blame it on the absence of an agreement. The clamour for rotation of power is associated with prebendalism, and Senator Ekweremadu has fared well with his famed accumulation of staggering wealth.