The management of Mind Builders School,Omole Phase 1 annex, has assured parents and guardians of maximum security of lives of their wards. Security personnel attached to the school had  foiled an attempt by two unknown men to kidnap  school children,  who were  dropped off by their mother on Monday around 9am. One of the kidnappers, who was arrested and handed over to the police at Ojodu Police station, confessed that they have been kidnapping many children in Lagos for quite a while. However, in a statement, the school’s  Education Director, Mrs. Bolajoko Falore, said the security of pupils was of utmost importance to the management. Mrs. Falore noted that the incident, which occurred on Monday, was a testimony that the school was committed to the safety of pupils. The statement reads: “Thanks to the vigilance of the security men and staff that made it impossible for the kidnappers to abduct the pupil.   LASPARK distributes free tree seedlings at LASU     Eko Boys’ High School Old Boys gets new exco     Primary schools in dire straits as UBEC funds remain unused   “We want to assure all our esteemed parents and the members of the public that we are committed more than ever to the safety of the pupils and students in our care. The incident, is a testimony to the fact that we place a premium on the security of our learners in all the branches of Mind Builders School. “We shall continue to do this by relying on God and our highly vigilant and tight security system and personnel that has not  failed us in the 24 years of the existence of the school. “The incident happened after the school had resumed on Monday. One of the kidnappers was caught. The other escaped. “They did not come with a car. It was their intention to kidnap the child along with the car. “We understand the insecurity situation of the country and we can not afford these agents of the darkness to use any of our schools as a scapegoat; so we are always steps ahead of them. “Learning can only take place in a secured environment. We therefore use this opportunity to tell all our parents and prospective parents that Mind Builder Schools are safe places to learn. “The school authority has since handed the suspect over to the  Nigeria police for further investigation.”