Following a spate of coups that recently displaced democratically elected governments in the sub-region, some leaders of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) are on a mission to head off the trend. The ECOWAS Council of the Wise held a two-day retreat in Lagos last week where members said they were working in concert with the ECOWAS Commission to develop and validate a one-year plan of action aimed at discouraging military intervention in power and promoting democratic stability. Chairman of the council and Nigeria’s former President Goodluck Jonathan noted that West Africa in recent times faced unsavoury developments that have continued to pose a challenge to peace, security and sustainable development. He explained that the parley aimed to evolve an agenda for promoting stability in the sub-region. “Within the last two years, we have witnessed three military coups in Mali, Guinea and Burkina Faso, as well as coup attempts in Niger and Guinea-Bissau,” he said, adding that the trend posed grave threat to democracy in ECOWAS, especially at a time when relentless militancy and terrorist activity across the Sahel and frontline countries had worsened the security situation.   Restorative justice     Out-of-school children     Stalled e-customs project   The Council of the Wise meeting held in the wake of emergency and regular parleys by ECOWAS Heads of State and Governments to respond to the coup menace. In early February, the leaders met in Ghana to decide on preliminary measures against Burkina Faso which on January 24 became the third member of the 15-member bloc to be overtaken by the military when President Roch Marc Kaboré was deposed amid public anger at his handling of violent insurgency in his country. Burkina Faso took after Mali where a first coup in September 2020 was followed by another in May 2021, and Guinea where elected President Alpha Condé was deposed last September. Also in late January, President Umaro Sissoco Embalo of Guinea-Bissau survived an attempted coup after assailants armed with assault weapons stormed the government palace. The trend was viewed in international circles as resuscitating West Africa’s hitherto rested notoriety as ‘the coup belt.’ Although ECOWAS has an established reputation for not tolerating putschists, this appears not to have scared off military adventurers in the sub-region. All three countries where soldiers have taken over are presently on suspension from the body though engagement is ongoing with respective junta for early restoration of the civil order. But rather than move toward restoring civilian rule, the soldiers have been digging their heels into power. In Burkina Faso, the military lately announced it had restored the constitution it suspended immediately after the coup, and named junta leader Lieutenant-Colonel Paul-Henri Damiba as president for an unspecified transition period. Earlier on, in January, ECOWAS slammed a series of sanctions on Mali because of its military’s dallying on conducting elections. Sanctions imposed include freezing the country’s assets and barring it from access to all sub-regional financial institutions, cutting off non-humanitarian financial aid, closure of member-countries’ borders against Mali and recall of their ambassadors from the country. But Guinea, which itself is under suspension by ECOWAS, dissociated from these measures. It should be apparent that sanctions aren’t enough to deter military usurpers because a problem isn’t solved by managing its consequences but by addressing the causes. At the heart of the coup menace in West Africa, as we’ve often argued, is the leadership question that has made military intervention popular within the affected countries while being strongly reprobated without. A challenge that ECOWAS must confront is promoting good governance and rigorous peer reviewing on leadership values in the sub-region as would fundamentally deny ambitious soldiers any excuse to venture into power. The quest for good governance dictates that there must be good quality political class. Not that liberal democracy fairs well generally in the sub-region: the 2020 Democracy Index on the ECOWAS bloc rated only Ghana a “flawed democracy” while the rest were tagged “hybrid” or authoritarian regimes. The reason could be because the system is borrowed from elsewhere and imposed on leadership systems peculiar to our cultural contexts. Faced with that fact, we must make the best of the system to discourage military interlopers by delivering good governance.