Women own and manage 43 per cent of small businesses that keep the economy afloat, the Chief Operating Officer, RED for Africa, Bukonla Adebakin has said. In a report to mark the International Women’s Day entitled: ‘Breakthe bias women leading, the vanguard for improved representation of women in Nigeria’, she said in Nigeria, for example, small businesses make a significant contribution to the economy – 48 per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 96 per cent of businesses, and 84 per cent of employment. “Statistics, according to the State of Entrepreneurship in Nigeria 2021, report show women own and manage 43 per cent of these small businesses that keep the country’s economy afloat. “Women belong in all places where decisions are being made. It shouldn’t be that women are the exception, Adebakin said. She recalled that in 1993, Ruth Bader Ginsburg became the second woman ever to be nominated as Justice of the United States’ Supreme Court. Adebakin said Ginsburg’s nomination by President Bill Clinton and her 27-year tenure before her death in 2020 would go down in history as  awatershed, especially for women. “Therein lies the gender problem that plagues most aspects of modern society. “Women who rise to the top of their chosen profession are the exception, not the norm. When they reach this position, society holds them up as the example, the beacon to guide other women to success and recognition. Their new existence is besought with labels such as ‘first female’, ‘SHE-EO’, and so on, which is only fair given the obvious gender-specific difficulties they must overcome to reach these positions. “Gender inequality is not a myth. There is sufficient published data to prove that women are underrepresented in places that matter such as high profile jobs and governments. According to a 2019 study by executive search firm, Heidrick & Struggles, only five per cent of chief executives globally are women. In 2020, the figures remained the same. On the other hand, women are overrepresented in low-paying jobs with many of them earning less than two-thirds of the median of the earnings distribution.” She continued: “Women have tended to turn to other sources of income, such as entrepreneurship, due to their low earning capacity.   PoS supports financial inclusion, say bank officials     Lagos commits to Lekki-Epe devt     Report lists barriers to consumer trust in financial…   “Despite the numbers and facts that continue to be presented, women continue to struggle to hold their own in a male-dominated world. “In the hours that ushered in Women’s History Month across the world, hundreds of women gathered at the National Assembly complex in Abuja to protest for their right to be represented in politics. The ninth Nigerian Senate – a congregation of 109 senators, including only seven women – had voted against a provision to allocate special seats to women to increase their representation. “Granted the rare opportunity to rewrite the fate of women through the 1999 Constitution amendment, the senators trampled on possibilities and sent a poignant message to women in Nigeria. “To provide context to the severe discrimination and bias against women in politics in Nigeria, it should be noted that during the 2019 elections, 47 per cent of registered voters across the country were women. “However, only 6.5 per cent are in the National Assembly and it remains that no woman has ever held a governorship position or sat in the presidential seat of the nation. In similar vein in 2020, a bill to promote gender equality in employment and property inheritance was thrown out when male senators labelled it as “anti-Islam.” She said it is not to conclude that women representation in politics is the panacea for gender inequality in society. It is, however, an ideal place to start. One of the hallmarks of truly inclusive democracies is the equal representation of women, she added. “It is also a crucial factor in earning public trust, improving society and advancing policies and legislation that benefit women. When these are achieved, they can provide a bedrock formula for solving the deeply ingrained cultural, social, and religious conventions that prevent women from attaining positions of leadership. “The 2023 elections are approaching and several women have announced their interest in running for key offices. While political parties and political campaigns in Nigeria remain male-dominated, it is important for women across all strata to begin to throw their weight behind these women who have boldly indicated their interest. Women supporting women should be more than just a mantra. International Women’s Day should be more than an annual celebration characterised by hand gestures, catchy slogans, and pretty pictures. “In Nigeria, women who are strewn across all aspects of business, media, advocacy, and technology must first identify the collective power that they wield. “One way to begin is to discard the idea that men are more assertive and deserving of leadership. Another way is to consciously grant women visibility and positioning. Women in the media should push for improved coverage for other women. Women in career should mentor younger women rising up the ladder as opposed to seeing them as threats. Women in technology should build products that solve everyday problems for women. “When women actively build and sustain support systems for other women, the patriarchal society that gives the power to rewrite women’s fate to men is not only torn down, we would no longer have to overtly celebrate one woman’s success. Women at the top would be the norm,” she added.