Popular musician, Timaya has threatened to beat music executive, Ubi Franklin for the second time. Timaya took to his Twitter handle to issue the threat without stating why. The singer wrote: “Ubi Franklin u remember the beating I gave u in January last year? Don’t let me beat u again, and pls I like your new JOB. As Ifeanyi’s NANI and pls don’t mess it up. Davido is a good guy, he can make ur life. Pls focus on ur new JOB. Thanks.” In a swift response, Ubi explained why Timaya was threatening him. “Say the truth, talk who helped you that day Timaya. You know the truth. Timaya is so petty. You are angry cos I told you how wrong it was to knock a woman down and leave her to her fate. You come to talk trash here today,” Ubi’s tweet reads. He added: “I am not a person that will see wrong and keep quiet. You were wrong to have knocked that woman down and left her there. Period.”   Actress Mary Njoku happy Nigeria didn’t qualify for…     Movie actor, Femi Adebayo, sues online TV over alleged…     What I’d do to Will Smith if I were Chris Rock – Tonto…   On Timaya’s threat, Ubi noted that he was the one who actually dealt Timaya a blow in self defence as he was attacked unprovoked. “I made sure he got his, I wasn’t satisfied cos there were too many Big Boys/men who knew he attacked me unprovoked cos he was drunk and I did mine to fill gaps. I am not a violent person, but I will defend myself. “I know because y’all see timaya act gangster you feel say him fit beat me. No wahala, I go find that CCTV footage From my oga house see how he knelt down to beg. He called me the next day to apologise cos he was high and attacked me unprovoked, self defense came to play.” Ubi Franklin however went on to dig the former tweet where he had admonished Timaya for ignoring the lady he hit with his car. “Dear Timaya, as a senior man in the Nigerian Entertainment Industry, the first thing you would have done when you were accused was to apologise for what you have done and then call the victim’s family. Your live video the other day showed you cared less about the situation. Thank you” And quoted the tweet by saying “This is the tweet. You are not above the law, you knocked a woman down and expect that I celebrate you? Never.”