Will Smith has apologised to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, producers of OSCARS for slapping Chris Rock on stage during the award ceremony. Smith had hit Rock, the host of the 2022 OSCARS, after the comic made a joke about his wife Jada Pinkett Smith. For his action, Smith later apologised on stage after picking up an award for his role in King Richard. “I want to apologise to the Academy. I want to apologise to all my fellow nominees,” he said during a tearful acceptance speech for best actor. “I hope I get invited next time.” This is Smith’s first Oscar of his career. In ‘King Richard,’ he played the father of tennis legends Venus and Serena Williams. “Art imitates life. I look like the crazy father, just like they said about Richard Williams. But love will make you do crazy things,” he continued as Serena and Venus watched him in tears. According to reports, the Los Angeles Police Department announced that Rock had “declined to file a police report.” However, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which organises the Oscars, tweeted that it “does not condone violence of any form.”   What really happened   Oscars: Why I slapped Chris Rock on stage, by Will Smith     Two suspects excrete 165 wraps of cocaine     Troost-Ekong, Okocha fancy Eagles against Ghana   Chris Rock, the host of the 2022 Oscars made a joke about Jada Pinkett Smith. “Jada, can’t wait for GI Jane 2,” he said, in an apparent reference to her shaved hairdo – which is a result of the hair loss condition alopecia. At first, it had seemed like a joke or some kind of set-up. Will Smith even appeared to laugh at first after Rock delivered his line about his wife looking like GI Jane. Jada looked annoyed but it was still assumed this was all part of some kind of pre-planned routine. Doubt began to creep in when Smith rose from his seat and hit Rock on the stage. After the incident, Denzel Washington and Tyler Perry pulled aside the tearful Smith to comfort him during an advert break. It was not the first time Rock has made a joke about Pinkett Smith at the Academy Awards. He hosted the 2016 event, when she was among the stars who boycotted the ceremony due to a lack of diversity in the nominations.   That year, he said: “Jada Pinkett Smith boycotting the Oscars is like me boycotting Rihanna’s panties – I wasn’t invited!”