Ghanaian national team coaching staffs have started war of words ahead of Friday’s Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off first leg match against Nigeria at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi as head coach Otto Addo and his assistant Mas-Ud Didi Dramani saying they have the team to beat the Super Eagles. Matches between the two West African giants is never a child’s play and the rank and file of the Black Stars have started talking tough as they both jostle for one of the five continental tickets to the first FIFA World Cup in the Middle East. “Matches between Ghana and Nigeria are always difficult, but we believe in our players, we believe in our strategies and we believe in the unflinching support of all Ghanaians as we go into these two matches,” Addo, an assistant coach at German Bundesliga side Borussia Dortmund, said during a parley hosted by the Ghana Football Association (GFA) media team yesterday. “We are Ghana and we have what it takes to come out victorious. “We all expect Ghana to qualify for the World Cup in Qatar, but that won’t be easy as we need to do our best to make it to this tournament. The players, the technical team and the Ghana Football Association are committed to this task.” Mas-Ud Didi Dramani, the former FC Nordsjaelland coach in the Danish Superliga , has in the meantime made a clarion call on Ghanaians to rally behind the Black Stars in order to edge the Super Eagles out of the race to Qatar 2022.   Qatar 2022 Race: Musa, Ighalo, eight others hit Eagles’ camp     2022 WCQ: Seven things to know about Ndidi’s replacement,…     Top five most followed football clubs    “We are at a very crucial stage in the World Cup qualifiers and this is the time for us to show love and undiluted support to the Black Stars, “ the 56-year-old Dramani reportedly said. “We are heading to the battlefield against an old foe and a familiar opponent in Nigeria. ”It doesn’t matter the opposition or where the games take place. What matters is the readiness of the team. With pride and passion, I strongly believe that we are more than capable of winning this battle.” Meanwhile, the technical advisor to the Black Stars, Chris Hughton is equally confident, adding Ghanaians must be positive.  “As a part of the build-up, I would like to urge Ghanaians to remain calm and positive about the team because we strongly believe we have the quality, desire and hunger to achieve the results that we want,” the former Newcastle United manager reportedly said. He added: “It is our aim to qualify for the Qatar (2022) World Cup and we all have a duty to make that dream a reality. Ghana have done it before and we can guarantee you that everybody associated with the Black Stars wants this opportunity again to perform on a World stage.  “This moment presents the opportunity to write history and we are all committed to it from the players, the technical staff, the Ghana Football Association and, the Government. We value your support. We are Ghana and we are ready.”