The Federal Government on Monday inaugurated a seven-member Committee set up to re-negotiate the FG -ASUU 2009 agreement with the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) failing to send a representative to attend the meeting. ASUU President, Prof Emmanuel Osodeke, said the union had no business attending the meeting expected to renegotiate agreements between the government and university-based unions. In 2020, former President of ASUU, Prof Biodun Ogunyemi, attended the inauguration of the panel chaired by Prof Munzali Jibril which produced the draft proposal of 2009 in May last year, which ASUU is insisting must be signed by the federal government. The new government team inaugurated on Monday is chaired by Prof. Emeritus Nimi Briggs, Pro-Chancellor, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike Ikwo. Other members of the team are: Are. Lawrence Patrick Ngbale – Pro-Chancellor, Federal University. Wukari, representing the North East; Prof. Funmi Togunu-Bickersteth- Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Birnin Kebbi, representing the South West; Sen. Chris Adighije, Pro-Chancellor, Federal University, Lokoja, representing the South East; Prof. Olu Obafemi, Pro-Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Minna, representing the North-Central; Prof. Zubairu Iliyasu, Pro-Chancellor, Kano State University of Science & Technology, representing the North West and Barr. Matthew B. Seiyefa, Pro-Chancellor, Niger Delta University, Wilberforce Island, representing the South-South. Inaugurating the Panel on Monday, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, charged the committee to come up with proposed draft agreements within three (3) months from the date of inauguration.   UNIBEN final year student hit by armed robbers’ bullet, dies     Abba Kyari: No Nigerian can be extradited without following…     BREAKING: Police arrest Lagos BRT driver   He lamented the re-negotiation of the 2009 agreements between the Federal Government and the University-Based Staff Unions which included ASUU, Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities (SSANU), National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) which commenced in 2017, had stalled because of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Adamu charged the committee to double its effort towards concluding the assignment and producing realistic and workable draft agreements that would holistically tackle the challenges confronting the Nigerian University System (NUS). The Committee, which is expected to review the draft proposed FGN/ASUU Agreement, has the following Terms of Reference: a. Liaise and consult with relevant stakeholders to finalise the position of the Federal Government to the issues in the draft proposed FGN/ASUU Renegotiated Agreement; b. Renegotiate in realistic and workable terms the 2009 Agreements with other University-Based Unions; c. Negotiate and recommend any other issue the Committee deems relevant to reposition the NUS for global competitiveness; and d. Submit proposed draft agreements within three (3) months from the date of inauguration. The minister assured the committee of the Federal Government’s maximum support and cooperation in the course of “this important national assignment.”