Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen said he has an extra motivation to ensure that the  Super Eagles seal their Qatar 2022 ticket by going past the Black Stars of Ghana at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja tomorrow. Both sides played out a pulsating goalless draw on Friday at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi but the Napoli forward is upbeat that Super Eagles will pull their chestnut from the fire by qualifying for their seventh FIFA World Cup. Nigeria have only missed out on the World Cup once since the country debuted in the USA’94 and the country narrowly missed progressing beyond the preliminary group stage at Russia in 2018. “At the last FIFA World Cup, Russia 2018, I was in the hospital, supporting the Super Eagles,” Osimhen told CAFOnline.com. “I have always been a fan of the Super Eagles, having an opportunity to be here, we have one more hurdle. “I am looking forward to the game as well as getting the World Cup ticket.” He continued: “Ghana is a great team and we will never underrate the team just as we’ve been doing, we saw the upset the Central African Republic gave to us.   PDP gets knock over Emefiele     Tinubu and associates     Minister pays N2.9b promotion salary arrears   “For me, I would do my best, but it’s not just about me, we have some inspirational players in the team like Ahmed Musa, Odion Ighalo, Kenneth Omeruo, and other great players. With the help of their experience, we’ll be able to actualize this dream. “We know the importance of the game to us, our families, careers and the entire nation. This game is more than just football and we will give our best and also try to make sure we have the upper hand.” The 23-year-old  who has been in superb form netting 11 times in 20 games this season for Napoli,  was sorely missed by the Super Eagles at the 2021 AFCON  following his non-release as he was reportedly ‘unfit’ by his Italian club. “To be back to this team is a blessing and I look forward to the matches. I miss the squad so much, I’ve been with the team since 2017, it’s always a great atmosphere with the team. That I was not at the AFCON was a big blow to me, but I give thanks to God for whatever situation I find myself in. Now I am back with the team and I want to give my all for the common good of the team,” Osimhen further said. “To be called up to represent is a dream come true. I will always seize the opportunity to represent the Super Eagles if I’m fit and very much okay,” he disclosed. “To be back to this team is a blessing and I look forward to the matches. I miss the squad so much, I’ve been with the team since 2017, it’s always a great atmosphere with the team. “That I was not at the AFCON was a big blow to me, but I give thanks to God for whatever situation I find myself in. Now I am back with the team and I want to give my all for the common good of the team.”