A Cameroon-bound Nigerian commercial boat which left the shores of Calabar,  Cross River State, with about 25 passengers  and multi-million naira worth of goods on board  capsised  on the high sea between Nigeria and Cameroon. The boat reportedly left its base off Marina Road in Calabar  by the shorelines on Tuesday morning but the incident happened late in the night during high tidal waves on the high sea near the Cameroon waterways. Police Public Relations Officer in Cross River State,  SP Irene Ugbo,  confirmed that the incident  had been reported to the Marine Police Department and that  two dead bodies had been discovered, with  five survivors brought  back to the Calabar base. A number of other  passengers according to the PPRO are missing. A businessman whose goods were in the boat,  also confirmed the incident saying that  about 25 persons including passengers, the boat crew and others were in the boat when they left Calabar Mr. Samuel Chukwuemeka who is one of the major distributors for Molfix diapers in Nigeria,  said his multi-million naira worth of goods were loaded in the boat which had other loads of goods such as wine and beverages; all sank in with the boat and perished.   Hospital takeover: Presbyterian Church drags Umahi to court,…     Russia to ensure safety, wellbeing of Nigerians –…     Military retires 329 personnel   Chukwuemeka said he was informed of the incident on Wednesday and none of his goods could be rescued. By his account of the incident,  he said the cause of the incident was the turbulent wave and not overloading. He said his goods in the boat were for his customers in Cameroon.  “It was late at night, going into Wednesday morning that I got a call that the boat had issues on the way. “The person  didn’t  tell me what  the actual  issue was. It was  until  Wednesday morning that I got the information  that the boat sank and all the goods and passengers could not be found. He said as at  Thursday evening, he learnt  two dead bodies had been recovered and five persons rescued but others were still missing.