Heritage Bank Plc, in partnership with the Lagos Chapter of Federal Government College Abuloma Old Girls’ Association, is positioning women with finding their balances as a roadmap to financial freedom. This was made known at the maiden edition conference entitled, “OTRFA – On the road from Abuloma” with the theme, “Finding our balance – building a structure for sustainable wealth as women.” Regional Executive, Lagos and Corporate Banking Division, Heritage Bank, Afolasade Alonge said the institution is championing wealth creation and financial inclusion, especially among women because this is the channel for advancement in dynamic world. According to her, understanding who you are as a woman will help you as an agent of change to be proactively involved in driving socio-economic transformation and developing the society. She stated that Heritage Bank is committed to creating wealth and anything that represent women empowerment with its tools and product services that sustain workable structure to help them attain success as daughters, mothers, wives, employers, business owners and citizens of the country. Presenting the bank’s product service, the Experience Centre Manager of Heritage Bank, Temitope Adegbite explained how Octiplus an all-in-one digital banking application brimmed with wealth management features can help women manage money and plan the future.   PEBEC National Action Plan enhances ease of doing business     GTCO, Access Bank, Loatsad, others back Agile National…     Banking sector supports economic growth, says Lemo   According to her, Octiplus grants users access to a bouquet of financial, lifestyle and social networking features with added convenience of converging card-based payments within one application irrespective of the issuing bank. Giving her keynote address, an alumna, Boma Alabi, SAN, who is the founding partner of Primera Africa Legal, challenged women to play greater roles in empowering other women in their community through networking and robust relationship. According to her, relationship you maintain is an investment for the future. However, while calling on women to strive for financial freedom, Alabi enjoined the Old girls’ association to be a force to reckon for good that would impact the nation positively, as they owe the nation the duty to engage in exercising their civic right to vote in the forthcoming election. A guest speaker, Sola Adesakin, Global Personal/Business Finance Coach stated that in building wealth, every woman must build social capital, thereby being a person of value and intentional on developing networks of relationship for effective investment. According to her, women who want to attain financial freedom must have the right mindset, enhanced knowledge, right skill-sets and information through financial literacy as a tool to wealth building. She noted that to achieve financial success women must possess the money mindset skills such as collaborative, risk management, earning & expense management, saving & investing and technological skills.