President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday warned leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to learn from the intra-party crisis that brought about the fall of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2015 elections. It is imperative for them, he said, to put their house in order immediately as the party’s national convention approaches. Party members have been enmeshed in a fierce battle for the soul of the party as they seek or position their candidates for elective offices during the convention scheduled for March 26 in Abuja. Only last Wednesday, Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State announced that 19 state governors in the party had endorsed the removal of Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni as national chairman of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). El-Rufai accused him of taking some actions that constituted a threat to the planned convention and party cohesion. He cited an interim court order obtained by an aggrieved party member to stop the convention but which Buni allegedly kept away from other party members and did nothing to vacate it. The party is now in the process of vacating the court order. The APC also said on Friday that Buni remained in office as Chairman of the CECPC. The President is currently in London where he has been receiving briefings on preparations for the convention. Speaking on the situation in the party yesterday through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, Buhari said political parties that allow dissenting egos to splinter their ranks are bound to suffer the worst sort of fates. The APC rank and file, he said, should desist forthwith from name-calling and backstabbing. He also urged them to remain steadfast and maintain the party’s unity if it must continue on the path of victory. Calling attention to the fate of the PDP in the 2015 elections, Buhari said the once-powerful party was now enfeebled and adrift. ”They failed in 16 years in power and a failure as opposition,” he said and asked APC members to learn from that. Continuing, he said: ”Yes, we are entitled to our own share of dissent and intra-party discord. These are common in all parties, left and right all over the world. ”But parties splintered by competing egos destine themselves to the worst possible fate. ”As the country prepares for the long run up to the 2023 presidential election, we all expect a robust debate on the issues that matter and what is going on in the APC should be a reflection of this; not the infighting we are seeing. There must be no more distractions ahead of the convention to choose new leaders.” He added: “This is a party that has been in existence barely for eight years, becoming the dominant party because it has thrown open its doors to defectors from other parties, big and small. ”We didn’t start on the note of arrogance of power, nor see government as a vehicle for self-aggrandizement, to be held at all costs, but a vehicle to bring development to all without discrimination-political, ethnic or regional to our dear country made this success possible.” He said the APC is proud of the fact that “in its short period of existence, it has won two general elections decisively and despite losing a few states in 2019, it steadfastly expanded its pan-Nigerian outlook with significant defections of opposition governors and parliamentarians into its fold. ”Given all that is at a stake, we can expect contests into offices as we are now faced with to be heated, although candidates and their promoters for party offices are not so much debating policy differences but differences of management, personality, character and suitability for the most important leadership roles in our country and therefore the continent. “It is equally clear that over the last week or so, the internal management affairs of the APC have been afforded generous media coverage – over and above its importance to the voters of Nigeria. “It is important to ask what benefits the poor are getting during the period of intense negative coverage. “When precisely the party’s convention is held and who is the party’s chairman is hardly a matter for the average voter: vastly more important is who convention delegates will elect as the party’s flag bearer in the coming weeks to take forward the party’s platform to the people in the general election in February next year. “It is therefore important for the media to put such matters into perspective. No one is debating policy differences here. That is for the general election. None of the declared aspirants and any of those that may step forward will change because of who may be in the party in the chairman’s seat. It is essentially the same party. “Of course the media are welcome to comment on the content of the character of the potential APC candidates, discuss their suitability for leadership, scrutinise their offer to the membership. But to focus on the routine internal divisions and magnify them into what they have become today is a waste of everyone’s time, amounting to no more than a discussion over seating arrangements.   Drug war: 650 NDLEA officers graduate from Army School     Nigeria needs to train more doctors, stop brain drain…     Shun cultism, money rituals, emulate Lisabi, Abiodun charges…   “This is not what Nigerians talk of in their communities. They have an inclination only for things that matter.” The Nation gathered yesterday in Abuja that the APC was in the process of vacating the interim court injunction obtained by an aggrieved party member to stop next weekend’s national convention. The party is expected to file the necessary papers tomorrow with a view to removing any encumbrance against the conduct of the convention. Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who broke the news of the court order on Wednesday, said APC intercepted the interlocutory injunction secured last November to restrain the party from organising, holding or conducting its national convention at any date either before or after, pending the hearing and determination of a substantive suit. The President had directed the Attorney General of the Federation and Justice Minister Abubakar Malami (SAN) to liaise with the party on the process of vacating the court order. On the strength of this, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, who presided at a meeting of the CECPC on Thursday, gave five lawyers the green light to proceed with the case before the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting scheduled for Thursday, March 17, 2022. It was learnt that Prof. Tahir Mamman (SAN), a member of the CECPC who is also saddled with the responsibility of overseeing the legal department of the party, held a lengthy meeting with the legal team on Friday and yesterday. A source said: “The party under the leadership of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has started the process of vacating the order. “The party’s lawyers held meetings with Professor Tahir Mamman on Friday and today (Saturday), and by Monday the process of filing necessary applications to vacate the November 2021 order will begin. “The lawyers have been asked to ensure that the order is vacated before the NEC meeting of March 17 where the national convention date and other steps so far taken by the CECPC will be ratified.” The APC also said yesterday that Senator John James Akpanudoedehe had not resigned as National Secretary of the CECPC as speculated in some quarters. The party Director of Publicity, Salisu Na’ina Dambatta said: “Further to the Media Conference earlier held by the Spokesman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Barrister Ismaeel Ahmed, the party wishes to note that the Secretary of the CECPC, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe, never sent a resignation letter to the Party to the best of its knowledge and neither was he sacked as some social media blogs speculated. “All those are utterly false. “The APC is one family, the Caretaker is one unit. We have an Acting Chairman who is racing against time to deliver a convention and committee members that are united in supporting him in carrying out that onerous mandate. “So, please disregard social media stories that are not rooted in fact or even sound reasoning.” Akpanudoedehe has not been seen in his office at the APC National Secretariat since Thursday. A party source said the secretary may have stayed away in solidarity with the embattled chairman who is expected back in the country tonight from London where he had gone to tell Buhari his own side of the story. The Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, yesterday denied an allegation by the former director general of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr. Salihu Lukman, that he was part of the forces seeking to scuttle this month’s convention of the APC. Kalu, in a statement in Abuja, said there was never a time he “participated in any collaboration or collusion to ensure that attempts to organise the APC National Convention are blocked.” Citing a statement he made last December on the convention, the former Abia State governor said: “I had warned that holding the convention in February without sorting out the minor disagreements that arose during the Congress would lead to implosion. “I was worried that the creation of factions which denied the party victory in so many states in the past elections may repeat itself. “I therefore called for a peaceful resolution of the crisis before holding the convention. No peaceful and tactful leader would support a terrible scenario to reoccur. “It is important to note that I have always stood for and supported the party, and Gov Mai Mala Buni only happened to be the Chairman of the party. “Aside serving as the Chairman of the party, Buni is my old family friend and I cannot deny him because he is facing challenges today. We have been friends and family for the past 25 years. “It is imperative to state that Buni has done very well for the party. His sterling leadership quality is what helped to stabilise our great party across the six geopolitical zones, with high profile defections in our favour. “In this time of challenge and misunderstandings, I am calling on the party leaders and stakeholders to guard their utterances to avoid creating more disharmony. Even in a nuclear family, disagreements and quarrels exist.”