Unrestrained, ill-advised, some Ile-Ife indigenes last week stormed the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) to protest the appointment of Prof Adebayo Bamire as vice-chancellor instead of an indigene of the ancient town. The protest was ugly, unedifying and atavistic. It was a new low in Osun State, a ghastly denunciation of the civilisation of the Southwest Yoruba, and a horrible slap on the face of every cultured and educated Nigerian. The famous university cannot yet establish whether there was any collaboration from inside, but they too will be shocked to know that the protest, especially in the manner it was shamelessly exhibited before the whole world, ever took place. That top Ile-Ife sons and daughters did not feel scandalised by the protest, enough to promptly denounce it and lampoon its organisers, must have also come to many Nigerians as final proof that a gloomy and oppressive atmosphere has settled upon the country. Defenders of Prof Bamire, who insist that the process that produced him as vice-chancellor was fair and transparent, have leaked the grading of the interview that culminated in the appointment. The Ile-Ife indigene who was a candidate in the interview was not even among the top three contestants. It may be wrong to second-guess how he feels about the protest, especially seeing that he was adopted by the indigenes as their candidate and made the lightning rod of their protests, but he will be expected to denounce the protest and repudiate its logic as harmful to everything a university stands for and perhaps which he personally represents. Maybe he has already done that. If he has not, he can be trusted to do so in the days ahead. His colleagues in the university, not to say the Southwest as a whole, will feel for him and be vicariously traumatised. The campaign to restrict the appointment of vice-chancellors and other public similar appointees to indigenes, religions or ethnicities is of course not a new thing. In one form or the other, it had been practiced by the federal government itself as it became religion and regionally sensitive to the appointment of vice-chancellors, heads of ministries and parastatals, judiciaries, and even security and law enforcement agencies. States were consequently inspired to follow suit in enunciating and executing abominable restrictions and unfair practices that discriminated and polluted the social, economic and political environments of the country. They have remained unapologetic. To the officials saddled with the onerous responsibility of governing Nigeria, these practices are nothing but politics. The chickens were naturally bound to come home to roost, sooner or later. After decades of creeping and sometimes surreptitious discriminatory practices, the entire country is now enveloped in the kind of disgraceful show orchestrated by some obviously sponsored Ile-Ife indigenes to protest against meritocracy, embrace mediocrity and weaponise, in a humiliating way, some of the country’s traditional and religious practices. The same monster reared its head in 2020 in the heat of the appointment of a new University of Ibadan vice chancellor. The region was horrified, and given what Ibadan stands for in the history of the Yoruba, no one thought it was anything more than an aberration that the exemplary culture and civilisation of the Yoruba could not defeat. They were wrong. The monster has now berthed at the cradle. The enlightened must now ask themselves whether it can’t get worse. It probably will. As the University of Ilorin is demonstrating, it is not enough to restrict their vice- chancellors to a particular religion and state, even their alumni association must be inflicted with the cankerworm of prejudice and intolerance. Just how low must Nigeria descend before the people admit they have had enough? No one can guess. Since there is no indication at any level and arm of government that they recognise the reprehensibleness of such atrocious practices, let alone muster the sense and will to do something about it, more shocking display of grossness should be expected. The quality of leadership has declined precipitously everywhere in Nigeria, much worse behavior should therefore be expected.   Churches and political directorates     Obaseki, Edo PDP get grouchier     Tinkering with the constitution   But if the Ile-Ife indigenes who stormed OAU last week in favour of their son, who was not discriminated against, lack common sense, what of the law enforcement agencies themselves? Why would they stand hands akimbo as violence and trespass were enacted upon a peaceful university community? If Ile-Ife indigenes and elites do not appreciate the shame and humiliation the protest brought upon the cradle, and how it has sullied the town’s image, should the police be indifferent to the invasion and trespass? In Awka, Anambra State, two Thursdays ago, they stood aloof when two vixens disgraced the inauguration of Charles Soludo as governor. Paralysed by decades of submission and servility to the high and mighty, the law enforcement agencies are accustomed to waiting to be mandated to carry out their constitutional duties. They have probably let sleeping dogs lie in the case of the Anambra slapfest; it would be distressing and indefensible to let the OAU invasion go unanswered. The police may not be able to arrest the decline of the country’s values, a task to which the ruling elite have become inured, but they can at least arrest the gangster culture displayed in Ile-Ife and threatening to overwhelm the society.     What became clear between February and March is that both the Petroleum and Power ministries have neither a sense of urgency nor clear direction as to how to resolve the lingering fuel supply crisis and rising prices of fuel products. For both, the Russian-Ukraine war, which is beyond Nigeria’s control, and myriad of other domestic factors, are responsible for the hardship Nigerians are experiencing. The fuel supply crisis is being gradually resolved, but the power supply shortage remains dire and unresponsive to government’s puny efforts. The problems were urgent, suggesting that the federal government should treat it as such and demonstrate to the public that it has the capacity to resolve the problems with dispatch and that its panaceas are sensible, relevant and adequate. Instead of that urgency manifesting through the federal government, it was the National Assembly, through the House of Representatives Committee on Power, that waded in with a barrage of questions at a hearing in Abuja. Answering a few of those questions posed to the Power minister, Abubakar Aliyu, who was represented by the ministry’s permanent secretary, Nebolisa Anoka, gave the indication that the problems were longstanding, fundamental and irresoluble in the short run, at least not this year. Alarmed, the Reps had been unsparing and disconsolate. To suggest that Nigeria would battle this crisis for another year and possibly more, they chorused, was intolerable. But, alas, they will have to tolerate the problem. Decades of promises, resolutions and stupendous budgetary outlays have produced nothing more than what the House of Representatives described as theories and increasing darkness. From the Olsuegun Obasanjo presidency to the Umaru Yar’Adua/Goodluck Jonathan presidency, and now almost eight years of the Muhammadu Buhari presidency, nothing significant and concrete has been done to ameliorate a problem that has been almost as old as Nigeria itself. It is shameful. With no refineries working, perhaps deliberately, and slothful and incompetent officials saddled with the responsibility of designing and executing solutions to perennial power generation and distribution problems, it is hard for Nigerians not to imagine that they would be called upon to endure another decade of the same punishing crises. Electricity generation and distribution should have been decentralised decades ago, just like the police and other key agencies. But the anti-federalist Nigerian governments hold on perniciously to these agencies, unable to fund them or produce the initiative to administer them effectively. Sadly, no administration has mustered the initiative to make a difference to these problems, nor even understood the security implications of letting these crises stay unresolved.