The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved N33.812 billion for various projects across ministries, including high-tech gadgets for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Addressing State House correspondents after the weekly virtual FEC meeting, which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa yesterday in Abuja, Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola; Industry, Trade and Investments Minister Adeniyi Adebayo; and Justice Minister Abubakar Malami gave details of the approvals. Fashola said the three memoranda his ministry presented, including that of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), were approved. He said the first memorandum was for the augmentation of the contract of the Zaria-Funtua section of the Zaria-Sokoto-Birnin-Kebbi highway. The minister explained that the augmentation was for N9.446 billion, bringing the contract price to N16.924 billion. “The augmentation caters for an extension of the scope of works on that section, from 26 kilometres to 64 kilometres. It also caters for the improvement of the pavement from a laterite-based pavement to a cement-based, concrete-mixed, stone-based pavement. It also makes provision for extensive drainage works to accommodate increasing rain flow and flooding patterns that we have observed in the last few years. Council approved that memorandum,” Fashola said. Fashola added that the second memorandum was presented on behalf of one of the ministry’s parastatals, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), which maintains and rehabilitates certain roads. He said FERMA requested and council approved N6,271,985,441.02 for the contracts to rehabilitate Kwaya Kusar-Peta-Milda Road in Borno State in favor of Messrs CBC Global Civil Engineering and Building Construction. He also said the council approved the rehabilitation of Uturu-Isuikwuato-Akara road in Abia State at N13.624 billion to 18th Engineering Company for 24 months.   Qatar 2022: Rohr fires broadsides after Eagles’ exit     Primary schools in dire straits as UBEC funds remain unused     Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike   Malami said council approved N1.070 billion for NDLEA to acquire lie detectors and night vision goggles. The minister said the memo for the contract was approved for Messrs. Zettabytes Technologies Limited at N498,850,000 only, inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT, with a completion period of 90 days. The second memo, he said, sought council’s approval for NDLEA to acquire digital night vision goggles for its night operations. Malami said the contract was awarded to Messrs. R-SET Integrated Solution Limited at N570,825,000 only, inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with completion period of 12 weeks. Adebayo said FEC approved contracts for infrastructure in one of the six special economic zones that the Export Processing Zones Authority (EPZA) was creating for the special economic zones in Lekki, Lagos State. According to him, the two contracts for the power supply and access road into the textiles and garment park will cost N3.4 billion. The minister added that the economic zone, when finally delivered, would generate about 3,500 jobs in the short term and around 10,000 in the long term. Adebayo said the contract for the development of an initial 5 megawatt (MW) power plant and electrical reticulation within the park was awarded to Messrs. Mustra Energy Limited at N1.5 billion, inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT, with a delivery period of 52 weeks. “Council also approved the construction of an access road, with associated drainage works, from the Lekki-Epe Expressway through the textile and garment park in favor of Messrs. Proportion Construction Works Limited, in the sum of N1.9 billion, inclusive of 7.5 VAT, with a delivery period of 52 weeks,” he said.