Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc has appointed Mr. Bola Adeeko as the Director for Special Projects. The appointment took effect on March 1, 2022. The company stated that Adeeko will provide the executive leadership for the initiation and flawless execution of all critical business growth initiatives to achieve its five-year strategic plan. “He will lead the leveraging of technology to develop a competitive edge in shared services and other business-critical capabilities. As we explore other areas of business expansion opportunities, he will also lead the emerging and major opportunities to ensure they deliver the desired objectives,” Flour Mills stated.   Focus on stocks with strong fundamentals, Futureview advises…     SEC staff protest poor governance     MFS Africa acquires Baxi   Adeeko is a seasoned business executive with 28 years’ experience. He has gained a distinguished track record from working with highly reputed global institutions, including Sara Lee Corporation, First Data Corporation, JP Morgan Chase, where he rose to become Vice President, and Global Trade Finance. He has also held several leadership positions such as Chief of Staff and Head Corporate Services Division at the NGX Exchange Group (formerly Nigerian Stock Exchange), Interim CEO at Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS), and most recently, Head of Business Support Services Division, NGX, overseeing several mission-critical functions like human capital, finance, legal, corporate sustainability, enterprise risk management, and brand marketing. Adeeko is a fellow and life member of the Institute of Directors, a fellow of the Institute of Credit Administration, and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers. He is also an alumnus of executive courses at INSEAD and Harvard Business School. He holds a BSc. Accounting from the Olabisi Onabanjo University, and MBA – Finance and Marketing from Hood College, Frederick, Maryland, United States. crops and raw materials to supply its world-class processing facilities across Nigeria, and distributing its innovative food brands to its customers.