Governors have commended the Federal Government for bailing them out with the $1.5 billion World Bank-Assisted States’ Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme. A statement from the Programme’s Communication Specialist Mr. Ibrahim Mohammed, said the governors were grateful that “the $1.5 billion World Bank-Assisted Programme had contributed to bailing out most states from financial distress, especially during recession and the recent COVID-19 pandemic”. Speaking for the governors, Kano State Governor Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, said: “It is gratifying to note that, most states of the Federation, Kano State inclusive have fully mainstreamed and institutionalised SFTAS ideals in their public financial management system through the widespread adoption of good practices in fiscal and public financial management and strengthened fiscal transparency by improving overall budget transparency and accountability to help build trust in government.”   Deep Blue contract attracted $19.5m management fee, says…     Kachikwu: soaring oil prices opportunities in face of energy…     FEC okays N48.8b for roads, bridges, sugar industry   Represented by the Director PRS in the state Ministry of Finance, Alhaji Salisu Lawal Indabawa, the governor stressed: “The wholesale adoption of the SFTAS programme by the 36 States of the Federation has translated into increasing efficiency of public expenditure; strengthened fiscal sustainability through increased efficiency in spending, strengthened revenue mobilisation and debt sustainability to prevent fiscal crises in the future.” According to Ganduje, “most states have put in place improved procurement practices to enhance value for money and reduce opportunities for corruption and misuse of public resources; automated Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) collection systems, so as to increase revenue inflows to the state Consolidated Revenue Account”. He added that the state governments had also embraced “regular submission of comprehensive quarterly debt reports to the DMO on debt stock and debt servicing; passed public debt management laws and fiscal responsibility legislation, which mirrors the Federal Government’s Fiscal Responsibility Act and established fiscal and debt rules as well as limits and responsibilities for contracting States debt with functional State Debt Departments”.