Only this sombre fact is clear: Dr. Joseph Kabungo, Zambian, former goalkeeper and the Confederation of African Football (CAF) dope doctor, at the final elimination World Cup match between Nigeria and Ghana, collapsed and died at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja.  How he died, however, is a subject of hot controversy. “Kabungo had a cardiac arrest when walking towards the team dressing rooms and collapsed on the floor,” an alleged report which the Game Control Department reportedly sent to the CAF team claimed.  ”Both team doctors and other medical personnel administered CPR [cardiopulmonary resuscitation] on him but after a while he was taken to hospital and that’s when the terrible news was confirmed.” But another tweet by Collins Poku, a Ghanaian and sports journalist, who claimed to be a living witness claimed: “They beat him, he fell and they trod on him.  He lost consciousness [and] was rushed to an ambulance closer to the Ghana dressing room for CPR.  The entire Ghanaian contingent watched on as resuscitation attempts were made with oxygen mask.  He was taken to hospital later and now this.  Sad.” Yet, another account by Osasu Obayiuwana, a British-Nigerian: “His name is Dr. Joseph Kabungo from Zambia.  He was on duty as doping officer.  He collapsed suddenly and died.  Cause of death not confirmed yet.  His family, the Zambia FA and the government of Zambia have been duly informed.” Pending the time an autopsy confirms the cause of the late Kabungo’s death, we can only sympathize and commiserate with his immediate family, the Zambia FA, the entire nation of Zambia and CAF that sent Dr. Kabungo on his fatal final assignment. Though accidents occur — particularly in sports with great physical exertions — football games should not be a journey of no return.  CAF should stay true to the late medic as he stayed true to the CAF assignment that claimed his life.  CAF should ensure the cause of death is medically proved and released without delay. Whatever the cause of this death, it wasn’t exactly Nigeria’s finest hour — and that wasn’t because Nigeria lost the Qatar World Cup ticket to Ghana.  Football, as the great Pele quipped, is a beautiful game.  Win or lose, it stays beautiful. But ugliness creeps in when wild fans go well and truly mad; with their mean, do-or-die attitude. That gives football a bad name.  From Kumasi to Abuja, there was a surfeit of that.   Grace Alele-Williams (1932- 2022)     Beyond Abba Kyari     Be a man   It certainly was ugly watching Ghana provide a travesty of a mobile stairway, which made jet-lagged Nigerian players first sit before jumping onto the mobile steps! At the Kumasi stadium too, hostile ball fans hit at the Nigeria team bus, in clear efforts to intimidate. In Abuja, it was hooligans invading the pitch after a game had been lost and won.  Did anyone think those pre-and post-match antics would change the result? Besides, how do you explain vandals, with absolutely no sense of value, invading the pitch, uprooting the grass and smashing up everything smash-able: coaches’ dugout and other assets in the technical area? By a special Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports initiative, Aliko Dangote, chairman of Dangote Group, just restored that pitch after eons of neglect.  But in a moment of madness, dregs trotted free into the stadium wreaked havoc on it all — and what for?  Because Nigeria lost a World Cup ticket?  It was a moment of high national shame! Dr. Kabungo had better die a natural death.  Otherwise, Nigeria would stand fairly punished by CAF and FIFA for the ugly behaviour of its unruly citizens.  That would bring pain to the memory of MKO Abiola, ace philanthropist and late ‘Pillar of Sports in Africa’, who National Stadium Abuja was named after. While congratulating Ghana on picking the ticket, against near-overwhelming odds, Ghana too should learn to tone down “win-at-all-cost”, which its aviation officials and ball fans exhibited at Kumasi.  Winning or losing a game is not the end of the world. The Nigerian falter, despite a decent set of players, many of them in the form of their lives, again throws disturbing lights on the technical quality of Nigerian coaches.  Augustine Eguavoen showed brilliant flashes at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon.  But since his team’s shocking ouster by Tunisia, it’s been down hill — not even with the bolster of his technical bench with Emmanuel Amuneke. Still, losing a World Cup ticket isn’t the end of the world.  Mighty Italy, sitting European champions are missing the Mundial for the second consecutive time.  Algeria and Egypt are other African high fliers that would miss Qatar. So, Nigeria should dust off this disappointment, rebuild and prepare for the future.  The next AFCON is Côte d’Ivoire 2023.  Now is the time to rebuild the Super Eagles, and make AFCON ’23 the starting point to challenge for the 2026 World Cup.