The 26th edition of the Nigerian Universities Games Association (NUGA) tagged NUGA-UNILAG 2022 was officially declared open yesterday with an opening ceremony by the participating universities.  A total of 75 universities who were on parade treated the guest to an entertaining March past and display of affection at the University of Lagos Sports center. In his welcoming address, the Vice-Chancellor University of Lagos,  Prof. Oluwatoyin Temitope Ogundipe said this year’s edition will be more than a game. “What we offer you at NUGA-UNILAG 2022 is what you will soon come to acknowledge as the “CITY Games”. That is indicative of the 360-degree experience of the city of Lagos that every participant is set to have,”  Ogundipe said. “Today, we stand on the threshold of history, about to commence the 26th edition of the prestigious NUGA Games and 4th of its kind to be hosted by the University of Lagos. Our sporting facilities have been upgraded to world-class standards, such that our young athletes will have the platform to showcase their talents unhindered. “Top-notch arrangements have been made to make all participants at the games comfortable and to make their experience a positive unforgettable one.”   Ighalo may join Super Eagles camp today     Ex-Eagles stars extol Tinubu’s contributions to…     SAMUEL KALU: I want to achieve big things with Watford   Declaring the games open, NUGA President, Professor Stephen Sanaah Hamafyelto enjoined the students to exhibit good character and sportsmanship throughout the games. He said the 26th NUGA will be the biggest Universities sports competition that is ever hosted in Lagos in recent times. Hamafeyelto added that the NUGA-UNILAG 2022 would serve as an avenue to select the best athletes that will represent Nigeria at World University Games in June. The games to feature are sixteen namely: Athletics, Badminton, Basketball, Chess, Cricket, Football, Handball, Hockey, Judo, Scrabble, Squash, Swimming, Table Tennis, Taekwondo, Tennis and Volleyball. The games and competitions have been designed to take place at several landmark areas across Lagos State. The legendary Rowe Park and Teslim Balogun Stadium are some of the exciting locations where sportsmen and spectators will be opportune to feel the pulse of Lagos. The dignitaries present at the opening ceremony include Speaker House of Representative, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, Honourable Minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, Representative of Lagos State governor, Pastor Tunde Bakare and wife, and a host of others.