The Adeyemi Federal University has held its maiden reunion meeting and EXCO election of its Ekiti State Branch. Welcoming the Alumni members at the Ekiti State University Staff Club, Ado Ekiti on Saturday, the Convener of the meeting, Dr. Seun Oyewale commended members of the Association for turning out impressively to honour their Alma Mata. Oyewale charged the members not to be deterred by any situation or circumstance but be encouraged by continuously participating in the association’s future activities in the state. He also enjoined them to step up their efforts towards encouraging more old Students of Ekiti State into the fold. Representative of the Provost, Dr Charles Adeniranye of the Defunct Adeyemi College of Education in Ondo, Dr Samuel Akintunde advised members of the association in the State to be steadfast in meeting attendance. Dr. Yemi Olugbamigbe, Acting National Secretary of the Alumni Association of the Adeyemi Federal University of Education in Ondo, stated: “Ekiti is a state referred to as Fountain of Knowledge. And I have not been disappointed by what I have seen here today. Just that it has taken us a long time to harness these resources of erudite scholars and the former scholars from that great Institution to properly organised the Alumni Association Branch in Ekiti State. “I think what I have seen here today has shown that, people still have the interest of their Alma Mata at heart. And we will soon begin to reap the fruit of this coming together and the inauguration of this State Branch of the Alumni,” he affirmed. He maintained products of Adeyemi, both as a College of Education and as a University of Education, have a tradition of doggedness to be relevant and make things happen wherever they find themselves. He expressed his belief that the new Executives will act in line with the tradition of making their impact felt, while also revealing that Ekiti has one of the largest populations of Adeyemi College/University of Education alumni members aside from Ondo and the Osun States.   MTN, Tecnotree unveil platform for education     Corps members trained on agric business     How students can achieve success, by VC   He tasked the newly elected EXCO to embark on a drive for more members, expressing his hope that the number of members would have increased at the next meeting, and the association would be able to do more. He called on members of the Alumni Association like Chief Ayo Ademilua (the Asaoye of Ikogosi Ekiti Kingdom), Ambassador Wale Ojo Lanre and others who are former students of Adeyemi College, also prominent in Ekiti to make their positive impacts felt in the growth of the association in the State. Dr. Olugbamigbe averred further that, by the time they all come in, the younger generation will benefit. Even the Institution will benefit and members will also have their own benefits from coming together. Acting Director, Directorate of Alumni Association and Statistics, Adeyemi Federal University of Education, Dr. Charles Adeniranye, who stood in for the current Provost of the College, Dr. Samuel Akintunde, congratulated the maiden Executives Officers. Adeniranye conveyed the Provost’s, charge to the maiden Executives to do all in their powers to support the College and ensure that the College is taken to enviable heights. According to him: “I am impressed with the kind of camaraderie in the fold, even though they are from different sectors. We have seen here today different sets from 1992 to 2007. And the relationship is such that you would not know that it’s been long they have been together. I am very impressed by it and I can say the Association in Ekiti State has a very bright future”. The newly elected executive members are: Dr. Seun Oyewale (State Chairman); Tunbosun Akole (Vice-Chairman); Ademola Adetolaju (State Secretary) and Steve Oni (Assistant State Secretary). Others are Emmanuel Adeniran (Public Relations Officer); Mrs. Mojisola Osanyilusi (State Treasurer); Mrs. Ajayi Folakemi (State Financial Secretary); Babalola Olutosin (Social Director) and Mrs. Adedeji Folakemi (Welfare Officer). The newly elected Chairman, Dr. Seun Oyewale described his election as “a call to duty and a call for responsibility.”