President Muhammadu Buhari has commiserated with the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), over the death of his father, Pa Mattias Keyamo. He was 83. A statement yesterday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, reads: “President Buhari extends heartfelt condolences to…Keyamo on the passing of his beloved father, Pa Matthias Keyamo. “The President joins members of the Keyamo family, friends and the people of Effurun in Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta State in mourning Pa Matthias, a respected community leader, who loved his children with great passion and did his best to prepare them for leadership positions and opportunities. “As a father who deeply cherished the benefits of friendship and mutual respect to people, irrespective of their background, the President believes that Pa Keyamo was an embodiment of Nigeria’s greatness and rich diversity, having spent some of his adult life in Kaduna and Ilaro, Ogun State, before settling in Ughelli. “The President urges the family of Keyamo to draw inspiration from the strength of character of their beloved father and grandfather, even as he prays that God will comfort them at this time. “May the soul of the departed rest in peace.” Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege also commiserated with Keyamo on the death of his father.   Customs yet to halt VIN valuation system     Petrol ex-depot price soars to N185 per litre, alleges IPMAN     PDP disowns ‘primary election timetable’   In a statement yesterday in Abuja, Omo-Agege said: “Papa’s transition is clearly a huge loss to you, your entire family, the Urhobo Nation and Delta State as a whole. This is usually the case when we lose a great parent. “My brother, please, accept my heartfelt condolences and extend same to your dear family in Erovie Quarters of Uvwie.” Also, the Senior Technical Assistant on Media to the President, Mr. Louis Odion, paid tribute to the late Pa Keyamo. In a personal tribute he penned, the Fellow of the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) wrote: “I am deeply saddened by the death of Pa Matthias Keyamo, the father of my ‘twin brother’…Keyamo. However, as we mourn, we also celebrate the exemplary life of a great patriarch, inspired by his golden legacy. “A man of deep Christian conviction, Pa Keyamo was a completely detribalised Nigerian, born in Delta, raised in Kaduna and married to a Yoruba lady, Mama Caroline Keyamo. Anyone privileged to have encountered this sage cannot but be gladdened by fond memories of him: his big laugh, folksy humour and sagely counsel. “We cherish even more what he left in us. With the power of personal example, he taught us the values of patriotism, courage, honour, loyalty and charity. Those traits are amply demonstrated by the deeds and words of Festus for more than three decades we have been together, in good and bad times. “May Daddy’s memory forever be a blessing.” A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Dr. Richard Oma Ahonaruogho, also condoled with Keyamo. In a statement, Ahonaruogho said: “It is an honour to bury one’s father, especially a father that toiled and saw the fruits of his toiling succeed in otherwise unimaginable proportions: a prominent student activist, a formidable advocate and freedom fighter, a uniquely endowed orator, a fearless Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a patriotic Honourable Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to enumerate but a few. “Your father was proud of you, Honourable Minister, Sir, as his son; you are prouder that he was your father. May the good soul of your darling father rest in peace, Amen.”