Aspine Homes, a subsidiary of Agbara Estates Limited, is expected to begin work on a series of new affordable residential developments. The new phase of the estate known as SouthFields is believed to improve on the existing estate which is reputed for its lavish architecture. In a pre-launch statement last week at the Lagos Metropolitan Club, the Group Chairman of LandAfrique, Kolapo Lawson, noted that, “we are very excited about the new development which builds further upon the original master-plan of our visionary founder, late Chief Aderemi Lawson”. According to LandAfrique, “the SouthFields will benefit from Agbara´s 2020 Vision, the execution which started in 2021 with a series of infrastructure projects, comprising MTN´s fibre broadband, an already acquired 42 MW gas-fired power plant, solar and waste-to-energy projects, resurfaced internal roads, renewed access control gates & systems and a fully refurbished sewage treatment plant.   Bayelsa residents report fresh oil leak from Aiteo’s…     IWD: Eunisell celebrates female employees     Attaining self-sufficiency in sugar production   “With the visible efforts to complete the Lagos – Badagry and Agbara – Atan Expressways and the associated Light Rail project, we are witnessing an alignment of elements that add value to our efforts to provide housing solutions for the significant tenant demand of young professional medium income households. This demand comes from the approximately 12,000 people directly employed on Agbara Estate as well as the over 30,000 indirectly employed. Not forgetting the increasing desire of Nigerians in the diaspora to own a house at home”, noted Paulo Cruz, CEO. According to, Mr. Philip Obih, GM Sales, “The Southfields is a 2,600 units residential development on 27 hectares – consisting of several residential typologies- that focuses on affordable homes, townhouses, penthouses, detached and semi-detached homes, apartments, villas and plots of land. The modern and sustainable development commences construction in March 2022 and is safely located within the gated and secure renowned Agbara Estate”. At the just concluded launch event, the company announced that the first phase of the new project are the Aspire Homes 116 units of affordable 2-bedroom and 3-bedroom bungalows, offering homeowners the opportunity to own a secure, serene and modern home, which comes in an unparalleled amenity-rich setup and with an international sustainability certificate. Already, asphalted roads to the project site as well as robust drainage systems are being constructed and homes are scheduled for delivery in the second quarter of 2023.