Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has said the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) National Action Plan (NAP) is one of the Federal Government’s efforts towards improving Nigeria’s business environment. Osinbajo spoke at the inauguration of a diapers manufacturing plant in Lagos. According to the Vice President, some core economic objectives of the government include facilitating private sector collaboration, and adding value through diversification and growth of the country’s non-oil sectors so as to boost rapid economic growth, with jobs and prosperity. The seventh 60-day National Action Plan (NAP 7.0) on Ease of Doing Business is ongoing. Osinbajo stated that the NAP 7.0, which started on February 7, and will last till April 7, 2022, “aims to deepen the reforms delivered over the past five years, with a focus on agro-exports, process automation, improvement in regulatory practices, judicial reforms and Executive Order 01/ReportGov.NG compliance.”   Akintayo joins Forbes     GTCO, Access Bank, Loatsad, others back Agile National…     Heritage Bank, FGGC Abuloma position women for wealth…   He further noted that the Buhari administration has “highlighted key action items in all of the focus areas to ensure that they do not unravel and to ensure we drive sustainability’’. “Some of the targets include removal of regulatory constraints around agro-exports, driving electronic filing of taxes and publication of insolvency regulations pursuant to the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020,” he added. PEBEC Secretary and Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Jumoke Oduwole, highlighted the achievement of the PEBEC to promote the ease of doing business in Nigeria, noting: “Institutional reforms in the public sector were major factors in jump-starting and sustaining economic growth and development.” Oduwole, stated: “While the reform journey has yielded marked improvement in particular areas, particularly in the initial years of the PEBEC’s intervention, it has not been an easy one. As we are all aware, several bureaucratic and regulatory challenges remain at all arms and levels of government, which continue to affect the speed, cost and transparency of doing business in Nigeria.” The National Action Plans (NAPs) – 60-day accelerators, which is part of the Federal Government’s efforts towards improving the business climate, is designed to coordinate the effective delivery of priority reforms of select Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) yearly. Furthermore, NAP 7.0 seeks to intensify efforts at improving travel experience at our airports and to strengthen the automation of the business incorporation process of the Corporate Affairs Commission. Other reforms include the establishment of Small Claims Court across more States of the Federation, as well as to drive adoption of electronic filing of taxes by tax payers.