PEOPLES Democratic Party (PDP) came under knock at the weekend for calling on Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele to resign over his alleged partisan posture. A group, under the auspices of Nigerian Patriotic Quest (NPQ), faulted the claim that Emefiele had been seen in All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign posters for 2023 elections, as untrue. It defended its clamour for him to join the presidential race. NPQ’s Coordinator Ahmed Ja’Usman Tijani, in a statement, described the PDP’s statement as “ridiculous” and “baseless.” PDP had, through its Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, demanded Emefiele’s resignation and probe, claiming the posters confirmed Emefiele’s “partisan affiliation and entanglement with APC,” contrary to Section 9 of Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act. But  NPQ accused PDP of distorting facts in an “attempt to deceive the public, through countless repetition of empty allegations” Reiterating its status as “a prominent campaigner for Emefiele to be part of the presidential contest in 2023, NPQ said: “We are surprised a National Publicity Secretary of PDP will believe running down Emefiele is the best way to re-energise their ineffective opposition politics of the past seven years. “We are convinced the publicity secretary may be serving the interests of some puppeteers, who may not be members of PDP, who feel threatened by profile of the CBN governor.   PIA transforming oil and gas growth, says NGA     Cleric facilitates release of 82 inmates     Navy breaks 200 years jinx   “The baselessness of these allegations is underlined by the fact that at no time has Emefiele declared himself to be a presidential candidate of APC. To further expose this hatchet job, there is no single poster of Emefiele with the insignia of APC on it…’’ “To emphasise the ridiculousness of Ologunagba’s assertions, the poster he presented in his press release to support his allegation bears no APC symbol or logo on it. “The fact remains that Godwin Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele never appeared in any APC poster till date.” It described the financial allegations against Emefiele in the press release as “laughable and are products of a man who does not understand the structure and operations of the CBN. The group argued that the time is ripe for Emefiele to join the race for the presidency. It said: “We will continue to make this call because Nigeria is now at the crossroads and will require the care and nurture of a man like Godwin to take her to the promised land of rapid development. “In the past two decades, Nigerians have entrusted their fate in the hands of professional politicians with barely anything to show for it. “If we must be honest to ourselves, we can say without any fear of contradiction that the professional politicians have succeeded in running the nation aground.”