As the Russian invasion of Ukraine enters the second week, the international community has responded with sanctions and termination of contracts. Here’s a list of companies among others that have cut ties with Russia since its invasion of Ukraine according to Forbes: 1. Google Last Wednesday, Google removed state-run Russian media apps like Sputnik and RT from Google’s Play store. It also declared on Thursday its decision not to sell online adverts via its search engine, YouTube and or any other publishing outlet. 2. Spotify Spotify has claimed it is not disabling services with Russia but finds it difficult to maintain information global flow, therefore, has removed its content from platforms RT and Sputnik and indefinitely closed its Russian office. 3. Mercedes-Benz Mercedes has indicated that it will be suspending local manufacturing in Russia and the export of passenger cars and vans to the country. 4. Mastercard and VISA Russian financial institutions have blocked these global payment companies based on targets by sanctions from their networks.   Ukraine war pushes fuel prices above €2 per litre in Germany     Buses arrive to evacuate trapped Nigerian students, others…     WHO says 9 killed in 16 attacks on Ukraine medical…   5. Netflix The production and acquisition of four Russian projects were ceased by the company last Thursday. 6. Volkswagen Volkswagen ceased production of vehicles and exports in the Russian cities of Kaluga and Nizhny Novgorod. 7. FIFA and UEFA The football associations have met and decided to bar Russia from any competition following its actions on Ukraine. EA sports have begun the removal of Russian-related teams from FIFA video games. 8. Apple Apple has stopped product sales to Russia, restricted applications and disabled its traffic feature within Apple Macs in Ukraine. 9. YouTube The company has blocked it channels operated via funds from Russian states, prevented it from earning money from video advertisements and also restricted the channels accesses in Ukraine. 10. Shell A Russian state-owned gas company, Gazprom, will be deprived of over $3 billion Shell said on Monday.