President of the All-African Students Union (AASU), Mr Osisiogu Osikenyi has called on government to put adequate funds into  education.This, he said, would put an end to incessant strikes in universities. Osikenyi spoke  in Abuja at the weekend during  the presentation of awards to deserving Nigerians in the education sector. The   event was organised by La HEGJ University, Benin Republic, in partnership with the West Africa Students Union (WASU). “We are calling on all African governments to put enough funds into education in their countries,” he said. Osikenyi also urged governments on the continent to address  the alarming  rate of insecurity  to enhance  students’ enrolment. He said insecurity was very disturbing,hence, all stakeholders must work together to tackle it. “Aside incessant industrial actions by most African universities, we also have insecurity keeping millions of prospective students out of school. “It has become very important that this thing was looked into holistically,” he said.   Artificial Intelligence and future of humanity     CIEPUK to give scholarships to Nigerian students     ‘How to bridge gap in education’   He also lamented   that education was becoming increasingly expensive in Africa,while the economy keeps deteriorating. “Parents are not able to send their children to school as they ought to,” he said. Also speaking at the event, President WASU, Mr Romans Pullah stated that education had not been given the attention it deserves. “If you look at the way education is handled, in terms of sponsorship and appropriation, one would say there is no attention given to that sector.” Chairman of the occasion, Rep. Danladi Baido  said education was poorly  financed  across Africa.He was represented by his Special Assistant Media and Political Strategy, Mr Nelson Wilson. He charged government to prioritise education for a decent and egalitarian society. Earlier, the convener of the event, Mr Hope Daniel, said Dr Peter Adejoh, Chief Executive Officer, Camey and Rock Holdings, Abuja,was given an award for supporting indigent students. “Adejoh has supported education and sponsored a large number of students,” he said.