Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu and the Minister of Justice  Abubakar Malami  have lauded the management of the Air Unity Aviation Service Nigeria Ltd over the establishment of the Aviation College in Birnin Kebbi. The groundbreaking ceremony of the college, situated in Sir Ahmadu Bello International Airport, Birnin Kebbi, was performed by Bagudu alongside Malami and other stakeholders. Speaking on the occasion, Bagudu linked the success story of the Aviation College coming to the state to his successors, former governors of the state, Senator Adamu Aliero and Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, who constructed the airports during their tenures. The governor said “Before now, there was a pre-existence airport, though small, which was constructed by  Senator Adamu Aliero’s  administration,  while the Airport Airborne was constructed by Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari ‘s administration. As you can see governance is a work in progress. The airport constructed by Dakingari has served as a path in deciding the coming of Air Unity Aviation College to Kebbi State today. And I hope they will not stop there.” Bagudu disclosed that the presence of Air Unity in Kebbi would assist a lot in the state’s quest to start transportation of gold to West Africa countries following the president’s approval for the take-off of Artisanal Miner in Kebbi State.   Youths threaten to picket airport over 130% airfare hikes     PHOTOS: Another batch of evacuees arrive from Ukraine     Fresh facts emerge on woman, 22, missing from BRT   “I want to assure you that we are not only appreciating you, we are also available to make sure you perform well, so that this Air Unity Aviation College is completed within stipulated time,” he added. In his remarks, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) also described the establishment of the Aviation College by Air Unity in Kebbi as a result of hard work of the present administration under the leadership of Governor Bagudu. He said, “In association to the concentration of this Aviation College, His Excellency, Governor Atiku Bagudu, has been working round the clock to ensure that Air cargo and other services come to Kebbi. It may interest you to note that the efforts of His Excellency are not limited to land and sky; he has also extended it to ensuring that railway services that will connect Kebbi state and indeed to neighbouring states (are put in place).” Malami also commended the Chairman of the Air Unity, Captain Nuhu Haruna for choosing Kebbi State for the project, stressing that the state government has provided the enabling environment, infrastructure facilities among other things for investors to succeed in the state. Earlier, the Chairman of the Air Unity Captain Nuhu Haruna, represented by a director in the company, Mrs. Magdalene N. Osode, said the choice of Birnin Kebbi as the operational hub is influenced by the state’s immensely investors’ friendly posture.