Victor Osimhen took his revenge on Hellas Verona‘s coach Igor Tudor, who had claimed that the Nigerian striker was not as strong as Dusan Vlahovic. The Croatian tactician was asked whether Osimhen was the best striker in Serie A on the eve of yesterday’s match at the Stadio Bentegodi. “No, no,” he said. “Vlahovic is the best and he [Osimhen] is among the strongest.” A bit like Michael Jordan in the Netflix series ‘The Last Dance’, Osimhen ‘took it personally’ and took his revenge by scoring a decisive brace against the Gialloblu. The 23-year-old broke the deadlock after just 14 minutes and scored the winner at minute 71. He has now scored nine goals in 19 Serie A matches, 13 in 24 appearances across all competitions. He was affected by a cheekbone injury sustained in an away clash against Inter at the end of November, forcing him to the sidelines for almost two months. Tudor may not change his mind about who the best Serie A striker is, but Osimhen continues to be decisive for Napoli with the Partenopei’s title hopes still alive.   Usyk: Joshua gets three new offers for heavyweight rematch     Eagles’ strike force excites Amuneke     Lobi Stars 1-2 Abia United: Dombraye sacked as Lobi named…   Yet Napoli manager Luciano Spalletti concurred with Tudor that Osimhen is not the best striker in Italian Serie A in comparison with Serbian marksman Vlahovic.  “Vlahovic is a champion and if a club like Juventus signed him, it means they checked carefully he has everything required to play at that level,” Spalletti said on Football Italia.  “Osimhen is a top player with everything on his side. He’s young, he’s a good lad, he can be a bit too enthusiastic and gives his all. “When we are talking about timing, movement, the dummy on a defender to change direction, these are the areas where he needs to improve,” the Italian tactician continued. “Osimhen still doesn’t realise the distance from his marker, sometimes he runs towards the ball and has the time and space to control, pick his spot.  “He doesn’t need to rush. “He can start a run from midfield, take on four or five defenders by himself with that pace, so he has such potential.”