Commercial banks gave N4.09 trillion more loans to businesses last year, a Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) report has shown. The report said the banks granted N24.57 trillion credit to manufacturing, general commerce and oil and gas sectors in 2021. The amount was N20.48 trillion facilities granted in the preceding year. The apex bank report attributed the growth in bank credit to the Loan to Deposit Ratio policy of the CBN. It however said the credit was increasingly becoming more expensive in the economy. The CBN stress test results also showed resilience of banks’ solvency and liquidity ratios in response to potential severe macroeconomic shocks while there are calls for review of external debts in view of the foreign exchange implications of external debt servicing. A member of the CBN-led Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), Prof. Festus Adenikinju, said the banking system stability review report showed that the “banking system remains safe, sound, and resilient”. In his personal notes at the last MPC meeting released at the weekend, Adenikinju, a professor of Economics at the University of Ibadan, said the Capital Adequacy Ratio, though declined slightly from 15.1 per cent in December 2020 to 14.53 per cent in December 2021, still remained above the prudential requirement of 10.0 per cent.   APC zoning panel submits report amid disagreement     Pope Francis approves Archbishop Obinna’s retirement     CBN’s naira-dollar policies not working, says Presidential…   According to him, the Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) Ratio fell below the five per cent prudential requirement, for the first time, after a lengthy period. Liquidity ratio at 41.33 per cent was also higher than 30 per cent prudential requirement. Also, both Returns on Assets and Returns on Equity fell in December 2021 relative to December 2020 while operating costs to income rose from 68.2 per cent in December 2020 to 73.1 per cent in December 2021. In her notes, CBN Deputy Governor, Aishah Ahmad, reaffirmed Adenikinju’s position that the financial system maintained its resilience into 2022. She said data provided by apex bank staff indicated stability in broad soundness indicators and an unprecedented improvement in asset quality, even as credit to the private sector continued to grow. The growth in credit to manufacturing, general commerce and oil and gas sectors achieved amidst continued decline in non-performing loans ratio from 5.10 per cent in November 2021 to 4.94 per cent in December 2021 (six basis points below the regulatory benchmark) for the first time in over a decade, Ahmad said. The CBN deputy governor said the stress test results showed resilience of banks’ solvency and liquidity ratios in response to potential severe macroeconomic shocks. She said: “However, the CBN must remain vigilant to proactively manage probable macro risks to the financial system such as lingering spillover effects of the pandemic, winding down of forbearance measures, and myriad risks to financial stability including exchange rate, operational and cyber security risks.” Another MPC member, Prof. Obadan Idiahi, expressed concerns over Nigeria’s surging public debt. He described as worrisome that external debt was growing more than the target of 40.0 per cent of total debt stock in relation to domestic debt of 60.0 per cent.