This last week, I drove past the Jericho area of Ibadan where most of the publishing houses in Nigeria like Heinemann, Oxford University Press, Evans Publishers and others are located and I noticed the absence of the usual activities of movement of people, cars and trucks and wondered whether they have all closed down. Is it another case of God has departed from the house of Israel? I hope we are not importing books and allowing local publishers to suffer. At least we ought to produce primary and secondary school books for the millions of our children going to school. What seems to be the lot of the publishers has been extended to the printers in Lagos and Ibadan whose machines are idle when not printing religious books for the churches and mosques since religion appears to be the only thriving industries in Nigeria. Of course religion is important but we can’t feed our huge population with religion alone they also need bread and butter, so to speak. In the last decade, we have witnessed industries closing down in different parts of Nigeria. It began with the closure of textile mills in Kaduna, Kano, Ikeja, Ado-Ekiti and Aba leading to the laying off of hundreds of thousands of workers with nowhere to go and with restricted skills and no institutions to retrain them and they all became part of the swelling army of the unemployed and unemployable. The same fate befell the motor parts industries of Michelin and Dunlop and Odutola tyres in Ikeja and Ibadan, battery factory in Ibadan, windshield makers in Ibadan and the Mercedes truck assembly plants in Enugu, Fiat and Peugeot in Kano and Kaduna respectively. Leyland and Volkswagen were also set up to assemble cars and pickups in Ibadan and Lagos respectively. Perhaps we should have focused on Peugeot cars and Mercedes’ trucks and busses instead of allowing too many of them to establish assembling plants in Nigeria. Then, we should have made sure no other brands came into Nigeria and reduced government participation the industries so that the best people from anywhere in the world would run them thus creating jobs for millions of people instead of focusing on the management appointees. There were plants making fertilizers in Port Harcourt in which Nigeria was producing all our fertilizer needs in association with Kellogg of America. We also killed the company by allowing politicians to go into importation of fertilizers which forced our own plants to become unprofitable because it had to generate its own electricity and sink boreholes for water, construct roads leading to site and buy trucks to evacuate products in the absence of railway connection to the country’s market. If we don’t solve the problem of electricity generation and distribution and continue to rely on individual diesel generating plants that are killing the environment, this country will never develop and the few industries we have will move to other countries where electricity is available, steady and cheap. I remember Nebegu Brothers in Kano in the 1990s making leathers and exporting them to Europe but most importantly to Japan where they were used to make motorcycle seats. Leventis Motors was assembling motor cycles in Lagos as well. I remember Mr Kornmayer, the managing director of the Mercedes plant in Enugu in the 1990s pleading with the Babangida government to stop importing luxury buses from Hungary and Brazil  so that the Mercedes’ plant in Enugu could be upgraded to produce buses for the Nigerian market. Government ignored him and kept giving import licenses to people to bring the big commuter buses into Nigeria thus transferring employment to foreign countries instead of helping the industries in Nigeria to expand. Gradually and one after another, the motor industries in Nigeria collapsed and many folded up including Peugeot assembly plant which showed promise and was heavily patronized by the various governments of Nigeria which used Peugeot cars as official vehicles.   Time to stop the fratricidal war in Ukraine     Nigeria: What a country!     Makinde and the cleaning of Ibadan   Recently, it was announced that Guinness breweries were moving out of Nigeria particularly the plant in Ikeja to Ghana because it is becoming increasingly difficult to produce their drinks profitably. This is surprising because Nigeria is the biggest market for stout for example in the whole world. We thank God that the cement companies in Nigeria are staying and producing hopefully profitably. One can only hope they will not price their products beyond the level of affordability of the average Nigerian. Perhaps in this case we should give kudos to the two Nigerian companies of Dangote and BUA joining the competition of cement production  in Nigeria with the French company of Lafarge. The  fate of the oil refineries in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna, iron and steel works in Ajaokuta and  the iron and steel companies in Aladja, Jos and Osogbo as well as the failed Aluminium complex in Ikot Abasi  which is the story of failed industrialization perhaps demonstrate the wrong approach  to industrialization and consequent ruin of this country. The question to ask is why all our efforts came to failure. The reasons are clear to any perceptive observer. Corruption is at the centre of our failure. The people charged with managing these industries lacked the sense of patriotism and saw their appointments as opportunities to loot rather than to grow the companies. Some of the management staff were appointed on the basis of ethnicity, political jobbery and religion. The effect of this was that the companies were packed with the wrong people who could not be fired because of their political connection. Some of the managers were young and inexperienced. I personally knew one who bought an executive jet for his company and was flying around with this toy instead of sitting down and running his company. Needless to say the whole place collapsed and the steel company was sold almost as scrap in subsequent years. What happened to the steel companies and to the massive Ajaokuta steel complex was repeated in the case of the oil refineries and the four companies collapsed like a house of cards under the weight of corruption and of putting wrong people to run them because they were/are the blue eyed men of those people in power. Now we are told that we haven’t seen anything yet in the case of the oil industry as a whole. The situation is so bad that in the Bonny terminal, more than 80 percent of oil production does not reach the legal market because unscrupulous people have invested in equipment to steal crude oil flowing into the terminal.  Recently the president issued a languid directive to the security people to stop oil stealing in Nigeria as if this is a problem that started yesterday and that will respond to a tame directive of the president instead of the president declaring a state of war on those who are bent on ruining the economy of the country. No wonder Nigeria can only meet 1.3 million out of the 1.8 million barrels of crude oil production allocated to it by OPEC. In the meantime, we keep awarding millions of dollars contracts for so called “turnaround” maintenance of these refineries which should have been offloaded to the market or sold as scrap to willing buyers while we wait for the Dangote refinery which seems to be a story of no return in terms of its completion and commissioning. It is amazing that the government is wondering why the oil majors are leaving Nigeria. If something is not done in time, the terminals in Burutu and Forcados will suffer the same fate as the looted one in Bonny. The lesson to learn in our failure of industrial development is that government should never hold majority shares in any company. If we had left the first refinery with Shell and Mobil, we would not be scrambling for refined petroleum all over the world and importing bad fuel to the country. We would not be in the current situation where we are promoting idle workers in the four refineries and spending billions on paying salaries to idle workers and more billions on turn around maintenance. If we ever find our feet again as a country, we must allow private investors – foreign and local – to run industries. The ridiculous situation in which governments are running hotels and busses and taxis should never be allowed. If governments want to be directly involved in the economy, it should go into agriculture and agribusiness and adding value to our farm products. Our aim as a country should be to produce what we eat and sew what we wear. Imagine if we had a policy like this, the millions of tailors who will be gainfully employed. This is what countries like India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand are doing. We can then move from agribusiness into textile mills and food products for export. To do this we will need to have a well-focused government whose principal movers must know what they are doing like those who built Singapore from the backwaters to the first world economy in terms of services, finance, shipping, educational and social welfare of its people and light industries. To achieve success in this country, we can borrow a leaf from the development paradigm of countries in Southeast Asia located in less endowed places than Nigeria. But to do this successfully, we must decentralize our political structure and embrace cooperative federalism in which each part of the fundamentally restructured country produces at its own pace and embracing the practice of comparative advantage and then contributing to make the whole country prosperous, secure and as long as our people have jobs and money in their pockets, it won’t matter who is in or out of government.