The Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo has pledged that the Nigerian Navy (NN) would continue to contribute to the development of polo in Nigeria. Gambo stated this at the Lagos Polo Club, Ikoyi, weekend during the lunch of CNS Cup. According to him, the event was another unique opportunity given to the NN to further contribute to the growth and development of equestrian sport in the country. The CNS noted that the British naval officers introduced the game of polo to Nigeria on the turf of the Lagos Polo Club. “So, the Lagos Polo Club and the navy family have come a long way and the relationship will only get better. I am happy to inform that the NN remains committed and will continue to nurture the relationship with Lagos Polo Club for mutual benefits,” the CNS said.   Lokomotiv Moscow Coach quits over Ukraine invasion     Transfers: Gwagwalada club owners holds seminar     250 players set for Osun Table Tennis competition   Gambo thanked the President of the Lagos Polo Club, Ayo Olashoju and other executive members for instituting the CNS Cup as one of the trophies to be competed for in the club. “I have no doubt, that the entire NN sport family will continue to relish this moment,” Gambo said. The CNS said that the NN was introduced to the game of polo by the 21 Guards Brigade Polo Club, last year: Since then, the service has not relented and early this year, the NN Polo Team competed in the Port Harcourt Polo Tournament and won its first trophy.” He added: “Unlike individual sports, the game of polo highlights the importance of building strong communication, developing leadership skills and team work among the players. “These attributes are quite instructive regarding the development of camaraderie needed to foster synergy and team work among personnel,” he said. Gambo further stated that the game would equally boost NN civil-military relations and by so doing, gain the support of the civil populace in pursuit of national security objectives.