Airtel Nigeria, a telecommunications company, has unveiled a new self-care portal to empower businessowners on its network to gain total control of their service accounts. Airtel Business Director, Ogo Ofomata, in a statement on Sunday said the self-care portal would allow businessowners access various requests instantly, regardless of location and time. Ofomata said businessowners could now view their business account details including outstanding and overdue bills. She said businesses would be able to access line-level details to identify which accounts were active and inactive as well as view products and usage patterns. “Customers can also fulfil several service requests including bill payments, airtime purchase, account statement status, and account user management. “In addition, service provisioning requests such as SIM swap, billing issues, line activation/deactivation, Closed User Group activation, and related requests can be resolved via the portal easily.   Don’t end BRT in Lagos, make it safer – commuters tell…     NNPC Weekly: 24-hour operation in petrol filling stations in…     Popular GO arrested over alleged possession of drugs   “The portal, which is user-friendly and easy to navigate, can be accessed via https://www.airtel.com.ng/business/care/#/user/login,” she said. Ofomata added that the portal was designed to make life simple, better, and more enjoyable for all its business customers. “With this initiative, they can now get things done on the go with instant results, thereby improving productivity and business outcomes,” she said. The business director said Airtel was constantly innovating to improve the service experience for its esteemed business customers. She said that the company believed that the self-care portal would not just put customers in the drivers’ seats but would significantly enhance their performance. Ofomata said the Airtel self-care portal was laden with features that would ensure that business owners were able to navigate the platform effortlessly. She said: “The features will also assist them to fulfill basic requests and independently manage their business accounts effectively without recourse to third parties.” (NAN)