Delta lawmaker Friday Ossai Osnaebi has wowed his wife an exotic automobile on her birthday. The representative of Ndokwa East Local Government Constituency in the Delta Assembly gifted his wife, Ogechi a 2022 Maserati. ‘Otunba’ took to his Insta stories to shares birthday messages from family and friends to his wife. He also shared a photo of his luxurious birthday gift to his wife with the caption: “And it’s called Maserati 202, congratulations Miluv greater we go @iluvmilyf.” The 41-year-old politician showered encomiums on his wife in a post titled: “A Tribute to my Beloved Wife on her Birthday. “The day we met, my life truly began. With you, I have experienced good times. I have learned about life. I have grown as a man. I can’t wait to continue making memories with you for the rest of our lives.   God punish me if I fail Nigerians- Yul Edochie     Marriage scares me, says Mr Macaroni     Popular young Instagram skit makers working with family…   “There is so much more to our story, and through the ups and downs, together, the story will have a happy ending with us holding hands together in eternity. “Marrying you, my best friend, was the best decision of my life. You fill every day with magic and make living life with you better than any life I could have ever hoped for. “You keep our family together and make my life complete. You leave me speechless with your beauty, wisdom and grace on a daily basis. Never change, my love. The world is indeed a better place because you are in it. “I love you more than words can say. You are stunningly gorgeous, both inside and out. I will do everything in my power to ensure that your birthday is as spectacular as you are. “In case I haven’t told you, there is nobody in the world like you, and I feel like the luckiest man alive to call you my wife. “On behalf of our kids I say. Happy Birthday My Beloved Queen.” Last year, the former Delta Deputy Speaker gifted his wife a Range Rover and a Hermes bag on the occasion of her birthday.