MFS Africa, the largest pan-African digital payments hub, has completed acquisition of Capricorn Digital Limited, otherwise known as Baxi. The transaction was first announced last November pending the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria, which has been granted. Baxi is one of Nigeria’s largest independent SME-focused electronic payment networks, with over 90,000 agents. It provides a cash-in and cash-out offering as well as value-added services such as account opening, money transfer, bill payment and more to the last mile. As well as providing entry into the market for MFS Africa, the acquisition also provides exciting synergies: Baxi simplifies and integrates online and offline payments for SMEs and merchants in Nigeria through its omni-channel distribution network, while MFS Africa simplifies cross-border payments and integrates payments via one hub. Baxi’s growth has accelerated over the last 24 months achieving over $1.6 billion of transactions in 2021. MFS Africa will build Baxi into a key node on its digital payment network, enabling customers to make regional and global payments to and from Nigeria. Baxi’s distributions network represents a crucial interface for banks, fintechs and other financial services providers to reach Nigeria’s 100 million financially unserved or underserved individuals and small businesses. Meanwhile, MFS Africa has been named one of the world’s ‘Top 100 Cross-Border Payments Companies’ by FXC Intelligence in its 2022 Market Map list. The list is published annually to recognise and celebrate companies that have championed innovation in global payments and are positioned to lead the next era of payments excellence. The final list is based on FXC Intelligence tracking the activity of more than 15,000 competitors in the cross-border payments sector. Founder /Chief Executive Officer, MFS Africa, Dare Okoudjou, noted that to be named one of the top 100 cross-border payments companies by FXC Intelligence was truly gratifying for the company and reflected the hard work and dedication of the entire team.   Flour Mills appoints Adeeko director     Focus on stocks with strong fundamentals, Futureview advises…     SEC staff protest poor governance   “We are proudly pan-African and the accolade reflects our mission of making borders matter less, not only across the continent, but globally. This has been a momentous time for MFS Africa and we are determined to build on our success in the years ahead,” Okoudjou said. Chief Executive Officer, FXC Intelligence, Daniel Webber said MFS Africa was a key part of Africa’s growing ecommerce landscape, catering to merchants, money transfer businesses and small businesses across the continent. According to him, as one of Africa’s biggest digital payments gateways and a reach of over 600 cross-border payment corridors, MFS Africa earns its place in the cross-border payments 100. MFS Africa believes that making a payment should be as easy as making a phone call. “We believe that access is the currency with which Africans can overcome barriers and injustice and render borders insignificant. We give our partners access to a borderless world of opportunities, connecting enterprises, banks, mobile money operators, and money transfer companies to each other and to over 320 million mobile money wallets in over 35 African countries. “Our infrastructure enables disbursements and collections, and connects partners to our network footprint of multinational organisations, banks and cash pickups through our API or Business portal Portal, Beyonic. In addition to mobile remittance services, we enable merchant payment, bulk payment, bank-to-wallet transfers, and an array of other cross border and domestic digital payments services. MFS Africa works in close partnership with players across the ecosystem to bring simple and secure mobile financial services to un- and under-banked customers. For millions of people on the continent and beyond, we make borders matter less,” MFS Africa stated. Capricorn Digital Limited (Baxi) is one of the largest independent non-bank SME focused electronic payment networks in Nigeria operating an Omnichannel platform that enables digital payment through mobile, in-store location, online, wallets and business-to-business channels. Baxi’s mission is to bring a wide bouquet of digital products and services to the grass root and mass-market consumers through innovation, technology and a world-class retail distribution network that is driven primarily by agents and merchants. The company’s vision is to have a retail presence on every street and a digital presence in every household in Nigeria by creating a one-stop-shop for accessing a broad range of products and services, it not only simplifies the buying experience for its end consumers but also creates a powerful tool for its agents.