In less than 18 months, Stallion Auto Keke Limited (SAKL), a member of Stallion Group and Nigeria’s sole distributor of Bajaj three-wheelers, has rolled out 100,000 Bajaj Keke into the nation’s tricycle market. Mr. Manish Rohtagi, managing director of SAKL and VON Automobiles of Nigeria Limited, said the feat was due to his company’s effort to deliver international quality Kekes’ and create economic value for Nigerians. The SAKL chief said the company embarked on cost-effective empowerment programme for youths by making Bajaj Keke the most affordable in the country. Manish said: “We embarked on empowerment of Nigerians, empowerment of females and empowerment of our staff, thereby creating a winning team, which facilitated the production of 100,000 units of Bajaj Keke within 18 months. “For effectiveness, we also introduced auto finance, an essential ingredient of the nation’s Auto Industry Development Plan (NAIDP), thereby working with microfinance banks to empower youths.   FAO moves to boost catfish production     Tech tips to boost women entrepreneurs     ‘Ending tuberculosis requires greater funding’   “While we provide unemployed youths with riding skills and techniques, our partner microfinance banks provide liquidity with a zero-gestation period to ensure their daily income as micro entrepreneurs. As a result, driving Keke has, today, become the best micro entrepreneurship. It would be recalled that from inception the company, in collaboration with Stallion Empowerment initiative (SEI), embarked on training and hiring of females to work either as assembly plant technicians or field mechanics… “And as a result of our ambitious female empowerment programmes, which include training as mechanics and assemblers, Stallion Auto Keke Limited is today the only automobile assembly plant with so many female staff on the assembly line,” Manish said. In line with that vision, the company had, as of December, trained and integrated into its assembly plant in Lagos, not less than 40 women with a target of training and absorbing 500 female technicians by end of 2022. Despite its contribution to the nation’s economic growth, Manish said Stallion Auto Keke Limited would roll out more expansive youth and women-focused empowerment programmes.