Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike and a former Kaduna Governor Ahmed Makarfi have called for the return of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the centre in 2023. The duo said only the PDP could rescue the country from what they described as the rudderless administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government. They spoke at the inauguration of the Ahoada-Ekpena Road project in Ahoada East Local Government Area of the state on Thursday. Makarfi, who inaugurated the 2.4km Ahoada-Ekpena Road project, bemoaned the deplorable security situation, particularly in the Northwest zone of President Muhammadu Buhari. He said it was regrettable that under Buhari’s watch, insecurity in the zone had lingered. While commending Wike for the level of security achieved in Rivers State, Makarfi insisted that PDP should return to the federal level to ensure safety of life of all Nigerians. Makarfi acknowledged that the development pattern adopted by Wike was balanced saying  projects were spread across the state with the rural communities benefitting as much as the cities. He said such developmental approach was what the country needed to ensure even development. Wike accused the APC of maladministration, which he said had increased sufferings for Nigerians.   Pandemonium as Ngige kinsman ‘buried alive’ reappears     BREAKING: NDLEA charges Abba Kyari, 6 others with dealing in…     Reps reject bill seeking to scrap NSIA   He assured that the PDP remained the only hope of the country because the party had the magic wand to change the current sufferings. He said: “You have seen the failure of the APC Federal Government. They make promises upon promises, but what we  are getting is failure upon failure. “So, all of us must brace up to say this suffering that God has helped us to survive, we cannot allow it to continue. “The mere fact that God has made us to survive it does not mean that you’ll continue to suffer that way. PDP has the magic wand to change the failure of this APC led government at the federal level.” Wike said the people were better placed to judge the difference between the PDP and the APC. He asserted that PDP remained the only party that could bring about a positive change across the country. He said: “Continue to have faith in PDP. It is the only party that has hope for Nigerians. You have tried another party at the national level and it has failed you. “Time has come that Nigerians must brace up and say look, we cannot continue with this. You have come out in your large number today to receive us for this commissioning. “You can’t complete this without also mobilising yourselves in 2023 to make sure that you vote out bad government.”