Leaders of various civil society groups have advocated for issues of civic space, national development and election credibility. To this end, the Nigeria Network of NGOs (NNNGO) and the Conference of Northern States Civil Society Networks (CNSCSN) have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to formalise a partnership between the two networks at a strategic and operational level. Chairman, CNSCSN, Ibrahim Waiya, said the MoU is to focus on advocating for issues around local philanthropy, regulatory frameworks, unity, peace and security, especially at a time when civil society regulations in Nigeria continues to remain knotty. He said: “We are happy that we are coming together in partnership and sought this opportunity with NNNGO because we understand that as non-profit networks, it is imperative to work together. “Partnership, especially with the critical stakeholders in the sector, will help the Nigerian civil society gain credibility, legitimacy and transparency as a sector. “The partnership is an opportunity to learn from the models and practices of NNNGO, a network which has been existing for almost three decades.” Waiya added that the NGO had also been providing support on how the electoral system could work effectively.   Air Unity Aviation College established in Kebbi     Youths threaten to picket airport over 130% airfare hikes     PHOTOS: Another batch of evacuees arrive from Ukraine   He further stated that the group participated in the process of advocating for the best practices to be reflected in the electoral law which was recently signed into law. He said with the MoU, the groups would continue with the advocacy to ensure Nigeria has the best electoral law to guide elections management. “We will also play our own role by sensitising and creating awareness for citizens to participate in the process and ensure that credible leaders are elected. “We will engage the political parties to ensure that they comply with what is obtained in the new Electoral law and also engage INEC on best practices.” Executive Director, Nigeria Network of NGOs, Mr Oyebisi Oluseyi, said the organisation would explore ways to ensure support for sub-national networks through capacity building and experience sharing. He said: “We have a collective goal which is to ensure a thriving operational environment for nonprofits in Nigeria and what we have done today is a step in the right direction. “The MoU strengthens the existing relationship between the two networks and will leverage each network’s comparative advantage to promote common understanding of the legal obligations of non-profit organisations. He expressed excitement about the progress made on the Electoral Law and urged leaders to use their platforms to preach peace ahead of the 2023 elections.