Olam Nigeria has said its 500-hectare Kuda Gangara Integrated Tomato Farm, a project by Caraway, in Jigawa State, has reduced post-harvest losses more than half. This, it said, is achieved through buyback of fresh tomato fruits through a network of outgrower farmers and supplying to the crushing plant within 24 hours. The project is part of the backward integration drive of Olam-Caraway, in strengthening local sourcing of raw materials for the company’s tomato paste factory in Lagos, where popular brands of tomato pastes are produced. The Nation learnt the project has recorded its first commercial harvest at 40 metric tonnes per hectare, exceeding earlier projections, more than four times the average yield in Nigeria. Business Head of Packaged Food Business at Caraway (Olam Group) Premender Sethi said the stride in achieving a local supply chain for raw materials represents a complete end to end supply chain solution for domestic markets – from growing to crushing to processing to packaging for the domestic markets.   Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike     OPEC unable to make up for 7mb/d Russia sanction     Firm pushes for financial inclusion   Sethi said the impact of the investment will be seen in the company’s forex outflow, which will decrease and so will the pressure to manage it. “Low farm productivity, coupled with high post-harvest losses has contributed to low output of the tomato crop in Nigeria. The Olam-Caraway project is, however, showing possibilities that exist in achieving more than four times the average yield in Nigeria,” he said.   Head of Farming Initiatives at Olam Reji George said the investment is driven to complement the thrust and direction of moving agriculture into a self-reliant and sustainable model by the Federal Government, ensuring enough and quality food to the population, as well as environmental sustainability. “Caraway hopes to achieve the supply of homegrown and processed innovative tomato product brands of Derica, Tasty tom, jollof mix, onion Pepe etc for domestic consumption,” George said. Director-General, Jigawa State Investment Promotion Agency, Furera Isma Jumare, said the project would contribute to the IGR of the state and hopefully in the long term, reduce the cost of certain commodities such as tomatoes. She said her expectations in terms of the caraway project’s contribution to the state are both in terms of direct and indirect employment for citizens as well as skills transfer.