From a reluctant church leader, he became a well-respected voice of redemption. His journey to ecclesiastical eminence and his performance as a champion of faith bear signs of the miraculous. When Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), a Pentecostal megachurch with headquarters in Lagos, turned 80 on March 2, his flock fittingly celebrated him for “A life of holiness, humility, consistency and focus.” In an interview last year to mark his 40th anniversary as the head of the church, he said when he was told that he would occupy the position, his response was “God forbid.” After joining the church in 1973, 20 years after it was founded in 1953, he served as an interpreter to the founder and first general overseer, Rev. Josiah Olufemi Akindayomi, translating his Yoruba sermons to English. He was ordained a deacon in 1975, and became a pastor two years later. In 1981, he succeeded the departed general overseer who had chosen him for the position. He was 39 at the time.  His elevation to the apex of the church was a turning point that eventually led to his career switch from academia.  He resigned his teaching position at the University of Ilorin, Kwara State, to work as a full-time general overseer after playing the role part-time for three years. With a first degree in Mathematics in 1967 from the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State, a master’s degree in Hydrodynamics from the University of Lagos, and a doctorate in Applied Mathematics in 1975 from the same university, Adeboye was equipped and set for an academic career but he believed God had other plans for him. He had stints as a mathematics lecturer at the University of Lagos and the University of Ilorin before he left the academic world for the religious realm. Under his leadership, RCCG has expanded phenomenally, and ranks as one of the biggest Pentecostal churches.  As of 2017, it reportedly had branches in about 196 countries. “In the developing world we say we want churches to be within five minutes’ walk of every person,” he said in an interview. “In the developed world, we say five minutes of driving.” This approach has its own challenges and complications.   2023: Tinubu remains the most viable option     A Nigerian air traveller’s day     ASUU and the yoke of strikes   He demonstrated his vision for the church when in 1983 it bought the large expanse of land for the Redemption Camp in Mowe, Ogun State, which has been developed to an impressive extent. The project has inspired several other faith-based developments in the area. Two notable institutions, the Redeemed Christian Church of God Bible School founded in 1990, and Redeemer’s University established in 2005, also reflect Adeboye’s vision. He introduced programmes that showed his passion for soul-winning, particularly the Holy Ghost service in 1985, and the Holy Ghost Congress in 1998.  The first Holy Ghost Congress held in Lekki, Lagos in December 1998 was attended by more than seven million people, according to reports by CNN and the BBC. The scale of the open-air religious meeting attracted international attention. Interestingly, in addition to soul-winning, he preaches the prosperity gospel, arguing that “while we have to worry about heaven, there are some things God could do for us in the here and now.” From a lowly background in Ifewara town, in present-day Osun State, Adeboye has grown to international stature. He was listed among the 50 most powerful people in the world by Newsweek magazine in 2008; and named among the 100 most influential Africans by New African magazine in 2019. He is a recipient of two Nigerian national honours, Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) in 2008; and Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON) in 2014. Untainted by scandal and perceived by his followers to be radiating righteousness, he is regarded with respect, sometimes with awe, not only by sections of the public but also by people in power in the country who regularly seek his counsel and endorsement. At 80, he remains a force to reckon with. He reimagined the church, and his legacy may well be that it can be further reimagined.