THE United States (US), yesterday donated equipment worth $2m dollars to the Nigeria Police to boost its war against terrorism, violent extremism. The equipment which included five mobile detection system operators, three radioisotope identification devices, three packs of eye backpacks, radiation detectors, among others were handed over to the police’ Explosive Ordnance Disposal and Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear EOD-CBRN Command in Lagos by the US Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration, through its Office of Nuclear Smuggling Detection and Deterrence (NSDD). The Nation reports that the US had in 2019 donated mobile detectors to the police which were deployed to the airport and seaport to prevent the smuggling of explosives and other nuclear substances into the country. Presenting the equipment to the Commissioner of Police (CP), EOD-CBRN Command, Zannah Shettima, the  U.S. Consulate’s Assistant Regional Security Officer, Jon Dvorak, said it was an important step in advancing the robust security cooperation between both countries. Dvorack disclosed that 30 police officers underwent two-week training on the operation of the detection equipment to have the skills to combat the smuggling of nuclear and radioactive material. He added that 10  other officers were trained on the maintenance of the donated equipment. Dvorak explained that the equipment and associated training would enhance the police’s ability to interdict the smuggling of nuclear and radioactive material into and within Nigeria.   Chidinma: Correctional Service regrets beauty contest, begs…     Ebenezer Obey set for 80th birthday celebration     OKEY BAKASSI: I arrived Lagos with N750 and dreams   According to him: ” Nigeria remains one of the United States’ key partners in combating the smuggling of illicit nuclear and radioactive material. Nigeria stands tall not only in Africa but globally, in its commitment to preventing the trafficking and use of materials that pose a threat to health and safety.” He expressed the commitment of the U.S. government to expand partnership with other Nigerian security services to directly support counter-nuclear smuggling operations and modernised training capabilities. He added that “the mission of U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Smuggling Detection and Deterrence is to build global capability to detect, disrupt, and investigate the smuggling of nuclear and radioactive materials before it can be used in an act of terrorism.  “The office partners with over 100 agencies in more than 70 countries around the world. “The equipment donation is part of a close and continuous bilateral partnership between the United States and Nigeria that has existed for decades to strengthen security ties and promote regional security.   U.S. law enforcement programming focuses on building partner capacity, strengthening strategic relationships, and bolstering Nigeria’s security capabilities.” Receiving the equipment, CP Shettima noted that the training of the 30 policemen on operators training and an additional 10 on maintenance of the mobile detection devices was impactful. He said: “The essence of these training for operators and the maintenance of mobile detection systems is part of our initiatives at ensuring that our officers and men are fully abreast with the current technological innovations in the detection of Radioactive and Nuclear materials. “This would further boost and develop our capacity in combating terrorism through the operations of mobile detection systems as well as being able to basically maintain the equipment for effective service delivery to detect illicitly trafficked materials and respond to Nuclear or Radiological emergencies.”