The alarm raised by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) that animal hides (ponmo) treated with chemicals injurious to human health are being imported into the country is frightening. While the hides were said to have been treated and imported ostensibly for industrial use, they were said to have found their way into the food market where Nigerians who see ponmo as a special delicacy now prefer it to the local variant. This is a serious cause for concern as NAFDAC that has charge to ensure that all food and drugs meet specification for human consumption has spelt out the likely consequences of eating the toxic hide. It is said to have injurious effects on the liver, kidney and heart. The agency’s director-general, Professor Mojisola Adeyeye, also warned that it could increase the number of cancer cases in the country. Two likely causes of importing and buying the ponmo are that it is cheaper than the ones produced and sold locally. The importers therefore feed on the ignorance of Nigerians who are unable to distinguish between the one fit for consumption and the harmful one. Besides, the unscrupulous business men are driven by the profit motive. Poor consumers, too, want the cheapest products and, having identified them, are unwilling to probe further into the source. Government has a duty to protect Nigerians. It is bad enough that the means of processing the ponmo in the market is dangerous to human health, but importing even more dangerous ones is simply unacceptable.   General who?     Pastor Adeboye @80     ASUU and strike salaries   NAFDAC must step up its act. Markets and warehouses should be combed for the toxic delicacy. But, more importantly, the borders and ports must be well policed. Why do we have the Customs, National Standards Organisation and ports health organisations if they cannot check the importation of obnoxious products into the country? Indeed, this matter is serious enough to attract the attention of the executive and legislative arms of government. President Muhammadu Buhari, as the Chief Executive, should set up high-powered inter-ministerial bodies to check the menace. Lawmakers also should take interest for once in things that directly affect the lives of Nigerians. They are known as representatives of the people and should be seen to act appropriately so. Nigeria is already confronting so many communicable and non-communicable diseases such as cholera, malaria, Lassa fever, among others, and seeking means of combatting AIDS, cancer, hypertension, diabetes, etc.  We have a duty to prevent the dangers posed by the imported ponmo before it consumes many people. We should do this also from the point of advocacy. People should be taught simple ways of testing the toxicity of what they eat. Government should ensure that NAFDAC collaborates with the information agencies to promote this. Other food products being imported into the country should be tested to ensure that they conform to standards. In Europe and America, no one could attempt to tamper with the health of the citizens without incurring the wrath of the government. Anyone caught in the nefarious act would be made to face the full penalty spelt out by the laws of the land. This would then act as deterrence to other unscrupulous importers. Markets are under the schedule of local governments. They should be empowered to do regular surveillance with a view to securing what the Nigerian people eat. We can no longer afford to lose lives when such could be prevented. We should not be in the 21st Century while living as those in the 19th Century. If we care about building up the patriotic spirit of the people, especially the youth, there is the need to demonstrate concern for things that affect their lives and livelihood. One way of doing this is ensuring the quality of things consumed in the country.