Former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Sokoto Governor, Aminu Tambuwal and his Bauchi counterpart Bala Mohammed have taken their consultation over 2023 to former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida in Minna, Niger State. They had a closed door consultation with Babangida for about 45 minutes before they addressed reporters. Babangida applauded them for their efforts in trying to find a credible consensus candidate for the the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2023 general elections. He said that their consultations and compromises will make a better country. He noted the group had the interest of Nigeria at heart, which is why they are making consultations far and wide adding that he is in support to their plans for a better Nigeria. “I enjoy meeting with you because I like what I heard. Your belief in the unity of this country was paramount in most of our discussions. “Your belief in having a better Nigeria featured very prominently. You made my day. What you talked about was Nigeria, Nigeria, Nigeria. I want you to keep it up, for the benefit of this country and generations yet unborn. ” What you are doing is good, this is how the country should develop, consultations, compromises and so on, this will make a better country and this is what you are trying to do.   Fayose joins 2023 presidential race     How my father impregnated me, aborted pregnancy – Survivor     DIG Kokumo takes over as FCID boss   “You will have our support as long as you stay on the course of promoting Nigeria all the time, making it a secure country,” he said. Saraki, who acted as the spokesman for the presidential aspirants, said that the visit to Babangida was part of their consultation around the country on consensus candidate for the party adding they are trying to provide solution to political process. He said that they needed the blessings, advice and guidance of the elders, leaders and stakeholders of the PDP as they consult to ensure that the move for a consensus candidate is smooth and rancour free. “We are here as part of our consultation going round the country talking to our elders and stakeholders, we the aspirants under the PDP platform feel we need to come and brief the leaders in what we are doing on the issue of the consensus. “This is part of what we call solution providing. We are trying to provide solution to the political process because we want to ensure that it is smooth, it is not rancorous and it leads to a better Nigeria. “It is that desire to make a better Nigeria that those of us who are aspiring to be president came together that we must find a way of having a consensus so that we can reduce the number and ensure that we have a candidate who is competent and has the support of everybody.” Saraki said that they would be doing further consultations assuring Babangida that all advice and observations made would be taking into cognizance and put into practice.