Old students of Itire Community Secondary School (ICCS) Iyana-Itire, Lagos State, have appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to resuscitate work on the abandoned school’s permanent site which is at the roofing stage. The 1992 class made the plea when they met to celebrate their 30th year of graduation from the school. Members met at the school premises to identify with the pupils and donated 25 chairs and tables, six white boards, notebooks, and medicines. Chairman of the Reunion Organising Committee Adeola Salami said: “We thought it. wise to give back to the school that made us that is why we are back here. But, above all, we call on the Lagos State Governor to help us continue work on the school’s abandoned permanent site and I am sure this community will appreciate it by voting for him again because he has done very well for the people.   EKSU, Alumni announces endowment prize     CCECC to partner Lagos on housing development     Campaign gives firm edge   “I will also urge the pupils to be studios because education is the key to progress. I admonish them to be a proper student in terms of learning and morals.” Class 92 President Mrs. Alero Adegbuyi said the group decided on the initiative because it was the right thing to do. “We looked back and saw that the school needed help and so we decided to come back here on our 30th anniversary of graduation. Our prayer is also that work would be resuscitated on the school’s permanent site and handed over to the school…” School principal Mrs. Atinuke Opeagba thanked the old students for remembering their alma mater, and prayed God to keep blessing them. The old student also gave their former government teacher, Mr. Innocent Umahi, an award of recognition for his contributions to education and for impacting their lives positively. The pupils were also taken on ‘Self-Esteem’, where an alumni member, Mrs. Omolara Olayide, admonished them to develop a great self esteem so they can be and do whatever they set their minds to.