No fewer than 112 graduates of Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, would be awarded First Class degrees at the institution’s 25th convocation, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, has announced. Olatunji-Bello disclosed this at a press conference at the Senate Building of the institution on Wednesday to intimate journalists on activities lined up for the ceremony. She added that the first class graduating students were the highest number the institution had produced so far. “The total number of graduating students are 7,232 students in diploma, first degree, postgraduate diplomas and Masters degrees. “Benjamin Damilare Olowu of the Department of Mechanical Engineering emerged the overall Best graduating student, having attained a 4.97 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) out of the entire graduating students of the institution. “Also, two graduating students of Masters’ degree would be graduating with a 5.0 CGPA from the Department of Peace and Religious Studies and the Department of Transportation and Logistics,” Olatunji-Bello said.   Court dismisses request for DSS DG to give oral evidence on…     2023: El-Rufai directs aides, public servants with ambition…     Four-year-old girl abducted in Ondo   The vice-chancellor said that any of the 112 first-class graduates interested would be employed as lecturer assistants in LASU. “Highlight of activities for the convocation would be sports competition for staff, a thanksgiving service, coconut breaking and cultural festival, Gov. Aminu Masari, of Katsina State is the convocation chairman. “The convocation lecture would be delivered by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, former Governor of Lagos state, with the theme: “Global Trends: Nigeria’s rightful place in the world”. “Rank of Emeritus Professor would be conferred on distinguished Prof. Peter Okebukola. ”While Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, Gov. Kano State; Prof. Babagana Zulum, Gov. Borno State and Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abuja, would be awarded with honorary doctorate degrees,” she said. Olatunji-Bello added that the convocation would mark the first time the university’s Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative Stem Education programme would be producing graduates. (NAN)