Elder statesman and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Anike Nwoga, has warned it would be dangerous to distort the existing zoning arrangements for Enugu governorship position in 2023. Nwoga also cautioned parties against fielding candidates who are not from Enugu East Senatorial District. Addressing reporters in Enugu at the weekend, Nwoga insisted that it is the turn of Enugu East Zone to produce the next Governor based on the existing rotational arrangement in the State. He explained that any party or candidate going against zoning arrangement for the governorship seat would be swimming against the tide. According to him, it would be a dangerous precedence for some persons who feel they are wealthy and highly connected to contemplate distorting the zoning system and grabbing power against the existing practice. “There has been controversy over zoning arrangement in the state and I want to inform you that APC has zoned the governorship slot to Enugu East and it means that our candidate must come from Enugu East Senatorial District because it’s their turn to direct the affairs of the state come 2023.   APC Convention: Nwosu, Okorocha’s men make…     Kogi supermart operator kidnapped     Buhari deepened democracy with electoral act, says Delta APC…   “I also want to believe that other parties might have done the same. We believe in the zoning arrangement that first produced former Governor Chimaroke Nnamani from Enugu East, then Sulivan Chime from Enugu West and the current Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi from Enugu North so we must go back to Enugu East and we are not joking about it because it must happen,” he stated. He warned aspirants from other zones who are contesting based on their rich pockets and connections of impending disgrace. He insisted: “Nobody will take away this mandate from the people of Enugu East, no matter how rich or influential the person is because it’s our turn to become the next governor in Enugu state. “Any politician from Enugu West or Enugu North with the aim of contesting for governorship election in 2023 is free to do so but we must get it right as we speak with one voice that the governorship seat must go to Enugu Senatorial district.” On the statement by some politicians that the governorship slot can go to any zone, Nwoga said: “That’s their personal opinion and not the opinion of the people of Enugu state because based on our zoning arrangement, our next governor must come from Enugu East”.