Six years after an Olubadan was enthroned, top government functionaries, traditional rulers, Ibadan indigenes, residents and well-wishers will again gather at historic Mapo Hall today to witness the crowning of the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba (Dr) Lekan Balogun. The city is already in a joyous mood. Associations, groups, friends and relations have already chosen ankara uniform to celebrate the ascension of Oba Lekan Balogun who has chosen the title of Ali Okunmade 2. Balogun, a once astute politician, academic and community leader, possesses the gift of the garb. After his studies in England, Dr Balogun worked as a research fellow at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, worked with oil giant Shell Petroleum and later served as the senator representing Oyo Central from 1999 to 2003. While his uncommon bravery endeared him to many, some politicians disliked his gutts. But Balogun never cared – he went on trumpeting his convictions and pursued them to a logical end. Coming 50 years after the first Olubadan from his Ali-Iwo compound, Balogun is described by family members as a ‘people’s man.’ His greatness was said to have been foretold while he was a child. His younger brother, Sen. Kola Balogun, who is the second member of his nuclear family to become a senator, said his brother never prayed to become Olubadan. He said destiny is favourable to his brother because some people that became mogaji around the same time have not enjoyed the privilege of getting near the throne. The younger Balogun also recalled that their father was robbed of his appointment as Mogaji several years ago, saying it was gratifying seeing the son of such a man ascend the throne of the Olubadan. Simple, affable and always welcoming, the new Olubadan, in this interview with The Nation, shares his experience as a chief and his plans for the city. He spoke with Southwest Bureau Chief BISI OLADELE Can you share with us how the journey has been? Hectic! But, so far I am younger than most Olubadans in the history of the town. The journey was shorter than most people think. It only lasted about 36 years because I became a Mogaji in 1986. Sometimes, it takes up to 50 years to run the course. You might even spend those 50 years and still not get there. We have to be thankful to God. I still feel young, and I believe I am still young, relatively. As you rose across the cadres, did you ever fear that death might come before getting near the throne? No. Never. I was not even thinking about it. I never thought I will be Olubadan. Honestly, I didn’t think about it. What are your plans for Ibadan? It is too early to share it with you. I am still reflecting on the best way to implement them. Basically, I want to push Ibadan forward. There is this joke I often crack: I call Ibadan the capital of Africa. I want to develop the city to that level where most people will call it the capital of Africa. I know Africa has no capital, every nation in Africa has its own capital. Ibadan is not even the capital of Nigeria. But, I crack this joke to reflect on the kind of Ibadan I want. At a time, a former Olubadan warned his high chiefs against partisan politics, saying a politician high chief might be relieved of their title. How will your own administration treat this issue? It is difficult to combine the two. If you are a high chief and a member of the Olubadan-in-Council, there is no way you can be in politics, and if you are an active politician, there is no way you can play the role of and Ibadan high chief effectively. It is impossible to combine the two. So, you choose which one you want to shine in and concentrate on it. If you combine the two, you won’t likely do well. You are the second Olubadan coming from the Ali-Iwo dynasty. How does that feel? Exciting! Everybody in Ali’Iwo is excited. We don’t have much more than two families in Ibadan that have produced Olubadan twice. So, it is an unusual accomplishment for Ali-Iwo, and we are very happy about it. The last one we had was 1952. Look at 1952 till now. I started schooling in 1952. unfortunately, that particular Olubadan only reigned for three months. So, as I started schooling, within three months, the then Olubadan died.   Lagos APC leaders urged to wade into crisis rocking Ndigbo…     Lamido’s governorship bid tears Jigawa PDP apart     2023, ‘Delta South deserves better representation’   What do you consider as the advantages and advantages of the peculiar Ibadan chieftaincy system, which usually throws up old people as the Olubadan? A younger person will be more active because of his age. But, it is not just about being young alone. It also helps, if the person in question is exposed. In fact, exposure makes it much better. Can we say coming to the throne at old age is advantageous to Ibadan, considering the negative and stories we hear about certain younger monarchs of some other Yoruba towns? That has nothing to do with age. It is a matter of culture and attitude, which has nothing to do with age. An old man can also fight his wife publicly, and the whole world will take note of what he is doing. That is not about the age, it is a matter of attitude. That won’t happen in my time. You have repeatedly said it that chieftaincy titles will not be for sale under you. Please expatiate on this. Chieftaincy title should not be for sale. It has to be about the character of the person and the family. It does not have to be for sale. We can buy one for one million naira or even more, but it does not change the attitude of the holder. Chieftaincy titles shouldn’t be for sale. I won’t sell it to anyone. It has to be on merit. Dealing with the family is one factor, and the individual’s character is another. Money comes third, if it comes at all. Your potential contribution to the development of Ibadan is another factor. We will look at what you have contributed to the development of the city in the past to determine that. More people are falling victim of paying for parcels of land and not getting them. Some people are notorious for selling and reselling land within the city. How do you intend to tackle this problem? We’ll tackle it. I will support the government on measures to apply in dealing with the issue. I will rally round the government. How do you intend to address the issue of thuggery in Ibadan? We will stop it. We are already fighting that now. I have had meetings with relevant people in the city, and they have pledged to work together to put a permanent stop to brigandage in our dear town. It must stop. What is your message to the Ibadan people? My message is that we should rally round ourselves. We should ensure that Ibadan is elevated. We must behave ourselves and ensure that bad behaviours are not counted as our way of life. We also need to realise that we would get on, if we get educated. People should be well educated.