Cycology cycling club has added its voice to the campaign against gender bias in commemoration of the International Women’s Day 2022. During its annual Amazon ride, all female members of the club rode through some parts of Lagos calling for gender equality in politics, business, sports and other areas of human endeavour. Starting from Nakenoh’s Boulevard in Ikoyi, members of the club and other female cycling clubs road through Lekki Link bridge back to Bourdillon, Kingsway Road and Iyana-Oworo and back to Ikoyi. With all-women power biking club – Eko Belles acting as the advance party on their power motorbikes, members of Cycology, and sister clubs, bicoholics, cyclotron and pitstop were a sight to behold in their riding gear while riding on the third mainland bridge. In an interview with The Nation, the club’s vice-captain, Temitope George, urged the government to embrace gender equality as is being advocated worldwide. She regretted the rejection of the bill to promote more women representation by lawmakers. She said: “Government needs to toe the way of the world. We still don’t have enough women leaders. But for government to throw out a bill that offers more inclusion of women, it is really not the way to go. Both genders are very important.   30 schools for sports fiesta     Ansaru-ud-Deen holds induction for branch officers     Graft: Group urges council leader to clear his name   “We should have opportunities that provide for Inclusion of women. And don’t do things in environments that would stifle women from participating. For instance a lot of political meetings are held late in the night. Create an enabling environment for women to participate. That’s what we are saying.”. Corporate Social Responsibility Secretary, Yejide Taiwo, said Cycology invited others for the ride to draw attention to the campaign. “Cycology invited other cycling clubs from across Lagos – cyclotron, bicoholics, pitstop, and Eko Belles to join in the campaign; to join in the advocacy to break the bias. The purpose is to ensure that we are heard and that gender equality is being handled the way it should be handled,” she said. After the ride, some participants shared stories of how they challenged gender bias in their careers and in cycling. A student studying Entrepreneurship at the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) simply called Kate said she was told she could not make it as a cyclist without a man. “When I started cycling, I was told I could not make it without a guy. But I am so proud of myself. Most of those who helped me are Amazon women,” she said.