After almost eight months in Benin Republic prison, Yoruba Nation agitator Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a. Igboho, breathed the air of freedom yesterday. But the Beninoise Govt restricts his movement to the country, his lawyer confirmed to The Nation last night. Adeyemo was arrested on July 19, 2021 in Cotonou. He was on his way to Germany having fled Nigeria. His release yesterday was on health grounds. He was declared wanted by the Department of State Services (DSS) after a raid on his Ibadan, Oyo State, home. A terse statement by Ilana Omo Oodua Worldwide signed by Secretary, Maxwell Adeleye, said Igboho was released to Prof Banji Akintoye and Prof Wale Adeniran. Akintoye described Ighoho’s release as a “triumph of truth over darkness in Yoruba land.”   IPOB blames political thugs for Southeast killings     Edo PDP crisis deepens     Court orders final forfeiture of Dariye’s Abuja mansion   Confirming the release, Igboho’s lead counsel Olusegun Falola told The Nation: “Sunday Adeyemo will remain in Benin Republic for now. He will remain in Benin Republic till the political atmosphere is calm because he is a political prisoner. “Though Igboho has been released from custody, he will not be permitted to leave Benin Republic for now. He will be moving around with security agents till the time is ripe for him to leave.” One of the lawyers, Yomi Aliyu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), said his client was temporarily released to attend to his health. Alliyu said: “Igboho has not been released; he was only released to be taken to the hospital to attend to his ill health. “The last time we spoke, I told you that we were making arrangements to take him to the hospital over his ill health. So, he was released based on health grounds. “I am to inform you that Chief Sunday Adeyemo has been released from prison to his medical practitioners under the agreement that he should not leave the medical centre or Cotonou for any reason. “Praises should be given to two prominent Yoruba personalities to wit Prof Wole Soyinka and Prof Akintoye for this turnaround in our client’s matter.” Afenifere spokesman Jare Ajayi said: “Afenifere and indeed the entire Yoruba are very happy that Igboho has been released.”