Relationship blogger Blessing Nkiruka Okoro aka Blessing CEO has explained it’s a man’s responsibility to give transport fare to any woman who goes on a date with or visits him. The self-acclaimed ‘Africa’s certified relationship/mental expert described transport fare as the smallest thing any man can give to a woman but noted it a huge responsibility for boys and that’s why they run away from it. In a video shared on her Instagram page, Blessing began by asking, “Is a man supposed to give a woman transport fare after a date or a visit?” Taken aback by her own question, she interjected: “That’s a foolish question and you can only ask that question when you’re dating a boy. Stop dating boys!” Emphasising on transportation fare being a man’s ‘responsibility’, the “intellectual entertainer” continued: “It is a man’s responsibility. Yes, responsibility to give a woman transport fare after taking her on a date or a visit. “It shows some level of protection, security, responsibility; ability. It doesn’t cost anything. What is transport fare? It is the smallest thing any man can give to you.   IPOB/ESN attacks Police station in Imo     Constitution Review: Senate suspends electronic scoreboard…     Constitution Review: Osinbajo’s wife leads women to observe…   “When a man gives you transport fare when you go on a date or go to visit him, he just wants to make sure that you’ve gotten home. “That’s why they will get you a cab if he does not have a car to drive you home. He will just make sure that you’re safe. It’s not supposed to be a question.” She maintained only boys see transport fare as a huge issue while men will gladly take on the ‘responsibility’. She added: “You can only ask that questions as a woman when you’re dating boys. Stop dating boys. “Date men! Men are people who are willing to carry responsibility. Responsibility doesn’t shake them. “Things like transport fare, recharge card, food; the commonest things you can do for a woman, you’re grumbling. “Transportation is the smallest thing any man who calls you out on a date or visit will give to you.”