SIR: One case of the use of the police other than for what they were employed to do went viral on social media few days ago in Ilorin, Kwara State. That particular picture showing the police man carrying food and following an important personality probably in a party is a reminder of the mess the Nigerian Police have become with no remedy in sight. To those who have not been to the country’s airports, it might be news but to those who have travelled through our airports either local or international, it is no news. In our airports, policemen and women are routinely seen carrying hand bags for ogas and madams including, sometimes, their children. Severally, the force administrators have raised the alarm but it ends there. Rather than the trend changing, it gets worse on a daily basis. Happily the police authority has wadded into the Ilorin saga. How we found ourselves in such a nasty situation calls for a thorough research that will take years to complete. Many years ago, if you arrived at a city and you missed your way, the first person to approach on the street is the police man or woman but all those have gone for good. To say that the police force has suffered and is still suffering from long years of neglect and abandonment is an understatement. Every leader in authority only recognise the place of the police when it is time for menial jobs like washing dishes, carrying suitcases and other demeaning domestic jobs. It is so bad that other security agencies share in these mentalities when dealing with the men and women of the police. No matter the rank of a police officer, a Nigerian soldier or even a recent recruit will not give the usual salute as a mark of respect to the senior police officer. It is that bad. Most of the people being recruited today are frustrated from onset probably for lack of what to do for years and the only place available for them is the police force. At popular bus stops like Oshodi, Agege, Yaba, Orile, CMS, Obalende in Lagos, a look at the policeman and women will shock anyone. The clothes are tattered and so fail to elicit respect. The caps are not different. The clothes which seem to be black have more often than not, seen the best of times. During the rainy season, rain coats and boots expected to boost their work are not provided. There is no insurance cover for the police personnel in case of unforeseen circumstances. Most of the barracks harboring their men and women are mosquito-infested. The police stations are sights to behold with tables and chairs all broken down with power supply a rarity.   Nollywood and the rage of rituals     Problem with the new Electoral Act     Breaking the bias: Gender equality not the answer   If nothing is done about this unwholesome use of the men and women of the force, the next generation will have no choice than to disband the entire force and start all over again which will be catastrophic. In order to lay all these to rest, the first point of call should be total reformation of the police and its structures. The uniform and shoes should be changed while training and retraining should be given top priority. There is no single reason why the men and women of the Nigerian Police Force should not be attending at least two trainings yearly. For instance, police men and women in Lagos could be camped in Obudu Cattle Ranch in Cross River State while those in Kano moved to Badagry beach in Lagos and so on. Experts drawn from the academia and private sector should be brought in to deliver the training. If the men and women were well trained and their line of operations well defined, carrying food and tissue papers for some big persons in society would be unthinkable. <esivwenughwu@yahoo.com>