The world of sports has seen athletes who are siblings emerge prominent after setting or breaking records. From football to basketball, lovers of sports are sure to find sportsmen who are siblings. Here are 10 prominent siblings in sports: · Seth and Stephen Curry Steph and Seth are brothers. Steph is the big brother at age 33, but Seth is only two years behind at 31. Incidentally, their father, Dell Curry, was a first-round draft pick in 1986 and had a 16-year NBA career. As the older of the two, Steph entered the league first after playing three seasons at Davidson College.   · Me’Lisa and Mikele Barber Me’Lisa and Mikele Barber are twin sisters, sprinters and gold medal winners. Me’Lisa burst onto the international scene in 2001 when she competed with Team USA at the World University Games. At the 2003 World Outdoor Championship in Paris, she won a gold medal by running the lead leg of the relay race for Team USA. However, all the accolades were old hat. Me’Lisa had been winning relays since high school that had won All-American honors, and she appeared in Track and Field News before she had even graduated. Mikele Barber is also a notable sprinter. She won the gold medal for a relay race at the 2007 World Championships in Athletics in Osaka, Japan, and she has competed on a relay team with her sister Me’Lisa at the University of South Carolina.   · Antetokounmpo brothers There are five Antetokounmpo brothers who play for the National Basketball Association (NBA). Two of them, Giannis and Thanasis, often play together, but recently they asked their brother Kostas to join them for a game. The others are Alex and Francis. They all played for Milwaukee Bucks and it’s not often that three of the brothers are under the same roof. Their team won with an impressive score of 111-104 against the Los Angeles Lakers.   · Becky and Ellie Downie Becky and Ellie Downie are sisters who are both amazing gymnasts.   Ghana assures safety of Nigerian supporters in Kumasi     Injury knocks out Nadal     Lagos SWAN condoles with Lanipekun’s family   They’ve won loads of medals between them.   · Venus and Serena Williams Two of the most successful tennis players of all time. Serena has won 23 Grand Slam singles titles. Her older sister Venus holds seven Grand Slam titles. And playing alongside one another they have won 14 Grand Slam doubles titles too. They’re famous for being big rivals on court but supporting each other when not competing against one another.   · Gary and Phil Neville Gary was England’s most capped right back and captained Manchester United for five years. He is now a well-respected football pundit. Phil followed in his brother’s footsteps winning six Premier League titles, three FA Cups and the Champions League with the Red Devils, before moving on to play for Everton in 2005.   · Anton and Rio Ferdinand Rio played centre-back for Manchester United for 12 years. He also played for England, playing in three World Cups. Younger brother Anton has played for QPR, Sunderland, and West Ham, as well as England Under 21s.   · Jamie and Andy Murray Andy Murray won the Wimbledon men’s title twice but has struggled since having hip surgery. His older brother Jamie is a doubles specialist and won the Wimbledon mixed doubles in 2007.   · Yaya and Kolo Touré Yaya Touré played midfield for both Manchester City and national team Ivory Coast alongside his elder brother Kolo. Kolo played as a defender for Arsenal, Manchester City, Liverpool, Celtic and the Ivory Coast national team. He is currently a first team coach at Leicester City. Yaya currently plays for China League One club Qingdao Huanghai.   · Nikita Parris and Natasha Jonas Nikita and Natasha are arguably Liverpool’s most famous sporting sisters. At the London 2012 Games, Natasha became the first British female boxer ever to fight in an Olympics. Her sister Nikita Parris signed for Everton when she was just 14. She plays as a forward for Olympique Lyonnais and the England national team.