The relationship that exists between any going concern and its host community depends, to a large extent, on the rapport between the two. The relationship between the host community and the firm operating therein can be frosty or forward-looking. Being concerned about the condition of the environment in which it operates, helps a firm to be responsible. As important as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is for the community, it is equally valuable for a company as “CSR activities can help forge a stronger bond between a firm and the host community” and makes the host community show interest in the safeguard of the firm in a manner that it regards it as communal property. Mindful of these, Papilon Plastic Manufacturing Company empowered two schools in Ogun State recently. Papilon is a firm that has been in the manufacturing of plastics products in the past 43 years. On Monday, February 22, the Papilon visited the Nawar Ud Deen Primary Schools 1 and 2, Ijoko in Adodo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State with a truck loaded with water bottles, ballpoint, and other writing materials. On arrival at the school, the pupils were excited as they had expected to receive free water bottles and other materials from the company. The company was not only interested in distributing education materials, but also to improve the fluency and numeracy status of the pupils.   ‘COVID-19, insecurity no threat to tourists’     NGA boosts Enugu art scene     Celebrating matriarch of literature at 92   This, it did, through impromptu reading tests where some pupils were made to read publicly its vision, mission, and history. Papilon’s evaluation of the pupils’ skills showed that the pupils are making strong progress in oral reading fluency and foundational numeracy. After that, packs of water bottles, ballpoint and other materials were distributed to the pupils and their teachers. The head teacher of Nawar Ud Deen Primary Schools 2, Ijoko, Mrs Akinfaderin Mary expressed her joy over Papilon’s gesture. “We appreciate the distribution of water bottles and writing materials to the pupils of our schools today. The gesture will go a long way in helping to meet certain needs of these pupils. “Most of the pupils’ parents may not afford all the writing materials for them. It’s a good gesture that the Papilon came to give those items such as biro, water bottles, among others to them; and the children are very happy,” she said.