The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has taken a stand on the 2023 presidential election. Its President Rev. Samson Ayokunle said the next President should be a Christian from the South. According to him though CAN has no candidate for the Presidency, it will not accept a Muslim-Muslim ticket. Ayokunle said: “Even if the constitution is silent on the six geopolitical zones rotational representation, the political parties should be wise enough to make use of it in sharing the leadership positions. “We have warned all political parties against fielding either Muslim-Muslim or Christian-Christian Presidential candidates. Since President Muhammadu Buhari is a Muslim from the North, in the interest of equity, fairness, social justice and cohesion, the next President should be a Christian from the South.” Ayokunle spoke on Tuesday evening in an interactive session with some Christian leaders and European Union Delegation led by the EU Chief Election Observer, Ms. Maria Arena on a mission to the country from 1-5 March in preparation for the coming general election observation.   What you need to know about five gender-related bills…     Court restrains EFCC from arresting, inviting Innoson’s…     BREAKING: OAU student: Adedoyin, 6 others arrive Osun for…   The EU Delegation wanted to know the position of CAN on the preparation of all the stakeholders, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies and the political parties. CAN also described the menace of insecurity challenges occasioned by criminal activities of terrorists, bandits and kidnappers as the biggest threat to the next year’s general election. Ayokunle, who also doubles as the Co-Chairman of the Nigeria Inter Religious Council (NIREC), explained the security situation in the country might not allow the general election to be free, fair and credible if voters are not allowed to go out to exercise their inalienable rights because of fear of being harmed, kidnapped or killed. According to a statement by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant (Media &Communications), to the CAN President: “We call on the Federal Government and the security agencies to wake up to the security challenges in the country where terrorists, bandits and kidnappers are operating with impunity and nowhere is safe and secure again. “If the trend continues, many voters may not participate and the outcome of the election may not be credible.”