Super Eagles’ shock exit from the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup following Tuesday’s 1-1 draw which sealed the Black Stars’ qualification on the superior away-goal rule has been attributed to the ‘monkey business’ over the choice of players for the decisive match. Coach Austin Eguavoen has been roundly criticized for the starting line-up that saw about five changes to the squad that grinded a goalless draw with Ghana in the first leg in Kumasi last Friday. But Eagles were lack-lustre all evening at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja as defender Calvin Bassey, midfielders Frank Onyeka and Oghene Etebo as well as strikers Emmanuel Dennis and Lookman Ademola started against Ghana in the ill-fated 1-1 draw. But one of the team’s backroom staff has revealed some of the shenanigans before the match, adding the hands of the Eguavoen-led technical team were twisted as per the ‘shaky’ line-up against Ghana.   Qatar opens huge sports museum for World Cup     Semi-finalists emerge for Oyo Peller Unity Cup     Aruna hits WTT Star Contender semis   The official claimed some players were forced on him as starters which considerably altered his tactical plans for the tie. “We can’t reveal some of the things that happened behind-the-scenes, regarding the team (Super Eagles),” the official said, pleading anonymity for obvious reasons. “The line-up people saw yesterday was what Nigerians wanted. “For instance, the coach wouldn’t have started Dennis and Lookman but ‘some forces’ wanted them. He would not have considered Bassey for the left-back, but they wanted him there.” He further claimed that there was a pre-match meeting between some of the coaching staff and some top officials where the Super Eagles’ line-up was practically dictated. “There was a meeting he (Eguavoen) had with some officials prior to the game where he was handed over the list of players that must play,” he further revealed. “The pressure that we faced in the technical crew before the game was tense and it is hard to entirely blame the coach for what happened.”