Governors have been named as chairmen of many of the 20 sub-committees announced yesterday by the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the March 26 convention. But the party failed to kick off the sale of forms to aspirants for its zonal congresses billed for March 12. Yesterday’s announcement came barely four days after the party withdrew an initial list following allegations that it contained the names of controversial figures. The list was also rejected due to some alleged errors ranging from names duplication, inclusion of non-party members and non-consideration of the list sent by the Presidency and state chairmen. It was learnt that the errors had been corrected. Though the CECPC still retained the leadership of the twenty sub-committees on the withdrawn list, a look at the fresh list however showed that all the committees, except the central planning committee with a 12-man team of all the CECPC members, the Secretariat Support Committee has a 7-man team, all other sub-committees have their membership doubled. This development, the party said, was to accommodate wider interests in the party.   Fed Govt blames erratic power supply on low water level     NDLEA files charges against Kyari, others     Why govt can’t meet union’s demands, by Ngige   CECPC Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe said the constitution of the sub-committees complied with the schedule of activities for the convention as resolved by the caretaker panel under the chairmanship of Yobe State governor Mai Mala Buni. The statement reads: “After further consultations, the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), H.E. (Hon) Mai Mala Buni has approved the composition of Sub-Committees for the National Convention of the Party (attached). “Party members are enjoined to disregard all previous communications on this matter.” He further said that the Chairmen and Secretaries of the sub-committees will be inaugurated on Monday, 7th March 2022 at 2pm at the National Secretariat of the party.” The chairmen of the sub-committees Kwara State Governor Abdulrahaman Abdulrazaq (Screening Committee); Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma (Screening Appeal Committee); Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun (Election Committee) and Katsina State Governor Bello Masari (Election Appeal Committee.) Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubajar Malami (SAN) chairs the Legal Committee; Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle (Accommodation Committee); Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi (Venue/Decoration/Site Servicing Committee); Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong (Transport/Logistics Committee); Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Media/Publicity) and Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello (Security/Protocol). Others are: Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege (Accreditation Committee); House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase (Entertainment/Welfare); Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade (Medical); Gombe State Governor Inuwa Yahaya (Budget); Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar (Finance); Foriegn Affairs Minister Geoffery Onyeama (Accreditation of Volunteers/Diplomats/Observers); Kashifu Inuwa (Digital) and Bornu State Governor Prof. Babagana Zulum (Convention Legacy and Rapporteur).