“We have to repent on behalf of the USA and Russia as these two countries will not repent in the looming war between Russia and Ukraine to avert a 3rd world war (sic)” (Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, 8th February 2022). It is not news that annually, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, normally reels out prophesies at the crossover service of 31st December as his millions of his spiritual children and adherents look forward with hope into the new year. It was on record that the last edition of the crossover service that was held at Redemption Camp, Nigeria, one of such divine messages for the international scene was that “the issue of migration will take a new turn in the new year.” Is it not happening currently? This columnist was part of the select faithful fixated on fasting and praying for Nigeria and nations of the world, 8th February 2022. Prior to this date, Russia was flexing muscle with the sublime intention to invade the sovereign nation of Ukraine. It was the second day of the gathering that the referred clergy and statesman stated saliently and succinctly to the hearing of all that we needed, as intercessors, to repent for the two nations of the United States of America and Russia to avert a third world war! The congregants lifted up their voices and cried as directed. The following day, which was the 3rd day of the praying and fasting, Pastor Adeboye came and informed us that God Almighty had heard our prayers, meaning no 3rd world war! The prophet has spoken; let the whole world be at rest! Definitely, this would not result in another world war even as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) coalition is throwing a plethora of sanctions against the belligerent and irreverent Russians. There is indeed a prophet amongst us! As if lending credence to this attestation, President Muhammadu Buhari in felicitating with Pastor Enoch Adeboye on his 80-birthday stated inter alia: “his contributions to the betterment of Nigeria and other countries stand out clearly as testimonies of his divine calling, impacting greatly on education, health and infrastructural development, which include many urban and rural roads.” Dissecting and deliberating on this statement of the President will birth a treatise on the quintessential Adejare Adeboye, a man born in Ifewara, Osun State, 80 years ago from a no pecunious pedigree who for virtually 18 years of his existence could not afford a shoe even as a secondary school student of the famous Ilesa Grammar School, Ilesa, Osun State. God is indeed great; with Him all things are possible as Adeboye himself preaches globally! Professor Jide Osuntokun painted a pathetic picture of the penury – ridden pedigree of Enoch Adeboye in his article in the Nation newspaper of 3rd March. However, in a divine twist and turn, God elevated Adeboye beyond human comprehension. In a great turnaround, Adeboye became a global icon! Succinctly and squarely scripted by Osuntokun: “He was once asked by the Secretary General of the United Nations in New York to lead an invocation declaring open the United Nations General Assembly. He was once adjudged to be one of the most influential 100 people in the world. There is no other Nigerian who has been so recognized.” Evidentially, this could not be a happenstance but the high hand of the Almighty in all these feats. Adeboye: Perspectives and Personal Encounters It was in the ancient city of Ibadan. This columnist, as the senior pastor of the headquarter church, was part of the committee hosting the annual Holy Ghost Convention of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries having the incumbent President of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Bishop Francis Wale Oke, as the Presiding Bishop. In the midst of the convention, Pastor Adeboye arrived without any pomp and pageantry as was common with men of God of his caliber. This columnist was alerted by the wife of the Presiding Bishop, Rev. (Mrs.) Victoria Tokunbo Oke, of the coming of Daddy GO. I dashed out of my office with ecstasy and enthusiasm to meet with him as the Presiding Bishop was ministering at the Advanced Ministers’ Conference. Meanwhile, Daddy GO was ushered into the Presiding Bishop’s office. This columnist was directed to wait on him till he would be beckoned to come for his ministration at the conference a stone – throw away from the office. It was a one – on – one encounter with this great man of destiny. Quite unusually, this writer got a whisper, to seize the golden opportunity before it evaporated! At that instant, I went on my knees before him and told him he should pray for me and he obliged! It was divinely orchestrated that no one came in throughout the duration of the communication between this columnist and the dignified man of God. Secondly, there was this occurrence while sojourning in Singapore sometime in 2006. Baba Adeboye was to inaugurate the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) in that city – state – nation. The set man to shepherd the flock, Pastor Chidi Umeh – Ujubuonu, a friend of mine, was at the airport with a few trusted aides to welcome Daddy GO. It was a delight to see Pastor Adeboye coming out with simplicity in symphony with his humble mien that endears him to many globally. He approached the vehicle taking him and his retinue to the hotel. He then beckoned to Chidi and chatted with him in a hushed tone for a few minutes. Surprisingly, Chidi then called on me to join them. Then, Pastor Adeboye asked in a meek mien: “what is the duration of the ministration in the service tomorrow?” Respectfully, I retorted by saying that it would be between forty-five to fifty minutes. Word ministrations in Cornerstone Community Church (CCC), Odeon Katong, Singapore usually last for about 50 minutes. It was on record that Daddy GO, as the guest minister, came and ministered for about 42 minutes only! He dropped the microphone enacting a great applause from many Singaporeans – few Africans were in the service. Personally, I perceive this as a mark of solid integrity in content and colour. It was etched in my memory. Thirdly, while I was sojourning in Singapore, the Senior Pastor of CCC, Pastor Yang Tuck Yoong, was invited as a guest minister in RCCG Desire of Nations, Abuja at the behest of Pastor Kunle Omotoso. The year was 2008. Pastor Yang requested that I joined the retinue of ministers going as the only Nigerian in the workforce of CCC. The stay in Abuja was exciting to the team of ministers from Singapore. Interestingly, Pastor Yang was to jet out of Nigeria evening of Sunday, 2nd March 2008. Having heard earlier that Daddy GO’s birthday fell on that Sunday, he decided to join him in the morning service at the RCCG Throne of Grace, Ebute Meta, Lagos. Aftermath of the service, we were ushered into the spacious and palatial office of the man of God. I got the extraordinary encounter of my life. This columnist seized on another unique opportunity again before it slipped! This time, it was a suave double request – to be prayed for and to have a photograph taken with him. He responded by saying “yes” and complementing it with a radiating smile. I was overjoyed. Today, the framed pictures of this columnist and Pastor Adeboye are conspicuously displayed in his office and home.   Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye @ 80: Is there not a prophet…     Julius Berger – Taking a giant step? Nigeria’s government…     IBB: Who made you a judge over us in the 21st century…   My Testimony connecting with Adeboye This columnist has some friends in RCCG who are now Regional Pastors and Provincial Pastors with the start of friendship dating back to when some of them were Area Pastors. However, in a divine twist and turn, there was an uncommon encounter in a memorable night. In that encounter, there was a voice that pointedly told me: “I am joining your destiny with that of Enoch Adejare Adeboye to take you from the lowest to the highest”. In the year 2009, I took that giant and great step to humble myself to be embedded in the doctrines of RCCG. No doubt, my life was rebooted and rerouted resulting in alignment with the trajectory of greatness. It is unfolding as well as emerging looking back at my professional profile and pedigree! My Requests from Daddy Adeboye Concluding this two – part serial on Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye as he is still basking in the euphoria and ecstasy of attaining 80 years in his sojourn here on earth as a pilgrim looking for that city whose builder and maker is God – “land of endless days”, as fondly called by Daddy GO himself – this columnist will be making two requests from the highly referred man of God and elder statesman. One, I would plead that as he advances in years approaching 90, he should commence writing his autobiography. It is a pity that within the African context, we have lost some iconic men of God like Apostle Ayo Babalola, Moses Orimolade, Archbishop Benson Idahosa, etc. without them telling their own stories. Thus, we were bereft of their interesting and intriguing stories turning to glory. In essence, generations coming after were denied of gleaning and learning from their stories. Aftermath of their death, nebulous writers and historians came up with all kinds of perspectives about their lives. This is a path, in this digital age, that we must not tread again. Two, there are some Pastor Adejare Adeboye’s encounters that are somewhat exemplary and extraordinary in content, context and colour. I have read in the Bible the young sterling and stout-hearted David dealing with lions and bears with bare hands, and this sounded incredible to many. In the same vein, I was a participant in one of the memorable Holy Ghost Services at Redemption Camp in which Daddy GO shared an unforgettable encounter. He was involved in a night long prayer walk and confronted with a strange sight that made him switch on his torch light. Out of the blues, it was a big python that was a mirage mien of a pillar of light within the dark. The deadly reptile hated light and was triggered for a fight. According to Daddy GO, the poisonous and noxious snake was killed while he engaged in battle with it! Battle without gun or knife or any weapon? This is one out of many superlative encounters which if not documented now that Daddy GO is alive would be like fairy tales told at moonlight in an African village setting. In essence, I am requesting for the permission of the referred man of God to extricate such encounters and emplace the treatise as: “Extraordinary Exploits of Enoch Adeboye.” While looking forward to the granting of my prayer request, I once again pray to Almighty God to lace your life and that of your family with unending sure mercies that would ensure you all flourish, as well as fulfill God’s purpose whilst finishing strong and gloriously in Jesus’ mighty and matchless name. Amen. . John Ekundayo, Ph.D. – Harvard-Certified Organizational Strategist, and also a Leadership Development Consultant, can be reached via 08155262360 (SMS only) and drjmoekundayo@hotmail.com