The second round of talks between Ukrainian and Russian delegations yesterday ended without a ceasefire agreement. But, reports by The Epoch Times and Reuters by quoting a top Ukrainian official stated that the two sides agreed to set up humanitarian and evacuation corridors. Ukraine’s presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak said the two sides will together provide humanitarian corridors to evacuate civilians, deliver food and deliver medicine to areas with heavy fighting across the country. “The second round of negotiations is over,” Podolyak wrote on Twitter. “Unfortunately, the results Ukraine needs are not yet achieved. There is a solution only for the organisation of humanitarian corridors.” Previously, the Ukrainian delegation said they were seeking an immediate ceasefire, a temporary peace agreement, and the humanitarian or evacuation corridors for civilians. The first round of talks held in Belarus on Monday resulted in no progress. The announcement comes as Russian President Vladimir Putin said his country’s military has offered safe corridors to civilians to allow them to leave. During a call with members of his Security Council, Putin alleged without evidence or details that Ukrainian nationalist groups are preventing civilians from leaving areas. Putin again said the Russian military is fighting “neo-Nazis,” while asserting that some Ukrainians were “fooled by nationalist propaganda.” During a news conference yesterday too, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the prospect of another round of talks between the two sides lacks promise. But he said that the two still need to negotiate because “any words are more important than shots”.   Moscow ‘delivers 30 tonnes of humanitarian aid to Kharkiv Region’ The Russian armed forces have delivered more than 30 tonnes of humanitarian aid to Ukraine’s Kharkiv region, the Russian Defence Ministry said yesterday. The ministry said in a statement that from the Belgorod region to the territory of Ukrainian border settlements located near the Russian-Ukrainian border in the Kharkiv region, Russian military personnel delivered a batch of over 30 tonness of humanitarian cargo. It added that the aid was provided to residents of the Vovchansk city and the Kozacha Lopan settlement. The aid included cereals, canned meat and fish, bakery products, sweets and boiled drinking water, according to the ministry.   We will continue ‘uncompromising fight’ against Ukraine, says Putin   Russian President Vladimir Putin vowed yesterday to continue fighting against what he described as nationalists in Ukraine and said the Kremlin could add to its demands at negotiations if Kyiv stalls talks. “Russia intends to continue the uncompromising fight against militants of nationalist armed groups,” Putin said according to a readout of a call with French leader Emmanuel Macron, which added that attempts to slow conflict talks would “only lead to additional demands on Kyiv in our negotiating position”. Putin also told Macron he disagreed with a speech the French leader gave the day before about Ukraine. Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said yesterday that Russia tried to prevent the current development of events around Ukraine, but the West preferred not to notice this and now forgets about its responsibility.   Fed Govt denies imposition of sanction on Russia     Russian troops have ‘captured the city’- Kherson…     France seizes yacht linked to Russian oligarch   The diplomat called the Russian operation a forced move, after all the efforts of negotiations, compromises, clarifications and explanations failed Russia also explained that it does not build its policy on the principle of “escalation for the sake of de-escalation’’, saying NATO countries and Ukraine were the ones talking about the possibility of a nuclear war.   Biden, Quad leaders discuss Ukraine, humanitarian assistance   President Joe Biden discussed the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine with the Indo-Pacific partnership known as the Quad yesterday. The leaders agreed to meet in person in Tokyo in “the coming months,” the White House said. A joint readout of the call said Biden, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan used the call to assess the broader implications of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine. “They agreed to stand up a new humanitarian assistance and disaster relief mechanism which will enable the Quad to meet future humanitarian challenges in the Indo-Pacific and provide a channel for communication as they each address and respond to the crisis in Ukraine,” the readout said. “In their continuing pursuit of a free and open Indo-Pacific, the Quad leaders agreed to meet in person in Tokyo in the coming months.”   Germany to provide Ukraine with anti-aircraft missiles   Germany has approved the delivery of 2,700 anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine, sources in the Economy Ministry said. The weapons in question are Soviet-designed “Strela” missiles from the stocks of the former East German armed forces. The deliveries will come on top of the 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 “Stinger” surface-to-air missiles that Berlin had already announced it was sending to Ukraine. Earlier since the conflict began, the government of Chancellor Olaf Scholz has reversed years of highly restrictive arms export policies and allowed direct weapons deliveries to Ukraine to help fight back Russian forces. It was Germany’s “duty” to support Ukraine in defending its territory, Scholz said, in spite of refusing to export any arms to war zones or allow third countries to send German-made arms to such areas for years. Scholz also signalled a change in German defence policy in the past week by giving a massive financial boost to the army. Scholz said in the Bundestag yesterday that 100 billion euro (113 billion dollars) would be made available as a special fund for the Bundeswehr armed forces. German defence manufacture,  Reinmetall, said it expected to create between 1,000 and 3,000 new jobs as a result of the plans to beef up defence spending, chief executive, Armin Papperger, said.