A support group of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the APC Muslim Integrity Forum (APCMIF), has faulted claims that President Muhammadu Buhari endorsed former Nasarawa Governor Abdullahi Adamu, as the next national chairman of the party. The forum’s national coordinator Hon. Abubakar Yusuf in Abuja urged Buhari and other party leaders to critically examine Adamu’s past activities, commitment, age and physical fitness as well as his role as the arrowhead of former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s third term agenda. “APC as a party whose ideology is based on anti-corruption, integrity and good governance can not afford to present Abdullahi Adamu as the party’s national chairman because it will be used against the party during the electioneering campaign. “They will laugh at us and rubbish the integrity of our party.   Failure of bills on women inclusion: What went wrong?     Endless wait for third force political platform     Farotimi’s anarchism on Arise tv morning show   “We appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to critically examine the person of Abdullahi Adamu and his past activities, commitment, age and physical fitness and his role as the arrowhead of former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s third agenda. “We call on President Muhammadu Buhari and all leaders of our party to withdraw the purported endorsement of Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, considering his records, his age and the requirements of the office of the National Chairman with the view of replacing him if at all such alleged endorsement exists.” The group believes Adamu is not the only Muslim chairmanship aspirant from the North-central. “The fact is, Abdullahi Adamu is not the only Muslim from North Central Nigeria, we have people like Sen. Umar Tanko Al-Makura, Sen. Sani Musa, Saliu Mustapha among others that can do the job. “The age of Sen. Adamu should also be considered, Adamu lacks the physical energy and charisma to move around the country and seat for long hours as it is required of a National Chairman of a governing party in a country like Nigeria,” the forum alleged.