What’s really happening at the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO)? The long-running story involving a former acting director-general of the agency, Chima Igwe, who was demoted for making a false claim about his academic qualification, has taken a puzzling turn. The Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, was reported to have defiantly “promoted” Igwe based on an internal  memo  signed by the institute’s acting director, human resources management and administration, C.A. Ibe, dated March 21, 2022, and titled, ‘Reverting to status quo on the position of Dr Chima Igwe as Director, Chemical, Fibre and Environmental Technology Department.’ According to the memo, “following the recommendation of a report of the ministerial committee on the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, the directive of the Governing Board and the approval of the Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, the status quo on the position of Dr Chima C. Igwe is hereby maintained.”  The communication emphasised that Igwe “remains the substantive director of the department.” This development, in effect, not only reversed Igwe’s earlier demotion but also glossed over what led to it. He had claimed to have a doctorate from a university in Benin Republic, based on which he had benefitted from unmerited promotions for about 18 years, including becoming the agency’s acting director-general in 2019. In reality, in the period he only had an attestation letter issued by his supervisor at the Universite D’Abomey Calavi, Benin Republic, in 2002. He had not completed any doctoral programme, and did not have a PhD. But he had misrepresented his academic qualification and moved up the ladder at the institute based on the misrepresentation. An investigation by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), prompted by public outcry, eventually exposed his fraudulent academic claim. He was removed from the position of  acting director-general and demoted by the FIIRO board to the position he held before rising on account of his false academic claim. In the middle of the scandal, he returned to the university, completed his doctoral programme, and received a certificate dated 2020. President Muhammadu Buhari, in 2021, had directed the ICPC to prosecute Igwe “for giving false information to his employer” and receiving undeserved salaries based on the misrepresentation of his academic qualification. He is facing trial at the High Court in Lagos.   Town to gown     Not again!     Two exams, too poor   His reinstatement as a director at the institute raises questions about propriety and government hierarchy. It is puzzling that those cited in the memo made it possible for him to return to the position despite the scandal. Specifically, the ministerial committee on FIIRO, the agency’s governing board, and the minister who ultimately approved his reinstatement, acted without a sense of propriety. More importantly, their action amounts to contempt for superior authority because it goes against the stance of the president who had ordered his prosecution for deterrent effect. In addition, the position to which he has been restored was said to have been occupied by another officer who will now have to step down. Apart from possibly creating avoidable complications, this is untidy. All this is happening as the institute seeks to appoint a substantive director-general, the lack of which has reportedly hampered its operation for about two years. An advert dated March 14, 2022, stated that the position was open to only internal officers, which is allegedly contrary to the usual practice of making such a position open to applicants even from outside the agency. This restriction is allegedly meant to favour Igwe because his reinstatement as a director makes him qualified to apply for the position of director-general.  Also, it has been alleged that the advertised criteria downplayed postdoctoral experience to favour Igwe. It is unclear if these allegations are true, but they show how Igwe’s curious reinstatement as a director has created a fertile field for conspiracy theories. His reinstatement is unjustifiable. Those responsible for it, particularly the minister, are not worthy of their positions.