COMPANIES  are in a frenzy to beat the April 27th deadline set by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) for Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to raise their capital from N1billion to N5 billion. Though there are indications that 90 per cent of the 22 licensed operators in the industry may scale the hurdle, many operators are keeping mum over who will not make it so as not to create panic among contributors and retirees or make PFAs to demarket. In spite of the silence, however, it was found that six PFAs were yet to meet the requirement. But a senior official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, assured that the firms would meet the mark. He noted that the shareholders’ funds of three of the PFAs were already above N4 billion. Sources said the banks and asset managers were looking for PFAs to acquire. The latest entrant is an asset management company, Norrenberger, which has acquired IEI-Anchor Pension Managers Limited, findings by The Nation have shown.   NUP seeks gratuity for contributory retirees     Pension complaints and solutions     CBN disburses over N3tr to revive economy   Last month, FCMB Group Plc completed its acquisition of AIICO Pension Managers Limited. Last year, Guaranty Trust Holding Company Limited acquired Investment One Pension Managers Limited while Tangerine Pensions Limited merged with APT Pension Funds Managers Limited. A source said: “It is just a question of the companies to conclude. All of them are doing rights issue for their  shareholders. “And the way it works is that it gives one time for money to come in, but at the end of the deadline, other shareholders can bring the money and increase their shareholding even at the last minute. So, given that we have a month to go, many will be able to cross the hurdle without much issue.” Another source added: “We have one or two that we are not sure will be able to make it. In any case they are peripheral operators. So, the few of them that are at risk of not making it are those that the recapitalisation is targeted at. They are PenCom targets.The commission wants to ensure that they have more money to recruit the right personnel, open branches and service their clients more efficiently. “The banking industry is looking at a few PFAs and something will happen in that space. Asset managers are also looking at acquiring PFAs to deepen and further integrate the financial services sector.Recall that between 10 and 15 years ago, we had banking on its lane, we had insurance in its lane and pension in its lane. But we are seeing banks adopting this whole structure and acquiring pension businesses as well as asset management companies. As we look towards the end of the deadline, we will see one or two acquisitions from the banking or insurance industry. “The law says that 12.5 per cent of PFAs’ profit every year must be retained and so this has helped many PFAs to build their capital. So many are already close or above the required N5 billion. Only few of them are at risk.”