Deals and commitments amounting to over $42 billion were concluded within the two weeks that the second Intra-African Trade Fair (IITF2021) took place in Durban, South Africa, the President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mansur Ahmed, has said. Mansur made this known at the MAN Reporter of the Year Award/Presidential Media Luncheon in Lagos. He said over 20 members of MAN participated at the fair. Noting that some of the deals were concluded by Nigerians, Mansur said others were in form of negotiations for investments and trade. “Some of our members who were in Durban confirmed that they were able to agree to some relationships, whether it was a deal in terms of supply of materials or supply of goods,” he said. The fair was held in Durban, Kwa-Zuku Natal, South Africa, last November. It was also a unique and valuable platform for businesses to access an integrated African market of over 1.2 billion people with a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of over US$2.5 trillion created under the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).   Minister praises manufacturing of LNG stove     VIN: Customs, agents meeting ends in deadlock     Nigeria, EU partner on export expansion   According to Mansur, MAN participated in the fair to “strengthening the partnerships and the opportunities for collaborations between business communities across Africa and between manufacturers across Africa”. He said such partnerships and collaborations would form the basis for the engagements that would grow the economies and make the AfCFTA succeed. The MAN boss, who described the event as “a very successful event,” however, said Nigeria’s participation at the fair was acknowledged as one of the most robust. “Businesses across the various sectors in Nigeria, from Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to large enterprises in the manufacturing sector and indeed, even states participated to show their commitment to the intra-African trade and therefore, to the AfCFTA Agreement. “So, I think we have a very bright future for Africa and therefore, for Nigeria, because I think it should be clear to all of us now that any economic progress that is made in Africa as a continent will first grow from countries such as Nigeria and I therefore, urge all of you to continue to work together to focus on the growth of our industry not just in Nigeria but growth across Africa,” Mansur said. The award was instituted to appreciate and reward reporters, who, as partners, have been championing the manufacturing sector through in-depth reportage of the association’s activities on their various media platforms.