A frontline aspirant for the position of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mallam Saliu Mustapha, has promised to pave the way for women to play greater roles in party administration and governance. Mustapha made the promise when he hosted representatives of APC women groups in his private office in Abuja. A statement by his media office said: “As someone who believes strongly in gender equality, I agree that a critical mass of the voting public that was responsible for APC’s winning streak at the centre deserves better. “So, on my watch, APC women will have greater voice in decision making and also have better opportunities to aspire for elective positions. “On the gender-specific Bills that failed to scale through the recent constitution review process at the National Assembly, I see it as a minor setback. But despite that, we will engage party stakeholders at all levels with a view to creating an environment conducive for hardworking female members to get what is due to them.” The team leader and former Northcentral Zonal Woman Leader, Hassana Abdullahi, presented a 10-point demand on women inclusion in governance structure to Mallam Mustapha. Also, another frontline aspirant for the national chairmanship of the APC and Chairman of the Senate Services Committee, Mohammed Sani Musa, has congratulated Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello on his appointment as the acting Chairman of the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), ahead of its national convention.   PDP’s NEC meeting to hold March 15     2023: RCCG sets up directorate for members nursing political…     Man petitions ICPC over bank’s travel allowance snub   Musa, who was on a solidarity visit to the governor at the APC national secretariat in Abuja, expressed his support and wished the governor a successful assignment. During a closed-door meeting with Sani Bello, the aspirant deliberated on salient issues bordering on how to ensure that the APC remains strong, progressive and united. He also stressed the need for the ruling party to work in synergy with and support governments at all levels ahead of its March 26 national convention and the 2023 general election. To bring a new beginning to the APC leadership, Musa promised to re-engineer the internal structures and workings of the party. He again solicited Governor Sani Bello’s support for his aspiration to become APC national chairman. Sani Bello emphasised the need for all party members to work together for a successful national convention. The governor assured the party’s members that his doors would remain open for advice and constructive engagements towards moving the party forward as a special purpose vehicle that would transform Nigeria and enhance the well-being of the citizenry.