BY their silences, ex-president Goodluck Jonathan and Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele now number among the notable contenders for the presidency in 2023. No one knows how the idea of a second Jonathan run for the presidency germinated in the fertile and feverish minds of All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains, nor why his antecedent as a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president failed to discomfit his secret promoters. But since last year, his name has hung precariously over the 2023 contest, and with the passage of time the idea of him running for the presidency a second time has seemed mortifyingly less an anathema. If the conspirators in the APC have their way, Dr Jonathan will be back in serious contention less than eight years after his controversial first term was terminated by a decisive APC victory in 2015. But it is significant that he has said nothing about a second run for the presidency, preferring to leave the speculations about his intentions in the hands of fawning aides and vicious opponents. Should Dr Jonathan wish to throw his hat into the ring, he would shock only a few. Not so Mr Emefiele. Appointed in 2014 by the same Dr Jonathan after his spectacular falling out with the former CBN governor and later Emir of Kano Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, Mr Emefiele was thought to be too sedate, perhaps also too technocratic, and fairly too reticent to wish to engage in any form of politicking. How he has found himself in the thick of speculations about the 2023 presidential contest is a mystery. Like Dr Jonathan, he has also been silent about the rumours. But since the publication of his ‘Communist’ Manifesto weeks ago to opprobrious review, not to say the series of follow-up advertisements lauding his technocratic proficiency and administrative sagacity, Nigerians have begun to take his interest in the presidency a little more seriously but apprehensively than his managerial style at the CBN foreshadowed. The manifesto is of course bilgewater, but those who know Mr Emefiele say it takes far less to convince him to take fateful leaps into any void. Both Dr Jonathan and Mr Emefiele must now contend with the limited time left for them to announce and explicate their interests, or play down the rumours of their interests as the unflattering and unsolicited escapades of some of their friends and enemies working in league. Those promoting their presidential bids bank on the fact that the two gentlemen are from the South-South, a region they believe would not alarm northern powerbrokers as much as the Southeast. But with the publication of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) timetable for the next general election, which restricts any elbow room for primaries to between April and June to produce candidates, it is clear that Dr Jonathan and Mr Emefiele will have to come out of the closet. They had hoped to keep their ambitions hidden for as long as powerbrokers would need to cobble a consensus for them, but now they must feel pressured to finally take a stand. The coronation they expected from the APC chieftains and influence peddlers around them will not come soon enough, especially considering that the ruling party is itself facing the battle of its life to keep the party one in the face of fractious members, scheming caretakers, and a phlegmatic president. More than one year after the APC should have conducted its convention, it is still dithering, and would have continued pussyfooting had the National Assembly and eventually the president not okayed the Electoral Act. Seizing upon that law, the INEC also quickly published a timetable for the next polls, a tight schedule that leaves precious little time for the APC to indulge its machinations. It must not only conduct a rancour-free convention, the party’s new working committee must also kick-start its primaries only weeks after. They must in effect win medals as gymnasts without having had the opportunity of imagining themselves as gymnasts or training as gymnasts. They will, therefore, have little time to think of crowning either Dr Jonathan or Mr Emefiele as consensus candidates using a mode of primary made doubly difficult, if not impossible, by the Electoral Act. The party is in the process of testing its consensus method on the convention, with no guarantees whatsoever. Some two weeks ago, they incredulously and unabashedly ceded the ultimate right to midwife the consensus boondoggle to the president, but the president has remained cagey, unwilling to offer the visionary leadership the party needs at this time and get his hands dirty from pushing or foisting an agenda that could turn out to be unpopular or capable of stoking rebellion. It is remarkable that Dr Jonathan and Mr Emefiele have neither denounced nor controverted the rumour of running for the presidency. The former president is a dyed-in-the-wool PDP politician. The former ruling party is his natural turf. When he is not a gradualist, he is an unrepentant conservative naturally exasperated by the superior airs of progressives and radicals. There are suggestions that he is being drafted into the race by the APC caretaker committee chairman and Yobe State governor Mai Mala Buni who hopes to pair with the former president to contest the presidency. The governor has poured scorn on the idea, and the former president has kept undignified silence; but there is enough published on all media platforms to lend credence to the rumours. On the other hand, the only politics Mr Emefiele has played all his life is subordinating his person and character to any and every form of indignity to retain his position in the apex bank. Running for the presidency, even when it is clear that many party chieftains desire safe and deradicalised candidates as their president, demands talents completely different from what the CBN governor is used to. No matter how much surrender he has in him, exampled by how much of his dignity he has capitulated to powerbrokers sustaining him as CBN governor, Mr Emefiele is unable to play politics as Nigerians know it: he can’t speak it, he can’t scheme it, and he can’t fight it. His talents are completely unsuited to the amenities of Nigerian politics, a fact not lost on his devious and faceless promoters. No one can suggest reasons for President Muhammadu Buhari playing his cards close to his chest over both the party’s chairmanship position and presidential candidate. He has told everyone who wants to contest to go ahead; but he has publicly announced that he is not minded to reveal his preferences. When it was suggested that he had sided with the candidacy of former Nasarawa State governor Abdullahi Adamu for the party chairmanship, his spokesman denounced the speculation, insisting that the president had no preference. But the president did not deny he was instrumental to the inclusion of Mr Adamu’s name on the list of aspirants, nor the fact that he has become a convert to the consensus mode of primary. The president played a significant, if not decisive, role in the dethronement of Adams Oshiomhole as party chairman in 2020. Why he left Mr Buni to play ducks and drakes with the emotions of the APC for more than one year after his initial tenure was over is hard to tell. Overall, and contrary to his summations, should the ruling party make a hash of its convention and primaries, the president cannot escape censure. Most party chieftains and members uncharacteristically defer to the president’s leadership, and have serially accommodated many of his preferences, including those that war against common sense, law and logic. This kind of deference, which also hobbled the PDP in its days in power, is idiosyncratic of Nigerian politics. It doesn’t make sense, and is to be deplored for sure; but for now, there is little anyone can do to mitigate that abhorrent culture of subservience. It is left to a farsighted president to seize upon that deference to enthrone justice, fair play and a party culture able to operate without the inimical interference of any president, no matter how powerful, or any private or group interest, no matter how conspiratorial and well-connected. President Buhari’s aloofness enabled the subversion of his party by a cavalcade of schemers and primordial interests, many of them so shortsighted and so insular that the country is aghast at how easily they suborn the law and religion to bastardise the party and the system in general. That aloofness enabled Mr Buni to engage all manner of plots under the president’s nose, and the reticent Mr Emefiele or his dashing promoters to undermine and subordinate the management of the nation’s economy to careless and reckless politicking.   CBN advises manufacturers against taking dollar loans     We’re giving Nigerians good reception – Nuhu     A new race of men   In three weeks, the APC will be rid of Mr Buni and his dire opportunism. However, it is not clear in what shape he would leave the party, or how badly bruised and damaged the party would be after his exit. A little later, Dr Jonathan’s subterranean interest in the presidency will also collapse, and he will then find his voice and snigger at the thought of ever being linked with the APC, he a confirmed PDP politician. A little later too, Mr Emefiele’s risible run for the presidency will collapse like a pack of cards. It will not be clear whether his promoters had juiced enough out of him, but everyone will self-deprecatingly wonder why they ever ascribed any seriousness to a disingenuous campaign headed to nowhere. To drag Dr Jonathan into the race under any guise is to hand over the party back to the PDP. As inattentive as President Buhari might be, even he would be scandalised by that thought. If it is true that the former president had ever hinted the president of his interest to contest in 2023 on the APC platform, it is impossible not to imagine that so truculent a man as President Buhari would not hiss at his predecessor’s temerity and lack of judgement. But why the president has not called Mr Emefiele to order to unambiguously debunk the rumours surrounding his ambition can certainly not be due to the president’s laissez-faireism; it must be due to his mystifying sense of humour. On the whole, Dr Jonathan can’t lead the country again. When he did it the first time, he seemed overwhelmed by everything around him, unsure of himself. He has a good heart, which he demonstrated when his successor won the 2015 election, but beyond that, the grit, depth and dispassion needed to propel Nigeria to greatness elude him. He has made no effort to contemplate his failings, and when his party suffered defeat twice in a row, he made even littler effort to offer the party any kind of leadership, not to say succour. Instead, when he thought he was taken for granted, as in the last Bayelsa governorship poll for instance, he sulked very badly and remained disconsolate. Returning him to office at a time of furious change and decline, especially when he has not demonstrated capacity to grapple with new and complex challenges, will be like throwing in a novice swimmer at the deep end of a pool. Mr Emefiele’s Manifesto does not show his capacity to preside over Nigeria, especially considering how poignantly it glossed over his failings as CBN governor. He cannot acquire in the presidential office the character he seems only capable of romanticising out of power; for as he very well knows, or must be educated if he feigns ignorance, no one can give what he doesn’t have.    IT is four months since the PDP conducted its convention. It did it with aplomb, leaving the APC green with envy. However, since that promising start, the party has struggled to chart a determined and ideological way forward. So far, it has neither addressed its failings nor refined its misshapen party philosophy, nor has it purged its ranks of deadwoods or sanitised its operations. The same grasping, untruthful and cantankerous braggarts are still holding firmly to the commanding heights of the party. But the APC is in far worse condition. Its top echelons are brimming with scheming and ambitious politicians whom neither the president nor any other official appears capable of restraining. Its worldview is cracked; but much worse, it has little administrative capacity to rival the fickler PDP. Now, with INEC releasing its timetable for the 2023 polls, the two infantile parties must grow up quickly. Starting almost from now, the parties are expected to conclude their primaries and prep themselves for elections. The PDP had a head start, but it was unable to capitalise on that advantage. The perennial laggard, the APC, will have to suspend their insane power grab in order to be able to pull off a fairly rancour-free convention, and then make a frenetic dash for the primaries. Despite controlling the three arms of government, yes, including largely the judiciary, its officers still entertain at the back of their minds that some renegade jurist could rub the party’s nose in the litigious mud party members may provoke. As everyone knows, the ruling party has been running a gauntlet of litigations since 2020, a major crisis it has been unable to rid itself of. Sadly for both parties, they are both embroiled in so much mess that neither has a distinct advantage over the other. There are remorseless braggarts in PDP; the APC has its equal share of shameless and scheming brats spoilt rotten by a sense of religious and ethnic entitlement. The PDP is in a fix about who should fly its major flags in the coming polls; the APC has become apoplectic about the standard-bearers party chieftains want ostracised. The PDP is incapable of wisdom, resigning itself to droppings that litter side roads; the APC effortlessly and remorselessly eschews wisdom from all its activities. These two sides of the same coin will battle for the hearts and minds of Nigerians in the months ahead, unsure how the country would respond to their choices. In Emmanuel Macron, France embraced, as it were, its own Third Force in 2017. Theoretically, Third Force is an idealistic and welcome option for a society needing to transcend the mediocrity of its ruling elite. But there is no consensus on how it would work in Nigeria, or whether without a fundamental structural change a Third Force would not amount to just tilting at windmills. In any case, Nigeria’s putative Third Force is ensnared by the same urgency and desperation befuddling Nigerian politics and politicians. They can’t get themselves organised, let alone animated, early enough to overcome the time, legal and administrative strictures imposed by INEC’s timetable. So, for now, the public will have to manage the APC and PDP and hope that between them they will not burn Nigeria to the ground before the deus ex machina arrives, if he ever does.