Former Black Stars defender Stephen Frimpong-Manso has cautioned his compatriot to be wary of Nigeria’s wing play during the FIFA 2022 World Cup Play-off. The former Asante Kotoko star also identified the striking department of the Black Stars as the main headache Coach Otto Addo would have to confront against the Eagles.  “Our left-back position is also a cause of worry, and against Nigeria, who have sharp wingers, there is the need for the coach to address that area holistically,” he said. “We need reliable defenders at our laterals to hold the wings of Nigeria, and based on the output of the Black Stars in the AFCON. “We need another look at our left-back and right-backs, so we need to do everything to convince Southampton centre-back, Mohammed Salisu, and Brentford left-back, Tarique Fosu, to play against Nigeria.”   Pinnick lauds organizers as 8th Nigeria Pitch Awards…     Ghana vs. Nigeria : Black Stars open camp March 21     Usyk: Joshua gets three new offers for heavyweight rematch   He continued: “Another weakness with the Black Stars is the goalkeeping department where Joseph Wollacott performed below average in the AFCON. His output in Cameroun showed that he has to give way to other goalkeepers, and it is Richard Attah of Hearts of Oak who readily comes to mind. If Razak Abalora is in form, he should also be invited to join Attah,” advised Frimpong-Manso who previously managed the Black Starlets. He, however, tasked coach Addo to be ready to make very tough and difficult choices, if the Black Stars are to overcome the Super Eagles in the two-leg encounter for a ticket to the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, as Ghana’s lead striker Jordan Ayew has been experiencing a goal drought at both club and international levels.  “Our biggest headache is the attack, where Jordan Ayew has proved that he cannot be relied upon to handle it, hence the need for the Black Stars coach to look for other options as we meet Nigeria in our last World Cup qualifier,” Frimpong-Manso added in an exclusive interview with Graphic Sports. Frimpong-Manso, who made 15 appearances for the Black Stars and was part of the team that lost the 1992 AFCON final in Senegal, said in spite of being a good player, Ayew was not a striker who could be relied upon and, therefore, suggested that the team handlers consider Richard Boakye-Yiadom and Samuel Owusu for the striking roles and given more playing time.