The 22-year-old fashion designer, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who went missing after boarding a Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) service, has been reportedly found dead. Bamise’s body was reportedly found by the police at Ebute Ero in a mortuary. According to a social media user, Akinwunmi King, her brother was shown a picture of the body at the police station and he confirmed it was his sister. Bamise boarded the BRT bus at Chevron Bus Stop en route Oshodi around 7pm that day when she suddenly felt uncomfortable over the behaviour of the driver, now at large. She was said to have sent distress messages to her friend which included details of the bus and asked that they prayed for her. According to reports, her friend had advised she alight the vehicle at Oworonsoki and not follow through to Oshodi. But Bamise never made it to the Mainland as she was allegedly thrown off the bus at Ebute Ero with her private parts missing.   BREAKING: Police arrest Lagos BRT driver     BREAKING: Police confirm missing lady in BRT dead     #JusticeForBamise: Outrage over alleged murder of lady in…   He also shared screenshot of messages he received which indicated that Bamise’s private parts were harvested inside the BRT bus before she was tossed out. The sender claimed her body was seen in Ebute Ero, Lagos Island, near the Oba Palace, adding that some witnesses saw when she was thrown off the bus naked. “They saw the bus drove away and a jeep follow the bus, according to people she was shouting for help before she gave up. People around report(ed) the case to EbutevEro Police station,” the message said. In his further update, King wrote: “Bamise’s brother was at Ebute Ero Police Station this morning to confirm and when he was shown the picture of the body, he affirmed that it was his sister’s. He’s on his way to the mortuary to identify the body. “The driver is nowhere to be found. The police went to the address he gave, the occupants of the house said he left the house about a year ago.” The Police Command was yet to confirm or refute the latest information on the case. Lagos Police spokesman, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, when contacted, said a statement would soon be issued but denied stating if the girl has been found dead.