To ensure socioeconomic wellbeing and healthy living for all Nigerians, governments at all levels must make provision of potable drinking its top priority. Giving this charge recently was Mrs. Clementina Chinwe Ativie, President, Association for Table Water Producers (ATWAP). She spoke at a press briefing to commemorate World Water Day with the theme, ‘Groundwater: Making the invisible, visible.’ Raising some posers, the ATWAP boss said, “Can you pause a while and imagine a day without water? That day will be very difficult for sure.” Justifying the need for the celebration of the World Water Day, she said it is pride of place that the whole world accords the priceless asset that has made it so compelling enough to be commemorated. While noting that it is very important for all concerned including every tiers of government to reflect on water and its usefulness to Nigerians, she however urged the need for concerted efforts to ensure the availability of potable, hygienic drinking water for the citizenry.   Nigeria clinches deal for first locally-produced wine under…     Chivita unveils new marketing campaign     Investments in free trade zone worth $20bn, says Minister   She further reiterated in her Association’s commitment towards achieving the aims and objectives of ensuring the production of healthy and hygienic drinking water no stone would be left unturned. According to her, ATWAP for over two decades has been on the vanguard of not only water production, but also championing healthy water consumption across the country, and would not rest on its oars until this is achieved. “Here again we want to reiterate that water remains the source of life and so, issues concerning water consumption and production therefore calls for greater awareness it requires from us the producers and the government if needed we are ready to promote a healthier society.” Borrowing a leaf from the theme of this year’s celebration, Ativie said the responsibility of ensuring constant availability of water suitable for consumption is not only that of the government but other stakeholders like ATWAP, hence the need for synergy of cooperation amongst all the parties involved in the value chain. Waxing philosophical, she said, “Although God inspired man to dig holes in the form of wells to get water for use, the thought and effort put in such a venture shows that man will do whatever is humanly possible to get water for use. “Today increase in population and human developmental activities have further made water especially portable water scarce, and that is why underground water hidden far below the earth’s bowel is abstracted and purified for specific intended use,” she stressed.