Singer Davido was ecstatic as his uncle, Senator Ademola Adeleke clinched the factional governorship ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun. Adeleke and Prince Dotun Babayemi on Tuesday emerged as parallel governorship ‘candidates’ of PDP ahead of the July 16 governorship election. Ewurujakpo announcing the result which primary election held at Osogbo Township Stadium said: “At the end of the primary election, Sen. Adeleke had 1,887 votes, Fatai Akinbade had zero, Dotun Babayemi scored zero, Akin Ogunbiyi had zero, Sanya Omirin scored four, Dele Adeleke had one and 24 votes were voided.” He added: “By the power conferred on me as the Chief Returning Officer of this governorship primary, we hereby collectively declare Adeleke Ademola Jackson as the winner of the governorship primary election of the PDP in Osun State. At another primary held at WOCDIF Centre, Osogbo, the returning officer, Adelani Ajanaku, said: Total votes are 1,907, voided votes, 27; valid votes, 1,880; Omirin scored six, Ogunbiyi got 23, Fatai Akinbade had 28, Dele Adeleke polled 32 and Dotun Babayemi garnered 1,781.” He declared Babayemi as the winner of the primary. Reacting, Davido shared a screenshot of a video call with his uncle Ademola Adeleke and wrote: “001 OSSG LOADING @IsiakaAdeleke1 God is good!   Anticipate my s3x- scandal – Harrysong     My daughters ask why their mums are different – Davido     Olamide teases new song with Wizkid   “See you all in the field, GAME TIME!” Responding to a tweet by Dele Adeleke on his withdrawal from the PDP primary race, the 29-year-old singer mocked him for polling one tweet in one of the primaries. “You’re talking to the one person wey vote you abi, I don’t understand which one be all supporters … cousin Dele, frog jump loading”, Davido tweeted. In January, the pop star launched a scathing criticism at his cousin Bamidele Adeleke who declared interest to run in the 2022 Osun State gubernatorial election on Twitter. Davido, who posted a picture of his cousin posing with a provisional clearance certificate for the Osun State gubernatorial election, alleged Bamidele struggled to graduate with a Second Class (Lower Division) and has not succeeded in building “one single thing in his life on his own.” He also accused the aspirant of ‘forming intellectual,’ warning the people of Osun to beware of ‘FAKES’. He wrote: “Wonderful! Me I finished uni with a 2:1. But it’s now cousin Dele who struggled to even get a 2:2 that is now forming “intellectual”. “Intellectual that has not succeeded in building one single thing in his life on his own. This life ehn! Osun Beware of FAKES! @deleadeleke001.” In subsequent tweets, Davido continued to lash out at his cousin while promising to frustrate him for supposedly hiring the services of people to slander him