Super Eagles striking  duo of Odion Ighalo  and Victor Osimhen  has yet  again called on their teammates  to shoot down  the Black Stars of Ghana in today’s  decisive  Qatar 2022 World Cup   play-off second leg tie at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja. Admittedly  the tie is delicately balanced after both sides played out an energy-sapping goalless draw  last Friday at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi but the two strikers  said  the Super Eagles would be hard as nail to  edge out the adventurous Black Stars . “I’ve  tried  to talk to the younger guys (about the joy of playing at the World Cup),  that have not been there before that  this is  an opportunity for us to go to Qatar 2022,” the Al Hilal forward who  star for Nigeria at  Russia 2018 told NFFTv. “I have been there before  and I know what it means to be at the World Cup and by God’s grace, I would be happy to go to another one again.” Napoli forward, Osimhen whose 10  goals guided  Nigeria  to her record fifth  FIFA U-17 World  Cup in 2015, equally quipped  about Qatar 2022 dreams:  “Going to the World Cup means   a lot to mean and not only me but the whole team. We  know it won’t be easy  because like I always say, no game is easy in Africa because it’s very physical. Of course, to get the World Cup ticket, it would mean a lot to this team.”   Nigerians recruiting ‘inappropriate leaders,’ says Jega     ‘Tinubu, most qualified to be president’     PDP’s power Babel   Yet the two would further agreed that ‘when the going gets tough , the tough get ready’ as the Super Eagles  would pressed all  advantages to make a record  seventh World Cup  appearance, “We are going to go with our 12th man on the pitch  and that is the fans; we have a great chance to get the World Cup ticket.,” noted the 23-year-old Osimhen. “We have to respect the Ghanaians because they  too have some quality players. “But  we are ready  and we have a lot of individual quality players that can win matches for us.” The 32-year-old Ighalo was even more forthcoming: “ It’s home advantage for us but we are not going to  sleep because it’s going to be a tough game “Ghana would come out strongly against us because they have nothing to lose. We just have to give 110 percent  and  take our chances ; fight from start to finish .I know we are going to come out victorious by the grace of God  but we have to work for it.”