Maverick showbiz man and social activist, Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy has met with a popular cross-dresser, Bobrisky. The self-styled entertainer in an Instagram post shared several photos where he struck several playful poses with Bobrisky In one of the photos, the first slide, the 71-year-old ‘Area Fada’ rested his head on Bobrisky’s laps who sat with his legs crossed. Captioning his post, Charly Boy posed a question. He wrote: “Wetin Charly boy and Bobrisky dey do sef?” Charly Boy’s post has brewed reactions among social media users. Many bemoaned the unending ‘drama’ surrounding Bobrisky and hoped Charly Boy doesn’t get caught in the web thereby resulting in a future scandal. While others criticised Charly Boy. henxzik said: “Elders sef still dey mess up. Na your Generation spoil this country daddy, and you still won spoil am for the next generation. Well done sir.” iam_nelson80 wrote: “Hope tomorrow they won’t be an online scandal because bob sabi chop Okro na make am sabi run mouth.” a screenwriter stated: “Anything to remain relevant, I suppose. Shameful.”   Davido mocks cousin as uncle wins Osun PDP factional primary     Anticipate my s3x- scandal – Harrysong     My daughters ask why their mums are different – Davido   lossychyk quizzed: “I hope Bobyrisky no go carry him scandal near you. Because I no trust am.” hassanagarba06 said: “Dis area father u sef join spoil dis county wallahi imagine na una self una dey fool nonsense.” nkemsly2 wrote: “B very careful of this bobrisky to avoid future public embarrassment oo.” ngoziakor stated: “I know there is nothing between u guys but Bob has so much drama surrounding those he is/was close to . Just saying sir. @areafada1 . Much respect.” culture_jayweather said: “Make he nor fight u online tomorrow.” iamchibuzo1 wrote: “With all due respect u deserve an unfollow … you are a father act like one sir.” dvl_partners stated: “Area father if I here say you complain later because of this your new wine friendship were dey sweet you now so. You no go like wating I do say to you o. Na watch I dey watch two of you for now till una quarrel start from Bob side. Yeye dey smell already o.” presido_akpi1 said: “Father Respect your Age and Stop Distancing Igbo Elders, Pls Behave like Elderly Man and Stop following your Grand-children mate and Also stop supporting Rubbish.” Attachments area