The battle over zoning of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential ticket has shifted to the 37-man zoning committee chaired by Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom. Two opposing groups, apparently working for some presidential aspirants, are divided along regional lines over zoning. One group is demanding that the ticket be zoned to the South. The other is insisting that the contest should be left open to all contenders. Yesterday, the pro-North group, under the aegis of Justice and Equity Group (JEG), sent a memorandum to the zoning committee. They argued that the interest of the PDP would be better served if the race is left open to all contenders. In the memorandum by Ahmed Muhktar,  Yemi Arokodare and Chima Ndugbu, the JEG said the opposition party cannot afford the luxury of boxing itself into a regional or sectional corner. It further warned that zoning the ticket to any section of the country could drive the party into a costly error. According to the group, what the PDP needs, at this time, is an open and inclusive race in which no member or section of the country is excluded. The group urged the committee to be guided by what it described as “certain pragmatism and practical realities”. The memorandum reads: “Our position is that the presidency should not be zoned to either the south or north of the country. Rather, it should be an open race where members of the party from both the north and south of the country are free to aspire to the office of the president of Nigeria. “We hold this position with utmost sense of responsibility. It is our firm belief that the interest of the party will be better served when there is no polarity in the contest, especially that arising from regional or zonal sentiments. “We equally recognize the fact that the PDP as an opposition party is constrained in some ways. It cannot afford the luxury of boxing itself into a regional or sectional corner. “Zoning the office of the president to any section of the country will drive it into this costly error. What the party needs at this time is an open and inclusive race in which no member or section of the country will be excluded. “As a matter of fact, the PDP as an opposition party must shun the luxury of taking certain liberties. It should, instead, be guided by pragmatism and practical realities.” It argued that a pan-Nigerian disposition will put the PDP in a better stead to win the 2023 presidential election. The JEG said: “If the PDP must win the race, it must close ranks. It must shun any arrangement that could bring about grievance and feeling of exclusion. “It should, instead, go into the race more united and more formidable than ever before. An open, free, fair and inclusive primary election will guarantee the party this winning edge.” But the opposing group, under the aegis of the Conscience Group (CG), accused those opposed to zoning of hypocrisy and insincerity. In its own memo to the Zoning Committee signed by Paul Nwanubia, the group described as unfortunate that some people could be kicking against zoning at this point in time. According to the group, those opposing zoning were the same people that sabotaged the PDP in 2015 because they said that former President Goodluck Jonathan and party leaders from the South did not respect the PDP zoning principle.   Tinubu: I can’t celebrate when people are mourning victims…     8 dead, 41 injured, many still missing in train attack     We are distressed by train attack, say Northern governors   The CG said: “It is unfortunate that the same PDP chieftains who deserted the party to work with Buhari and the APC are now posing as owners of the party. “These people are not sincere. They deserted the PDP because they said former President Goodluck Jonathan and the South did not respect zoning. “We have not forgotten how they left the PDP in droves to join the APC where they worked for Buhari to win the 2015 presidential election. “Now that it’s their turn to respect our zoning arrangement, zoning has suddenly become an evil that must be rejected. So, where can an act of hypocrisy and insincerity take the PDP? “Check the list of the 2023 presidential aspirants and you will see a preponderance of those that sabotaged the PDP in 2015. What an irony! “Their latter day views on zoning and their ill-disposition to the principles of equity and justice smacked of desperation. “If others had not stayed back to rebuild the PDP at the time they defected to the APC, on what platform would they be seeking the presidential ticket today?” The group urged the Ortom-led panel not to be swayed by what it described as the “antics of desperados”. The zoning committee, which held its inaugural meeting on yesterday, is expected to submit its report and recommendations to the party leadership by April 7. Ten aspirants have so far purchased nomination forms to contest for the presidential ticket of the PDP. Four of them are from the North. The aspirants from the North are: former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; former Senate President Dr. Bukola Saraki; Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed. Those from the South are: Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike; former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Pius Anyim; Ovation Magazine publisher, Dele Momodu; an industrialist, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa; a United States (U.S.)-based medical doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze and a female contender, Tariele Diana Oliver.   Zoning: We ‘ll come up with acceptable position, says Ortom From Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja CHAIRMAN of the Zoning Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Samuel Ortom has said that the committee will come up with a position that would be acceptable position for all stakeholders. Ortom, who is Benue State governor, told reporters in Abuja at the end of the committee’s meeting, that discussions went without rancour. He said: “The meeting is yet to be concluded. We have adjourned till Tuesday next week, same time, same venue. “And until we conclude the proceedings, there is not much to say. So far, all the members are quite understanding. There wasn’t any form of tension.” Other members of the 37-member committee who attended the meeting included vice chairman, Mr. Ndudi Elumelu and a former PDP deputy chairman, Chief Bode George.