SIX months after the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) launched its portal, a digital platform aimed at integrating transactions in the industry into one hub, operators said the portal is not working well. A Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the insurance firms, who spoke under anonymity, claimed the portal is not working well. He stated that it was difficult to upload into the portal, a reason  many companies were complaining. Another CEO said they were partially operating the system as a result of difficulty, adding that their hotlines were not responding too. He said: “The portal seems strange to us and NAICOM officials. I think they need to do more. “The hotlines should be given to somebody who can resolve issues immediately and not just a front desk officer.’’ The Managing Director, Unitrust Insurance Plc, Mr. John Ijerheime,  confirmed the development. He noted that the Commission had not perfected their work but he was aware that they were still working on it. He said when this is done, it would be of benefit to the industry.   NAICOM chair, others for BusinessToday conference     NGX urges investors to diversify portfolios     NCRIB decries fake motor insurance   “I know that my IT manager has been writing them. I am not saying they are not trying, but they have not perfected it. I know that it will be perfected with time and be beneficial to the whole industry. “The beauty of it is what they have in mind to achieve. We send our activities and operations to them online and they respond, which helps us from paying so much money to courier documents to them. If they perfect the portal, it will be very good,” he added. It would be recalled that at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) forum, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas,  affimed that there  the portal had issues. Thomas, who did not make the issues known, said he would hold a meeting with the stakeholders in the industry during their retreat. He lamented that some companies have refused to let them into their operations online by uploading their data. “We are looking at e-regulation. The NAICOM portal, which we have the policy and licences system is fully operational. It is up and running and by June or July, the return analysis of the portal should be ready. This should minimise delays in processes, physical movements of documents, enhance our ability to provide data as at when due, among others. There are issues that I have reserved   till the retreat with the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA). “There are people who still don’t believe that things have changed and the must change. Also, some people believe that we penalise companies to generate revenue. I will like to say that it is not all penalties that are motivated by revenue generation. There are some penalties that are to put people in line to do the right thing. We agreed to adopt e-regulation and I don’t understand why some will  refuse to comply. “We have extended and warned companies that are not complying. Although we have not penalised, it will happen very soon. All we are saying is that we want to see their transactions, but some have refused to upload their data. There are some companies that are uploading and complying and I give credit to them. ‘’While in my office, I can see what some companies produce in the last 24 hours through the portal, others are not uploading their data. And these are the ones that will cry that companies are being penalised,” he stressed. Earlier, NAICOM spokesperson, Mr. Rasaaq Salami, in his response to this newspaper’s enquiries via SMS on the issue stated: “The portal is functioning.”