Nigeria’s most capitalised quoted company and Africa’s largest cement manufacturer, Dangote Cement Plc grew its turnover by 33.8 per cent to N1;38 trillion last yearw as strong sales in its largest domestic Nigerian market continued to drive the group. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of Dangote Cement for the year ended December 31 2021 released at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) showed that turnover rose from N1.03 trillion in 2020 to N1.38 trillion in 2021. Nigeria’s contribution to group sales increased from N719.95 billion in 2020 to N993.3 billion in 2021. Other African operations contributed N397.32 billion in 2021 as against N318.68 billion in 2020. The group sales volume stood at 29.3 metric tonnes, with Nigeria accounting for 18.61 metric tonnes while operations in other countries contributed 10.86 metric tonnes. Gross profit stood at N538.37 billion while net profit after tax closed 2021 at N364.44 billion. The Aliko Dangote-led board of directors has recommended payment of a dividend per share of N20 for the 2021 business year. Meanwhile, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) has raised Dangote Cement’s rating from C to B-. The CDP is an international non-profit organization based in the United Kingdom which runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions to manage their environmental impacts. CDP explained that it raised the rating as a result of the company’s commitment to climate change noting that the upgrade clearly illustrates the progress made by Dangote Cement regarding commitment to transparency and mitigating its carbon dioxide footprint. This is one of the highest ratings in Sub-Saharan Africa and the only Nigerian company rated by CDP. Chief Executive Officer, Dangote Cement Plc, Michel Puchercos, said the cement company is focused on making a positive difference, which is why sustainability is at the core of every part of its business.   ‘Saving culture important to surviving harsh economy’     SEC, CIS make case for professionalism     FMDQ Exchange lists N154b commercial papers, mutual funds   “We are pleased to be recognised for the progress that we are making in our environmental disclosures and sustainability. The CDP rating upgrade clearly illustrates the steps that Dangote Cement is taking in its commitment to transparency on climate and environmental issues. “In addition, our Alternative Fuel Project is at an advanced stage which aims to leverage waste management solutions, reduce CO2 emissions, and source material locally. This year, we co-processed 89,000 tons of waste representing a 60% increase over 2020,” Puchercos said. He added that Dangote Cement remained focused on sound governance as it has been leading the way with its commitment to sustainability and best practices. “We are driven by the goal of achieving the highest level of governance and building a sustainable brand for all stakeholders.  Transparency and consistency are at the core of every part our business culture,” Puchercos said. He noted that Dangote Cement became the first Nigerian listed company to report its financial results using XBRL format with the IFRS taxonomy, adding that adopting XBRL reporting format will benefit Dangote Cement’s existing and potential investors. Dangote Cement is sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement producer with an installed capacity of 45.6 metric tonnes per annum across 10 African countries. It operates a fully integrated “quarry-to-customer” business with activities covering manufacturing, sales, and distribution of cement. Dangote Cement has a long-term credit rating of AA+ by GCR and Aa2.ng by Moody’s due to its position, significant operational scale and strong financial profile evidenced by the company’s operating and net profit margins relative to regional and global peers, adequate working capital, satisfactory cash flow and low leverage.