There were 276 building collapse incidents and 654 deaths in Lagos State between 1974 and last year. To avert further occurrences, the state Safety Commission has taken steps to stop the menace by enforcing safety measures and insurance coverage. The state plans to achieve this by digitaling the purchase of occupier’s liability insurance and creating awareness about benefits accruable from making compulsory occupiers liability building insurance a culture in the state. The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, made this known at a Stakeholders Meeting on Compulsory Insurance (Public Building) for Lagos State Government – Safer Lagos Insurance”  at Alausa, Ikeja. He said there had been incidents such as natural disasters, building collapses, fires, explosions that have resulted in injuries, permanent disabilities, loss of lives and property. He reiterated that the Federal Government had made insurance policy compulsory.   Russia-Ukraine conflict: ‘West Africa at risk of food…     Plateau unveils energy efficiency code to curb erratic power     Brent crude prices rise to $114 p/b as EU mulls Russian oil…   He noted that due to several factors, some of the compulsory insurance laws had not been fully implemented. He said: “Due to several factors, some of this compulsory insurance laws have not been fully implemented and as such, when dangerous occurrences and disasters happen, the citizenry look up to the government for compensation. “Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that public buildings must be adequately insured ostensibly to cushion the impact and reduce burden and liability on property owners and government. Therefore, there is need to support this initiative to achieve the noble objective for which the compulsory insurance act on building was enacted and this is what we are set to do.” He stressed that the Safety Commission is responsible for the coordination of government matters on the safety of lives and properties of Lagosians, adding that the Commission is vested with powers to formulate policies, provide advisory and be the regulatory body on safety related issues. “Our vision is to proactively make safety a lifestyle in Lagos State, a world-class city, and maintain the leading change. We also aim to develop policies and strategies that will build a sustainable safety culture through a regulated and coordinated safety system,” he said. The Director-General, Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, lauded the government for the initiative. She stated that the insurance industry has the capacity to indemnify risks.