The World Savings and Retail Banking Institute (WSBI)’s programme for financial inclusion, Scale2Save, has reiterated the importance of inclusive financial services for Nigerian women, youths and farmers as a way to fuel the country’s economic recovery and growth. This was stated at the Scale2Save financial inclusion knowledge sharing event attended by key financial stakeholders across the country. Scale2Save is a six-year programme of the World Savings and Retail Banking Institute in partnership with the Mastercard Foundation. Scale2Save Programme Director Weselina Angelow, said: “As we intensify efforts to improve financial inclusion, it is important that all stakeholders are a part of knowledge and insight-based discourse as this to improve on their processes and make informed financial inclusion decisions.” Angelow said the mission of Scale2Save was to support financial inclusion for millions of youths, women and farmers.   Association condemns attack on activist     Senator Abiru greets lawmaker at 50     Oniru’s mum dies at 85   “We focus on adding value to all stakeholders along the service value chain by empowering our financial service provider partners to become savings-driven, customer-centric institutions,” she said. Head of Financial Inclusion Secretariat, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Dr. Paul Ihuoma Oluikpe, said financial service providers must target specific customer needs with financial inclusion products. “There are several products in our financial services space that are too generic. These products are not targeting any value proposition, and are not sufficiently differentiated at the customer level. While there are generic products that appeal to the larger audience, there is the need to drill down at the customer level to target different nuances that exist in the society,” Dr. Oluikpe said. Group Head of Financial Inclusion, First City Monument Bank (FCMB) Adetunji Lamidi, said: “Financial illiteracy is a major barrier to financial inclusion.  What we see is a situation where a lot of Nigerians still have this overdependence on the informal financial sector. It takes a long trust-building process to switch them from the informal sector they are familiar with into the formal sector. This is why most of the financial service providers have adopted agency banking where people within the neighbourhood are used as bank representatives.” This helps to build confidence, trust and convenience into our financial inclusion strategy.”