Leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, has relived how he and his wife survived when their Zaria home was raided by the military in 2015. He said they hid in a laundry room when the shooting began, but were forced to come out when soldiers allegedly threatened to burn the building down. The Shiite leader claimed that the attackers not only killed several people, including his children but also shot him and his wife. El-Zakzaky pleaded with the Army to release his international passport so that he and his wife can travel abroad for medical attention to remove some of the shrapnel in their bodies which doctors overseas said could be removed. Soldiers from 1 Division Nigerian Army in December 2015 raided Zakzaky’s home and arrested him and his wife, a day after followers of Zakzaky blocked the convoy of the then Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai on their way to Depot Nigerian Army for a function. Zakzaky, who claimed that his leg was broken and damaged bones were seen by those who rescued him after the “assassination attempt ” in Zaria, explained that it was by the miracle of Almighty Allah that his leg and damaged eye were healed. The Shi’ite leader spoke in an interview with the Hausa Service of the BBC, which was monitored by our Correspondent in Kaduna.   APC NATIONAL CONVENTION UPDATES     APC convention: Six chairmanship aspirants resign, write SGF     Convention: Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Taraba delegates barred from…   He said he was still hopeful of going back to Zaria and rebuilding his former religious complex that was pulled down. According to him, attempts to get his International Passport and that of his wife so that they could travel out and get the required medical attention, were allegedly frustrated by the authorities. He said: “When they came to kill us, intense firepower made us to hide in a room that was used as a laundry. But they announced that if we don’t come out, they will set fire on the house so I decided it would be better I went and they shot me than to be burnt alive.” “They killed my children and many others. They shot me and my wife….I was later taken to a medical facility in Zaria, 44 hospitals in Kaduna and then to Abuja.” “I survived only by the will of Allah. This my eye was affected when bullets flew past but it is healing by the will of Allah,” he said. He, however, appealed for his passport and that of his wife to be released so that they could be able to access medical treatment abroad.