Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele yesterday unveiled 21 maize pyramids in Kaduna with a commitment to finance cultivation of 600,000 hectares in the 2022 wet season farming, to mitigate food crisis that may arise due to Russia-Ukraine conflict. The 21 pyramids, a collaborative effort of the CBN and Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN) Anchor Borrower Programme, which took weeks to build, were made up of between 35 to 50 trucks of 100kg bags of maize each. Unveiling the pyramids, the CBN Governor said, the Russia-Ukraine conflict will impact negatively on global maize supply, hence the CBN has planned a more robust and timely wet season to commence in April 2022 for maize and other key commodities like rice, wheat, cassava, sorghum and soyabeans to mitigate the impending food crisis. Emefiele, who was represented at the occasion which is the second in series by the CBN’s Director of Development Financing, Mr. Philip Yusuf said, the CBN-MAAN partnership produced the first maize pyramids in 2021 with a total of 300MT displayed in 12 pyramids, which the bank strategically released to the market through allocation to major feed mills and large-scale poultry farms. He said that strategic allocation assisted in moderating prices and ensuring steady supply to the major players in the market, noting that, cost savings to those economic agents were enormous and it had a multiplier effect of the entire value chain. “As we prepare for another wet season program, the Central Bank of Nigeria is committed to financing over 600,000 hectares. Our strategy is hinged on improving productivity by providing more funding for the anchors to enable them to utilise high quality inputs and good agronomic practices to boost output.   “Bringing recent happenings globally into perspective, two of the top ten exporters of maize (Argentina and Brazil) experienced droughts in 2021, while another two (Ukraine and Russia) are at war. This will certainly impact on maize supply globally and drive prices northwards. Consequently, we have planned a more robust and timely wet season to commence in April 2022 for maize and other key commodities like rice, wheat, cassava, sorghum and soyabeans to mitigate the impending food crisis occasioned by the crisis in Russia and Ukraine,” Emefiele said.     Rising external debts worry CBN     Emefiele explains Naira stability at I&E window     Raising domestic production with $200b FX target   Tracing the history of the maize revolution, Emefiele said, “the maize revolution was birthed over six years ago under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), with the overall objectives of facilitating food security by increasing local production of maize, safeguarding the activities of smallholder maize farmers, stimulating rapid economic recovery, enhancing rural livelihoods, increasing job opportunities through funding of smallholder farmers for Commodity Associations (CAs) and supporting Prime Anchors (PAs) to engage in backward integration for self-sufficiency and conservation of scarce Foreign  exchange.   “Prior to the CBN’s initiation of the maize revolution under our Anchor Borrower Program, growth of maize production in Nigeria has been largely due to the increase in hectares of cultivated land and not the yields per hectare. The yield prior to 2016/2017 in Nigeria was as low as 1.8MT/Ha, considered as the lowest among the top 10 maize producers in Africa, behind countries such as Egypt and South Africa where the yields are 7.7 MT/Ha and 5.3MT/Ha, respectively.   “It is gratifying to note that the nation’s maize production as at date is 12.2 million metric tonnes from 10.5 million metric tonnes in 2015 when the anchor borrowers’ programme commenced. This increased production is taken from the farmers as repayment for the loans and put in a strategic maize reserve,” Emefiele said.   Earlier, the Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Mohammed Mahmood Abubakar said the gap between the demand and supply of maize production which stood at over five million metric tons, has been closed, thus gradually paving way for export of Maize to international markets as a result of the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) initiated by the Federal government and implemented by the CBN.   He noted that, before the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, Nigeria was not self sufficient in maize production, adding that the ABP was another consistent milestone in achieving one of the core objectives of the administration which is for Nigeria to be food and nutritional secured.   Also speaking, President of the Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN), Dr. Bello Abubakar Annoor said today’s event demonstrated the capacity of the association in mobilizing Nigerian farmers to produce what can sustain the country and even export over a period of time, adding that, over 180,000 maize farmers participated in the 2021 farming season.   According to him, “Official unveiling of these pyramids is a genuine feedback to the present administration’s determination to lift many Nigerians out of extreme poverty and position agriculture as a business. What is being displayed here is a fraction of what has been produced by our farmers. We have more in our various warehouses across the country. There are 21 pyramids each constructed with between 30 – 79 trucks of maize.”