For the second time this year, the fight series, Face-Off Fight Night 2, brought together celebrities and notable public figures from both Nollywood and the Nigerian music industry. The event was held at Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos on Friday night. The first Face-Off Fight Night was launched in Nigeria on January 7, 2022, in a star-studded event with celebrities including Grammy award-winning Burna Boy, Bovi, Nengi Hampson, DJ Spinall, Olisa Adibua, Wofai Fada, William Uchemba, amongst others in attendance. In attendance at the second series were mainstream artists such as 2Baba, Annie Idibia, Banky W, Phyno, Falz, Bovi, Nedu amongst many others including UFC Welterweight Champion, Kamaru Usman who was also the host and founder of Face-Off Fight Night to celebrate Mixed Martial art in Lagos. Winner of the reality TV show, Gulder Ultimate Search Season 12th, Odudu Otu, who is no stranger to physical exertion and endurance, was spotted in the crowd cheering fighters as they entered and exited the boxing rings at various intervals.   I’m a great mom, says Mercy Johnson     Ifuennada threatens to share photos of men sending their…     DJ Cuppy apologises to dad for rat prank   The UFC Welterweight Champion, Kamaru Usman said he hopes to expand the event over time to have a positive impact on Nigerian tourism. Kamaru also said the show is to grow the sport in Africa and provide opportunities for African fighters. He explained that the event will also transform the lives of the children and their families. “I intend to expand this event over time for it to have a positive effect on Nigerian tourism, as a lot of people will be traveling from different parts of the world to watch football”, Kamaru said. “The idea is to create opportunities for children like myself. This fight series is the best way to do that. I was able to run into my amazing partners who had a similar vision as well, and this vision is to create opportunities for the future generation. “The idea is also to get all those kids like me to change their lives and their families. It is not just about doing a show, we want to do big things with this event to change the culture and the way things are right now,” he said. Odudu also said the game of Mixed Martial Arts ranked high on his list of interests and this was an event he had been anticipating for a long while since it premiered in January 2022.