Funso Doherty, chartered accountant and Managing Director of Pension Alliance, is not happy with the state of the nation. Nigeria suffers because of lack of appropriate leadership, he told reporters in Lagos, stressing that the country is at a seminal point; a threshold. His remark is an understatement. The quality of education is worsening. Health institutions are ebbing away. Unemployment is soaring in geometric proportions. Inflation and poverty are growing. Insecurity is not abating. Life expectancy is low. There are more puzzles. Where does Nigeria rank in absolute term? Where does it rank in relation to its potentials? Doherty wants Nigerians to make a wise choice in next year’s polls. In his view, the election of a credible leadership will halt that rot and usher the country into a new era of decency. The technocrat delved into history, recalling that some six decades ago, Nigeria and some Asian countries were at par. But, the Asian countries, particularly Malaysia, have moved on to the horizon of prosperity. Are they more endowed or more energetic? Doherty asked. “It is about the driver. Some move forward. Some prefer to be on reverse. It is about leadership,” he said. Doherty said leadership across the sectors shoukd be examined, especially the political leadership, public service, national and sub-national levels. He maintained that the shortage of leadership is the bane. Next year, Nigeria would have witnessed 24 hours of civil rule and stability. Doherty said 24 years is almost a generation. He queried: “What are the gains?” In his view, the process of leadership recruitment is faulty. The outcome, he reasoned, is a usually a product of the process. He observed that due to the defective process, politics has become a commercial venture; almost a criminal activity. It is transactional. “Democracy in Nigeria is government of some people, by some people and for themselves,” he fumed. Doherty lamented that voter apathy is on the increase, saying that during the last election, only one million of six million registered voters came out to vote in Lagos. “It shows the perception of the people about the process,” he added. Doherty re-echoed the agitations that votes should count. He said Nigerians are apathetic because they think they do not have alternatives to choose from. “Therefore, votes should could and there must be credible alternatives,” he said.   Qualities I expect from next president, by Abiru     APC Governors resolve differences ahead of National…     70 PDP members decamp to APC in Gombe   To Doherty, the new Electoral Act, if implemented, will reduce electoral fraud. “Technology will enhance transparency. People are fed up with the system and looking forward to a new source of hope,” he said. Doherty alluded to what he described as the youth bug, underscoring their eagerness for change through the ballot box. He also called for the enlightenment of the electorate so that they can embrace credible candidates. The technocrat urged professionals to change their attitudes to politics. “Those who have something to offer in terms of character and competence stay away from politics. Those who are in politics for the wrong reason love it. So, it is a trap. We must not accede to that trap. Public office should be seen as a sacred trust,” he said. But, what is Doherty up to? He is not associated with any political platform. However, he has a rich profile. Doherty is an accomplished Professional with a distinguished record spanning more than 25 years. He is the Managing Director and CEO of Pensions Alliance Limited (PAL Pensions) one of Nigeria’s foremost Pension Fund Managers where he leads a nationwide team overseeing a large portfolio of assets. He was previously Managing Director of ValuAlliance Asset Management Ltd, a member of the African Capital Alliance (ACA) Group. Funso had served as the Pioneer Managing Director and CEO of ARM Pension Managers, which he led from its inception to become one of Nigeria’s most successful Pension Fund Administrators. During that period, he was elected Pioneer Chairman of the Pension Fund Operators Association (PENOP) the umbrella body of all licensed Pension Fund Managers and Custodians in Nigeria. In his extensive prior experience spanning over two decades, Funso has held a number of positions in leading foreign and local firms including Goldman Sachs & Company and PNC Advisors in the United States of America and ARM in Nigeria. He started his career in the Lagos office of the Assurance and Business Advisory practice of Arthur Andersen (now KPMG). Doherty holds a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from Harvard University and a BSc. in Accounting from the University of Lagos. He is a co-founding Trustee of the CFA Society Nigeria and a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria.