The Registrar/Chief Executive of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Prof Ishaq Oloyede on Monday said he will never pray to be a Minister. Oloyede, who said this while representing the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, at the first quarterly meeting of the Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) in Abuja on the theme: ‘Education for peace and nation building’ said: “I am called to speak for the minister and I am not a minister and I am not praying to ever be one. I believe that I should say that the Honorable Minister and the administration are committed to the development of education in the country”. Secretary to the Government of the Federation, (SGF) Boss Mustapha assured Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari was doing everything possible to resolve the level of insecurity and high cost of living in the country. He said the current administration will bequeath a prosperous nation to its successor. Mustapha, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, General Services, Office of the SGF, Maurice Nnamani, urged the leadership of NIREC to continue to appeal to the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to call off the strike in the interest of a safe and prosperous nation. He appealed to everyone to continue to preach peace and harmony with your neighbours and strive towards nation building. The Sultan of Sokoto and Co-Chairman of NIREC, Sa’ad Abubakar expressed sadness over the insecurity in the country and the war between Russia and Ukraine.   Alleged N6bn fraud: Court reduces Mompha’s bail sum from…     Why Nigeria is not reaping full benefits of oil windfall –…     Tension as IPOB dares Soludo over Monday’s sit-at-home order   He said: “We have serious problems in Nigeria and the rest of the world. What is happening in other countries should be of concern to us in Nigeria. Innocent people died by this action. We have to always speak against violence anywhere because if we do not do so we will face serious questions from our creator in heaven”. The President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Co-chairman of NIREC, Rev. Samson Ayokunle condemned the attack on Kaduna Airport by bandits last Saturday. He blamed government and security agencies for allowing what he described as an embarrassing incidence to occur. The CAN boss faulted the government’s and security intelligence gathering mechanism, warning that the same situation could repeat itself anywhere else if the government does not tackle it. He blamed ASUU for not yielding to the advice of NIREC not to go on strike and also described their action as ‘impatience’. Ayokunle however advised the government to resolve the lingering issues with ASUU.