Governor Seyi Makinde’s administration has witnessed some good and challenging times. While his administration has witnessed stable and improved revenue, which helped it deliver on its promise to pay salaries and pensions without delay, the same administration has witnessed the death of some notable indigenes, including two former governors and two first-class monarchs. Southwest Bureau Chief BISI OLADELE how the governor has managed the challenges facing the state to sustain his popularity When Governor Seyi Makinde took over the leadership of the state in May 2019, he never expected that his two immediate predecessors would pass on so soon.  Neither did he expect that the late Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and his Ogbomoso counterpart Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi would bid their people farewell unannounced, and within 20 days interval. His immediate predecessor, Abiola Ajimobi, was the first to succumb to the cold hands of death on June 25, 2020; just one year after Makinde succeeded him. The handling of Ajimobi’s burial was shrouded in controversy as both the family of the former governor and his successor was yet to fully settle on matters of political and governance differences. As at the time Makinde was sworn in as governor, four former governors were alive and residing in the state. They were Dr Omololu Olunloyo who governed the state in 1983, Sen. Rashidi Ladoja (2003 to 2007), Adebayo Alao-Akala (2007 to 2011) and Ajimobi (2011to 2019). The next prominent indigene to answer death’s call was Oba Oyewunmi, who departed on December 12, last year. He was followed by Oba Adetunji who joined his ancestors on January 2, this year. As preparations for final burial ceremonies were going on, the death of Alao-Akala hit the scene on January 12. Makinde became officially bereaved as he faced the task of burying four prominent indigenes. Rising to the occasion, just the way he did to COVID-19, the governor, as expected, gave Alao-Akala a state burial being a Christian. The two monarchs were Muslims who had to be buried the same or second day according to Islamic rites. But the state ensured that it took an active lead in their 40th-day Fidau as part of the commitment to celebrating the community leaders who were deeply loved by their subjects. In honouring the late Oba Adetunji, Makinde said he would stand on the late monarch’s position that the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration remained unchanged, hence, he directed Ibadan high chiefs to forget about the review that caused controversy and maintain the status quo. It was a condition he insisted must be met before approving the selection of the new Olubadan. The governor said it was perhaps the only way he could honour the monarch whom he described as a gentleman and a true father. As for Ladoja who was a cornerstone of the platform that brought Makinde to office, the governor has kept him close to his administration, always announcing with glee how much wisdom he is tapping from the septuagenarian. He obviously ensures that the former governor gets his dues as one who has served his people well. The gesture resonates with Alao-Akala’s position that former governors should be well taken care of having served their states well.   Adeleke, five others battle for Osun PDP ticket     Why I want to be president, by Okunnu-Lamidi     Ogunbiyi pulls out of Osun PDP Gov primary   In an interactive session with reporters on the occasion of his 70th birthday in 2020, Alao-Akala responded to a question by this reporter over the welfare of former governors that a former governor should be well maintained by the state they served because the position saps every energy, intellect, gift, time and ability they possess. He said: “Look, I was very healthy before becoming governor. It was while serving as governor that I developed high blood pressure which I have been managing since then. Being a governor is not a child’s play. So, former governors’ welfare should be a priority for the state government.” Perhaps the sudden departures of the two monarchs and Alao-Akala in quick succession made Makinde realise the need to celebrate people while still alive. Just last week, the people of Ibadan were woken to a massive surprise of the renovation of Dr Olunloyo’s Molete residence by Governor Makinde. The renovation was accompanied by a Toyota Landcruiser SUV. The nonagenarian could not believe his eyes seeing all the current governor did for him. He was full of praises for the governor and members of his cabinet. Though Makinde did not make the gesture a public event, it was clear that he chose to celebrate Olunloyo while still alive as he brings a human face to governance. At Alao-Akala’s burial ceremony, Makinde, who described the former governor as a great man that recognized and lived his life in accordance with the biblical teaching that there is a time and a season for everything, assured that the government would immortalize the deceased. Accordingly, he disclosed at the Beulah Baptist Conference Centre, Ogbomoso, the venue of the burial service for the late former governor that a committee headed by his Chief of Staff, Segun Ogunwuyi, would work on how best to honour Alao-Akala. He praised the ex-governor for putting aside party differences to work for the progress of the state when he (Makinde) informed him of a plan to flag off the Ogbomoso-Fapote-Iseyin Road. His words: “In Ecclesiastes 3, the Bible says there is time for everything under the sun. In the last conversation I had with Governor Alao-Akala, I called to inform him that I would like him to be the one to flag off the Ogbomoso-Fapote-Iseyin Road project, and he said to me, ‘Seyi, just call to give 48 hours’ notice, and I will be there.’ He knew there was a time to tear down and a time to rebuild together. The former governor recognized the fact that that particular time was not the time for us to project our political differences but a time to come together in the interest of Oyo State.” Makinde also disclosed that apart from supporting the family of the governor, he would redeem whatever pledge Alao-Akala made to students of the Ogbomoso Baptist Conference College. He said: “As for the children, who came with a request, I know how you feel and I will champion the cause to redeem whatever it is the late Governor Alao-Akala has promised them. Finally, I have been going around to determine how we can honour our great man from Oyo State. And we have set up a committee headed by the Chief of Staff. If you also have any advice in this regard, let us know and, within the shortest period of time, the government of Oyo State will ensure that he is adequately honoured. On that note, I want to say farewell to a great man, my brother, my mentor and a great son of Ogbomosoland.”