Celine Oni is Director, Learning and Development/Projects at the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA). In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, she speaks on the implications of the national grid collapse on the economy. Excerpts: What is the implication of the grid collapse on the economy?    The recent crisis in the energy sector with the collapse of the grid is both worrisome and unfortunate for the nation. According to energy experts, the rate of consumption of energy by any economy is a function of the level of its development, either in developing, emerging or developed countries. Electricity has become a necessity and an integral part of our day-to-day living due to its relationship with human’s industrial production, agricultural productivity, health, education, etc. It therefore suggests, that the level of availability and accessibility of electricity forms the fulcrum of economic factors- reduced poverty, enhanced overall standard of living, and increased exportation among others. One of the greatest obstacles to the development of the Nigerian economy is the generation and distribution of electricity. The small, medium and the large-scale enterprises in Nigeria are all adversely affected by erratic power supply. The lacklustre performance of the manufacturing sector in recent times is partly attributed to this problem. It has prevented these enterprises from attaining optimum production levels and has contributed to damages of essential machinery resulting in production stoppages.   Day FCCPC taskforce clampdown on shylock online moneylenders     Off-grid solutions answer to incessant power collapse-Muda…     National Grid Collapse: The intrigues, politics and…   How is it affecting employers?      With no option but to face the challenges, many businesses have been forced to incur huge costs in the provision of expensive back-up in order to minimise the expected outage costs. Many times, the average costs of this alternative are three times the cost of publicly supplied electricity. Currently, most large companies, just like SMEs, have to bear heavy costs for the installation and maintenance of infrastructural facilities, which ordinarily is the responsibility of government. This makes the prices of goods and services high and therefore, uncompetitive when compared with other West African countries. Already, the close of huge numbers of manufacturing companies in recent times have worsened Nigeria’s growing unemployment rate as the workforce immediately become frontline victims. It was tightly estimated that over 40% of production cost by Nigerian businesses goes into production/generation of energy, however, with the rising/skyrocketing prices of gas, diesel and PMS, the cost in generating electricity by businesses will aggravates further, making their products becoming non-competitive with their counterpart elsewhere. With the opening of international borders through the implementation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and other Trade protocols, survival of Nigeria businesses is becoming more disastrous. How can this be addressed? To mitigate these challenges and return the nation to the path of development, we suggest that the country should review its energy policies by tapping into other various energy resources available nationwide, which has plunged the country into critical energy poverty. We have both renewable and non-renewable energy sources – the vast deposit of natural gas, coal, oil, and lignite, as well as the huge potential energy source like solar, wind, biomass to hydropower. There is also the need to resuscitate the implementation of the blueprint on National Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Policy (NREEEP). The NREEEP has short-term, medium-term, and long-term targets to integrate wind and solar energy into the commercial electricity sector. This could be a low-hanging fruit strategy to get the nation out of the energy quagmire.