Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, on Saturday visited the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Central Primary School, Gwada, Shiroro Local Government Area, assuring the IDPs that they will soon be back home, as the government is winning the war against banditry and terrorism. This was just as newly planted explosives were discovered by security agencies on Saturday in Galadima Kogo in Shiroro Local Government Area of Niger State. According to the governor, the police are working hard to detonate the newly discovered explosives. The governor, who is visiting the camp after several years, disclosed that the camp is currently housing over 4,000 IDPs, displaced by banditry and flood from the construction of the Zungeru dam. Bello said the successes made by the security agencies over the bandits in the past few weeks have been astounding while warning the terrorists to desist or pay for it with their lives. “We are making every effort to eradicate the bandits. The security agencies have been up to the task and they have dealt decisively with the bandits. As it is right now, the affected areas are a bit calm but of course, we still have pockets of bandits coming in and out.   2023: Only SGS has notified APC of intent to contest Katsina…     Three killed, 16 injured in Bauchi ghastly accident     NASC confiscates vegetable seeds for non compliance in…   “We have the Boko Haram elements around Shiroro, that I understand planted IEDs at 4 am this morning at Galadima Kogo. The police are trying all their best to go and detonate the IEDs. “Overall, I am happy with the progress made by the security agencies, their new strategies and tactics are working but the size of the state is a disadvantage and the number of boots on the ground is not enough. We are to work on getting more men on the ground and other components. I am confident that in the next two weeks, the IDPs will go back to their various communities. The Governor also said that the fight against banditry and terrorism is being hampered by the activities of informants. “Informants are the reason why this problem has persisted. And I have told the Commissioner already, anyone who knows an informant should tell us. We have a gift for that person. Apart from helping society, we will also reward you because there is no wicked person like an informant. If they don’t call them, they won’t attack you. So be wary of those around you but we do not doubt that this issue will be brought to an end.” The District Head of Galadima-Kogo, Umar Aliyu told the governor that they want to return to their homes, as they are farmers and farming season is close by. He added that failure to return to their farms will result in food scarcity in the state and Nigeria. He told the governor, “Your Excellency, among the 15 wards in Shiroro, eight wards save for Erena, have been deserted. There is no single human being in Galadiman-kogo community. As a result, they have burnt the entire community, the only thing residents are left with are the clothes on their back. We have all moved to camps, I know the Government is trying but we are begging you to help us.”