Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal has visited former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida and former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar at their residences in Minna. Tambuwal, who arrived Minna on Tuesday evening, first met with Babangida at his Uphill residence. He had a closed-door meeting with him for about an hour before going to visit Abdulsalam at his residence opposite IBB’s house. He spoke with the former Head of State for about 30 minutes. Speaking to newsmen after the meeting, Tambuwal said that he was in Minna as part of his consultative tour in his bid to vie for the presidency under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Tambuwal noted that the 2023 elections may not be based on zoning, asking the PDP to work towards winning the elections rather than being fixated on zoning. He explained zoning was a deliberate action by the political class that was midwived to address a particular concern at that period, which was June 12. He urged political parties to jettison zoning and throw up candidates for Nigerians to decide and elect.   Defection: Court fixes April 11 for judgment in suit seeking…     2023: Ortom, Ishaku, Ugwuanyi, 34 others in PDP zoning…     Non-service stalls hearing in Abba Kyari’s extradition…   “Zoning was a deliberate action by the political class of this country midwived by the government at the centre to address a particular concern, the June 12. ” How come when we saw the advent of COVID-19, we were not applying HIV drugs to COVID-19? The power shift in 1999 was to the south-west to assuage a particular situation. “Go back to the history of democracy in Nigeria. In 1979, NPN had Shagari, NPP had Azikiwe, UPN had Chief Awolowo, GNPP had Waziri Ibrahim and PRP had Aminu Kano. “There was no zoning. When you go to 1992/1993, SDP had Abiola, NRC had Bashir Tofa, there was no zoning. “This is to show to you that when you go back to our history, it will show to you that zoning has not been the main issue. “The main issue is that political parties throw up candidates and Nigerians decide on who to elect for their president. “The zoning arrangement made was not meant to completely erode the constitutional rights of the citizens. Our party is yet to decide but it has never been the main issue,” he argued. On the consensus candidate for PDP, Tambuwal explained that engagement was on and there have been series of meetings between Senator Bukola Saraki, Governor Bala Mohammed and himself adding that it is a work in progress. “We are engaging ourselves. First, we have agreed that it is about this country and not about an individual’s ambition. “We have agreed that there is a need to come together to know the tension and make sure that we work as a team. It is a work in progress and we will meet again and further the conversation,” he said.