Authorities of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) have confirmed the death of its immediate past Vice Chancellor, Professor Adebiyi Gregory Daramola. Professor Daramola served as FUTA’s sixth substantive Vice Chancellor between May 2012 and May 2017. A statement signed by Registrar of the institution, Richard A. Arifalo, said the former VC died last Friday in the course of an illness. It said the death was shocking and painful because FUTA has lost one of the institution’s builders and contributors. The statement said late Professor Daramola consolidated on the gains of his predecessors and charted new frontiers of development, particularly in the areas of rebranding, internationalization as well as renewal of critical infrastructure.   NDLEA intercepts consignments enroute five countries     Nigerian farmers, others for Qatar’s, Gates Foundation’s…     Mothers are major cultivators of moral rectitude –…   The statement reads, “He succeeded in “Taking FUTA to the Market Place” as he canvassed in his agenda for development of the University, prior to and after taking office as Vice Chancellor. “Professor Daramola, attended University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), Nigeria for Bachelor’s degree (B.Sc., 1980). Thereafter, he proceeded to the University of Ibadan, Nigeria for Master’s and Doctorate degrees in Agricultural Economics (M.Sc., 1982 & PhD, 1987). “He started his career in FUTA in 1986 serving in various positions thereafter. He was appointed Professor of Agricultural Economics on October 1, 1999. “Between 1990 and 1991 he was a Postdoctoral fellow at the Center for Advanced Training in Agricultural Economics, Department of Agricultural Economics and Business Management, University of New England, Armidale NSW 2351, Australia. “During his lifetime Professor Daramola undertook many diverse engagements for many national and international organizations. and also served as Chairman, Committee of Vice Chancellors (CVC) and Association of Vice Chancellor of Nigerian Universities (AVCNU), two positions he held concurrently between 2015 and 2017.”