The Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) has kicked against a Bill being sponsored by some House of Representatives members to increase the lump sum paid to retirees to about 75 per cent of their Retirement Savings Account (RSA). The pension managers argue that the protest against the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) should not truncate it. At the public hearing, the PenOp Chief Executive Officer, Oguche Agudah, said allowing retirees to take 75 per cent lump sum would engender poverty as there would not be enough fund left to pay their monthly pension. He asked what he would happen when retirees were given large payouts. Agudah said: “The argument that many people are suffering, receiving pittance when they retire is flawed and faulty. What we need to realise is that the loudest voice is not necessarily the correct voice. We might all know of one person who had issues with accessing his pensions. However, there are millions more who are happy with the structure of the CPS. “The people who have issues with the lump sum that they collect are those who have not been able to accumulate enough funds in their RSAs prior to retirement. Let’s not forget that the system is relatively new, and most contributions have only happened over the last 15 years or so.   PTAD eliminates 14,686 ghost civil service pensioners     ‘We’re on right track towards universal healthcare coverage’     Tackling money rituals involving human sacrifice   “The way the system is designed is this: If one starts working at say, 25 years old and works for 35 years, retiring at 60 years; if the employer and employee have contributed consistently over this period, then the funds in that individual’s RSA  would be sufficient to have a decent lump sum with enough funds remaining to earn a decent pension for life. “It is also pertinent to note that the CPS has, in no small way, fostered a savings culture in Nigeria. Prior to the enactment of the Act, Nigeria did not have large pools of domestic savings. “Many Nigerians do not have any  savings, except through this Contributory Pension Scheme. What we should be doing is to encourage more of these savings rather than looking to dismantle the system. This is probably the only form of savings most workers are able to put aside for their retirement.“As a matter of fact, what we need to promote, and the pension industry is leading, is to encourage more workers to add to their statutory deductions while working, as this would enable them shore up their balances over time. “What we need to advocate more is the consistency and discipline in the contributions that will even remove the need for any large lump sum payout when retired. A simple example will help illustrate this. If a worker were to save N20,000 consistently every month for 15 years with an interest rate of 10 per cent per annum compounded for the 15 years, at the end of the period, he would have amassed over N16 million.This is the power of consistency and compounding which the system provides, and which should be encouraged.” He continued: “The other point we would like to make is that pensions are not set out to make you wealthy. If you were wealthy while working, a healthy savings, like a pension, will make you wealthier.Thus, pension will make you comfortable in retirement. We need to realise that under the CPS, it is what you put in, plus investment returns that you can get out. “So, if we are advocating a larger lump sum payment of at least 75 per cent as is proposed under this Bill, then we need to ask if the remaining 25 per cent is enough to sustain you on a periodic basis for the rest of your time on earth. The answer is a resounding no.’’