Ukrainian high jumper Yaroslava Mahuchikh, who won the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, had to flee her home as the conflict in Ukraine escalated celebrates after the women’s high jump final during the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games at the Olympic Stadium in Tokyo on August 7, 2021. Athletics chiefs are not expecting any disruption to the World Indoor Championships when they kick off today in Serbia, a nation where many people openly support Russian President Vladimir Putin and his decision to invade Ukraine. For centuries, Serbia and Russia have been united by deep fraternal ties – from their Slavic and Orthodox heritage to their steadfast alliances during the World Wars of the 20th century. Moscow’s influence in Serbia remains ubiquitous, with Russian oil and gas providing the backbone of the country’s energy sector. Russian tourists have poured into the country during the pandemic because Covid-19 rules are more lax than at home, while T-shirts featuring Putin’s face are widely available at kiosks around Belgrade. But World Athletics president Sebastian Coe insisted that all was in hand for the smooth running of the indoor championships, which begin today  and will feature 680 athletes from 137 countries.   Qatar 2022 Race:  Otubanjo cautions Eagles about ‘unruly’ …     Qatar 2022 Race: Talented Nigeria  will beat Ghana, Rohr…     Mayi: emotional proposing to my sweetheart on the pitch   “There’s certainly support for Ukrainian athletes, but there’s support for all our athletes, that’s the way we operate,” Coe said yesterday. “Track and field has historically always been a sport that has understood and accepted the fragilities of the political landscape but has normally come together in a very cohesive and collective way.” Coe added: “I’m not expecting any issues in the stadium. We have all the right processes and systems in place… “I’m sure that these are the world championships and sport will win through.” Serbian athletics federation president Veselin Jevrosimovic was quick to add: “We also had demonstrations against the war in Ukraine.” Athletes from what Coe dubs “aggressor states” Russia and Belarus are banned from competing in Belgrade.