To provide more support for women,  Fidelity Bank Plc. has pledged N10 million to Dream Catchers Academy – a free educational and performing arts insitute for orphaned and underserved girls. This was announced at the bank’s  International Women’s Day celebration tagged, ‘A Fidelity special, in partnership with Linda Ikeji’. The event was held to celebrate the achievements of some of Nigeria’s most powerful women, drawing from their wealth of experience in challenging gender-biased norms and steering conversations geared towards creating sustainable solutions to gender inequality. Dream Catchers Academy for Girls is a subsidiary of The Dream Nurture Foundation and an entertaining team made up of underprivileged children.   Heritage Bank, Foundation lift women     Five realistic ways to set financial goals     ‘Women should get more investments’   The academy is a non-profit organisation, which offers educational opportunities, leadership skills and a better life for street and underprivileged girls – through dance, drama, music and visual arts. Managing Director/Chief executive Officer, Fidelity Bank, Mrs Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe said: “One of the pillars of our women empowerment programmes is capacity building. This is why we are supporting Dream Catchers Academy for girls – a free educational and performing arts academy for orphaned and underserved girls – with N10 million for the construction of an IT centre at the academy. We believe that this will go a long way in assisting young ladies who need a helping hand enhancing their knowledge in the areas of technology.” In demonstration of its support for women entrepreneurs, the bank also donated N5 million to five female-led enterprises for the training of female apprentices. They are: Wetland Human Development Centre, Yola, Adamawa; Mdee Tailoring & Fashion Design, Kano; Lady Mechanic, Lagos; BCA Ventures, Owerri and Lady Benz, Lagos. Aside from celebrating Nigerian women’s achievements in various industries and drawing attention to the issue of gender inequality, the event also served as a platform for the Bank to officially launch HerFidelity, its niche proposition for female customers. The proposition boasts of exciting features such as capacity development initiatives, access to finance, recognition and networking events, health and wellness programmes, etc, all designed to speak to the yearnings of women.