The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said it would not extend the registration exercise for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination and the Direct Entry. The board said this in a statement by its Head of Information and Protocol, Dr Fabian Benjamin on Thursday in Abuja. JAMB said the 19th February to 26th March 2022, was the only window allotted by relevant authorities to the Board to conduct the exercise. The Board urged prospective candidates who desire to register for the 2022/23 UTME/DE to come out to register as they have only two weeks to do so. The statement said: “The ongoing 2022 UTME/DE Registration Exercise scheduled to end on 26th March 2022 would not be extended. This is because the time scheduled for the registration exercise from 19th February to 26th March 2022, is the only window allotted by relevant authorities to the Board to conduct the exercise.   Fani-Kayode’s ex-wife docked for alleged cyberstalking     Tinubu: APC should maintain fidelity to progressive ideals     Bandits kill three, abduct two women in Kaduna   “It should be noted that registration and examination dates are not fixed arbitrarily but through a consensus of opinions of the Federal Ministry of Education and examination agencies. “Hence, before the commencement of registration or examination for any given year, all public examination bodies are invited to a roundtable where they are expected to agree on the timetable of activities for each examination agency and which must be strictly adhered to. “This announcement is necessary because of the drop in the number of candidates coming forward to register in spite of the capacity of the Board to register more daily. “By this announcement, the Board is urging prospective candidates who desire to register for the 2022/23 UTME/DE to come out to register as they have only two weeks to do so as no extension would be granted after the close of registration. “The general public is to note that it is practically impossible for the Board to even contemplate any extension of registration as sister examination bodies such as WAEC NECO and NABTEB, have their allotted time which the Board cannot usurp.”