Moshood Giwa is the Vice President (Southwest) of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). In this interview with OYEBOLA OWOLABI, he speaks on the youth agenda ahead of the 2023 general elections, and why zoning should be adopted What are plans to ensure that youths are aligned with the socio-political and economic linings of the country? My victory is to the entire youths of Nigeria, and the Southwest in particular, and we are promising to give our best to make the zone proud. Already, we have embarked on some activities since the election, specifically between January and March 2022, and I can assure you we are on course to give the youths the best. We have gone on courtesy visits to critical stakeholders and firms to secure partnerships that would impact the youths. Particularly, we will be working on reorientation. Our youths need this reorientation to bridge the gap in right thinking and mindset. Many youths are battling depression, especially with the economic and political situation in the country, so we are looking to create avenues to help them unburden. We need to address their mindset and give them a better orientation. We want to identify with them and tell them we are together in this struggle to make Nigeria better. As a matter of fact, we would be having a programme this March to lend our voices to issues pertaining to the general elections. The NYCN is a non-partisan youth organisation, but we have a role to play, to protect the political atmosphere, give direction and guide our youths to the right path. Enough of rhetoric; we want to take charge of our destinies and we cannot do that without having the right tools. The right tool is of course the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). This is why we have launched the Southwest PVC collection campaign. We have reached out to various unions, youth bodies and we are counting on our success. We will do things right; we will take charge of the space and the process this time because the youths will determine our leaders for the presidency, National Assembly, and even at the state level. We will be part of that process to determine who leads us. There’s a whole lot we have in stock, and we’ll continue to do more. You mentioned doing things right. What specifically are you talking about? How do you want to go about it? We want to forgo those assertions that have not impacted us. We have heard enough of ‘youths are the future/leaders of tomorrow’. Those people who have been saying it are still in charge today. So when will that tomorrow be? We’ve come to realise that these things/assertions add no value to us and so we are ready to change the music. We have encouraged and enlightened our youths on the need to play practical politics. Voting is not donon social media. We’ve encouraged them to collect their PVCs, join political parties and participate wholly and fully because decisions are taken at the party level. Decisions on candidates are taken at the party level, so our youths must be part of the process that would lead to the emergence of the party candidate. We have also encouraged them to not just support people, but also aspire and vie for positions. We have the value, talents and intellect to contribute positively to the political system so why sit aloof? We would also be partnering with credible and reliable candidates who have what it takes to rule aright. So doing it differently to make a change is about getting our PVCs, taking part in political activities right from the primary to the eventual general election, putting ourselves forward with our values and credibility, to vie for positions, backup and support ourselves to ensure victory. A young lady has signified interest to contest for the president in 2023. What likely chances does she have, being a lady and a youth? The youth agenda is a work in progress. Rome, they said, was not built in a day, so I believe the youth agenda has to graduate to that level. We want to take charge of representation right from the ward level – become a counsellor, chairman, lawmaker, and so on. Of course, we have many of our youths who have garnered experience in both the private and public sectors; they are loaded and can bring something different to the table.   We are also not taking away the fact that the younger and older generation is mutually and emotionally connected, and we will have to co-exist at one point. When the youths are taking the front seat, the elderly will take the back; we would have to jaw-jaw a lot. There are also some positions we may not able to take right now but we will keep learning through the process till it gets to the time we will take charge completely. So the youth takeover agenda is gradual progress.   Political appointees with 2023 ambitions should resign…     Wike and political asylum seekers in Edo     2023: Atiku’s zoning formula   There has been a clamour for power shift to the south. Do you think the south is ready for this, especially as it concerns the presidency? Power will definitely shift to the south, as you can see that many political gladiators and top-notch leaders are respecting the zoning principle. So, if that can happen at the national level, it will also be replicated across the board, to the National Assembly level, and even state assemblies. And that is what the youths want; we are clamouring for power shift because we have competent hands across the board.  We have a lot of aspirants who have the pedigree, competence, experience, astonishing public relations, and who identify with the people. Their antecedents and scorecards are in the public domain. Many people today begin to pad their public relations because they want to get something from us. But because we know your records, we will do the needful. We have aspirants who have been very close to the people at the grassroots; they have the experience and capacity which is very useful. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has declared his intention to contest for president in 2023. Will the NYCN be endorsing him, especially in light of clamours for power shift to the south? You see, the Southwest agenda is an agenda we are handling with utmost sincerity. The NYCN is doing a lot to rally youths across the zone and the country as a whole. We are partnering and dialoguing with our fellow youths to support the Southwest to have the presidency because we have capable hands. We have people who have demonstrated the capacity before now, people who have done a lot to show they are true Nigerians. They have united people irrespective of tribe or culture. I won’t blow the trumpet but I will say the Southwest agenda is an agenda that we will guard jealously. It will be fruitful, and we will be victorious. You are from Epe Federal Constituency, how far do you think the representation has done well for the people? Epe Federal Constituency has a unique antecedent and historical background when it comes to politics. Epe actually comprises two sub-constituencies – Epe Central and Eredo/Ikosi-Ejirin, and it is a heterogeneous constituency that is premised on the rotational principle. This means power rotates between the two sub-constituencies. We have been on this path as far back as 1999, and things have been working fine until recently. But the cry out there, agitations of the youths and the people, is that power should go back to the people whose rightful turn it is. Of course, we agree with that because beyond the representation, we have a very peaceful existence that is strengthened by justice, fairness and equity among people of diverse groups. We want to guard this peaceful coexistence jealously, and that is why it is time for power to shift to the rightful part. Each part should get its fair share because of the number of aspirants on the queue. You speak so confidently about power shift; does it mean the youths have a candidate they have endorsed? When we get to that bridge, we will cross it. Many have shown and declared their aspirations, but we are studying their personality and scorecards to understand them. Their records are in the public domain and, at the right time, we’ll speak and the people will follow. So when we get to the bridge, we’ll pick the best among the rest.