Eggheads of power agencies have met to find ways to ensure stability in electricity supply. While the meeting emphasised that there is a statutory electricity tariff review every six months, it also discussed efforts being made to stabilise the commodity across the three levels of generation, transmission and distribution across the country, MUYIWA LUCAS reports.  For electricity consumers, the ripple effect of other economic factors prevalent in the country will ensure that they pay more for electricity consumption. This is because the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has made it clear that it will conduct a minor tariff review every six months to reflect the economic situation, especially given the disparity between the local currency- the naira and other major international currencies, especially the United States dollar. NERC Chairman, Sanusi Garba,  explained that the minor tariff review approved for the DisCos was in line with the tariff methodology adopted by NERC for periodic adjustments of tariffs based on inflation, exchange rates and gas pricing. “We will adjust the rate every six months to take care of the foreign exchange component of costs, and also inflation.This is absolutely a very straight-forward thing,” Garba said. He debunked the insinuation that the Commission was implementing tariff review in secrecy. Garba, however, added a caveat that while the review “might not necessarily be an upward review,” the country’s foreign exchange rate has maintained an upward path as the naira is being devalued. Inflation, he said, has also remained on the high side. The implication of this, experts explained, is that should these economic indexes continue to rise, then the electricity tariff review would have to follow a similar trend and vice-versa. Garba noted that the prevailing situation, especially pipelines vandalism, has been affecting gas supply to power plants, adding that the development remained a major reason for the worsening state of electricity in the country. He said discussions are on to bring new gas plants on the grid to address the shortfall currently being witnessed in the grid. The commission blamed the loss of about 400 megawatts and challenges on some networks for the double collapse of the grid recently. According to him, stakeholders, including the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited, are working hard to resolve prevailing challenges. The NERC boss said Distribution Companies (DisCos) are being forced to pay back to consumers where they have been billed illegally, adding that the company will do everything possible to protect the interest of consumers. For instance, NERC, he said, ensured that Jos DisCo refunded N200 million to consumers for poor service, adding that capping of estimated bills is also to protect consumers against arbitrary charges. Admitting that the generation firms are being owed legacy debts, he noted that the government is clearing other debts. Garba said the issue of shortage of gas supply to power plants, collapse of the national grid, illiquidity of the industry, huge metering gap and infrastructure deficit were some of the challenges confronting the sector. He said the plan of the government was to ensure that the thermal power plants were working optimally and to ensure that there was stability in the grid. Garba said NERC had approved a special gas pricing for emergency contracting of gas from the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company Limited for the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NPDHC), to optimise utilisation of its power plants. According to him, it is expected that about 800MW will be generated from the NDPHC plants. He said the gas pipeline affected by acts of vandalism had been restored and the Okpai Power Plant had resumed power generation and  contributing an average of 300MW. He added that the “pegging” of the gas pipeline supplying gas to the Odukpani Power Plant had been scheduled for completion thus ramping up generation by about 400MW.   Group berates labour over electricity tariff hike     Firm canvasses EU, ECOWAS partnership     NCDMB inaugurates facility in PH   On metering, the NERC boss made it known that about 900,000 prepaid meters were installed for customers under the Phase Zero of the National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP) of the Federal Government. He said engagement was ongoing with local meter manufacturers for the implementation of the phase one of the programme which had a target of four million meters. Besides, he said the World Bank was also providing finance for another four million meters which would help the nation close the metering gap with about eight million meters in the next three years. NERC, he further added, had approved a five-year Performance Improvement Plans for the DisCos which would lead to more investments in electricity distribution to end-users. Similarly, the Managing Director, Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), Mr Sule Abdulaziz, said the  administration had spent over N1 trillion on strengthening the transmission network. He said the TCN had the capacity to wheel 8,000MW but was receiving 3,500MW from the GenCos. Apologising for the recent system collapse of the national grid, he noted that it was caused by several factors but the most important thing was the restoration period. He noted that contrary to public perception, the collapse of the grid had reduced in the past few years. Justifying the reduction claims, Abdulaziz recalled that the grid collapsed 12 times in 2018, nine times in 2019, four times in 2020, twice in 2021 and so far, three times this year. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, noted that the challenges of electricity supply were being resolved with the restoration of normal operations. According to him, the energy crisis confronting some key sectors also contributed to the problems in the power sector. “We are where we are also because of the increasing vandalism of pipelines that also supply gas to the power plants. This, too, is being resolved in collaboration with the relevant agencies. NNPC and other gas suppliers are working relentlessly to restore gas supply for optimum power supply. The government is doing everything – working with the relevant security agencies – to stop vandalism of pipelines,” Aliyu said. The minister said the challenges do not in any way indicate that the  rehabilitation of the national grid by the government is not yielding results, adding that despite the challenges, the government was recording successes and the grid is being restored to full operation. He, therefore, solicited the support of Nigerians, stressing that efforts would continue to be made towards increasing and stabilising electricity supply across the country. Power Generation Companies (GenCos) have lambasted the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company over claims that the investors were duly paid. In a statement, the GenCos accused NBET of redirecting the focus from its  obligations, which has thrown the GenCos in a financial quagmire, by focusing its insistence on the payments from the Payment Assurance Facility (PAF). “It is imperative to state that the PAF payments were never envisioned in the power purchase agreement (PPA). However, due to the bulk trader’s inability to fulfill its payment obligations, the Federal Government introduced the PAFs as interventions. Nevertheless, these interventions neither fully settled (dual involvement of capacity and energy) the GenCos’ invoices nor settled the historical debts,” the GenCos said.