The curtain will tomorrow be drawn on the eight-year tenure of Chief Willie Obiano as Anambra State governor. He will take a final bow as an eight-year tenant at the Anambra State Government House, Awka. He will hand over to a one-time Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Prof Charles Soludo. The outgoing governor announced the dissolution of all his political appointees and directing them to hand over all government property in their care to the next in line in their offices. Obiano, who succeeded Mr. Peter Obi in 2014, has been hailed by the stakeholders in the state for piloting the affairs of government well. Such stakeholders include Ohanaeze Ndigbo National Vice President Ichie Damian Okeke -Ogene, Chairman of Anambra State traditional rulers Council and the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe. Okeke -Ogene described Obiano as an exceptional person, who consolidated on the records of Dr. Chris Ngige and Mr. Obi. He listed the Anambra State International Cargo and Passenger Airport in Umueri and the International Convention Conference Center ICC as some of the legacies being bequeathed by the outgoing governor. Also yesterday, the State House of Assembly held a valedictory session for Obiano. Obiano and Soludo were in attendance to witness the valedictory session. The lawmakers took turns during the session to eulogise and commend Obiano for his sterling achievements. Nnamdi Okafor, representing Awka South l Constituency (APGA) and the Majority Leader of the House, described Obiano as a God sent to the state and that he would be remembered for his investment in infrastructural development. Ejike Okechukwu from Anaocha ll Constituency (APGA), commended the governor for his development strides in all the sectors, especially the development of technical education.   ‘We’re not aware Akpanudoedehe has resumed’     Why 12 per cent of NIMASA revenue can’t go to Maritime…     NCC: 35m Nigerians have no access to telecoms   The lawmaker representing Dunukofia State Constituency (APC), Lawrence Ezeudu said Obiano should be commended for ensuring Anambra becomes an oil producing state. Speaker Uche Okafor described Obiano as a  visionary leader who bequeathed laudable legacy projects to the state. He said: “It was a commendable partnership between the legislative and the executive arms of government. We did not record any rift or conflict. “You will be remembered for your achievements and legacy projects such as the passenger and cargo airport, the international convention centre, the township stadium and other projects. “As you bow out on Thursday, on behalf of the 7th Assembly, we congratulate you for finishing strong.” Other stakeholders, like former Commonwealth Secretary General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku and former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife were not left out. Anyaoku said Obiano gave governance a different face, asking him not to be too far from the state despite bowing out. The two octogenarians were among the 500 distinguished personalities in the state honoured by Obiano with Grand Commanders awards last week at the ICC in Awka. The outgoing governor Obiano made an appeal urging the Assembly to accord his successor the same legislative support accorded him. He appreciated the legislature for the cordial working relationship and legislative support extended to him for the eight years his administration lasted. Obiano said: “I appreciate the House for honouring me and for your kind words. It is always difficult to say goodbyes, but I will remember you, the sixth and the seventh Assembly, for your support. “I want to appeal, accord the incoming governor the same legislative support and assistance you accorded me.”