Inspector General of Police (IGP) Alkali Baba Usman has said the ongoing computation of the 20 per cent increment for all policemen may delay the new salary structure approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. Usman, who was represented by the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Johnson Kokumo, addressed officers at the Osun State Police Command headquarters in Osogbo, the state capital. He said: “The President has approved a 20 per cent increase for the police. Nobody can reverse the approval. I must let you know that paying the money involves procedures, which are inter-ministerial meetings; like the Ministry of Finance, Police Affairs Ministry, and Salary and Wages Department. “We must follow due process and due diligence. If there is any delay, it is as a result of computation that has to be made: papers must move from one department and ministries to the other. “You can imagine computing the percentage increase in salary of individual officers of the Nigeria Police Force. Doing that alone for Osun State is peculiar, and this will be done across Nigerian states. “So, the increase in the salary of men of the Nigeria police by President Buhari is irreversible. The IGP has equally gone around to speak on it. “I want to appeal to you: please, exercise patience to benefit from it. Don’t allow disgruntled elements to lure you into illegal actions. Don’t take part in any strike. “It is an empty threat because those behind it will definitely back out. They may not even be police officers. They want to create a crisis unnecessarily. Don’t allow yourself to be fooled. You have made a lot of sacrifices on this job. “Any strike by any officer amounts to mutiny. It is my strong advice to stay completely clear from any mutinous act. Go about your lawful duties with diligence. Very soon, you will receive your allowances because the ministries involved have swung into action.” Usman added that he was doing a lot to ensure that police exit contributory pension scheme. The IGP said his team, led by DIG Sanisi Lemu, had gone to the National Assembly over the matter. Police Commissioner Olawale Olokode assured the residents that his officers and men had been sensitised against embarking on a strike by the junior cadre.   Tinubu recommends revival pills for economy     Reps: Section 84 (12) remains part of Electoral Act     Tinubu to meet ex-APC Reps   Also, Usman yesterday urged officers and men of Kano State Police Command to remain steadfast in their line of duty and avoid issues that may lead to industrial crises within the force. The IGP, whose message was conveyed by the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 1, Sadiq Abubakar Bello, also hailed the officers and men for their hard work. He urged them not to relent in the service to their fatherland and humanity. Police Commissioner Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko said he had lectured all officers and men of the police command on the need to sustain the security and safety of the people and their property. “I have also lectured them on the commitment of the IGP in improving the welfare of personnel. “I have lectured the Departmental Sectional Heads, Area Commanders and Tactical Teams of the command to warn all the Divisional Police Officers (DPOs), officers and men against joining the rumoured strike on the March 26, 2022. “Based on that, therefore, I have suspended casual and annual leaves until further notice. I have warned all the Area Commanders and DPOs as well as Sectional Heads and Tactical Teams to open a register on March 26, 2022 in order to know who may not come to work,” Dikko said. Also, the AIG in charge of Zone 17, comprising Ekiti and Ondo states, Ene Okon, has said there was no plan by policemen in the zone to embark on the rumoured strike. Okon spoke when IGP Usman visited Ondo State Police Command as part of efforts to stop the planned strike. He said: “Strike cannot happen in Zone 17. Policemen under Zone 17 cannot be absent from work. It is not contemplated here. There is no planned strike here.”   The IGP, who was represented by Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Babatunde Kokumo, cautioned the policemen against committing mutiny. The police boss promised that all policemen would soon get increased salary. On the rumoured arrest of some policemen over the planned strike, he said investigations were on to unravel those behind the plot.