There is unease among members of parties in Bayelsa State over the alleged plan by Governor Douye Diri to postpone the council election scheduled for May 14. The alleged planned postponement, according to sources, was based on the advice to Diri that those that would be elected at the proposed council poll would not be qualified to be ad-hoc delegates of his party in the coming national convention of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). They also claimed that the councillors and chairmen used as delegates during the governorship primaries that threw up Diri as the standard-bearer of the PDP would be more loyal than other ones elected in May. Attempts to get confirmation from the Office of the Special Adviser to the governor on Political Matters failed, as an official, who declined to be mentioned, denied knowledge of such planned postponement. “I am just leaving the office and such issue of alleged postponement was not mentioned,” the source said. It was gathered that already, the political parties under the Inter-Party Advisory Committee (IPAC), led by Brisibe Kpodoh, was also in the dark about the alleged plan to postpone the election. He said such an issue of postponement might be a possibility, based on the scenarios playing out that the councillors and chairmen might not meet up with the number of months needed to qualify them as delegates of the PDP for the convention.   Anambra cleric resigns over bishop’s high-handedness,…     APGA leader cries out over plot to hijack Ebonyi chapter     Police dressing: Has IGP breached Constitution?   A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sunday Oputu, confirming the development, described the excuse being given for the planned postponement as ridiculous. He said the state could no longer allow the appointment of caretaker chairmen into office, while the democratic process mandates the governor to conduct local government election. Oputu said: “The excuse being given is ridiculous. From what I am hearing, there is a plan to postpone the council poll and the excuse given is ridiculous and unthinkable. “We gather that the outgoing ones may become uncontrollable at the state and National Assembly primaries. If they are changed, they may fight the choice of Diri at the primaries.” He described the excuses as “lame”, urging the governor  to release money to the Bayelsa State Independent Electoral Commission (BASIEC) to conduct the election. He said the APC was against the appointment of caretaker committees to run the councils in the place of elections. Oputu threatened to approach the Federal High Court to seek an order barring the local government allocation’s release to the state if the election was postponed. “We are also ready to approach the court to stop the House of Assembly from entertaining the screening of caretaker committees,” he said.