I thought the issue of Mefi or CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, should enjoy a revisit when media speculated he was hopping on the plane to London. Was he going to plead for the ramrod leader to browbeat Senate to assent to his electoral request? Or was he going to tell the president, he was preparing his exit into the tumble of presidential race? He does not know how to boast, or unclasp a showy character. Mefi has always been humble. That seems about to change, though. To run for the big post of the land is no mean ambition. He should remember though the words of the clown called Feste in Shakespeare’s play of mistaken identity and oversized ego, Twelfth Night: “By swaggering I could never thrive.” The big, bumbling clown Malvolio fell mightily with a foul and rickety lust when a few courtiers deceived him he was good enough to be the master’s lover. Beware, Mefi, of ambition. I depart from my practice and publish some of the responses from high and low to my essay, “Mefi’s Orchestra.” Enjoy! Hmn, Big Sam. I had wanted to say: “No comment” because you’ve said everything, but there’s a question I’ve been asking with no one to provide an answer. Who does due diligence on those who become CBN governors in Nigeria?  I gave up on this one when the news leaked that during PDP’s so-called “Convention” that made Jonathan the party’s Presidential candidate for a second term, loads of Naira cash were converted into Dollars under the supervision of Emefiele and taken to the Convention center where each delegate went home with $10,000. The question then was: Is the dollar Nigeria’s official curreny of exchange? To cap the ridicule, Jonathan was the sole candidate, no opponent. Now, the dollar is exchanging for almost N600 and nobody is telling us what we are buying with our reserves that has turned our own currency into tissue paper to be used in the toilets. Another question is: Why have neither the President nor the NASS called him to explain the noise surrounding his personage of recent? As you said, he’s not just an ordinary Nigerian, he occupies one of the most sensitive positions in the land. Lastly, where are the noisy CSOs, especially SERAP, which know the location of all the courts in Nigeria? Where are the nosy SANs who like to play the legal game by their own rules? Why have everybody gone quiet? Are we all that damaged? Enjoy your evening, Big Sam. By Olu Adebayo, veteran journalist “It’s Buhari’s fault that this Mefi is retained to continue to foist his incompetence to afflict our dear Naira. If Mefi won’t resign to squarely face his ambition to preside over the country which finances he has turned iniquitous, he will be borrowing a leaf of indiscretion from Mesu Eleyinmi (apology, Sam) who tried unsuccessfully to strategise himself to Nigerian presidency while wearing the epaulettes of senate presidency.” By Morufu Smith “Just finished your Article “ Mefi’s Orchestra “. Thanks for the beautiful piece. We truly must weep for Nigeria. Had to contemplate that after total destruction of the value in naira, Mefi will contemplate ever running for President.  I ask, to do what? To end whatever left of rational hope, I suppose? But herein lies the tragedy of Nigeria. this type as leader.” Tunji Abayomi, Lawyer, statesman Sam, gud day and compliments. I have just finished reading your ‘In Touch’ of yesterday March 28. Appointment of Emefiele as Governor of CBN is, in the first place, really an embarrassment to this nation. Here is a man who ran Zenith Bank as Chief Executive for years during which the largest money-laundering business in Nigeria went through his bank. What do we expect from him? His re-appointment for 2nd term was indeed a deliberate dishonour to the banking industry and, by extension, a disservice to Nigeria. He has now come out in his true colours: BIG UNREPENTANT… Olorunfunmi Basorun, former deputy director of CBN, technocrat, politician   Emmanuel kicks as compensated owners of structures refuse to…     Security personnel hit terrorists in Niger     Man dies after intimacy with wife in Anambra   “Mr. Omatseye, They read In Touch and the next day his media people started calling him Mefy. You exposed them. Maybe they are jealous that you were the first to identify him by his nickname in public. All they did was to anglicize the spelling by ending it with the letter Y. Colonial mentality. You even tried to make it local and indigenous by ending it with an i.” Abubakar Ringim, Kano “Dear Sam, it is not hard to know where the so-called supporters club is emanating. If you read a certain newspaper and watch a certain television station, you will know that it is the work of some who are making easy fortune from the beguiled banker. I hope in the process they do not stretch their kleptomaniac fingers too far into the Nigerian vault. They are dealing with the guard to our treasures.” – Ufuoma, from Warri “What intrigued me is the reference to private jets. Once I read it online, I gasped. I waited for him or his people to refute the report. Silence here means consent. I wonder what is going on. Is this man really running? If so, he needs to reveal where he is getting the support from, who are these media people behind him, are they wayfarers who want to milk him dry. Is Mefi so naïve that he would allow them to lead him by the nose by dashing media entrepreneurs who know nothing other than to hoodwink a man who never knew a thing in politics all his life? Haba!” Nwachukwu, Owerri “Some people say some sleek men in agbada in the presidency working with some in the media are encouraging him. A believe there is a racket around the president that is going about making a fortune over this matter. They lie to the fellows that the president wants them to run, and then they believe and dry up their cisterns in the process. They are clever men. IBB did it to quite a few his time, like Abel Ubeku. I wish I could be in on the deal.” Anonymous. “Few realise that a Mefi presidency means only one term for the south. He comes from south-south and Jonathan has had its first term. It is a plot of the north to encircle the south in the politics of zoning. It is fair game for them, using the ever-bowing Mefi as a tool,” Justus Okechuckwu. “I still saw the picture of Mefi bowing like a minion to an oligarch. I almost choked on my pounded yam when my son showed it to me. How does he feel about the picture? Does his family not tell him his foes will flaunt it about when or if he declares to run?” Nnanna Agwu “Hello Sam, now that the senate has decided not to sign Buhari’s request to rewrite the electoral bill, is Mefi now thinking about writing his handover notes?” Abu Abbas. “Dear In Touch, A morning news programme that does not say anything salutary about Buhari suddenly started praising the Rice Pyramid in Abuja. I wondered what changed? Now I know why Mefi is the only Teflon in the Buhari crowd for the TV station. He is their favoured son. Hence they promote him. Is he part of the nameless group that has no recognizable figure in the public domain?” Bayo Awojobi “Keep throwing your elegant salvos,” Efe Enakome.   THE APC turmoil is no comfort for PDP, which is also in its own tempest of intrigues. Mai Mala Buni, too coy to govern at home, did not seize the chance of his fall from head of the Chinese company-sounding caretaker committee to return to his governor chair in Yobe. He seems to have clawed – or shall I say, fawned – his way back because of an INEC technicality. I might have said I don’t see why Buhari cannot re-tweak the March 26th date to meet the electoral body’s 21-day deadline. But Ramadan beckons, and that gives the party little room for convention given INEC’s primary deadline. That was Buni’s scheme to install a fait accompli for the convention so as to shoe in a presidential candidate of his choice. He wants to be clever by half. Eyes are on him. He is a subvert, not a democrat. A trigger of chaos, a reptilian schemer, an ideological cretin, fomenting a dedicated insanity in the party process.  Governor Sani Bello sedated the storm. A return to Buni is like clutching a cat’s paw. Anyway, the decision to remove Buni and still fix March 26 without heeding the law attests to the topsy-turvy ideas that Buhari’s advisers give him, especially his attorney general whose heart swirls with mischief. Buhari picked them, so he has to abide their quicksand. If Buni returns with rottweiler Akpanudoedehe, it foretells a big cockfight between El- Rufai’s 19 and the remaining four who back the rogue leaders of the Chinese-sounding committee. I believe there are factions even within the 19, and it will only unravel in the coming weeks and months. It is a movie on the move. Enjoy!