The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) yesterday denied report that it has agreed to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s benchmarking policy on e-valuator and e-invoicing. National Public Relations Officer, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Timi Bomodi, insisted that the Service will rather align with the WTO Agreement on Customs Valuation (ACV) as it aims for a fair, uniform and neutral system for the valuation of goods for Customs purposes unlike the CBN’s benchmarking that negate the aim of the ACV and likely to result in disputes, delays and uncertainties. “It has come to our attention that there are reports, suggesting the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has acquiesced to the introduction of the e-valuator and e-invoicing for import and export businesses in Nigeria by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). We wish to state that this is incorrect. The Service still stands by its earlier submissions on the matter, as was clearly communicated to the House of Representatives Joint Committee on Customs and Excise, Banking and Currencies on March 3rd, 2022. “The practice world over is to domicile adjudication on Customs values for import and export within the Customs administration of every country. The NCS, undoubtedly, is alive to its statutory functions and has a vibrant valuation unit under the Tariff and Trade Department whose roles among others includes the proper interpretation of WCO/WTO rules and agreements concerning the valuation of goods,” Bomodi said He added being a member of the World Customs Organization (WCO), World Trade Organization (WTO) and also signatory to international trade treaties, including Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, Nigeria is constrained to abide by the principles contained therein. He pointed out that the Article VII stipulates that the value for customs purposes of imported and exported goods should be based on the actual value paid or payable for them. “This is commonly referred to as transaction value. This agreement also prescribes five other methods for arriving at Customs value where the transaction value is unacceptable. They are transaction value of identical goods, the transaction value of similar goods, Deductive value method, Computed value method, and Fallback method, applied sequentially.   600,000 hectares farm for funding in 2022     Rising external debts worry CBN     Emefiele explains Naira stability at I&E window   “The NCS as a government agency aligns with the WTO Agreement on Customs Valuation (ACV) as it aims for a fair, uniform and neutral system for the valuation of goods for Customs purposes. This conforms to commercial realities, and outlaws the use of assumed values for customs purposes. “It is our view that the use of benchmarking in valuation as proposed by the CBN policy will negate the aim of the ACV and result in disputes, delays and uncertainties. “The WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) remains the Service’s principle guide for trade facilitation. Therefore, NCS is always seeking new approaches to enable the expedited clearance of goods from our ports by adopting new technologies, harmonizing and simplifying our procedures all of which is purposely designed to reduce cost. “The House of Representatives Joint Committee on Customs and Excise, Banking and Currencies had directed that all agencies with defined roles in the supply chain meet to harmonize procedures with particular reference to resolving the issue of value for trade purposes. This meeting is yet to take place, therefore there could not have been any agreement supporting the CBN initiative as reported in the news,” Bomodi stated. He said the Service was looking forward to robust deliberation that is expected to occur from the planned meeting as directed but until then, the NCS shall continue to abide by the principles as contained in the ACV for all import and export transactions. It would be recalled that the CBN in a letter dated July 08, 2021 informed the NCS that they were deploying a mechanism for verification of prices of goods before allocation of foreign exchange (forex) at the point of e-form M registration. The policy in summary seeks to benchmark the price of imported and exported cargo. The move has raised objections from critical stakeholders within and outside the industry who have expressed valid concerns that require critical considerations.