The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been warned not to impose a consensus arrangement on the party for the emergence of its presidential flag bearer. Chief Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe, a former Deputy National Chairman who bowed out from the race at the just concluded national convention of the party gave the warning in Abuja. The APC chieftain, who stepped down for Senator Abubakar Kyari under the consensus arrangement of the party, said the party leadership should not attempt to adopt consensus for the presidential primary. When asked if the party may not likely adopt a consensus arrangement for its presidential primary having produced the new National Working Committee (NWC) at the convention with it, Moniedafe said: “I will want to advise the leadership not to attempt producing the party flag bearer through consensus arrangement. ” I will work against it. I will campaign against it. This issue of consensus is not the right thing. It is undemocratic. I will work against the use of Consensus for Presidential primaries. “One of the promises is to put me in the primaries committee. If I am there, I will insist on due process. I will work against consensus in the presidential primary election. No compromise. No consensus. Let us all go and contest. Let the people vote and decide.” He counselled Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led NWC to work towards a landslide victory for the party in next year’s general election.   After Dariye, Jang, Lalong, who’s next?     PDP faces uphill task over presidential zoning     Why I backed out of APC chairmanship race, by Mustapha   “I will advise him (Adamu) to focus on the task of reconciling aggrieved members. I was only called at about 3 pm on Saturday out of Eagle Square to go to the Senate President’s house. It shouldn’t be so. “I will appeal to the chairman to build a reward system and ensure that party m members get their deserves dues. “I know that many of our people may want to decamp. Please, don’t go anywhere. It is the same everywhere even in the NNPP that some people want to revive now. Please, remain in APC. “With 41 million registered members, we should be able to make the party independent. If we can convince them to contribute N100 monthly, that will run to billions in a year and the party won’t have to depend on governors for funding”, he stated. Moniediafe who promised to form a one-man squad to ensure Adamu-led NWC is on it toe, stating hat a lot of APC members were aggrieved. “I feel for those that are aggrieved but I want to appeal to them not to decamp leave the APC. If you go to the PDP it is the same thing. So let’s stay here and build the party. If you are talking about the aggrieved persons, I should be the most aggrieved but I am going nowhere,” he said. The APC chieftain appreciated his supporters for standing by him before, during and after the national convention.