Innocent Idibia aka 2Baba has admitted to being aware of how he is ‘crazily’ loved by his wife Annie Idibia. The celebrated singer revealed this in a chat with South African media personality Khanyi Mbau in an episode of the trending reality show, ‘Young, Famous and African’. The father of seven also said his wife shows him more love than he does to her adding, her love does seem scary sometimes. Khanyi, who revealed she has taken a liking to the legendary singer’s wife, expressed concern over her emotional state especially since she’s come to the realisation that Annie is madly in love with her husband. According to The South African actress, this made her seek out 2Baba for a chat before the renewal of marital vows with his wife. She said: “I have grown to love your wife so much.”   Nancy Isime denies alleged romance with UK businessman     Historic Burna Boy becomes first Nigerian to sell out Accor…     Russian strike kills another Ukrainian film star   2Baba taken aback by her disclosure cut in saying: “Wow, nice!” The 36-year-old Khanyi continued: “Right, and she’s crazy. But as time went on, I got to understand her….Do you know how much she loves you? She will burn herself to keep you warm…” Affirming Khanyi’s statement, the 46-year-old singer replied: “I think I do….I think. You know…I feel it. Yeah, I feel it. It’s scary sometimes. Khanyi also chipping in said: “Yeah, like pyscho. It’s crazy” Continuing, 2Baba said: “She has always shown me how much she loves me. She shows it more than I do…..I recognise where I have done wrong. I recognise where I should step up my game. Sometimes, I still slack but besides all of that, it still depends on you as an adult. The truth is, there are some things that I can’t fix. The ultimate level of happiness does not depend on anybody else but you. When asked how he’s trying to help Annie heal, 2Baba replied: “I try my best. I try to make her see life, then one or two may be small gifts just for the upliftment of the spirit….and then some of the big things as well!”