Sokoto State Governor and Presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on yesterday paid a consultation visit to party’s stakeholders in Kaduna, saying that, he is in the race to rescue Nigeria from imminent collapse. Tambuwal stormed Kaduna with former Governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa, former Minister and deputy governor of Sokoto State, Mukhtar Shagari, former deputy governor of Zamfara State Mahdi Aliyu Gusau, former National chairman and Board chairman, Alhaji Haliru Bello, among several other personalities. He commenced his consultation with a visit on the former vice President Namadi Sambo, former caretaker Chairman of the PDP and Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi and former Governor of Kaduna State Mukhtar Ramalan Yero, before finally arriving in the State Party Secretariat, where he interracted with party leaders and members. Speaking on his visit  Tambuwal said he was on consultation with the view to aspire for the Presidency of this country come 2023 to rescue Nigeria from imminent collapse. He said, “the All Progressives Congress (APC) cannot even manage their own party affairs, how much more of providing quality governance for Nigeria” adding that the PDP must be strategic and deliberate in coming up with formula for winning elections in 2023. PDP must plan well in winning elections and avoid all forms of squabbles amongst us. The APC is confused and confusing the economy of Nigeria with no defined leadership, hence we must take advantage of their confusion to wrestle power from them and give Nigeria quality leadership.   APC: Rinsola Abiola picks form for National Youth Leader     2023: Standstill in Bauchi, as youths urge Yahaya Bello to…     Adenike Kareem needs N5m for rectal cancer surgery   “Inflation is so high; cost of foodstuffs is very high, insecurity everywhere. APC has failed Nigerians, so we must come together to rescue and reposition Nigeria on the right track. Relationship between Buhari and Nigeria is like that of a false marriage, President Buhari doesn’t understand Nigeria, we need someone that understand Nigeria with wide spread of acceptability and necessary network, we need a unifier, a Pan Nigeria who understands the dynamics of Nigeria and leadership. “I have worked in the legislature, judiciary and executive. So I have all it takes to provide the needed governance in Nigeria, I appeal to you all to understand that dynamics of today are different from what it was in the past and we must factor all into consideration for a standard flag bearer of our party” he appealed. Responding, the state party Chairman, Hon. Felix Hassan Hyat said Tambuwal deserves the support of Kaduna PDP because he is their own from the North West. He said there is no difference between all the seven North Western States, as such PDP members in Kaduna State know the right thing and they will do it at the right time. “We have a youth and vibrant aspirant in Governor Tambuwal and being our own, we need to support his ambition,” he stressed.