The family of 21-year-old Oluwabamise Ayanwola has been thrown into confusion following her sudden disappearance after she boarded a BRT bus going to Oshodi around 7 pm at Chevron bus stop. Oluwabamise, who usually spends the weekends at Ota, Ogun State, works as a fashion designer at Chevron Estate in Ajah. The Nation reports police and the Lagos Bus Rapid Transit have intensified the search for the BRT driver in whose bus she allegedly got missing. Oluwabamise got missing while returning to Ota from Ajah on Saturday, February 26 after boarding a BRT bus with number 240257 going to Oshodi at Chevron Bus-Stop. During the journey, the lady, who sensed danger, wondered why the bus did not pick any other passenger at subsequent bus stops. She then reportedly engaged a friend via voice notes on her phone. The voice notes revealed that the bus driver said he liked Ayanwola and asked for her name and other details. Worried by the situation, she told her friend to pray for her as she became suspicious of the bus driver. Her friend told her to alight at Oworonsoki bus stop before Oshodi. Oluwabamise also sent a video to her friend showing how dark it was on the bus. She reportedly said: “There are three men and one woman on the bus. The woman is sitting at the back. That’s the number of the bus in case. Please pray for me.’’   JAMB to blacklist vendors, agents who violate 2022 UTME…     117 kegs of suspected vandalised petrol seized in Lagos     New Police dress code illegal – Adegboruwa   That was the last heard from Oluwabamise. Oluwabamise’s mother has cried for help, saying that her daughter was ‘kidnapped’. In a terse message on Facebook, John Olaoluwa, a suspected relation of the missing lady said: “On Saturday night @7:32pm my sister boarded a BRT bus from chevron bus Stop going to Oshodi, and was been kidnapped inside the bus between 7:32 pm-8:00 pm. “There are so many proves that show that she was been kidnapped in the bus. She added some conversation with her colleagues at work when she noticed she has entered the wrong bus because the captain of the bus didn’t pick anyone on the road but her. “She asked her friends why would the driver pick just her and decide not to pick other people on the road. We were able to get the bus through the video she took while she was in the bus. And this so-called driver didn’t deliver the bus back to their terminal because of the evil work he has done. “After reporting the case to the station, and had gone through thorough investigation, it was made known that he had some people inside the same terminal that gave him hand that he should escape because his case has been reported. “Now since on Saturday night till this moment, we are yet to see the kidnapper and my sister. Please, we the family of Ayanwola Oluwabamise Toyosi plead with the Lagos State Governor to help us investigate this case well and bring back our beloved sister nack home safe and unharmed.” It was learnt that Oluwabamise’s family held a meeting with the Lagos Bus Service Ltd. (LBSL), operators of BRT on Wednesday with the latter assuring that efforts were being made to track down the driver. Police spokesman in Lagos, Adekunle Ajisebutu, who confirmed the incident, said it was under investigation. “The Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has directed that no stone should be left unturned to locate her whereabouts. Search parties have also been organised,’’ Ajisebutu said.