28 years after winning the 1994 African Cup of Nations (AFCON), President Muhammadu Buhari has allocated housing estates to 22 members of the Super Eagles squad that won the trophy at Tunisia 1994. This much was said yesterday in Lafia during the commissioning of the 76 housing units of the first phase of the National Housing Programme in Nasarawa State. The President who was represented by the Minister of State, Science, and Technology Abdullahi Mohammed said the keys and title documents will soon be handed over to the former Eagles. “Our national housing program provides an opportunity to remember our heroes, the valiant Super Eagles to whom our country made a promise of providing housing for winning the 1994 African Cup of Nations, which has remained unfulfilled   Egypt vs. Senegal: Queiroz issues clarion call to Salah,…     WORLD CUP PLAYOFFS: Brentford celebrate Onyeka’s…     Super Eagles: Udeze, Siasia knock Eguavoen   “On behalf of the federal government of Nigeria, I feel proud and privileged to redeem the promise Nigeria made to these patriotic Nigerians, even if belatedly. As the saying goes, it is better late than never and I have approved allocation to redeem the outstanding allocation to 22 members of the Super Eagles in National Housing Estate located in their state of choice, and their keys and title documents will be handed over at the commissioning in their state while the remainder of the housing is allocated to willing members of the public,” he said The National Housing Programme (NHP) phase 1 in Nasarawa State consists of 76 housing units, road, infrastructures, water provision, and electricity connection The breakdown shows 48 units of the 2-bedroom bungalow, 24 units of a 3-bedroom bungalow, and 4 units of 1-bedroom and the total amount for the contract worth over 1. 8 billion awarded in 2016. Also speaking, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola said that the housing projects are now visible and available in 34 states, adding that it is the outcome of a national survey conducted by the ministry to find out the type of houses Nigerians desired The minister who was represented by the director of works in the ministry, Solomon Babakilo said the survey revealed a prevalent need for bungalows in the north of Nigeria and flats in the south of Nigeria.