Many famous people have been shot at and survived assassination attempts. However, several celebrities have been shot in unusual circumstances. Here is a list of popular celebrities who were shot but lived to tell their stories: 1. 50 cent In May 2000, 50 Cent, whose real name is Curtis Jackson, was shot nine times while sitting in a car outside of his grandmother’s house in Queens, N.Y. He was rushed to the hospital where he was treated for gunshot wounds to his legs, hip, arm and face. The rapper, now 45, was released from the hospital just two weeks later. He spent 13 days in the hospital recovering from the shooting and went on to become a superstar in the rap game. 2. Bob Marley In December 1976, Bob Marley was ambushed at his home in Jamaica and shot in the arm. 3. Angela Okorie   15 top entertainers that suffered depression     Popular singers who featured wives in music videos     Ukraine invasion: 10 top organisations that terminated…   Actress Angela Okorie was attacked by alleged assassins. According to the actress, 10 bullets were removed from her head while two more were removed somewhere close to her eye. 4. Lil Wayne Lil Wayne accidentally shot himself in the chest when he was just 12. He was saved by a police officer. At the time, he said the injury was accidental. Decades later Carter claimed that it was an attempted suicide after he was told by his mother that he would have to end his rap-related associations. 5. Charles Okocha Actor Charles Okocha aka as Igwe Tupac also survived gunshots. According to Charles, He was shot six times by a police officer at close range in Asaba, Delta State in 2015. 6. Meghan the Stallion After Megan Thee Stallion was allegedly shot in the foot in July 2020 by fellow rapper Tory Lanez. She took to Instagram to share her version of events: “I suffered gunshot wounds as a result of a crime that was committed against me and done with the intention of physically harming me.” 7. Suge Knight In 2005, music producer Suge Knight was shot in the leg at a Miami club and in 2014 he was shot again while at a pre-VMAs party thrown by Chris Brown. He was treated for six gunshot wounds and made a full recovery.