A former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Lasun Yusuff, has resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Yusuff had contested in the APC governorship primary election on February 19 primaries in Osun state and lost to the incumbent governor, Gboyega Oyetola. It was gathered that the ex-parliamentarian submitted his resignation from APC at the party’s state secretariat in Osogbo on Friday. When contacted for confirmation, the media aide to the Osun APC chairman, Kola Olabisi, said the chairman was unaware of Yusuf’s resignation. “I cannot confirm that to you. We are in Abuja. The chairman has not been informed that he (Yusuff) has resigned from APC,” he said. But when our correspondent contacted him on phone, Yusuf simply said, “Thanks for the enquiry. It is true. I have left APC. That is all I want to say for now.” Meanwhile, the leadership of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) on Friday vowed to sue the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over refusing the party to contest the forthcoming Osun election. National Chairman of ADC, Ralphs Nwosu while briefing reporters in Abuja on the development described INEC’s decision as biased and fraudulent.   Buni reassures of hitch-free APC National Convention     2023: S’east women vow to win presidency for Gov Bello     Southern youths to IPOB: support S’East presidency   INEC had last Thursday through a statement issued by the National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye said that the commission will not publish the nominees of the Action Alliance (AA); African Democratic Congress (ADC) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) for the Osun governorship election. Okoye said those who would make this list must be candidates who emerged from valid primaries in line with Section 84 of the Electoral Act 2022. The INEC commissioner had said the nominations of AA; ADC and APGA will not be published for their failure to comply with the Commission’s Guidelines on Political Party Operations (2018) or the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). Okoye further gave reasons that the ADC nominated candidate did not meet the age requirements for the office of Deputy Governor as enshrined in the Constitution.