National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has revealed what President Muhammadu Buhari said when he told him of his presidential ambition. Buhari, he said, encouraged him to come out and display his democratic credentials. Addressing members of APC caucus in the House of Representatives, the former Lagos Governor said when he informed the President of his intention to take over from him in 2023, the President said: “Well, come out and let us see you run and we see how you can promote your democratic credentials”. Tinubu said he was the most competent in the race with proven track records in public and private sector. He recalled how he grew Lagos from being called the third dirtiest city in Africa to becoming a mega city. He said he was seeking to take over from Buhari and not to step on his toes. According to him: “I have discussed that aspect of my lifelong ambition with Mr President, that after the end of his tenure in 2023, I want to step into his shoes and not step on his toes. “He responded to me saying well come out let us see you run and we see how best we can promote your democratic credentials. “I love the opportunity today to come and consult with you. I am here as a Nigerian who has gone through the great tutelage of independent accounting in one of the best financial accounting of this world. I was one of those recruited graduates of my university with multiple honours and a first class degree. “Most people have nothing to offer but questions and creating doubt. I am not here to be defensive. I am here to tell you that I am one of the best products that you can sell. I am the only one in the race that is most competent, most qualified to be your President come year 2023. “I am the only one who has been through the tutelage of the National Assembly. I am the only one who has consistently been in one party. The others are not stable. Some of them are rolling stones. “I have been through the National Assembly. I have been in the corporate world with a background in the public sector, academic, finance and development. I have inherited one of the most badly managed states in the history of this country.   Viral video: NYSC probes corpers’ erotic dance at camp     Electricity: National grid restored, says Minister     Residents, scavengers clash as FCTA demolishes shanties   “I can look back now today and I am proud to be standing before you representing that great state which is now a mega city with a national budget higher than three countries of West Africa, developed a N600 million a month internally generated revenue to N40 billion a month….show me that nation, that state in West Africa. “To say it all, I still want to humbly and respectfully serve the country with your collaboration. There is no crime in that. They do not have anything to say and they say he (Tinubu) is not well. I am not applying to do a mixing concrete and sand and building 34 skyscrapers. “I am only applying to do a job with my can-do attitude, break the shackles of poverty and remove the roadblock in our revenue. “Why are we not competing with Russia with our God given gas? What are we waiting for? Can we not create a long term fund that would be a financial institution that would finance our infrastructure decay? “Why can’t we define and remember that there is no other discovery of this humanity in the last 1000 years like electricity constantly in homes and for industrial development? “We have God given reserves, capacity, knowledge and brain. We can do it. Let us wear the can-do attitude. “I did not ask for the gloves of Joshua to box for heavyweight. I ask for your collaboration today to be a bridge. We define our hopes, we define our destination and land Nigeria on a prosperous well developed country. I ask for your endorsement. “You are the ones with the votes and supporters who can make me succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. I want to be your partner to forge a future for this country. We can do it. “We are the most populous country in Africa. We have the best brains, we have the capacity, we have the resources. Let us join hands together. We can work together to make this country the Eldorado of our time.” Responding to a question from Deputy Speaker Idris Wase on developments in the party, Tinubu said: “We are not in crisis. We solve our problems. Anybody who understands democracy should understand the facts about conflict and conflict resolution. That is the mechanism to solve problems in democracy. Another thing is voting. “That is why there is primary, there is contests and that is why I am here. I could have been sleeping at home and enjoy myself. But I have to strive and toil. We drove all the way from Sokoto to Zamfara, held private meetings, burning the midnight oil to get results. “I want to thank this House. Also the fact that when I was undergoing physiotherapy for my knee replacement surgery, a number of this House members paid me a get well visit led by the Deputy Speaker. I say thank you very much. I am well and standing on my two feet. I have been going about, no more pain. “I am not going to do the Olympics. The Olympics that I know is politics and strategy to win and then we will win by the grace of God Almighty. We shall be there. There is no problem in our party. We will make this party a winning party again. “People are complaining. How much have they achieved? If they had done well, Nigeria would not reject them some eight years ago. With your support, they are not going to return to the misery of then.”