A gang of touts on Sunday descended heavily on an unidentified tricyclist for reportedly refusing to pay daily collection of N200 at the park where he operated in Awka, Anambra State. The victim was said to have refused to part with the money following its ban by the new Governor of the state, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo. Soludo had, during his inauguration on Thursday, banned all forms of touting and cash payment of taxes in the state. An eyewitness, who identified himself as Frank Akpan, said the touts, numbering three accosted the tricyclist and requested him to pay them the usual ₦200 all tricyclists pay at the pit (park) before first loading. He said, “The tricyclist had laughed and mocked at them, asking them to go and look for something else to be doing, as touting has expired in Anambra. “But the touts insisted and told him they were not ready for such jokes, boasting to have survived similar policies during Obiano’s administration.”   CBN slashes interest on intervention loans to 5%     Lagos agog as Ex-Super Eagles stars honour Tinubu ahead of…     Police to officers: Don’t demand custom papers from drivers   He added that the angry touts forcefully pulled the tricyclist out of his tricycle and threw punches on his face, resulting in swollen cheeks and blood gushing from his mouth. Meanwhile, The Commissioner of Police, Anambra Command, CP Echeng Echeng has ordered strict enforcement of the pronouncement by the State Government on ban on touting and self-acclaimed revenue collectors in the State. The CP through the Command spokesperson, Ikenga Tochukwu enjoined the officers to ensure full compliance with the order, especially at motor parks and other designated places within the State. “The CP also warns all unscrupulous elements that engage in touting and other unlawful acts to desist forthwith as the Police and other security agents have been deployed around the State to arrest and bring to justice anyone caught flouting this order. “The CP, while reaffirming the commitment of the Command towards crime prevention, restoration of law and order, enjoins Ndi- Anambra and all residents of the State to be vigilant and security conscious at all times and to report all suspicious movements to the Police.”