The Board of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) has approved a new strategy on digital transformation, strategic partnerships and customer-centric solutions as part of ongoing activities aimed at improving business operations and processes at the Exchange. The NGX explained that the new strategy will ensure that it becomes a leading organisation with a focus on deepening the capital market, diversifying our products and services, enhancing retail participation, and delighting our stakeholders across board. According to the Exchange, the new strategy comes on the back of impressive performance recorded after the demutualisation. In 2021, NGX experienced growth in trading figures with the NGX All Share Index (ASI) returning 6.1 per cent and turnover in the fixed income market increasing by 158.19 per cent. Equity capitalisation rose by 5.89 per cent, while fixed income figures rose by 12.81 per cent during the year. The NGX outlined that several landmark transactions were also recorded including the first-ever end-to-end digital offer in the Nigerian capital market and the ground breaking listing of BUA Cement Plc’s N115 billion bond, the largest corporate bond issuance, among others. In a statement, NGX stated that in order to effectively consolidate the recent achievements, the board has approved a restructuring.   Dangote Cement grows turnover to N1.4tr on strong Nigerian…     ‘Saving culture important to surviving harsh economy’     SEC, CIS make case for professionalism   As part of the restructuring, the board has equally approved a change in the organisational structure with the attendant rightsizing of the workforce to better position the NGX to deliver competitive value in today’s dynamic technology-driven global capital market. The NGX stated that the new structure, which took effect from yesterday, was designed to increase efficiency, enhance value, reduce cost, and maximise revenue generation. According to the new structure, the Exchange will transition from an operational structure of its divisions, namely, listings business, trading business, business support services, and technology services, to a refreshed operational structure of three divisions namely: capital markets, digital technology, and business support services. “While there is a deep appreciation for the efforts of all employees in building the thriving Exchange that exists today, these actions are necessitated by the need to effectively position Nigerian Exchange Limited to lead the digitalisation and digital transformation of the Nigerian capital market. “This new strategy reflects the Exchange’s commitment to developing the Nigerian capital market through agile, innovative, and disruptive approaches, which will in turn contribute to the growth of Nigeria’s economy. Ultimately, Nigerian Exchange Limited remains focused on providing investors and businesses a reliable, efficient, and adaptable exchange hub in Africa, to save and access capital,” NGX stated.