MANY financial institutions  are unable to patent their  products which are regularly copied by competing brands for some reasons, an expert has said. The Chief Consultant, Adedipe Associates,  Biodun Adedipe, said banks cannot register because they provide services. “The fact is that banks cannot register their products. Banks get approval from the Central Bank of Nigeria for new products but the reality is that a bank cannot put patent on its new product because its a service,” he said. According to Adedipe,  aside banks, companies, especially in fast-moving consumer goods should do more research on product development, avoid breach of competing brand’s patent and provide additional value to consumers. “Ideas are perishable.You need to do more research and avoid being a ‘lazy thinker’. On ongoing basis, you need to be interrogating the market, discovering what the market wants and matching it with your products and services. No need to duplicate the trademark of an existing brand,” he advised. He added: “There was a case in the United States, where a particular company went to the stores of a toy merchant and bought all the toys there. Anytime the merchant brought new supplies, the competing brand will come and buy all the products. It looked very good to the person selling, but the buyer will go and display the toys in his own stores. The consumer will come to the stores of the original toys merchant, and discover they did not have any product. Over time, the consumers moved the the competing brand customers stopped going to the merchant’s shop.” Adedipe said aside banking where products are not patented, other sectors need to have their trademarks registered. “Basically, companies need to have their trademarks registered, ensure that constantly, they  are in campaigns that makes people conscious of their brand,” he advised. Findings showed that in recent time, the cases of trademark infringements by companies have dominated Nigerian courts with serious implications on businesses and value addition to consumers. A brand expert, Kingsley Obinna, explained that  cases of domestic  litigation of trademark infringement between organisations like the one  between Coca Cola vs Pop Cola or Rite Foods Limited against Nigerian Bottling Company, NBC, among others, demand urgent regulatory intervention to ensure that the cases are resolved.   FCMB urges entrepreneurs to improve productivity     ‘Women own, manage 43% small businesses’     PoS supports financial inclusion, say bank officials   For instance, last November, Coca-Cola Company dragged Mamuda Beverages Nigeria Limited, manufacturers of Pop-Cola to a Federal High Court, Kano over trademark infringement. Report says Coca-Cola is accusing Mamuda Beverages company of using a ‘ribbon device’ trademark that is near identical to its ‘dynamic ribbon device’ trademark as well as depicting its Pop-Cola product in a script that mimics and causing the mark to be confusingly similar to the Coca-Cola trademark. The coca-cola claimed that it is the proprietor of trade mark ‘coca-cola (script)’ and ‘dynamic ribbon device’ both in Nigeria and worldwide, adding that the marks have been registered by the company in numerous countries across the world including in Nigeria. There is also the suit against Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC) by Rite Foods Limited, producers and marketers of Bigi beverages and Fearless energy drinks. There was also Nabisco Inc. and Allied Biscuits Company Limited, in 1998, where companies were entangled in a lawsuit on the trademark RiTZ. Adedipe said Nigeria’s intellectual property protection laws and administration should be put to work to address such issues. Such laws, he said,  include the Copyrights Act, the Patents and Designs Act, and the Trademarks Act. He said Nigeria is also a member of World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) meant to ensure global best practices in the use of intellectual property and trademarks within the market. Obinna said protection of intellectual property in the form of inventions, writing, music, designs and other works is important to allow the owners reap the full benefits of their intellectual product. intellectual property protection encourages investment. He said where the regulators fail to punish offenders, the business environment becomes less attractive, which can constitute a discouragement to new capital inflow, particularly foreign investments. On how consumers react to copyright abuse, Adedipe said: “Many consumers will be indifferent at first that leads to choices that are based on availability  and access and then preference  if there is significant price differential between the two products.” On advice to businesses against copyright abuse, he said: “Ensure patents, trademarks and the likes are properly registered. “Continuously promote the brand to establish a strong market identity for the elements of the trademark. Effectively monitor the market for new products and services that are either similar offerings or use any of the registered trademark elements to gain market entry.  Move quickly to start the process of challenge to any suspected infringement. Consider the Alternative Dispute Resolution window where it is obvious that litigation may be expensive and time consuming.”