The United States government is spending additional $1 billion on security assistance to Ukraine. The support announced on Wednesday by Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken will help Ukraine in its battle against Russia. Blinken, in a statement, said in recent days, Russia “has escalated its premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified war on Ukraine, striking hospitals, demolishing schools, leveling civilian infrastructure, and killing hundreds of civilians”. Ukrainian forces, he said, have bravely continued to combat Russia’s renewed invasion, adding that the United States and its allies and partners would stand steadfast in support of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. He said America would expedite security assistance to Ukraine.   Buhari orders clamp down on saboteurs in petrol distribution     Hallmark publisher Emeka Obasi dies at 58     VC urges industrialists to commercialise innovations for…   “This includes $1 billion in new security assistance for Ukraine this week,” Blinken said. The Secretary of State the cash would be sourced from the Ukraine Supplemental Appropriations Act signed into law by President Joe Biden. “I have immediately authorised, pursuant to a delegation by the President executed earlier today, a Presidential Drawdown of military assistance valued at up to $800 million for Ukraine’s defense.  This authorisation is the fifth drawdown of equipment from Department of Defence inventories for Ukraine in the last 6 months.  Combined with $200 million authorised March 12, it will bring the total U.S. security assistance approved for Ukraine to $1 billion in the last week alone.  We are able to provide this level of assistance because of our partnership with Congress, whose responsiveness and generosity we deeply appreciate.  We will continue to work closely with lawmakers to support our Ukrainian partners and impose costs on the Russian government,” Blinken said. The announcement nearly doubles total security assistance to Ukraine since the beginning of the Administration to more than $2 billion. Blinken said: “United States will continue to stand together with the community of nations backing the people of Ukraine as they defend their country and will continue to urge President Putin to stop the violence, de-escalate, and choose the path of diplomacy.  Until then, we will remain in close contact and coordination with our partners and allies, rally freedom-loving countries worldwide to continue delivering swift and severe consequences to the Russian Government and its enablers, and keep surging diplomatic support, security and economic assistance, and humanitarian aid to help the people of Ukraine in their time of need.”