Many schools in Owerri, the Imo State capital were shut down yesterday following a threat letter by gunmen to residents. The gunmen had in the letter posted at strategic places in the city, warned that there should be no movement in the whole state on Mondays. They also directed in the unsigned letter that the national anthem and pledge should not be recited in any school or institution in the state. To avoid being cut in the web, proprietors of many private schools hurriedly closed down. Some public schools were also under lock and key. Some parents who got wind of the threat letter opted to keep their children and wards at home. In the letter, the gunmen also warned tricycle operators (Keke NAPEP ) not to be on duty on Mondays in their own interest. The state government, however, admonished residents to go about their normal business. It specifically asked civil servants to ignore the call to stay away from their offices on Mondays. According to the government, any civil servant that fails to report for duty on Mondays would be sanctioned. Imo State has been facing security challenges due to the activities of gunmen. Just last week, a police station and the home of Ohanaeze Ndigbo President-General, Prof.  George Obiozor, were bombed by the gunmen. Indigenous  People of Biafra(IPOB) which some suspected to be the mastermind, distanced itself from the attack on the Obiozor’s residence in Awo Omama. It vowed to track down the perpetrators. The letter by the gunmen partly reads: “We the Unknown Gunmen has(sic) concluded that from now henceforth,  there will be no reciding(sic) of the national anthem or national pledge in any school or gathering in Igbo land. “Any school or institution found residing(sic) Nigeria national anthem or pledge will be shortdown(sic) and owner of the school will bring(sic) to justice.   Be guided.   Don’t say we did not inform you. “Every Monday must be respected accordingly as seat(sic) at home day. Any group of person(sic) violating the seat(sic) at home order will be severely dealt with .” The state government, through a  statement by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy,  Declan  Emelumba, assured residents that adequate arrangements had been put in place to secure their lives and properties.       How can a governor be removed?     Musa visits Gombe State Governor Yahaya     MPC downgrades growth forecast to 3.24 per cent   The statement reads: “This is to inform all   residents of Imo State that the government has not authorised any public holiday or sit-at-home across the state, either today, Monday, March 21, 2022 or any other working day “Consequently, everyone is advised to go about his or her normal duties. “Civil servants are particularly advised to ensure that they are in their offices discharging their responsibilities. Those who abstain from duty without authorisation will be sanctioned accordingly. “Government hereby assures all indigenes and residents of adequate security as they go about their lawful activities.”   IPOB dissociates self  IPOB, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful,  described the burning of Obiozor’s home as barbaric.  It blamed the attack which former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar also said was “obnoxious on those against the liberation of  Ndigbo and the release of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The group    wondered why  Obiozor, who  had done nothing  wrong, should be a victim of such “devilish attack.” The statement reads in part, “We totally condemn the burning of the house of Prof. George Obiozor, the President=General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. This barbaric act is shameful and disgraceful to Ndigbo. “There is no gainsaying the fact that criminals behind this cowardly act are those against the liberation of Biafra and the release of our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu so as to create the wrong impression that Biafra agitators are violent. “Those behind this evil act have nothing to do with IPOB, ESN or Biafra agitation. They are sponsored criminals and must be made to face the consequences of their actions. “We don’t consider ProF. Obiozor  an enemy of IPOB and Biafra’s struggle. So, anybody targeting him is treading on dangerous ground. He has done nothing to deserve such devilish and wicked attack.   *Atiku flays attack, tasks security agencies Also yesterday,  Atiku, has condemned the attack, saying it “further  reinforces the need to firm up security across the country. He argued that “a situation where elder statesmen become targets of incendiary attacks is inexcusable.” The former Vice-President expressed sympathy with Obiozor and called on relevant law enforcement agencies to step up investigations, in order to apprehend the perpetrators.