The All Progressives Congress (APC) has held a successful convention at the Eagle Square, Abuja. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the challenges before the new National Working Committee (NWC) headed by the consensus chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu  Many challenges will confront Senator Abdullahi Adamu, an elder of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and favourite of President Muhammadu Buhari, who was selected, by consensus, as new national chairman at the weekend convention in Abuja. Party gladiators were not in one accord as personal interests overshadowed collective interest. There were hot arguments and clashes. Due to lack of agreement, the convention was delayed. It did not take off until around 8pm, after the party leader and President was assured that some stalwarts had sheathed their swords. Governors, in a bid to checkmate targeted influential party leaders from playing significant roles at the convention, ran to the President, asking him to give them a chairman. They erroneously thought he will pick from the six aspirants. But, to their consternation, President Buhari looked beyond the list and picked a person that has become his ally. The first step Adamu should take is to gain the trust and confidence of the Progressive Governors’ Forum. It is the most powerful block in the party. Indeed, the governors played a key role in the ouster of former Chairmen John Odigie-Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole. In fact, they nearly succeeded in sacking the National Caretaker Committee, led by their colleague from Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. As chairman of the reconciliation committee before his selection, Adamu will have to redouble his efforts at forging cohesion and peace in the party. APC is a big party characterised by diverse interests and clevages. Party positions were few, relative to the number of contenders. Therefore, conflicts could not be averted. But, how they are resolve would point to the prospects of harmony, confidence building and renewal of fidelity to the platform by aggrieved chieftains. Few hours to the national congress, six other contestants, including Tanko Al-Makura, George Akume, Sani Musa, Abdulaziz Yari, and Saliu Mustapha, reluctantly stepped down for him, after much persuasion and intense lobbying, following President Muhammadu Buhari’s insistence that he should become chairman. A sort of tension engulfed the acclaimed largest party in Africa as the aspirants insisted on an elective convention. But, they later jettisoned their aspirantion, not because they have confidence in the chief beneficiary of the ‘coerced consensus,’ but in utter sensitivity to the danger of daring the General and power-loaded President. The onus is now on Adamu, a former governor of Nasarawa State, to open channels of reconciliation with the six aspirants, who deployed their time and resources to campaigns and mobilisation ahead of the convention, only to be later shove aside. After convention, attention has shifted to presidential primaries. Will APC adopt zoning? Would there be micro-zoning? Will the party adopt concensus? Many delegates agree that it may be risky for the party to insist exclusively on consensus during the 2023 presidential, governorship and parliamentary nominations, judging by what transpired at the Eagle Square at the weekend. The stakes would be higher and the sustenance of imposition decked in the garment of consensus may be counter-productive. The new chairman will have to be sensitive to the diverse composition of the NWC, and the various interests they tend to represent. He should be a father figure, be less combative and be more condescending. In fact, there will be need for a seminar for the new party officers to keep them abreast of the weight of responsibilities on their shoulders and the management of clearly antagonistic interests of party leaders. It is not a good thing for members of the eight year old party to view issues, not as members of APC, but of the defunct CPC, ACN, ANPP, APGA and n-PDP. Automatically, Adamu will vacate the Senate for the party secretariat. The jostling for the vacant seat will commence. There will be residuary primaries. Also, APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will lock horns during the by-election in Nasarawa West District, the first to be held under Adamu’s tenure. The problems at the regions, where contestants were asked to step down, with the carrot of refund for forms, would have to be tackled by party leaders. The move generated bitterness. An observer pointed out that it was not a neat procedure. As the Election Committee repeatedly aspirants to withdraw from the contests, in order to avoid the double jeopardy of losing the contest and the refund, some of them perceived it a blackmail and unnecessary threats. While younger contestants easily complied, older aspirants attempted to call the rebuff of party leaders. In a dramatic manner, a woman running for National Woman Leader ran to the podium to deny that he had stepped down, saying that she never authorised anybody to announce withdrawal on her behalf. APC brought to the national conventions many issues that ought to have been settled at home; at state and regional levels, before party leaders outside their states and regions who never understood the preference and disposition of the regions. Elderstatesman Aremo Olusegun Osoba had to douse tension among Southwest delegates. Iyiola Omisore was the choice of majority for National Secretary zoned to the region. Three co-contestants-Ife Oyedele, Adebayo Shittu, former Communications Minister and Prof. Abadeen Olaiya-kicked. Oyedele was the first to withdraw. Osoba, former Ogun State governor, had to work on Shittu, apologising to him profusely on behalf of Southwest and Yoruba nation. He recalled Shittu’s contribution to the drafting of the APC Constitution, saying that he deserved the honour of a founding father. “He told me he had been wounded and that his wounds were taken for granted,” he added. Shittu, who later opted out of the race, ventilated his grievance. He said:”As a lawyer of 42 years, I know nobody can agree to consensus on my behalf without my consent.” He assured that he sill not go to court and will not hold a press briefing on the matter.   Qatar 2022: Rohr fires broadsides after Eagles’ exit     Primary schools in dire straits as UBEC funds remain unused     Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike   The fourth contestant, Prof. Aberdeen Olaiya, was completely forgotten. Although Oyedele and Shittu had withdrawn, he refused to withdraw. He only withdrew after Osoba pleaded with him. Reflecting on his ordeal, he said: “Nobody consulted me. This is not good for democracy. Election shoukd be contested. There should be winners and lovers.” Despite the anxiety expressed by some aspirants and their supporters, the convention was generally fun. Presidential aspirants added glamour to the event. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, accompanied by former Aviation Minister Femi Fani-Kayode, attracted some youths to himself. Senator Rochas Okorocha moved round to shake hands with many delegates across board. Ebonyi Governor Dave Umahi, before he became preoccupied with zonal matters, moved round to greet delegates from the six zones. He was in high spirits. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu made a grand entry around 7pm. The convention erupted. The Jagaban Borgu moved from one pavilion to another, greeting and receiving cheers from delegates across board. He showed agility, moving faster than the crowd that was hailing him. The former governor of Lagos raised his right hand above his head, cheering the delegates for almost 30 minutes, non-stop. He later took a pre-eminent seat at the VIP Pavilion. Rendering accounts, Buni reeled out his achievements, including reconciliation, a befitting party secretariat, settlement of party debts, successful membership registration, and defections from PDP. Others are peaceful congresses, review of party constitution and promotion of inclusive politics. He boasted that those whose defections from the PDP are being challenged have nothing to fear, adding that they never violated the constitution. Buni noted that anxiety over the convention and 2023 polls have led to conflicts and disputes. But, he urged unity, saying that it is critical to future electoral success. Progressives Governors’ Forum Chairman Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi expressed joy that the convention held at last. He said APC has done well. Bagudu reeled out the achievements of the APC government at the centre, noting that in spite of the challenges, “we were able to exit two recessions and imaginatively overcome COVID-19.” He said after the convention, the world and the opposition will see a more committed and stronger APC ahead of 2023. House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila paid glowing tributes to the founding fathers-Buhari, Tinubu, Akande, Ogbonaya Onu and Okorocha.  He observed that the party had tried hard to avert a thorny way to convention, but had to contend with conflicts, tensions and anxieties. He cited the critical law making processes, Petroleum Industry Act, Police Reform Act and constitutional amendment as major feats of the APC-dominated House. Noting that the party is going through a process of rebirth, he said chieftains should set aside personal interests and agenda and embrace the task of unity. Senate President Ahmed Lawan said APC government has done in seven years what PDP could not achieve in 16 years. Hailing the president, he said although he will not be on the ballot in 2023, he will remain the APC moral compass. Lawan assured that before the end of the year, President Buhari will commission the Second Niger Bridge. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said the Federal Government will continue to focus on jobs. “APC will be Africa’s most successful political party,” he added. Buhari made an excellent speech. He catalogued the achievents of his administration. He said the convention, which was hold at a time the country was preparing for a general election, offered an opportunity to write a new chapter in the history of the ruling party. He paid tribute to the caretaker committee, which was on a rescue mission. He said he personally intervened when the crisis that attempted to divide the party. President Buhari acknowledged the right of people to hold different opinions. But, he said chieftains should not allow their differences to tear apart and frustrate the party. In his views, stalwarts should sit down and settle their differences without rupturing personal relations. On 2023 polls, the president enjoined the over 41 million members to register to vote. He also urged them to support the new party leadership. President Buhari charge the new leadership to promote internal democracy, cohesion, unity and avoid monetisation of politics. Although the president insisted on Adamu’s candidature, he said in 2023, “we will resist imposition of candidates.”