In 2018, it was a trio: Former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), Olisa Agbakoba (SAN)-led Nigerian Intervention Movement (NIM) and Chief Olu Falae-chaired Social Democratic Party (SDP). Now, in 2022, are The National Movement (TNM) and National Consultative Front (NCFront), of which Wale Okunniyi claimed a South West membership (The Nation, February 28). The same report listed other likely “third force” partners, ahead of a formal launch in Abuja on March 8:  People’s Redemption Party (PRP: Nigeria’s current oldest party, founded by the late Mallam Aminu Kano, pre-Second Republic, 1979-1983), African Democratic Congress, National Rescue Movement (NRM) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Now, is history repeating itself?  And Karl Marx-speak, would that be as tragedy or as farce?  Just run through the movements and parties prancing as “third force” — to displace the ruling APC and main opposition, PDP. In 2018, Obasanjo anointed ADC as his “third force”, after decorating the party with the CNM medal — another sole Obasanjo “silverware”.  Both ADC and CNM made absolutely no impact.  So, what new tricks can ADC pull now that it didn’t pull in 2019? Zenith Labour Party (ZLP).   Its forebear, Labour Party (LP), acquired notoriety for political whoredom.  Not long ago, LP was ready platform for any disgruntled candidate that got mauled in his or her party’s nomination sweepstakes.  Later, Olusegun Mimiko, who milked LP for his bruising triumph over the Ondo PDP, in his governorship years, formed ZLP from LP. Cut a long story short: Mimiko has junked ZLP for PDP.  The “native” (?) has returned?  The native had to bear a question mark because Mimiko’s original party in 1999 was the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD)!  So, with LP/ZLP peripatetic record, its contribution to the new alliance would appear more of a third farce than a third force!   Constitution review: National Assembly on another jamboree?     Begging: Abuja’s lingering menace?     Only Nigerians can save Nigeria   Now, x-ray the key personalities in this renewed excitement (again, quoting from The Nation report): Olisa Agbakoba, Attahiru Jega, Kingsley Moghalu, Pat Utomi, Wale Okunniyi and Usman Bugaje. From the military-era Civil Liberties Organization (CLO) to NIM of 2018, Dr. Agbakoba has a chequered history of human and citizen rights crusading.  So did Prof. Pat Utomi, in quaint policy excitability, way back to the June 12, 1993 Concerned Professionals (CP) anti-annulment protests.  But both seem completely lost in real partisan politics, beyond heavy media exposure. Dr. Usman Bugaje would appear one of those quiet but determined battlers.  He was there, when Action Congress (AC) transited to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), which eventually dissolved into APC.  Prof. Jega, as campus unionist, vice-chancellor and INEC chair, had always been a gadfly, though on the quiet side. Kingsley Moghalu and Wale Okuniyi?  Clear paperweights punching above their political weights.  Moghalu raced to a presidential contest.  It’s doubtful if he could have won a decent state house of assembly election.  Okunniyi is a veteran of many political escapades.  He too once vied for Senate, when he probably would labour to win a local government chairmanship. The point?  These patriotic Nigerians have eminent rights to dream and aspire — and no one should pillory them for it.  Indeed, dare to dream: they should be hailed! Yet, mouthing “third force” at the approach of every general election should go beyond mere dreams.  Political reach, reached from rigorous reality checks, is imperative. Otherwise, their coveted third force will almost always end in third farce.  That is avoidable noise.