The ongoing effort of Lagos State government to introduce Restorative Justice Practice as part of its criminal justice system is a welcome development. Such practice will be a further improvement on the innovations in the Administration of Criminal Justice Repeal and Re-enactment Law 2011 (as amended) (ACJL), of Lagos State, which other states are emulating. As the name says, Restorative Justice Practice will bring justice closer to the victim of a crime, since the offender is allowed to make restoration in a manner that truly assuages the offended person.  Unlike the present criminal justice system, where the state is in the driver’s seat, both as the prosecutor and the judge, in the Restorative Justice Practice, it is the offended person that is the driver. Since the offended person is the one directly impacted by the commission of a crime, he/she and any other person who had been impacted by the crime, have a chance to explain the impact of the crime to the offender. The offended person also has the opportunity to determine the remedies from the offender. According to a media report, the Lagos State government, in collaboration with JSPL Consulting and the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC) Programme of the British Council, with sponsorship by the European Union, is assiduously training mediators and the police in the innovative practice. It is also reported that the Lagos State Ministry of Justice and the judiciary are building the foundation for the innovative practice. That may involve amending the criminal justice laws, and providing the practice direction for the use of the courts. There is no doubt that such a redirection in the criminal justice practice will aid the administration of criminal justice in the state. The present practice where upon conviction for a crime, the magistrate or judge is bound to rely on the extant laws to punish the offender is limiting. In a case of stealing, for instance, the magistrate or judge will look at the punishment section of the law, and recommend imprisonment, or a fine in favour of the state.   Out-of-school children     Stalled e-customs project     Celebrating Diezani   But if it is under Restorative Justice Practice, the offender would most likely ask for restoration of the item stolen, or payment of compensation to him/her. Again, if there are other persons who have been impacted by the crime, they have the opportunity to say how the crime affected them, and make demands on how they can be assuaged. For instance, if a theft is committed in an estate by a resident, the residents who have been impacted can demand for community work by the offender. Such a community work will be determined by the community, and there is the likelihood that after such action is performed, the offender would be genuinely forgiven and absorbed back into the community life. Where the offender, for instance, is a young person, an explanation of the diverse impacts of a crime to him/her by the diverse victims could make the offender stop such criminality. No doubt, where the offender feels that he/she has been genuinely forgiven, instead of merely serving punishment as applicable in the present criminal justice practice, there could be emotional healing for the offender. Of course, the Restorative Justice Practice would bring genuine emotional healing for the offended person, since he/she would proffer what will bring such healing as the restitution for the harm done to him/her. Understandably, the Restorative Justice Practice would not deal with serious crimes like murder, rape, armed robbery and the like. But its impact on the small crimes, which form the majority of criminal cases in court, would be revolutionary. We encourage the Lagos State government to continue this innovative trajectory, and wish that other states could emulate her.