Tiger Woods broke down in tears after being inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame by his daughter Sam. The legendary golfer, 46, was visibly emotional as he paid tribute to his family at the Florida event. The 15-time major champion was involved in a horror car crash just one year ago, leaving him with a shattered leg and multiple other injuries. And after being introduced on stage by daughter Sam, 14, Woods could not hold back the tears as he was recognised for an incredible career. Woods said: “If you don’t go out there and put in the work, you don’t go out and put in the effort, one, you’re not going to get the results.  “But two, and more importantly, you don’t deserve it. You need to earn it. So that defined my upbringing. That defined my career.” Daughter Sam added: “You’re a fighter. You’ve defied the odds every time – being the first black and Asian golfer to win a major, being able to win your fifth Masters after back surgeries, and being able to walk just a few months after your crash.  “Dad, I inducted you into the Dad Hall of Game a long time ago, but today, I am so proud to present my dad, Tiger Woods, into the World Golf Hall of Fame.” Woods had to be cut out of his vehicle after it flipped several times during a terrifying 85mph smash in California 13 months ago.   Women’s T20 tourney, litmus test for Nigeria, Obalola says     Uysk: Joshua makes Wilder No1 choice in four-man shortlist     Brume, others set for World Indoor Championships   Woods narrowly avoided having his leg amputated after police declared he was ‘lucky to be alive’. And he made a stunning comeback to the tee in December, playing alongside 12-year-old son Charlie at the PNC Championship. However, Woods revealed last month he will never return as a full-time golf pro. Woods said: “Will I come back and play a full schedule? No. That will never happen again. “I can play certain events here and there, but on a full-time level, no, that will never happen again. “I wish I could tell you when I’m playing again. I want to know. But I don’t.  “My golf activity has been very limited. I can chip and putt well but I haven’t done any long stuff seriously. I’m still working on the walking part. “Being in a cart, I can do that. But walking a golf course, that’s a totally different deal. I’ve got a long way to go. At this age, you just don’t heal as fast, which is frustrating. “To be out here and play six rounds of golf, I’m not able to do that yet. I’m still working on getting to that point.”