Not being a historian, I cannot even pretend to know the origin of war – when the first one was fought and between whom; its causes and its outcome. Even in my youthful days when we’d beat hostel rules to go watch films at Rex Cinema or Ocansey Cinema, I was never enamored of war films. The Americans were always the victorious over the Japanese. And I kept wondering whether my Japanese underdogs would ever have the upper hand. Maybe, my humble beginnings have aligned me irrevocably with underdogs. However, I know — though I am no expert — the humongous budget of the global war industry. I know the research that goes into developing  military arsenal that is driving mankind with unaccountable haste to the edge of the precipice and annihilation. A few, just a few, powers are at the commanding heights of this industrial complex that produces armaments, while the rest of us in our multitude look on in awe of their destructive powers. The sight of new guns, launchers and other munitions, the steely coldness of their appearance, fascinates and sends chills down the spine of us laymen. We look on hopeless and helpless, as we contemplate those that will be the eventual victims of these murderous technologies – our youth, our women, our children! Scientists developing these deadly munitions are smug in their sense of accomplishment, seeing each deadly invention as toy, and gloating over what the human mind is capable of. When they talk about its unimaginable destructive power, they smirk with orgasmic pleasure and delight. At that point they rarely contemplate their inventions as instruments of human misery, agents of death, and tools for wiping out years of human civilisation. They only anticipate the billions of dollars that is the outcome of their dark exertions, which will be stashed away in coded accounts with invisible banks. And they itch to have their deadly inventions tested to demonstrate to the world their deadly potency. In the meantime, leaders of poorer countries who ought to agonize over how to develop their countries and secure the future of their citizens, are busy negotiating with the big murderous powers how their countries could become proud owners of deadly armaments. Warfare is more important than welfare! So, to the basement of development is cast welfare of their citizens. Arms sales and acquisitions are negotiated every waking moment in international corridors of power. Most times, with strings attached. You may do this.  You cannot do that. This is how you must run your country, if you must purchase our weapons. Talk of arrogance of power; and talk of ignoble servitude — all to possess the real Weapons of Mass Destruction of the poor! And thus, the rich countries feed off the poor and become richer, while the poor get poorer. Meanwhile, poor infrastructure in education, health care, roads and transportation, agriculture, nutrition — indeed, the parlous state of their economies, reverberate in the people’s lament in the poor countries. The bulk of the people are ravaged by poverty, disease and squalor; while the preference of their renegade leaders is warfare over welfare. And lick-spittle-subservience, over political astuteness and assertiveness. Can peace rule the world? What happens to the gargantuan armament industry if peace should reign in the world? Maybe, our own world will be better, yes? Meanwhile, theirs will be boring, gloomy and horrid. They will certainly loathe that kind of existence and will do everything to ensure that provocation drives the world. And appetite for weapons never ever cloys. The excitement of seeing the hapless die is intoxicating. They would ensure that world peace remains a mirage. And that brothers are always at war, at pistols drawn; that suspicion, power-mongering and hate characterize relationships among neighbours. Just contemplate what makers and importers of generating sets will suffer if Nigeria were to have steady, uninterrupted power supply. Do you think they will fold their arms and allow policies that will instal stable power supply to gain root and succeed? Or what would become of producers of pure water from wells and boreholes, if waterworks in state and local governments roar back to life. Not on your life! It is ultimately about not what we gain when there’s peace in the world, but what oppressors lose if there’s no war in the world. Are we really not “the most pernicious race of little odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth”? — apologies to the master satirist, Jonathan Swift.   Ghost of Oshiomhole     Putin peril     Of TNM and messiahs   We may want to throw into the mix the reaction of environmentalists and animal rights group if some of these deadly weapons are modified for game, to destroy our flora and fauna. Head we lose tail we lose. Finito.     Prof. Alade Fawole, of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, is one of The Nation’s consistent corps of priceless contributors. Yet in “Ukraine: Forced into a war it can never win!” (March 17), Ripples wondered if anyone could start a piece with a fallacy but still execute a logical conclusion. The abiding thesis in Prof. Fawole’s piece was appeal to force.  Because Russia has overwhelming force, it can storm Ukraine and impose its will! In other words, might is right; and cross-border outlawry is chic! But John Donne, in “The Sun Rising”, a piece of solid poetic intellection, dismissed the notion of might-is-right: with a mere wink, a mere mortal could shut out the sun’s powerful beam!  Yet, the all-mighty sun decides whether it is day or night! That is the sheer power of human will! So, while Russia could brag there is no way it could lose this war (and good luck to President Vladimir Putin and his war generals on that), there is no logic to it.  It’s all a fallacy of force, which has no place in reasoned discourse. The professor sure has soft spots for Russia in its Ukraine grudge — no crime. Ripples too has soft spots for Ukraine? That Russia sympathy, from his piece, issued from the West’s annoying hypocrisy over Russia’s legitimate security fears. On that, the professor is spot on: do unto others as you want others to do unto you is no great virtue of the America-led West, as EU or as NATO. Indeed, in the West, there is too much cant to make Immanuel Kant, that rigorous, clear-thinking, straight-talking moral philosopher, to go hopping mad! Yet, neither western cant nor Russian grudge can summarily cancel out Ukraine’s sovereign right and will — including, if it comes to that, NATO membership. That, to be sure, would rankle.  America would kick were Mexico — or Canada — to enter into some security alliance with Russia.  Yet, that would still not justify a mad raid and severe bombing of Mexico as Russia now does of Ukraine, just because it could. It’s all the futility of force, when reasoned engagement would do.  In any case, after two World Wars, Putin ought to know playing Hitler all over would attract terrible consequences, even if Russia achieved a Pyrrhic victory on the battle front. But even on that, Putin and co are no longer so smug.  That explains why Russia seems to abandon the hot but stalled fronts, to savagely shell soft civilian targets. Everything, therefore, boils down to Ukraine’s will to pay the price to safeguard its sovereign rights.  That could well nurture a new international order anchored on basic humanity; from the present disorder driven by brute force.