Lagos State Government said the days of indiscriminate parking of vehicles around the streets in the metropolis are numbered. General Manager of the Lagos State Parking Authority (LASPA), Adebisi Adelabu, said the agency was ready to start implementing the state’s parking policies aimed at averting disruption, reducing traffic congestion and ensure improved road safety. She spoke at a parley with journalists in Lagos where she called on all park operators (commercial and non-commercial) to register with the agency for an operating permit. According to her, the parking arrangement will come as on-street and off-street, explaining that the on-street parking to be coordinated by the agency will ensure people pay for the use of the road; while off-street involves private park operators. Adelabu said the agency would be working with local governments and other stakeholders for the success of the new parking arrangements, just as she said multi-story car parks would be developed at appropriate locations.   Foundation to honour Babangida, others     FUOYE dismisses double salary claim against VC     Fayemi condemns calls for local govt autonomy   Already, she said the programme to be executed in phases would start with five local government areas including Ikeja and Lagos Island as a pilot project. She said roads for on-street parking would be marked and properly labelled. Commissioner for Transport Dr Frederic Oladeinde, said the creation of LASPA by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, became necessary to address the attitude of motorists parking indiscriminately on the roads and at undesignated bus stops. He said parking space issue needed to be addressed to reduce travel time caused by traffic jam and make the state a 21st century-running economy. According to him, the new Lagos State parking policy has been designed to decongest traffic, address climate change challenges, create job opportunities and generate revenue for the state through issuance of parking tickets to defaulters. “We are looking at technology to change things. We have a five-year road map. We know that the future of parking is artificial intelligence. But we’re not there yet. We need data and data is power,”Oladeinde said.