A half century by Nigeria’s Salome Sunday was instrumental to Nigeria’s 41 runs victory against West African rivals Sierra Leone at the Access Bank Sponsored NCF Women’s T20i Invitational in Lagos. The match was the second match of the opening day of the five nation event that bowled off at the newly renovated Tafawa Balewa Square. Rwanda had earlier knocked Ghana’s Women Team to an 85 runs victory in the opening match at the event. The Nigeria Cricket Federation had conceived the tournament as part of the developmental drive for Women Cricket in the country. Bookmakers had tipped Nigeria for victory over the visitors given the country’s level of women’s  cricket development as well as being ranked 37th  by the International Cricket Council, seven places above Sierra Leone. But it didn’t appear to be such an easy game for Nigeria. The first over saw a fall of wicket in Piety Lucky and Kehinde Abdulquadri in the third over, sending a bit of anxiety to spectators.   Ronaldo admits tough test  against North Macedonia     Salah leads Egypt ‘ World Cup war’ against  Senegal     WTT Doha: Aruna edge Chinese star in crunchy tie   Sunday replaced Abdulquadri, and a partnership with Blessing Etim who in the eighth over saw the hosts leap in runs as they held on to finish the game at 131 runs for the loss of three wickets. Sunday’s 50 runs not out was instrumental to the victory as she ended the game on 61 runs following 63 balls faced, including six boundary hits. Etim, however scored 31 runs in 29 balls. Meanwhile, the second innings saw Sierra Leonean team with poor run rate in the first 10 overs but the side picked up a good form in the last part of the innings to end the game on 90 runs for the loss of six wickets. The first match of the day, however saw Ghana lose by 81 runs to high-flying Rwanda. It is the first time both teams are meeting in a cricket event but the 31st  ranked East African side showed why they are rated on the ICC table as compared to their unranked counterpart. Hostilities continues today with Nigeria against The Gambia  while  Ghana face Sierra Leone.