On Thursday, March 3, 2022, at about 6PM, the management of The O2 Arena in London, UK, announced that tickets for Davido’s concert scheduled for Saturday, March 5, 2022 had been officially sold out. The management of O2 arena tweeted: “Davido has officially sold out at #TheO2 #DavidoatTheO2”. It wasn’t Davido’s first time at the a 20,000- capacity event centre but the tweet set the tone for the activities that happened at the second coming of the father of three. Here are some of the highlights at the event trending in UK, US, Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, and other parts of the world;   The prayer The show was billed to kick off at 6:30pm according to the O2 Arena timing and it was not until few hours after that the show officially kicked off. However, the show didn’t begin until one of Davido’s big sisters gathered the singer and his crew backstage and led them in prayer. Davido’s big sister prayed for a successful show while the singer sipped from a white cup and muttering amen. After the prayers, Davido hugged his sister who in turn planted a kiss on his cheek.   The grand entry Davido is known to play big and classy for every time he holds a show – even his exercise sessions says it all. For his grand entry into the show, the singer appeared on the stage in a well-lit cube that hung in the middle of the 20,000 capacity filled arena. He opened the show with his 2103 monster hit song, Skelewu. Davido was viewed by millions across the world passionately singing the lyrics of the song from the cube.   Performance outfits It’s always hard to separate Davido from luxury and for every time he steps out, he comes out a million buck. For his O2 show, Davido opened the show wearing a customised Dolce and Gabbana jacket and trousers embellished with crystals.   TCN fails to wheel 743,490Mw     Police arrest two suspects over missing BRT passenger     UPDATED: Another batch of evacuees arrive from Ukraine   The outfit, according to The Nation’s investigation, costs the singer a staggering N10.4 million ($25,000). He later opted for a second outfit for the night spotting white T shirt and knickers all from the Puma luxury range. Read Also: Davido employs Morgan Freeman for O2 Arena commercial   Eniola Badmus joins crew The actress was one of the most popular celebrities, who isn’t a musician spotted all around Davido at the show. Aside her all access entry, Eniola shuttled between the backstage and the stage area of the event centre where she filmed and hobnobbed with Davido and other members of the 30BG crew.   Isreal DMW makes it to the stage Isreal DMW, one of the popular aides of Davido, made it to the United Kingdom to support his boss. Israel was spotted on the stage with a bell on the stage muffing some things in Edo language before his boss mounted the stage.   Ckay wowed audience Afrobeats sensation, CKay was one of the performers for the night and the 26-year-old wowed the audience. The 20,000 capacity arena had attendees of the show singing along to Ckay’s nit song, ‘Love Nwantinti’ just after he performed his collaboration with Davido.   Adekunle Gold performed with Davido Another highlight of the night must have been Adekunle Gold’s performance with Davido. The moment had several attendees at the arena shouting at the top of their voice as they chorused the duo’s high song, ‘High’. The two singers were overwhelmed by the excitement that was visible in the attendees response to the monster hit song.   Davido unfurl catalogue of songs in last decade Attendees at the Davido’s concert sure had massive fun as the singer unfurled a long list of his catelogue of songs. Singing many of his hit songs that kicked off with Skelewu, also had the singer taking fans back in memory lane with his rendition of his hit debut singles, Back in the Day, and Dami Duro. He also performed his monster hit song, Aye, Gobe and many others to the fans’ acceptance and excitement.   Extra costs just for passion The Nation gathered that Davido, as always, spared no cost in fueling his passion – entertaining attendees at his London show. According to a UK podcaster, Marvin Abbey, the show, which was the official performance for the world in his decade long career, was supposed to finish at 11pm according to the contract with the management of O2 arena but ended up finishing at 11:34PM London time. The O2, it was gathered have a strict 11pm curfew and for every minute you go past 11pm, you have to pay £10,000. Davido, it was gathered, said he didn’t care and went on to finish the concert at 23:34 to pay an additional cost of £340,000 to the management.