A coalition of youth groups across the Northwest geopolitical zone has backed late Chief MKO Abiola’s daughter, Rinsola Abiola, who is contesting for the position of National Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC).. The groups, drawn from seven States of the northwestern region who convened in Kano, said, after “exhaustible deliberations,” they have come to agree on a “common ground” in support of Rinsola Abiola for the national youth leadership. In a briefing in Kano, the Zonal Coordinator, Sabiu Sulaiman Ibrahim, said their strongest point, apart from the fact that Rinsola is qualified for the post is that the position has been zoned to Southwest where she comes from. “Her sterling qualities are a consolidating aspect of the entire process, so long as our diligent support is concerned. She has all it takes to contest for the position and bring new changes for national development youths in the country. “We are mostly APC card-carrying members. We also have, among us, political activists who believe in the promotion of women in governance and politics. “We can understand that part of what she has in her shopping list, is to mobilise young voters for the 2023 elections through extensive nationwide engagements with different segments of youth across the country. With this, she can be able to help Nigerian youths navigate correctly with clear vision and direction.   Lagos First Lady lauds group for backing Sanwo-Olu’s agenda     Giwa: ‘Our 2023 youth agenda is unfolding’     Political appointees with 2023 ambitions should resign…   “Our choice of Rinsola Abiola is aimed at establishing a central unit to support young candidates with many things, from legal advice to campaign branding and materials so as to strengthen and consolidate on the philosophy of Not Too Young to Run. “The amalgamation of youth groups and associations from Northwest zone, are hereby unequivocally in full support of Rinsola Abiola in her contest for the position of National Youth Leader of APC,” Ibrahim said. Describing the late Abiola’s daughter as a “courageous and committed role model,” the groups pointed out that their support for her is not only for the sake of the contest but because she intends to enhance youth involvement in the mainstream of government by supporting young candidates and negotiating to have more young people appointed at different levels of government. “Rinsola will prioritise general youth concerns by influencing policies and laws at different levels of government if she is elected as our National Youth Leader of this great party, the APC. “She will deliver a better deal for both APC and young people. She will ensure the majority of the youth vote for APC while also protecting and promoting the interests of young people. “Rinsola is also committed to women’s inclusion in political campaigns. She is patriotic and detribalised like her late father Chief MKO Abiola of blessed memory. It is indeed her passion for youth development that inspired her to join politics,” Ibrahim said.