Can Taiwo Awoniyi and Union Berlin extend the winless streak of reigning Bundesliga champions, Bayern Munich to three games today as they visit the Alianz Arena in a Matchday 27 tie? Union Berlin are in similar form as the Bavarians having yet to win a league game in the last two games. They had followed their 3-1 home win over Mainz with defeat to Wolfsburg (1-0) and a last minute capitulation at home to VfB Stuttgart which cost them all points and had to settle for shared spoils (1-1). But they can use the erratic form of Bayern as the springboard to return to winning ways. Awoniyi who remains Union Berlin’s biggest talisman with 11 Bundesliga goals is on the roll  with two goals in the last three games, having not scored since the start of December last year. Those strikes have brought Union their only two positive results in the six games they have played since the start of February, winning 3-1 at home to Mainz and drawing 1-1 with VfB Stuttgart last weekend.   Europa: West Ham faces Lyon in Q-finals     Champions League quarter-final draw     Belgrade 2022: World Indoor Championships start without…   Die Eisernen have only won twice on the road all season, but a first-ever victory away at Bayern would be a huge boost to their European hopes. The Berliners begin the weekend in eighth spot with 38 points from 26 matches, but just six points off the top four. Awoniyi is expected to lead the line and will be joined up front by January signing Sven Michel as they set out to avenge their 5-2 home loss to Bayern Munich in October last year. The 24-year-old Nigerian has 11 Bundesliga goals this season, and 16 in Union colours and four assists from 34 games in all competitions this term. He needs just one more goal to surpass Max Kruse as the club’s record top-flight goalscorer. Awoniyi is enjoying his most prolific season in Europe with the 11 goals he already plundered  and having scored against top teams like RB Leipzig, Hertha Berlin, Borussia Monchengladbach, Hoffenheim, and Bayer Leverkusen hitting the bull’s eye against Die Rotten will no doubt cap an already fantastic season on a personal note for the Super Eagles striker.