Lagos State chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, aka MC Oluomo, has responded to a query issued to him by the national headquarters for alleged insubordination. In a letter, Akinsanya stated that he faithfully complied with the laws guiding the union’s operations, adding that he would “never do anything to tarnish the image of the union or bring the union back to the inglorious position of being branded as thugs and disturbers of the public peace in Lagos.” On the appointment of Alhaji Azeez Abiola as chairman, Lagos State NURTW Tricycle Operators, Akinsanya said Abiola was announced on February 9 in Abuja as one of the State Trustees and Chairman, Zone ‘C’ Tricycle Owners and Operators Association of Nigeria (TOOAN) of NURTW and not overall chairman of TOOAN in the state. “But unfortunately, before we got back to Lagos, Abiola had been parading himself on social media as the new state chairman of TOOAN and posting a letter of appointment I was not aware to that effect.   Youths accuse Emmanuel of coercing appointees to support…     APGA members protest as 22,000 apply for Soludo’s jobs…     Cross River PDP to contest by-election result at tribunal   “This is in spite of the fact that the legality of TOOAN is an issue at the National Industrial Court and the Lagos State Council is presently funding the defence in an effort to protect the corporate image of the union,” he said. Akinsanya denied knowledge of intimidation or assault on Abiola or any of his supporters. As a trustee, Abiola, he said, has the right of entry to the state secretariat and has never been denied the right. Akinsanya said: “It will be demeaning of me to instruct people to beat up his supporters and I never did.  On the release of former state secretariat to Abiola, Mr President (Alhaji Tajudeen Baruwa), will recall that the former State Secretariat situated on 360, Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Abule-Egba, Lagos has already been contracted to the Amalgamated Mega-City Transport Limited for the use of the BRT operations and they have taken over the place since and are paying us rent. Income from the venture is routinely sent to the National Headquarters. There is, therefore, no former State Secretariat to hand over as same is contractually obligated to the transport firm to his (Abiola’s) knowledge and all our knowledge.” On allegation of using thugs to forcefully take over branches of his perceived enemies, Akinsanya said nothing of such ever happened since he took over.