CIG Motors in partnership with Polaris Bank has introduced ‘Easy Buy’, an affordable vehicle finance scheme meant to make vehicle acquisition and ownership easier for its teeming customers, prospects and fleet buyers in the country. The auto giant and the bank announced the scheme at a joint briefing in Lagos. The ‘Easy Buy’ auto scheme offer is applicable to GAC models which include GA4, GS3, GN8, GS4 and GS8 models. They can be accessed in all CIG Motors accredited dealers nationwide. CIG Motors’ General Manager, Sales, Mr. Jibril Arogundade said: “The partnership with Polaris Bank is in line with our strategy and direction of making vehicle acquisition, a seamless experience for Nigerians and essentially to assist prospective customers to buy brand new vehicles. “The Polaris Bank/CIG Motors partnership is intended to ease vehicle acquisition and assist customers to take advantage of the offer. What we are simply doing, is to help prospective buyers eliminate the burden of sourcing funds in one fell-swoop to buy a new car.”   Changan Star 9 bus hits local market     Nissan introduces Navara to customers     Bolt, Fixit45 partner to improve autocare services   Polaris Bank’s Executive Director, Lagos Business, Mr. Segun Opeke, who signed the Easy Buy scheme MOU between Polaris Bank and CIG Motors, said the partnership will make brand new vehicle acquisition, and ownership seamless. Polaris Bank’s Group Head, Products and Market Development, Mrs. Adebimpe Ihekuna said: “The Easy Buy scheme is a seamless plan for desiring customers – Individual and SMEs.” Leveraging our technology capability, processing time is swift, less than 24 hours.” Mrs. Ihekuna stated that the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme is to give Polaris Bank customers the opportunity to secure low-interest bank credit for the procurement of at a hugely-discounted CIG Motors’ GAC range of vehicles. “You can now walk into any Polaris Bank branch to apply for credit to buy your choice GAC cars and thereafter, pay conveniently. The ‘Easy Buy’ scheme has convenient monthly repayment tenor of up to 60 months,” she said. The Nation learnt that there is a zero per cent interest freeze between six and 12 months on the GAC Motors models. This will apply from date of funds disbursement of the ‘Easy Buy’ scheme which customers would enjoy in addition of free comprehensive insurance for the first year, free vehicle registration and five years’ warranty, among other mouth-watering benefits.