No quarter would be asked  and none would be given as the  continental  play-off matches  for the five available  tickets for the  Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup  gets underway next week. Yet Immediate Super Eagles coach German Gernot Rohr believes Nigeria  is good enough to edge our West African  traditional  rivals,  Ghana. MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN, reports.   Immediate Super Eagles coach German Gernot Rohr is confident that Nigeria will qualify ahead of Ghana for the Qatar 2022 World Cup, even as he predicted a Titanic battle between Egypt and Senegal as well as Algeria and Cameroon. The continent will be buzzing next week as 10 teams slug it out for the five available continental tickets to the first World Cup to be held in the Middle East with the Super Eagles facing the Black Stars at the Baba Yara Stadium in Kumasi on March 25th while the reverse fixture comes up at the Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja on March 29th. “Yes, the crucial (World Cup Play-off) matches are coming now,” Rohr who took Nigeria to Russia 2018 World Cup, told NationSport. “I saw the list of players (Super Eagles) and I think that Nigeria will qualify for the World Cup.” Rohr, who blooded several youngsters during his five-year spell with the Super Eagles, further underlined the key factor that can tilt the match in favour of Ghana. “This team (Super Eagles) is young and full of talent, with some experienced elements,” he said. Rohr, however, admitted that there would be mother-of-all-battles in two of the remaining five fixtures. “Egypt vs. Senegal and Cameroun vs. Algeria are “hot” games where everything is possible.” The other two World Cup play-off ties would see DR Congo hosting Morocco on March 25 while Mali entertain Tunisia in Bamako even as the reverse fixtures take place on March 29. In a related development, Egypt’s national team head coach, Portuguese Carlos Queiroz has reportedly sent an encouraging message to the fans ahead of the Senegal clash in the 2022 World Cup qualifiers. The Pharaohs have advanced to the last stage of 2022 World Cup qualifiers by topping Group F with 14 points from six games. Senegal in their turn had also led their group, qualifying for the playoffs with 16 points after five wins and one draw. In the final round, the two titans will be confronting each other for one of Africa’s five spots in the upcoming World Cup in Qatar.   Mayi: emotional proposing to my sweetheart on the pitch     Oshodi gets ITTF’s Task Force appointment     Europa League: Aribo, Balogun hit quarters with Rangers   Egyptian news outlet, KingFut, noted that the games will not be easy for either side as a penalty shootout decided the winner in the two teams’ last encounter at the 2021 AFCON finale. “Prioritising goals and dreams, nothing is impossible. Never doubt that a team full of committed brave and talented people can change the future,” Queiroz tweeted. “All together now united, supporting team Egypt. One Egyptian flag in each home window. “One National team shirt dressed in the heart of each fan. One hundred million fans together and united in one heartbeat,” the Portuguese said. Unlike Nigeria with a complete squad of foreign-based professionals, the former Manchester United assistant coach has listed only nine foreign-based players that will join the Pharaohs squad for their double-header against Senegal in the World Cup qualifiers. The first leg is scheduled to be played in Cairo on March 25, while the second leg will take place four days later. While Egypt set to enter the game without the services of Ahmed Hegazi and Akram Tawfik who were both injured during the AFCON, Queiroz decided to call up new names that didn’t make the squad to Cameroon. There is a surprise call-up of Karim Hafez who currently plies his trade with Turkish Super Lig outfit Yeni Malatyaspor, making 25 appearances this season for the team that currently sits bottom of the league table. Three other names will be arriving from Turkey alongside Hafez, namely Mostafa Mostafa Mohamed, who was Egypt’s number one target man at the previous AFCON, Ahmed Hassan Kouka of Konyaspor, and Al Ahly loanee at Altay SK, Ahmed Yasser Rayan. While Mostafa managed to score just seven goals in 33 games this season, the pressure will be on him, who is currently leading the scoring charts for Konyaspor with eight goals. Kouka’s only appearance under Carlos Queiroz came as a last-minute substitute in the Portuguese’s first official game in charge against Libya. Al Tawwoun’s Mostafa Fathi has also made the list after his spectacular displays in Saudi Arabia in the recent period, while the rest of the list saw the regular names of Mohamed Salah, Mohamed Elneny, Mahmoud Hassan Trezeguet, and Omar Marmoush. On the other hand, the most notable names to have failed to make the list are Mahmoud Kahraba, Sam Morsy, and Amr Warda.