It was a carnival-like event All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Ogun State and Ogun East Senatorial aspirant, Deji Ashiru declared his intention. Ashiru spoke with chairmen, 9 local government of Ogun East Senatorial District and all the  eleven ward chairmen, principal officers, youth leaders and women leaders from Ijebu-Ode Local Government on Wednesday in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. He reeled out some of his humanitarian gestures  when he contested the same office in 2019, having traversed 103 wards, nine local Government Areas and 1,135 polling booths twice which make up the entire Ogun East senatorial district. Ashiru installed solar power in Orile Oko and Ojelana respectively, both in Remo North and Ijebu East Local Government of Ogun State. Similarly, he graded Ogijo and Ode Remo roads. He contributed in no small measures and facilitated the  electrification of Itumetala Community in Ijebu-Ode, provided tables and chairs to Ososa Comprehensive High School in Odogbolu. Ashiru built a block of toilets at Obada station, Ijebu Igbo, provided  school kits to various pupils amongst others. Although he didn’t win the election, Ashiru said he was grateful to  God that he won the hearts of the people and was able to put smiles on faces and provide succour to many.   Tinubu: How to be a leader     Fayose joins 2023 presidential race     Declare for presidency or else, group threatens Amaechi   In his speech at the interactive session, he said: “My core values are accountability, service, humility, love, integrity and excellence. “My social contract with the good people of Ogun East senatorial district anchors on grassroot development, human development and social economic inclusion. My mission is an inclusive, progressive and prosperous of Ogun East Senatorial District. “I do not intend to be an Abuja senator, I shall be organising constant meetings with my constituents to brief them on my activities on the floor of the National Assembly. Similarly, welfare packages for the aged, provision for girls, child rights, infrastructural development, youth empowerment, support for Micro, Small & Medium Sizes Enterprises (MSMEs) amongst others shall be my utmost priority.” Ashiru said: “I have accepted the challenge to provide the required political leadership for the ultimate benefit of the good people of Ogun East Senatorial District. With your unwavering support, I see a formidable bond that cannot be divided as I humbly serve as your Senator.” Some of the dignitaries at the event include, chairmen in nine Ogun East senatorial district, Hons. Asimi Jamiu, Omowunmi Wale, Balogun Adebayo, Sobanbo Muyiwa, Adekunle Aromolate, Mosun Oladapo, Rufai Opaleye, Idowu  Muyiwa, Abiola Logere also at the event, woman  leader, Ogun East senatorial district, Hon. Mrs. Kubura Arigbabuwo, woman  leader, Ijebu-Ode LG. Hon. Mrs. Arije Olufisayo Grace, youth leader, Ijebu-Ode LG. Hon. Ibitayo Ibraheem Aremu, Ogun East Senatorial District  PRO, Tolulope Oduyemi, Councillor Ward 8, Hon. Olufowobi Temitope, Hon. Liadi Adedayo, Comm. Gboyega Coker amongst others who all thanked Ashiru for being  a good ambassador and commended his unwavering support for the APC  and promised  to give him all the support he needs to clinch the ticket and ultimately win. At the ward 2 meeting, voters who trooped out in their thousands to welcome Ashiru promised to vote for him and  Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, so he can  complete the good work he has started.