ON Wednesday, March 16, 2022, history was made on the shores of Lagos, Nigeria, when Fuji singer extraordinaire, Wasiu Ayinde Anifowose aka K1, staged an intellectual fora to discuss the future of Fuji music and celebrate the life of late creator and Fuji music legend, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister. The intellectual fora entitled Sikiru Ayinde Barrister Colloquium was the first in the series of K1’s plans to uphold the essence of the music genre while keeping the glow. K1, who was installed the Maiyegun of Yoruba land by the Alaafin of Oyo, stressed that the colloquium made history as the first to be ever held for and in honour of a Nigerian and African music pioneer. “Let me use this opportunity to inform you all that this colloquium in honour of my late boss, mentor, and Fuji creator, Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, is the first of its kind in the history of Nigeria and Africa as a whole – and I dare say the entire world. What we have all gathered for her today is a legacy that will not only gladden Barrister’s heart but also set the pace for what the future holds for Fuji music,” K1 began. In an exclusive chat with The Nation, K1 disclosed the passion which necessitated the legacy that was consolidated 12 years after the death of Barrister. “If we all agree Barrister is the symbol and face that attracted a lot of people to that genre of music, then we should be able to put our foot down that he must be well-celebrated. We should be able to create an institution out of that establishment he made so that many years to come, there would be reason for people to learn.” Continuing, he said, “For instance, the whole world believes the role of Bob Marley as far as Reggae is concerned, and all credits today go to him and Jamaica. That is the same thing with Barrister when it comes to Fuji and Nigeria. As we grow, we discover that our music, especially in southwest Nigeria, serves as an eye-opener and is full representation of the fact that Fuji music is a genre that has travelled far with its origins in Nigeria.   Afrobeats not there yet, says Obi Asika     2022 AMVCA: Eight things to expect at 8th edition     Last Man Standing: Sanwo-Olu, Abiodun, Akande watch Lateef…   “Why do we have to wait till it is gone before we think that it is time to create our own Jamaica and our own Reggae that God has blessed us with through Sikiru Ayinde Barrister. That was what informed the organisation of the colloquium. But a colloquium like this is not something you just wake up and do, you need a lot of consultation. It was that consultation that took us such a long time. We needed to put a lot of things in place and a lot of people on their toes, and also seek ideas from professionals and people that know what we are talking about.” For K1, the colloquium is just the first step in the right direction towards immortalising the legacies of the Fuji creator. He said, “What informs a better society is when there is an avenue for people to come together and talk. That is what will ginger us and open our eyes to a lot of things we cannot see. In the course of talking, discussing, holding meetings, symposiums, you would see a lot of development. If we don’t open discussions through forums like this, how do we know the problems and how to tackle them? With the colloquium, we would dialogue with the government to proclaim a day in honour of Fuji music and the late creator, so these are ways to further immortalise him.” Expectedly, at the colloquium were several Fuji musicians led by General Kollignton Ayinla, but not devoid of the presence of dignitaries that included music enthusiasts and writer, Jide Taiwo, Mayor Akinpelu, Steve Ayorinde, Prof Jeleel Ojuade, Muiz Banire, Otunba Sesan Rufai, Chief Ebenezer Obey, and several others. While many individuals had so much to say about the late Barrister, his first son, Babatunde Ishola Balogun believes his late father idolised himself even before his death while extoling his virtues as a humanitarian. “Barrister has idolised himself already because even the songs he sang 30 years ago sound like he just sang them. We the family will continue to work with the public because Barrister fans are too loyal. They attack me if I pass my boundary. I know that barrister was my father but I know that he was beyond that as well. He has served humanity in every area, being an admin officer and he also went to the civil war.” For Prof Ojuade, Barrister wasn’t celebrated enough while alive. He said that listening and watching the musician perform reshaped his thinking and knowledge of music and dance practice, which clearly showed that it takes a committed soul to pitch a tent in the creative world. Ayorinde and Akinpelu chorused what portends to be the future of Fuji music. The two media executives agreed that practitioners of the genre of music need to see the future and align with the evolution of what will eventually become Fuji music like Afrobeats. Ayorinde and Akinpelu also opined that K1’s monstrous hit single, ‘Anu mo ri gba’ aka ‘Ade ori okin,’ is a path in the right way. The first colloquium ended with performances by Fuji artistes, who relived the moment by singing some of the evergreen songs of late Dr Sikiru Ayinde Barrister, and K1 rounding it off with the rendition of his hit song, ‘Anu mo ri gba.’