Marital dramas and celebrities are almost synonymous in Nigeria. Here are some of them with marital issues or break-ups in recent years: 1. Tonto Dikeh and Churchill Socialite Tonto Dikeh and former business mogul Olakunle Churchill had a marital crisis over alleged domestic violence and extramarital affairs in 2017. After a child with whom they co-parent, they parted ways and Churchill ended up with his former PA, Meurer, who was alleged to have caused the break-up while Tonto got into another marriage mess with Prince Kpokpogri. 2. Tiwa Savage and Teebillz Tiwa Savage and Tunji Balogun married traditionally in 2013 with an elaborate ceremony in 2014. They were blessed with a boy Jamil but the couple later parted ways. Teebillz reportedly accused his ex-wife of having affairs with some prominent celebrities while she accused him of violence, substance abuse and cheating. 3. Funke Akindele Jenifa and Alhaji AlMaroof Funke parted with Alhaji Kehinde AlMaroof Oloyede barely a year after they got married. They moved on and Funke married JJC in 2016 with whom she has two children before their marriage. 4. Fathia and Saheed Balogun The duo was talk in town in the entertainment sector The relationship got really bad to the extent that Saheed had problems with Fathia still bearing his last name. 5. Stella Damasus and Emeka Nzeribe Stella was married before tying the knots with Emeka. The union didn’t last a year but she is settled with her new man Daniel Aderinokun. 6. Ayo Adesanya and Goriola Hassan Ayo Adesanya claimed she packed out of her hubby’s house in tears on midnight. It was a bad marriage for them according to reports. 7. Jibola Dabo and Binta Ayo Mogaji   Battle with depression awakened me, says Eva Alordiah     Why I featured Wizkid on V album, by Asa     Portable sets to commence road renovation in community   Binta and Dabo accused each other of a lot of things, including infidelity before they split. 8. Kate Henshaw and Mr. Nuttal Kate Henshaw separated from her ex-hubby of 10years. She and the British had a daughter. 9. Dr. Sid and Simi Sid, a music star, got married in 2014 to Simi Esiri and had two daughters in a short while after. Simi came to Instagram to announce a break in the marriage in 2020 confirming rumors, which started emerging in 2017. 10. Mofe Duncan and Jessica Kakkad The marriage ended in a very discreet way in 2019 but Mofe claims he still has a good relationship with Jessica and her family. 11. Yvonne Jegede and Olakunle Fawole Yvonne Jegede claimed to have ended her marriage with Olakunle “Abounce” in 2019 during an interview. She had a 3-month old pregnancy of a male child before quitting. 12. Doris Simeon and Daniel Ademonikan Daniel is married to Stella Damasus now who was allegedly the cause of split between Doris and himself. The separation was a lot of drama to their fans. 13. Ubi Franklin and Lilian Esoro The official divorce of the couple happened in 2021. However, they got married in 2015 and departed a year after. They now co-parent their son Jayden. 14. Juliet Ibrahim and Kwado Safo Pilot Safo and the actress had a son before they parted ways. 15. Bukky Wright Actress Bukky Wright was alleged to have married three other men aside from the renowned music promoter Basia.