Dr Esther Adeniran, a dermatologist at the Federal Medical Centre, Ido Ekiti, has advised women to always clean up their make-up before going to bed in order to stay healthy. Adeniran gave the advice during an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti, saying sleeping with make-up becomes more problematic, especially for women with sensitive skin. According to her, most makeup has artificial colours and fragrances, and when these stay on the skin overnight, it can cause an allergic reaction or irritate dermatitis on sensitive skin. Adeniran said make-up physically blocks the pores, preventing oil from leaving the skin and leading to breakouts. The skin expert said makeup is also known to trap pollutants inside the skin, saying “this type of environmental stress can result in increased free radicals that cause skin inflammation, redness, and irritation. “Chronic inflammation can contribute to premature aging, including increased pigment production and collagen degradation.” Adeniran particularly recommended prompt removal of make-up in parts of the eyes before going to sleep so as to guide against eye infections.   Police arrest officers allegedly involved in shooting Poly…     MC Oluomo clarifies ticket sale order     Police arrest 12 over attack on Ogun village   “Since our eye skin is thinner than tissue paper and represents the thinnest skin on the face, you’ve got to prioritise getting your mascara and other eye make-up off. “This skin is prone to infection and irritation, and the most likely to be damaged by sleeping in your makeup (even for one night). “Sleeping in eye make-up may increase your risk of developing a stye (blocked oil gland in the eyelid). “You also run the risk of developing eyelid dermatitis, or irritation from mascara rubbing against the eyelids while you sleep. “Worse case scenario, make-up gets into the eye itself, which can lead to conjunctivitis,” she said. Adeniran advised women to imbibe a nighttime skincare routine so as to free the skin of unwanted particles that could cause unnecessary damage. “The easiest way to become a faithful face-washer is to really commit to a nighttime skincare routine. “This doesn’t mean you need to spend upwards of 30 minutes a night with a multi-products system, but cleansing your face and applying a solid moisturiser can go a long way in promoting the quicker rates of cellular regeneration that happen during sleep,” she said. (NAN)