President of Toronto Raptors and founder and vice-chairman of Giants of Africa, Masai Ujiri, has unveiled two new basketball courts in Abidjan . The event marked the latest courts donated under the not-for-profit’s multi-year, 100-court investment in sports infrastructure across the continent. Announced in September 2021, the Giants of Africa ‘built within’ initiative continues the organization’s commitment to creating long-term opportunities for youth to realize their dreams through sports. The first twelve courts were unveiled in Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria and Burkina Faso. The upgraded, custom designed, spaces at Orphelinat de Bingerville are the first courts located in Ivory Coast under the initiative.  “After visiting Bingerville for the first time in 2017, we knew that it wouldn’t be our last,” said Masai Ujiri. “The warm welcome from the community, the spirit of the youth and their love for the game was unforgettable and I feel that same energy and passion here today.   Abramovich: Chelsea’s £120m shirt deal suspended     World Cup 2022: Qatar gears up for Final Draw     Moffi doubtful for Sunday’s trip to Clermont Font    “ With lessons of leadership, teamwork and accountability, basketball courts have the power to unite communities and support the next generation as they pursue their dreams – on or off the court.  “I look forward to hearing stories of these young boys coming together, honing their skills and strengthening the Bingerville community and beyond.” In addition to Ujiri, the unveiling ceremony included remarks from African Development Bank Group President, Dr. Akinwumi A. Adesina, sports legends and humanitarians Dikembe Mutombo and Didier Drogba, Minister of Sports, Paulin Claude Danho, and Marcel Legre, Orphelinat de Bingerville Director. Following the ceremony, Giants of Africa coaches conducted a basketball and life skills clinic for boys and girls from the community.  “The courts provide a new source of pride and inspiration here at Bingerville, with opportunities for our youth to play, learn and grow for years to come,” said the orphanage director Marcel Legre. “It means so much to our children and our entire community.”