Popular America R&B singer, Chris Brown has threatened legal action against the lady who accused him of sexual assault following explicit voicemails from her. In December 2020, Jane Doe accused Chris Brown of drugging and raping her on a yacht ducked outside P.Diddy’s home. Jane Doe who’s reportedly a professional choreographer, dancer, model and musical artist went on to file a $20 million lawsuit in damages, as well as punitive damages and attorney’s fees, against Chris Brown. She said Brown went from being “friendly” with her to attacking her within minutes. The case however, took a new turn as leaked voice notes and texts have emerged. Doe began obsessively texting the R&B singer just days after the alleged assault took place. In string of messages allegedly provided by the Miami police, the lady sent nude selfies and told Brown he was the “best dick” she ever had. “Missing u, u were honestly the best d*ck I’ve had lol I just want it again. Why u playing with meee lol”, the message read.   Portable spotted with Obi Cubana, others at event     Poshglow beauty academy debuts in Lagos     Charly Boy meets Bobrisky, shares photos   On Tuesday night, the singer, shared alleged evidence showing his accuser begging to see him. Chris Brown via his insta story shared videos in which he played an alleged voicemail from Doe. In the audio message, the lady revealed her desire to see him one more time so they could have s3xual relation. “Well, you’re giving me mixed signals. You’re like reading my messages and stuff and you haven’t blocked me yet so I’m guessing you don’t hate me,” she said in the audio clip. “I just wanna see you again, I mean, you just answered the phone and then you just hung up. Like, just let me know. Like, if you want me to leave you alone I definitely will but I really just want to f**k with you again. After leaking the audio message, Chris continued to defend himself in another instastory. “No more dragging me through the mud. CLEARLY YOU CAN ALL SEE THE [a cap emoji],” he wrote. “No, let’s see if they have the same energy they had to destroy me, to run the real story. Me and my team are taking legal action on this situation. You don’t play with people’s lives like that. THX TEAM BREEZY.”