A GROUP, Sterling Foundation, has indicated its interest to adopt Oniru Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos to clean it. The Chief Executive Officer of the foundation, Mrs. Olapeju Ibekwe, stated this during the commemoration of the Global Recyling Day at Onisu Beach, Victoria Island, Lagos. She said in the last one year, it has adopted four beaches – Alpha, Eleko, Lafiaji and Ibereko – to  take care of them as well as empower people through  recycling. The Olopon of Iruland, Chief Olumide Oniru, who represented Oba Omogbolahan Lawal, Abisogun II, the Oniru of Iru Land, said no fewer than 1,000 trees had been planted around the kingdom, adding that youths had been recruited as environmental champions, to raise awareness on the prevention of plastic pollution.   Lagos govt warns against illegal building     Property owners accuse developers of harassment     Experts fault White Paper on Fourscore Tower   The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, Dr. Bolaji Gaji, who represented the Commissioner, Mr. Tunji Bello, stressed that the ministry had adopted one use plastic policy, urging Lagosians to commit to waste sorting at source, to limit plastic pollution. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Mr. Ibrahim Odumboni, who led senior staff members to the event, said on the sidelines that individuals and corporate organisations should take care of the environment through waste sorting and not wait for the government to drive the efforts toward a cleaner environment. He urged residents and beach users to come together and make a difference, by leaving an enduring legacy of people-friendly environment, for improved living and economic prosperity, adding that the beach clean-up was the first step in ensuring that coastal areas were clean. Also at the event were the Commissioner for Tourism, Arts & Culture, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf; and General Manager, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Dr. Dolapo Fasawe.