Crisis-ridden APC finally had its much postponed convention last weekend. It survived the doomsday prediction about its possible collapse under the weight of its own contradictions. The convention however ended as a parody of PDP, its cloned senior brother. As it was with PDP during its own convention when nearly all contested offices including that of  all-important chairmanship position, were cornered by defecting fair-weather APC politicians without principle, vision or allegiance to any ideological orientation, so it was with APC. Just as PDP chair was clinched by Iyorchia Ayu, an APC defector, APC’s chairmanship position went to Abdulahi Adamu, a founding member of PDP and President Buhari’s favoured candidate The APC National Secretary position went to another PDP defector, Iyiola Omisore, a controversial divisive politician and until recently APC tormentor. The National Women Leader went to Betta Edu who decamped from PDP to APC only in 2021.  If we needed further confirmation that the difference between these two  political parties without soul, vision or ideological orientation, is that of six and half a dozen, the relative ease with which all key positions in each party were clinched by serial defectors was all that was needed. Yet, before the 1966 military misadventure that truncated our political party development, there were organic political parties which like their counterparts in France, USA. Britain and Japan were created as agents of modernization by dedicated youths who had their eyes on history. There was the Herbert Macaulay’s Nigeria National Democratic Party (NNDP) inaugurated in 1923 as a response to Hugh Clifford 1922 constitution  with defined objectives viz to seek a “municipal status for Lagos, local self-government, compulsory primary education, non-discriminatory private economic enterprise and Africanisation of the civil service.” There was the Jam’yyar Mutanem Arewa, Northern Nigerian Congress (NNC) inaugurated in June 1949 whose main objectives  according to Dr. A. R Dikko,  included ‘fighting ignorance, idleness and injustice’ in the northern region. There was also Obafemi Awolowo’s Action Group’s (1950) whose well-articulated manifesto  promised “free education, free health, and full employment among many others”. The collapse of party ethos is one more evidence of regression in our political development as with all other aspects of our efforts at nation building. Ironsi and Gowon truncated the development of our political party system.  Babangida out of delusion decreed NRC and SDP of equal joiners without founders. Abacha came up with, the UNCP, CNC, NCPN, DPN and GDM which late Bola Ige described as five fingers of a leprous hand.  With Abdulsalami Abubakar came PDP described by John Campbell, former US envoy as ‘an elite cartel at the centre of power in Nigeria that came together for sharing of oil rents and political spoils’. It was to become a haven for military-bred new-breed politicians that breed nothing but corruption. The birth of APC in 2014 was a big relief. Concerned Nigerians had told Buhari, Tinubu and other founding fathers that what they were being called upon to do was not just an inauguration of party to win an election, since PDP had already shot itself in the leg by its 16 years of mindless stealing of the nation’s resources but to provide alternative to PDP controlled by gangs with garrison commanders who, like all soldiers of fortunes, engaged in squabbles over the sharing of loot from conquered territories. Like most progressive parties, APC manifesto promised miracles: Exchange rate of N1 to $1; end to fuel subsidy, refurbishment of refineries, solution to power crisis in six months, sales of fleet of presidential jets, eradication of corruption and  political restructuring etc. They in fact dared people to stone them if they failed to deliver on their promises.   Revisiting Zik’s diarchy option     Obasanjo and his legacies at 85     Transformation of my town   For the Yoruba mainstream political tendency, joining ultra-conservative Buhari regarded as a religious fundamentalist by political foes was a risk worth taking. Their fathers had engaged in 60 years unwinnable battle over the need for an egalitarian society across the nation. After forcefully retiring their fathers for refusing to trust Buhari, they dressed him in borrowed robes of a progressive and carried him on their back across the nation for the 2015 battle which ended in victory for APC. But for promoters of APC, it was a pyrrhic. Despite warning by Pa Akande, its former chairman and Aisha Buhari, the president’s wife, about efforts at undermining the APC coalition that brought Buhari to power, his government was hijacked even before inauguration. Thereafter, with the support of a compromised section of the media, Buhari’s trusted gatekeepers embarked on revisionism. Night became day. Buhari, we were told won the 2015 election on his personal merit. Yoruba contribution to his victory was tangential. Buhari was an asset to a party on whose back he rode to power. Bukola Saraki who by his own admission sold APC victory to secure the presidency of the eighth senate, and whose father traced their Fulani origin to southern Sudan suddenly became Yoruba man representing the interest of Yoruba in yet to be constituted Buhari’s government. The President feigned ignorance as to the meaning of restructuring, the major plank on which APC won the 2015 election. Not even the valiant effort of Kayode Fayemi, his trusted ally who in order to allay the fears of those who are afraid of the word ‘restructuring’ clarified by saying  it is about “how best  we can move towards a more perfect union through better management of our diversity” could stop El-Rufai Committee on restructuring. It’s report never saw the light of the day despite APC’s control of 65 seats in the 109 Senate, 190 of the 360 Lower house seats and 21 of the 36 state governors and their state houses of assemblies. Then APC’s voice increasingly became muffled even as immigrant Fulani herdsmen, bandits and kidnappers visited violence on innocent Nigerians. It remained so until the president and those who caged him remembered a political platform was needed for re-election in 2019 and sought the help of Bola Tinubu, the neglected corner stone and Adams Oshiomhole. Oshiomhole, a giant killer who had in his home state of Edo retired Chief Anthony Akhakon Anenih, the Iyasele of Esanland  and PDP’s  “Mr Fixer and Chief Gabriel Igbinedion and his son, Lucky the two-term governor of Edo State moved over to  Ilorin  where he uprooted  Bukola  as senator, and his nominees as governor. He then moved to Imo where he “stopped Okorocha from establishing a dynasty by imposing his son in law in government house. In Ogun, he made it clear to Amosun that APC would not allow him pick himself as a senate candidate, nominate the governorship candidate and his deputy and the next speaker and deputy speaker. For his pains at attempting to build a disciplined party different from PDP, he was illegally removed by President Buhari who presided over the handing over of APC to PDP last weekend. Apart from imposing a PDP defector as APC chairman after forcing other contestants to step down, he celebrated the PDP defectors at the APC convention by declaring –  “It is gratifying that the party recorded massive and unprecedented defections under the caretaker committee administration. APC received three sitting governors, a deputy governor, senators, members of the House of Representatives and state assemblies…” With our newly refurbished APC and PDP exalted with neither vision nor ideological orientation, a sad testimony to the travails of our party system, welcome to the Babangida’s age of delusion when figment of imagination becomes article of state policy.