It was a good weekend for security operatives in Niger State as they neutralised many terrorists in Munya and Shiroro councils of the state. A security task force and vigilantes reportedly surrounded the terrorists who invaded several communities in the two councils. The security team took the battle to the bandits in the communities and adjoining forests, attacking them till Saturday evening, it was learnt. Although the number of terrorists neutralised was not stated, The Nation learnt that over 300 cows were recovered in Mariga and Munya councils. In Mariga, The Nation learnt that troops of the 31 Artillery Brigade successfully neutralised a large number of terrorists in Chikarumbu and Mahoro communities in Gulbin Boka district and recovered over 200 cattle. Vigilante chief in Mariga local government area, Saidu Bello, said the terrorists were already taking the cattle away after invading the communities when troops and the vigilantes went after them. The bandits invaded communities in Munya council on Friday, killing and abducting an unspecified number of the residents.   Man dies after intimacy with wife in Anambra     BREAKING: Anxiety as ASUU may declare ‘indefinite strike’…     Re: Mefi’s Orchestra   Secretary of the council James Isaac Jagaba, who spoke to The Nation, said they could not immediately ascertain the number of people dead or missing. “Apart from Sarkin Pawa, which is the headquarters of Munya, you can see people running away from the communities. We are trying to see how we can get them to go back to their homes. “For now, we cannot ascertain the number of those dead or kidnapped because they were kidnapping from different communities. Some people are still in the bushes. But after three days, anybody not seen will be assumed to have been abducted or killed,” he said. Several communities in Munya local government area have been deserted. But a source said that soldiers and vigilantes ambushed the terrorists when they were attacking Maraba Dandaudu and killed several of them. The Nation learnt that the security task force came in their numbers and took out the terrorists. Calls to police spokesman Abiodun Wasiu and the Commissioner of Local Government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Emmanuel Umar, did not go through.