Though agriculture is a key economic activity, the sector is marked by food insecurity and few storage facilities. Experts say solving the problems will boost exports, DANIEL ESSIET reports. GLOBALLY, a dynamic food production is a tool for sustainable economic development. It also helps to enhance access to food and nutrition products and services. But this is not the case in Nigeria where about 40 per cent of food output, according to analysts, is wasted due to inadequate post-harvest facilities such as pack houses and refrigerated vans. For example, avocados. Though the European market for avocados has continued to grow, the good’s export from Nigeria has continued to reduce. In 2020, according to the Centre for the Promotion of Imports from developing countries (CBI), the main suppliers from Africa – South Africa, Kenya and Morocco, East Africa – exported 148 million euros worth of avocados to Europe. Painfully, while the aforementioned countries are smiling to the banks, Nigeria’s export of avocados, according to analysts, is yet to gather speed. No thanks to poor storage facilities. As a result, Nigeria is not among the suppliers to Europe. Over the years, its farmers have continued to record post-harvest losses. The President, the Organisation for Technology Advancement of Cold Chain in West Africa (OTACCWA), Alexander Isong, said the absence of cold chain infrastructure was a big challenge to exporters. Despite avocados belonging to the hottest categories in fresh produce and consumption growing worldwide, Isong agreed that Nigeria is facing supply chain challenges which contribute to driving up the farming costs. Innovations, experts said, help avocados’ demand and that with high pressure processing (HPP)/cold pasteurisation, the fresh taste, which consumers, seek is retained. Besides avocados, Isong said, banana farmers had not been able to increase their productivity and reduce wastage.This makes it difficult for them to gain the confidence to export. According to him, Nigeria has not been able to explore cold the chain market estimated at $300 billion because of the absence of well-developedw logistics, to stabilise fresh produce at source and increase quality throughout the supply chain. The lack of the facilities, he explained, was the reason Nigeria was not doing well in the banana and avocado exports, in addition to the failure to comply with the top food handling standards for dispatch. While the production and processing of perishable goods have increased, the cold chain sector potential, he noted,  has remained untapped due to lack of infrastructure and lapses in service by storage and transportation providers, thereby leading to inferior goods. Since the food processing industry is critical, Isong stressed that focus should be on boosting cold chain infrastructure, which would, in turn, reduce wastages in the supply chain. According to him, improving cold chain capacity would be a game-changer in boosting food processing investments, agri-exports, farmers’ incomes and building brands for the global market. This, he maintained, would help to create more jobs and ensure the availability of more value-added products. For him, a dynamic cold chain structure that supports smooth transportation of temperature-sensitive products along a supply chain, through refrigerated packaging methods and logistical planning that protects the integrity of shipments, would boost growth. He explained that the measure controls the temperature of the produce to avoid deterioration or decay. Isong attributed over 50 per cent of post-harvest losses of perishable produce such as tomatoes, pepper, and onions to poor storage, transportation and handling. He reiterated that access to cold chain was key to agribusinesses, stating that farmers should take advantage of the growing demand for fresh produce in domestic and international markets that require consistent quality, large volumes and high levels of food safety. To develop Africa’s food value chain, he said Fairtrade Messe, an international exhibition specialist, in collaboration with OTACCWA, would host stakeholders in food production from Germany, and some African countries. The seventh agro-food and plastprintpack exhibition and conference is scheduled for between March 22 and 24 at the Landmark Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. Isong said: “The partnership with Fairtrade is a synergy of purpose because preservation, transportation and storage go hand in hand with agro-food and packaging, especially in an environment like Nigeria with large post-harvest losses.”   Financing rural SMEs     Repositioning aquaculture     Catching them young in agribusiness   The Managing Director, Fairtrade Messe, Paul Maerz, wants to see more Nigerian export produce such as avocados and mangoes at European and Asian markets. To achieve this, he believes cold storage facilities should exist where export crops are grown. This is because such fresh produce has to be stored in the facility before they are released to the market.  According to Maerz, cold storage has become the most-sought after demand driver as the food industry positions itself as the game-changer. Indeed, the food processing industry, he noted, is a large sub-sector in terms of production, growth, consumption, and export. But the cold chain sector, he added, would need to be upgraded to sustain increasing scale of production and processing. He emphasised  that Nigeria wasted a lot of its fruits and vegetables yearly due to weak cold chain infrastructure. Of recent, many farmers and producers of crops for export have embraced the facilities and pack houses as demanded by the international market. Maerz noted: “With 390 million euro in 2020, Nigeria is the second largest investor in food and packaging technology in Africa, behind Egypt, but well ahead of South Africa, Algeria, Morocco and other African countries.” This is because Nigeria knows the importance of storing export crops in cold rooms to curb post-harvest losses, including avocados, mangoes, and various vegetables and herbs. With Nigeria’s population growth forecast to rise from 206 million this year to 411 million in 2050, Maerz maintained that there was the need for sustainable investments in the agro food industry and urged many global cooling and logistics firms to step up their operations in the cold chain sector, given the government’s plan to boost the potential in agriculture through massive production of grains, vegetables, and fruits. With the growing preference for healthy food and functional foods, he noted that manufacturers were expected to adopt new equipment to meet the demand for healthy functional foods and beverages. Maerz identified packaging as key to addressing post-harvest losses. ”If you start packaging foods close to the farms, distribute same over the country or export them, they will not be wasted after harvest. It will translate to more food in the market, higher revenue for the farmers and more healthy food to the consumers,” he said. To put the agric economy back on track, stakeholders have invested heavily to strengthen the food system, support production, improve processing, distribution and aggregation, and market opportunities. Last year, agritech startup Releaf secured $4.2million to scale its food processing technology. Founded by Ikenna Nzewi and Uzoma Ayogu, Releaf focuses on value chains where smaller factories are set up near smallholder farmers. This allows them to get better processing yields and lesser logistics costs. Recently, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) got 11 global innovators to partner 15 Nigerian firms to pilot cost-effective and climate-smart technologies to strengthen the country’s temperature-controlled logistics supply chain. It was part of IFC’s award-winning TechEmerge programme, in partnership with African digital logistics platform Kobo360. The Sustainable Cooling Innovation programme in Nigeria is funded by the United Kingdom Government’s International Climate Finance and offers a pool of $1 million in grants to support field-testing.The programme also provides advisory support to help innovators mitigate financial and operational risks, reduce adoption risks for local firms, and facilitate market-entry and tech transfer. The innovators, which include four Nigerian firms, were selected by IFC, Kobo360, and TechEmerge’s independent advisory panel of cooling experts.The partners are from the agriculture, food and beverage, retail, refrigeration, engineering, and logistics sectors. “Kobo360’s business mission is driven by ingenuity and innovation, and we are proud to be partnering these new TechEmerge participants to prove that temperature-controlled logistics can be affordable, energy-efficient and environmental-friendly too, while growing vital sectors of the economy and opening up new business opportunities across Africa,” said Kobo360’s founding partner/Head of Value Added Services, Ike Abiakam. “Temperature-controlled logistics are vital to delivering perishable goods to markets and protecting sensitive vaccines and other pharmaceuticals. However, conventional technologies are often expensive, inefficient, and emit high amounts of greenhouse gas emissions,” said IFC’s Regional Director for Southern Africa and Nigeria, Kevin Njiraini. “By supporting innovative private sector pilots, we can help pave the way for climate-smart cooling systems to be more accessible to the logistics sector in Nigeria and the region more broadly,” he added.