Business mogul and father of Nigerian tourism Chief Mike Amachree, has said despite the COVID-19 pandemic, difficulties in international travels and insecurity in some parts of the country, Nigeria is still an attractive destination to tourists. Amachree said his position on Nigerian tourism prospect is drawn out of his interaction with some of his contacts and agents in Nigeria’s source markets in United States, United Kingdom, Brazil and the Caribbean. He said: “Our contact with partners from these countries show that many people are interested in coming to Nigeria. When I talk with my contacts, they will always show that they are interested in coming to Nigeria. He stated that for Nigeria to continue to maintain this level of interest of potential inbound tourists, the country needs to do more for tourism. He called on business men to invest in tourism as there are so many opportunities there. “They could invest in hospitality business like hotels and resorts. There are also opportunities in transportation, tour operation, amusement parks and so on.   Lifting society through corporate social responsibility     NGA boosts Enugu art scene     Celebrating matriarch of literature at 92   “The government should create the enabling environment through policies like making the process of obtaining Nigeria visa easy. Most of the inbound tourists always complain about the difficulties in getting visas to come to Nigeria. Tourism cannot grow if the tourists find it difficult to come to Nigeria,” he added. The tourism mogul called on states to do more to develop sites in their areas. He said: “These sites are directly under the control of the states. While we are calling on private business men to invest in tourism, states should also be up and doing by investing in infrastructures to make the sites accessible and also providing the necessary amenities within the area the sites are domiciled. Amachree, a former President of Association of Tourism Practitioners of Nigeria (ATPN), has been at the forefront for tourism development in Nigeria.  He has led the private sector advocacy for the creation of a stand-alone tourism ministry in Nigeria. He was a member of the launching committee of the Plateau State Development Fund.  He also has substantial investments in tourism in Lagos, Nasarawa and Rivers State through his Brooklyn Hotels chain. In River State, he also developed the Port Harcourt Tourist Beach and nurtured it into a major leisure and tourism hub in the state.