The Professional Women Accountants in Nigeria (PROWAN), the women wing of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has called on women to strive to attain leadership in various endeavours. At an event to mark the International Women Day, PROWAN stressed the importance of gender balance and inclusion. The programme themed ‘Women in Leadership: Driving change for a sustainable future’ was a combined virtual and physical event. It was held at the ANAN Regional office, Lagos. Chairperson, Professional Women Accountants in Nigeria (PROWAN), Princess Elemanya Ebilah charged girls, ladies and women to be actively involved in the nation’s leadership. She said women should see leadership roles as a call to service in their various schools and workplaces. She also encouraged them to believe in their strength and never see their gender as the weaker one. The immediate past president of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Dame Olajumoke Simplice wanted women to always celebrate and support themselves.   NAICOM eyes N6tr gross premium by 2030     Exports to rise as manufacturers get more funding for…     Firms partner on digital marketing   She enjoined women to celebrate women presidents, women in the rural areas and those who are in bondage. She also urged women to honour past heroines like Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, Queen Amina, Margaret Ekpo and the Aba women who fought for the emancipation of women. “Collectively we can do much, not only by groupings but by coming together even as groups. Professional bodies, market women can come together to be recognized in their community as women that can be celebrated,” Simplice said. Dr Titilayo Fowokan charged up women to believe in themselves and support for one another. She said it was time for women to move forward and act fast, remove every iota of doubt and never give up as it is not part of their DNA. “Learn how to trample on threats so they will not be a stumbling block. Let us also see how we can encourage other women in our different places of work and businesses. We as women also need to learn and unlearn and also multitask,” Fowokan said. The programme had a lot of other women from across the country who attended virtually.