Multimix Academy has supported the restructuring of supply chain in the education sector at a roundtable conference with stakeholders in the logistics and supply chain industry. The discussion was aimed at providing Multimix Academy with the required value to the  trade industry and a curriculum review with intense industry participation. The roundtable, which is novel in the Trade Industry, was well attended by executives and faculty members of Multimix Academy, other academics of the supply chain, logistics and school of transport from the Lagos State University and the University of Lagos, the Chairman and board members of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology, Chief Executive Officers of reputable supply chain and logistics companies, and executives of Supply Chain, Logistics, procurement and sales departments of some of the biggest FMCGs, Manufacturing, Health and Finance companies in Nigeria. Chairman of Multimix Academy and Director General, African Centre for Supply Chain, Dr Obiora Madu, said the Academy has provided consistent value and proficient industry leadership in the global trade sector. The major highlight of the roundtable discussion was the division of participants into groups that focused on supply chain, procurement and sourcing, logistics and warehousing and International trade. The group session was for the executives to draw from their personal experiences working with colleagues, subordinates and stakeholders in the field to create real-life situations within the Nigerian environment while maintaining global practices and having sincere conversations to solve the issues facing the industry. At the end of the breakout session, each group highlighted problems within the industry.   10 pupils benefit from Inspire Scholarship     Cultism, drug abuse, bullying are products of societal value…     ACCA members raise N2m for indigent Lagos pupils from trees…   The groups explained the industry requires development training on strategic influencing, leadership skills, project management skills, driver management skills, assets management, finance, communications skills, and the need for more onsite internships. Madu assured participants of the planned execution of their assessments and the influence it will have on the restructuring of the curriculum to meet the current need of the industry. The programme was also an opportunity for Multimix Academy to unveil its new brand identity. Oluchi Okafor, the Managing Director of Multimix Academy, during the unveiling, mentioned that the current business environment in Nigeria, driven by innovations in technology and knowledge, is the reason for the change of the brand identity. “In the last two decades, Multimix Academy has been in the forefront of providing Logistics and Supply Chain Education in Nigeria. “We have digitalised all internal processes, channelled partners for major international Supply Chain certifications, certified over 3000 individuals, created our online Learning Management System and most recently became an ISO 9001:2015 Accredited Organization. To this end, Multimix Academy has hosted this inaugural Supply Chain Roundtable with identified Supply Chain professionals at the top of their field in various sectors of the economy to get a first-hand and credible view of the challenges and educational needs in the industry.”