Nollywood actor, Gideon Okeke has shared with his fans and followers some realities that exist alongside the acting profession. The model and TV presenter in a social media post on Tuesday likened the working conditions of actors as ‘slave-like’ adding, they also get paid peanuts. “The Pay is Peanuts. The Food is WHACK! The working conditions are gruesomely slave-like…” he wrote. “But come the day of the Red carpet premier…We ALL dress up looking like a BAG OF MONEY. E nor add up jooor!” The Tinsel star painstakingly, went on to advise people never to envy actors as they skillfully hide their real identities, feigning glamorous personalities. Okeke added: “WAIT ! Awards season is coming again. You will see all of us looking like PEACOCKS on the red carpet. “Like a BAG OF MONEY. Don’t ENVY ANYONE O. Na Packaging. Na wash. “Now dem don even Dey give money for BEST DRESSED. Taking the light away from the film wey dem come to appraise. “You IGN’ANT (Ignorant) like the Americans would say. We’z be IGN’ANT.”   I’m going to break stereotypical barriers – Whitemoney     Seven Nigerian celebrities that welcomed babies in 2022     Four Nigerian musicians with royal roots   Okeke’s post has attracted several reactions from his colleagues, Seun Kuti and others. While many who commented including his colleagues, agreed to his assertion, last son of legendary Fela Kuti said the situation has to be investigated because it’s only the males that constantly complain of the same thing. Susan Peters said: “Overwork and underpaid but no blame them o. Some of them peacocks do it for free and that affects people like us.” Shan George wrote: “Ayamtelling u o.” Ijeoma Grace Agu stated: “Lol, it’s showbiz baby….our show loud pass our Biz….but we move.” Seun Kuti said: “Na only my male actor friends dey complain like this. Why? We must get to the ‘bottom’ of this phenomenon.” tehillaessien asked: “I have been on this page a long time. It just doesn’t add up. I mean who are we deceiving?” cheiwei_ofwazobiafm wrote: “Raw Truth!!!! @gideonokeke.ng you broke this Table and I Looove it!!!!!” 1dagurll___ stated: “One thing bout Gideon? He gon always speak the truth consequences be damned.” Betsy Ikeme said: “They will come for you bcos the truth is bitter or rather they will isolate you, to prove you wrong but they know it is the truth you have spoken and nothing but the whole truth.” karopumpin wrote: “Time to speak up…Live your truth.” only1phat stated: “At least someone owned up!! Blessings bro! I pray up-and-coming actors like myself LEARN! and not get swirled by what is being portrayed! Thank you!”