THE implementation of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD) Act created over 50,000 jobs in the past 11 years, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Kesiye Wabote, has said. The NCDMB boss, who made this known in Lagos, said the level of Nigerian content in the oil industry hovered around five per cent before the enactment of the NOGICD Act in 2010. The focused implementation of the Nigerian Content Law resulted in an increase to 26 per cent in 2016 and 42 per cent as at last December. Wabote explained that NCDMB had launched the Nigerian content 10-Year Strategic Roadmap in 2017, with a target to achieve 70 per cent Nigerian content by 2027. As part of this goal, the Board would catalyse the creation of 300, 000 jobs in the oil and gas industry and linkage sectors, enable the retention of $13 billion out of the estimated yearly $20billion spent in the oil and gas industry and establishment of major fabrication yards and manufacturing hubs in-country. He hinted that a pointer of the marked improvement in Nigerian content implementation is that the local economy used to retain little or nothing from the yearly oil industry spend of $20 billion before the NOGICD Act, 2010 but is able to retain more than $8 billion in-country yearly. The improvement, he explained, is because of the development of critical capacities and assets by local oil and gas service companies and increased domiciliation and domestication of industry. According to the NCDMB boss, Ni  geria has also moved from near zero participation in the operations side of the oil and gas sector “to the point that our indigenous operators such as SEPLAT, AITEO, EROTON, and others are now responsible for 15 per cent of our oil production and 60 per cent of our domestic gas supply”.   EKEDC laments TCN’s low power supply     Domestic gas demand, requirement now 4.482b scuf daily, says…     Fed Govt urged on full implementation of gas policy   He noted other feats attained by the Board to include the establishment of two world-class pipe mills and five impressive pipe coating yards; the ability of Nigerian firms to fabricate more than 250,000 tonnes of steel per year and ownership of more than 40 percent of marine vessels used in the oil and gas industry by Nigerians. Wabote stated that over 10 million training manhours have been delivered via the Board’s Human Capacity Development Programmes, adding: “It was no surprise that our indigenous workforce was able to sustain oil production at the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown.” Providing details of the Board’s provision of credit facilities to the oil and gas industry, Wabote said NCDMB had inaugurated a $50million Nigerian Content Research & Development Fund to drive basic research, commercialisation of research breakthroughs, establishment of research centers of excellence, and to sponsor university endowments. He added: “The Board floated a $50million special loan product for women in the oil and gas business to enable empowerment of the womenfolk in the industry. and established another $30million Working Capital Fund to support oil and gas service companies. Both the Women and Working Capital funds are managed by NEXIM (Nigerian Export-Import) Bank.” He announced that NCDMB recently secured the approval of its Governing Council to set up a $50 million fund for NOGAPS Manufacturing Product Line, to be dedicated to companies that would operate in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Parks, being constructed by the Board in Bayelsa and Cross River States. Beneficiaries of the NOGAPS fund would have to be engaged in the manufacturing of equipment components used in the oil and gas industry and linkage sectors.