ALESH Sanni is one of the most recent crossover actors, having started his career in 2012 under the tutelage of Dele Ogundipe. The actor, who doubles as an entrepreneur and medical technician in the USA, has produced over thirteen movies including Rancor. Alesh speaks with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN on diverse issues in this interview. How long have you been in this clothing business despite being an actor? My clothing business is about three years now. I started in Akowonjo, Egbeda and this is my second store. I like to spend money so I must work for it. Do you have other businesses aside from this clothing line? Asides from this, it’s just my acting career and then I am a medical technician in the United States. I give medications and I have my side hustle like delivery jobs and all. Would you say being an actor has helped your business in any way? Of course, it has, because if people don’t know me this much, I won’t have a brand called Alesh and people will not patronise me. Some don’t even wear the clothes or shoes but just because it’s from me, they will patronise me. So, of course, I have gained so much as an actor. I got my visa just because I’m an actor. Talking about acting, you seem to command a lot of respect among both English and the Yoruba speaking practitioners, what’s the secret? Like I do tell people, just be you and be proud of yourself. The way you approach people is the way they will respect and give you so much that you want. I don’t gossip, I don’t have friends in the industry, it’s just simply business and I respect them a lot so I deserve some respect as well. Which did you start with, Yoruba or English-speaking movies? I started with the Yoruba industry in 2012 where I trained under Future Concept owned by Dele Ogundipe and I produced my first movie ‘Ife Iya’ in 2014. Ever since then I have produced over ten movies. Right now, I have one cinema movie entitled ‘Rancour’, and I still have two more coming; ‘Mercy’ and ‘A Trip from Miami.’ I decided to act and produce English movies because I just wanted to step up, I didn’t want to remain in a spot. I have been with the Yoruba speaking industry for years and I know what we make in producing YouTube films for marketers, so I’m like no I have to step up. People are producing cinema movies and they are making millions from it so I have to do it as well. Are you implying that the English-speaking movie makes more money than their Yoruba counterpart?   Money major cause of stress-Sotayo Gaga     No gender more important than the other – Yul Edochie     Mary Njoku: quit age-shaming or else…   I’m not saying that Yoruba movies are in the cinemas as well but you can’t compare the prices and the standard. I have seen the Yoruba movie industry and I like it because it gives more fame but I don’t do everything for fame. I don’t want fame without money so I had to step up and mingle around everything and see which one is better so I’m doing both. What do you think the Yoruba-speaking sector can do better to up their game? I’m actually too young to comment on that. But knowledge is not about age? Yes, but this is Nigeria. I have my own way of doing my thing but that doesn’t mean I have to start saying things. Do it the way that suits you. How would you describe your personality? I can’t say so much about myself, it is people that will do that because I will never say anything less of myself but I know that I am a goal-getter. I work for what I want and I get it. I go the extra mile for friends and family and I don’t joke with my family because they always come first. We’ve been through a lot and I know how much they have sacrificed for me. I love my parents, my siblings, my wife, and my child. How does your wife cope with the ladies around you? Anyone who wants to be in a relationship with a public figure must have the ability to endure. Not everything is real on the internet; they will say so much about you but are you ready for all those things? You must be ready before going into that relationship so my wife understands all these things. I already told her to be prepared that there would be so much about me later. I told her not to believe anything she sees on social media until I confirm it to her. You recently took to your social media page to lament about the ridiculous amount of house rent in Lagos, what prompted your outburst? Everything seems like they are building the island for the rich and fraudsters but we, the hardworking ones should also be able to afford houses there. You will see a house rent of four million Naira per annum. How are people making this money and the government doesn’t support fraud. I had an apartment in Ajah for one million six hundred thousand Naira but I don’t like it anymore so I decided to get a new one and to my surprise, I was seeing rent of four million Naira! It’s absurd. What do you think the government can do about this because obviously, these properties are privately owned? I don’t know because it’s just beyond me. Basically, to have a good life in Nigeria you just have to be rich. I was dumbfounded the last time I went to the supermarket because things were too expensive and I thought about those who can’t afford it because I’ve been there before when we couldn’t afford to but Milo and we ate only bread and water. I thought about people who make as low as one thousand Naira a day, how would they cope? We are still poor in Nigeria.