Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea yesterday signed a landmark Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to supply gas from Nigerian offshore fields to the neighbouring Equatorial Guinea Gas Processing Facility at Punta Europa. The MoU kicks off a strategic economic collaboration across the Gulf of Guinea wherein Nigeria’s abundant natural gas reserves compliments Equatorial Guinea’s world class Gas Processing and Liquefaction infrastructure. Recent passage of the Petroleum Industry Act coupled with “Nigeria’s Decade of Gas” initiative create an enabling environment which has triggered conception of this project, facilitating major investment inflow from Equatorial Guinea into Nigeria. The project also signals the  effort of the two countries in working towards a greener energy world. Signing the pact in Abuja,  Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said that “the execution of this MoU meets one of the imperatives of the “Decade of Gas” in Nigeria.   MTN unveils new brand identity     ‘$42b deals sealed at IATF2021’     Minister praises manufacturing of LNG stove   In a statement, yesterday, he said:  “While we are focused on the domestic gas agenda, we are keeping an eye on the global gas market as well. “Nigeria has huge gas resources, a significant amount of which is offshore and will require unprecedented investment in infrastructure to bring them to market.” This collaboration, according to him, allows much of that stranded gas to access the global gas market within 24 months in what will be the fastest timeline to market for a Nigerian offshore gas asset. He said: “This is possible because Equatorial Guinea brings to the table a major portfolio of world-class gas processing and liquefaction infrastructure already in place in Punta Europa, coupled with investment funds for development. “Additionally, the project, which envisions an offshore gas pipeline development will also create huge in-country local content opportunities for pipeline and other infrastructure service providers. “This is in addition to accelerated royalty revenues that come from producing many gas fields that would have otherwise remained stranded.”