Forex trading is a highly lucrative industry which has taken Nigeria by storm in recent years. With only an internet connection, a good strategy, and a reputable broker, traders can steadily grow their wealth by speculating on global currency prices. While there is a wide selection of excellent brokers available to Nigerian traders today, only a few offer Forex no deposit bonuses, which allow new traders to open an account that is already funded by the broker to start trading. In this article we list the best Forex no deposit brokers in Nigeria which also provide excellent trading conditions and a strong selection of features. InstaForex, which was launched in 2007 and is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, offers more than 300 financial instruments for trading. For its superior and comprehensive trading services, InstaForex has received a number of major industry awards. InstaForex offers new traders the promotional $500 Start Up Bonus, one of the highest in the industry. While you can trade using the bonus without making a first deposit, you will have to do so in order to withdraw any profits which you made using the bonus.     FBS, a renowned ECN and STP broker, offers a comprehensive selection of high-quality trading features to its clients. FBS offers MetaTrader 4 and MetaTrader 5 trading platforms, both of which feature more than 75 different trading products. First-time traders with FBS are eligible for a $50 no deposit bonus when opening an account. The bonus can only be applied when trading on the MetaTrader 5 platform.  Low spreads and commissions     For years, XM has earned a good reputation as a provider of flexible and adaptable solutions for traders of all skill levels.   In celebration of women shining bright, premium beer brand…     Help fight the corona-pandemic from your garden      World Radio Day: KANO LITERACY AND MATHS ACCELERATOR…   According to trading volume and clientele, XM is one of the most well-known FX and CFD brokers in the world, with over 2.5 million traders from 196 different nations. New traders with XM will receive a $30 no deposit bonus upon the successful verification of their accounts.       With three main trading accounts dubbed the Pro Account, Classic Account, and VIP Account, Tickmill is a well-known broker that offers trading on more than 80+ CFD products, including Forex, Indices, Commodities, and Bonds. Tickmill offers a free $30 no deposit bonus when signing up for a new account, and the broker has also recently announced the reduction of its overall service fees.       HotForex is a very popular broker which provides a user-friendly trading environment, excellent customer support, and a wealth of trading instruments. New traders with HotForex will receive a $30 no deposit bonus which can be used instantly upon successful account verification.       Also Read: Why Forex Trading Is on The Rise in Africa?