Contrary to widespread rumours making the rounds, Guinness Nigeria Plc has no plans to divest it shares from Nigeria, the management of the top brewery complain has assured numerous stakeholders. According to a release obtained by our correspondent, the management while reacting to what it described as “some false, malicious, and misleading publication trending on some social media platforms falsely alleging that Guinness Nigeria is relocating out of Nigeria and therefore planning to sell its lkeja Brewery site. A bogus ‘sales brochure’ circulating online in various formats claims that the lkeja site sale is part of an exit plan, and this falsehood is being irresponsibly circulated by faceless persons purporting to be property agents.” Specifically, the company maintained that “Guinness Nigeria Plc. certainly has no plans to exit Nigeria, contrary to the orchestrated false publication making the rounds. We are strong, stable, and delivering value to our esteemed stakeholders. We would also like to clearly state that the malicious publication is not in tandem with our current expansion and investment drive, as we recently reaffirmed our long-term strategic expansion plans in Nigeria with the acquisition of an additional 25-acre commercial property in the Ogba industrial area of Lagos purchased recently in late 2021.”   NGA mulls deregulation of gas value chain     ‘Nigeria’s energy transition must address poverty’     Firm unveils Foreshore Estate   Guinness Nigeria also recently announced its half year unaudited financial result for the six months ended 31st December 2021 in which it notified its esteemed shareholders of its stellar performance in which it had six months’ Operating Profit grew by 266% to N13.6billion. “Contrary to the false information being circulated by detractors, we are renewed in our efforts to serve our revered consumers and creating more job opportunities for Nigerians as seen in the new $5million additional production line recently commissioned at our Brewery in Ogba, Lagos in October 2021. We are also pleased to state that we are on the verge of completing work on our new ultra-modern head office block located in lkeja where we will be moving in the next few weeks. We urge our employees, stakeholders, and members of the public to ignore the false, malicious, and misleading publication as it never emanated from the Management of Guinness Nigeria Plc.” Guinness Nigeria, part of the world’s largest premium drinks company, Diageo Plc., is home of the first Guinness brewery outside of the British Isles. Established in 1950, we are one of the oldest surviving manufacturing companies in Nigeria. Guinness Nigeria subscribes to the highest standards of corporate governance and will continue to demonstrate the highest standards of integrity, and especially guarantee that our engagement with consumers, government agencies, suppliers, shareholders, and other stakeholders is driven by our values and principles.