Alhaji Abdullahi Ganduje, Governor of Kano State and Prof. Babagana Zulum, Governor of Borno have received honorary doctorate degrees award at the 25th convocation of Lagos State University, Ojo. Others personalities that bagged honorary doctorate degrees award includes: Mr Goodie Ibru, founder of Sheraton Lagos Hotel Plc; Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairperson of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM). And Mrs Ibukun Awosika, Chairperson of First Bank of Nigeria. However, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello made the announcement at the 25th convocation lecture and congregation for Admission to Doc. of Philosophy (PH.D) of the institution on Thursday in Lagos. Olatunji-Bello said that their choice from amongst a lot of suggested names after a rigorous scrutiny were a confirmation of their sincerity, sacrifice and contribution of services to fatherland. “Ganduje, in recognition of his contributions to the advancement of humanity is being conferred with the degree of Doc. of Letters (Educational Development, Healthcare Development and Community Development), honoris causa.   2023: Okowa’s daughter qualify to run – Aniagwu     Protest hits Abuja over incessant kidnappings     BREAKING: We’ll deliver 2nd Niger Bridge, Lagos-Ibadan…   “Zulum is conferred with the degree of Doc. of Humane Letters (Community and Youth Development),honoris causa. ” Awosika is conferred with the degree of Doc. of Business (Entrepreneurship and Human Capacity Development), honoris causa. “Ibru is conferred with degree of Doc. of Business (Commerce, Hospitality and Tourism and Dabiri-Erewa is being conferred with the degree of Doc. of Arts (Broadcasting, Community Integration and Human Rights Advocate,” she said. Prof. Gbolahan Elias SAN, Chancellor of LASU said that the awardees today were our tokens in recognition of their efforts and success over the years in their fields of endeavour. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Prof. Peter Okebukola, former, Executive Secretary, National University Commission (NUC) was awarded as the first Emeritus Professor of LASU. NAN reports that some dignitaries were present at the convocation lecture which includes; Mr Babajide Sanwo-olu, Governor of Lagos State; Dr Obafemi Hamzat, Deputy Governor of Lagos State. Others are Dr Idiat Adebule; former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire and Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, Commissioner for Education Lagos state.(NAN)