Xiaomi has launched its all-new flagship Xiaomi 12 Series for Nigeria markets via a global virtual platform. Designed to empower users around the world with a cutting-edge videography studio and entertainment powerhouse, Xiaomi 12 Series delivers impressive advancements in Xiaomi’s AI algorithm, flagship processing power, and an all-round elevated experience. According to a statement, Xiaomi 12 Pro enables users to record studio-quality shots no matter the scenario, be it challenging lighting conditions or moving objects.   Sanwo-Olu pledges support for youth start-ups, enterprises     Nigeria, others pay highest for data     Fed Govt inaugurates committee to review Nigeria’s…   “It boasts a pro-grade triple camera array for versatile shooting, starring a massive 50MP main wide angle camera, with 8K recording capabilities. Xiaomi 12 Pro stands out with its state-of-the-art triple 50MP array, which features a cutting-edge Sony IMX707 ultra-large main sensor. This sensor is capable of catching large amounts of light and empowers advanced imaging capabilities with faster focus speeds and increased color accuracy,” it said. The statement added that beyond impressive hardware, these innovations make it easier than ever for users to record every moment the way they want to, even in low-light or moving subjects. It noted that Xiaomi 12 ProFocus identifies and tracks objects, preventing blurring or out-of-focus shots of moving or veiled subjects. These advancements, it said, also include eye and face auto focus capabilities. Ultra Night Video uses Xiaomi’s proprietary algorithms to record video even under extreme low-light, meaning moody, atmospheric shots are clearer than ever.   One-click AI Cinema offers numerous creative options for show-stopping video editing, such as Parallel World, Freeze Frame Video, and Magic Zoom modes. Since 2019 it has been expanding its networks through mobile operators and online distributors to increase the availability of their devices at multiple touch points.