THE Ukrainian government will not back down to Russia as war between both countries marks one month today, Defence Attaché at the Ukraine Embassy in Nigeria, Colonel Andrii Vasyliev, has said. On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his forces to invade Ukraine. Speaking to reporters in Abuja yesterday, Colonel Vasyliev called on world leading countries to tighten sanctions against Russia to stop the war. Vasyliev, who noted that Russia must withdraw its troops from the territory of Ukraine said, as a result of the armed aggression, 115 children have been killed while more than 140 were injured. He added that the Office of the Commissioner for Human Rights has received complaints from Ukrainians about sexual crimes committed by the Russian military since the beginning of the invasion. According to him, tens of thousands of people, including women and children, are leaving the Ukrainian territory. As a result of the war, he added that tens of thousands of men are returning to Ukraine every day, ready to defend their country.   Court restrains Fed Govt from evicting AU from Lagos…     Falana: African leaders failed to implement rights…     America’s arts envoy ends visit to Nigeria   Vasyliev said about 355,000 Ukrainians have returned to the country since the beginning of the open armed aggression. He said: “As you know, this war began in 2014 with the annexation of Crimea and certain regions of eastern Ukraine, and the second wave of this war began on February 24. “March 24 will be exactly the month of the heroic resistance of the Ukrainian people to the Russian invasion. “Russian military planes drop 500kg of bombs on civilian homes, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, maternity hospitals and churches. Some Ukrainian cities were completely destroyed by Russian aircraft. This is beyond brutality. This is proof that the genocide of Ukrainians is taking place. “The main purpose of this tactic is to create an artificial humanitarian catastrophe throughout Ukraine and use it in the negotiation process.” However, he said the leadership of Ukraine will continue its active foreign policy in counteracting military aggression. He noted that President Volodymyr Zelensky holds daily talks with world and European leaders. “Ukraine is grateful to the world community for its support, financial and military assistance in the war against Russia. We are also grateful to the Government of Nigeria for supporting on March 2, 2022, the resolution on “Aggression against Ukraine”, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly by a majority of its members,” Vasyliev added.