A former aide to former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Dr Doyin Okupe, has withdrawn from the 2023 presidential race. He declared support for former Anambra Governor Peter Obi. Okupe made the declaration while addressing newsmen in Abeokuta, Ogun State, saying the move was to ensure equity, justice, and fairness between the Northern and Southern parts of the country. Okupe, who was Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to President Olusegun Obasanjo and Senior Special Assistant on Public Affairs to President Goodluck Jonathan, said he has consulted far and wide with the political stakeholders in the South before taking the decision. Speaking on zoning arrangement of the presidential ticket in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he said: “I observed that the leadership of the PDP seems to be driving us all towards a fait accompli. “The most central consideration concerning the presidential primaries is the issue of zoning”. “The matter has been referred to a committee of 37 members with a member each from every state of the federation and the FCT Abuja. One would have expected that the mandate of this committee would be such that it would discharge its duties and report to the NEC of the party within a maximum of 5-7 days. Sadly, this has not been so”.   Kaduna train attack: Reps blast Service Chiefs over failure…     16 residents fleeing terrorist attack drown in Niger     No special treatment for Abba Kyari, others in Kuje prison   He added: “It is clear to me that those at the helm of affairs of the party are trying to hoodwink those of us aspirants from the South to commit ourselves to obtain the requisite forms before coming up with the original position that ‘every zone can contest the presidency’. “This position is politically fraudulent, unjust and inequitable. As a politician, I have come to accept the ill-defined zoning arrangement, and still forge ahead with my unrepentant call for a rotation of power to the South.” He added: “I, therefore, here and now proclaim that I am, as I have said publicly several times, withdrawing from the presidential race and I am declaring my support for the best aspirant not only in Igboland, but in Nigeria as a whole”. “I and my supporters within and outside the PDP are teaming up with His Excellency, Peter Obi. “At the same time, I want to enjoin all other aspirants from the South; Chief Dele Momodu, Senator Anyim, and His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike to come with me and let us team up with Peter Obi. So we can give the South the best possible chance. “For the avoidance of doubt, I am not fanning the embers of division, rather I am by this action lightening the torch of unity by establishing political stability on the pillars of truth and justice upon which the Bible tells us that even the throne of the Almighty God is founded”