Travel technology and destination management company – Wakanow has unveiled its partnership with ThankUCash, Africa’s leading loyalty and rewards company, to launch a customer loyalty programme, WakaPoints. WakaPoints is set towards charting a new course in the African travel space. Speaking at the unveiling of the new product, its Chief Executive Officer, Adebayo Adedeji described Wakapoint as an innovative approach to reward loyal travellers and give back value for their patronage. With WakaPoints, its customers earn points on every travel booking which they could redeem  on their next booking. Adedeji  said: “WakaPoints is a show of our unflinching commitment to ensure that our customers have the best travel experiences with us.”   Furore over relocation of facilities at MMIA     How to drive travel growth, by Skal chief     Deepening oversight duties on agencies   Also, Chief Executive Officer, ThankUCash, Simeon Ononobi, said: “We are excited to have partnered Wakanow on building this first-of-its kind loyalty programme in the travel space in Africa and I am convinced that everyone who signs up on WakaPoints are in for a rewarding experience.” Also, Wakanow’s  Chief Commercial Officer, Adenike Macaulay, said: “WakaPoints, for us, is not just a loyalty programme; it is an avenue for us first to say ThankU and to foster closer relationships with our customers, to better understand,  anticipate and fulfill their travel needs. “To say ThankU to all customers, Wakanow is giving out 20,000 bonus WakaPoints to its customers who have transacted with them in the past 13 years and the points are redeemable. “Wakanow’s central focus is its customers and every product and package is created with that at the forefront. With 26 Travel centres across Africa, Wakanow is poised to ensure that Africans have the best travel experiences and also be at the forefront of showcasing the African beauty, heritage and culture to the rest of the world. “In most African markets, loyalty, deals, and rewards services are a rarity. The unit economics and other factors such as currency instability make such businesses hard to pull off in the region. Yet, ThankUCash, a platform launched by Connected Analytics, has managed to thrive, proving that not all is gloomy in the deals, coupon and rewards business. “ThankUCash connects customers with businesses in a bid to help businesses grow and prosper while helping customers get the best deals and earn some cashback on every purchase made.”