The Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX Group) Plc recorded considerable growths in revenue and profitability in 2021 with net profit rising by 22.2 per cent to N2.3 billion. The defunct Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) had in 2021 completed its demutualization process, converting from a not-for-profit, member-owned mutual organization to a private public limited liability company owned by shareholders. With demutualisation, NSE transitioned into a non-operating holding company, Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX Group) Plc with three subsidiaries – Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX), the operating exchange; NGX Regulation Limited (NGX RegCo), the independent regulatory company; and NGX Real Estate Limited (NGX RelCo), the real estate company. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of NGX Group for the year ended December 31, 2021 showed that gross earnings grew by 13 per cent to N6.8 billion in 2021 from N6.0 billion in 2020. Revenue rose by 14.9 per cent from N5 billion in 2020 to N5.8 billion in 2021. Profit before tax increased by 25.4 per cent to N2.4 billion. After taxes, net profit rose by 22.2 per cent to N2.3 billion in 2021 as against N1.84 billion in 2020. The increase in revenue was driven by a 24.8 per cent growth in listing fees, which grew to N757.4 million in 2021 as against N606.9 million in 2020, 4.9 per cent growth in its treasury investment income and a 2.1 per cent growth in transaction fee, which rose to N2.9 billion from N2.8 billion. Further analysis indicated that return on equity grew by 70 basis points to 6.6 per cent while its return on assets stood at 5.9 per cent from 5.2 per cent recorded in 2020. Chairman, Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX Group) Plc, Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said the group was delighted by the progress made in 2021 across strategic, operational and financial aspects of its business.   Shareholders laud Vitafoam over N1.9b dividend     Banks, others to get regulators’ clearance for offers     NGX to consolidate on demutualisation   He noted that the demutualisation and listing by introduction were significant and unprecedented milestones for the group, commending all stakeholders for their support and trust in the group’s quest to unlock its true value and diversify its operations and product offerings. “All within one year, we demutualised, restructured, and listed the business with the holdco being the investment holding company with three operating subsidiaries and other associate companies and equity investments. “The board has during the year under review, focused broadly on adapting to the enhanced corporate governance demands following the change in organisational form, whilst exercising its oversight functions on strategy development and execution and drilling down on emerging value accretive opportunities presented by the demutualization,” Ogunbanjo said. He outlined that in 2022, the group aims to continue strengthening its brand with a view to making it a globally respected significant economic actor. Group Managing Director, Nigerian Exchange Group (NGX Group) Plc, Mr. Oscar Onyema, pointed out that the group went through a restructuring of its business to refine its business model, with increased focus on expanding into new business areas, which is reflective in the activities of the group. According to him, NGX Group, in 2021, focused on formulating and executing the strategy of the holding company, which includes building multiple businesses across the entire capital market value chain with diversified revenues as well as strategic and operational flexibility. “Gross earnings growth of 13 per cent coupled with after tax profit growth of 22.2 per cent is an encouraging start to our journey as an investment holding company. “Going forward our focus remains: on strengthening our capital structure; being active in every sphere of the capital markets value chain in Nigeria, but also growing our presence across Africa as a leading integrated market infrastructure provider; optimising our current investments and making new strategic investments; and recruiting top talents to execute our strategy. We aim to continue to create value, optimise profitability and build a sustainable business in alignment with stakeholders’ interest,” Onyema said.