Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU highlights the ideas and struggles of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, as he celebrates his 70th birthday today. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s 70 birthday is an event of national significance. Today in Lagos, the yearly colloquium taking place at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, will attract many eminent Nigerians from the six zones; relations, associates, disciples and followers. Professor Olufemi Bamiro, former Vice Chancellor of University of Ibadan, is keynote speaker. The theme: ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the new world order: Imperatives of Good Governance.’ Panelists will discuss “Technology, Entrepreneurship and the future of work”. The panel discussion to be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko will have Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant. Other panelists include Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soiless Farms, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank, Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes. Tinubu has unfolded his ambition to offer credible leadership to the country. Many believe that, if he becomes president, he will transform Nigeria. As governor, he transformed Lagos into a Centre of Excellence. Courage, determination, resilience, devotion to principles and commitment to the high ideals of democracy are the virtues that have defined and shaped the character of the enigma and icon in his 32 years of his sojourn in politics. In post-Bola Ige era, no other politician has bestrode the political landscape like a colossus in the Southwest. For 16 years in this dispensation, the Asiwaju of Lagos was the most outstanding opposition leader, held in high esteem by the forces opposed to the mainstream politics. Also, he made history as the arrowhead of progressive forces that aborted the dream of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ruin the bewildered country beyond 2015. The birth and survival of the mega party, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), are attributed to Tinubu’s power of ideas, foresight, strategy, and organisational prowess. He rallied other compatriots to give hope and bright future to Nigeria. Many challenges have confronted the progressive administration headed by President Muhammadu Buhari since then. But, if power had nor shifted in 2015 or consolidated in 2019, the situation could have been worse. As the extraordinary statesman rolls out drums for his 70th birthday, the progressive family should be united in celebration of a soldier of democracy, whose illustrious career, ideas, battles, patriotism and service to the nation offer an inspiration to the younger generation. For the Jagaban Borgu, the road to fame was long and tortuous. Tinubu is not a politician without a second address. He had a rich curriculum vitae before venturing into politics. He had worked hard and made fortunes in the accounting profession as an auditor in Mobil, a thriving oil company. He relishes his professional calling as a financial surgeon; an accountant of note and worth. He was destined to be the man of the future. He was undeterred by his troubled childhood and other obstacles on the way of a struggling youth. He confronted life difficulties with uncommon courage, converting the vicissitudes into an opportunity to struggle, work hard and excel. A promising young man, Tinubu left Nigeria for the United States of America in search of the proverbial golden fleece in 1975. He carried on his head the bow of fate and destiny. His next point of call was the Richard Daley College, Illinois, where he was on the college’s Honours’ List, and later, Chicago State University, Chigaco where he acquired a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration, with specialization in Accounting and Management. Tinubu shone like a star in the tertiary institution. In his second year, he was accorded the honour of teaching remedial tutorial classes on part-time basis to the students of the faculty. He was focused and serious. He was on the Dean’s List throughout his undergraduate years. His awards included the Outstanding Students’ Award, University Scholar’s Award and Certificate of Merit in Accounting and Finance in his first year. Politics was in his blood. Apart from his academic prowess, he was also a campus politician. He was elected as the President of the Accounting Society in his final year. It was possible that he had also observed and participated in the political activities of his illustrious adopted mother, Iyaloja Abibat Mogaji, a strong women leader in the defunct Action Group (AG) and Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), led by the indomitable Chief Obafemi Awolowo. After his university education, Tinubu worked with the American based-accounting firm, Arthur Anderson. Later, he moved to ‘Deloitte Haskins and Sells’, now Deloitte Haskins and Touche, for his professional training. He was always interested in learning for the purpose of professional fortification. The young accountant also received professional training in other prominent firms, including General Motors, First National Bank of ChicagoProcter and Gamble, International Harvester, Fortune 50 Firms, and DEC, the largest communication and utility company in the United States. As a technocrat, Tinubu was devoted to the goals of organisational efficiency. The key was efficient performance. He knew that the white men he worked with will never condone indolence, idleness and laziness. He was an outstanding staff traveling across the globe with huge responsibilities on his shoulders. Between 1981 and 1982, Tinubu was a member of the Deloitte team that established the financial sytem of ARAMCO, the giant oil company. He was even retained by the firm to supervise the implementation of its financial system. However, his employment with the Mobil Producing Nigeria as a senior auditor marked a turning point. He rose to the position of the Audit Manager, and later, Treasurer of the Mobil Producing, Nigeria. Under his leadership, there were prudent financial management, aggressive corporate think-tank for the reorganisation of the company’s financial system and treasury activities, the integration of staff development, cost saving and fraud detection and prevention. The experience made Tinubu to describe himself as a financial surgeon; a wizard. In Lagos of 70s and 80s, he rocked Lagos social circles. It was reminiscent of how he followed a DJ to Ado-Ekiti because of his love for entertainment. He is a lover of crowd; the masses, poor and indigent, who are in the majority in the society. In the Third Republic, Tinubu entered politics as a new breed. His colleagues in Mobil were taken aback that he was leaving a lucrative job for an uncertain career in politics. He was a founding member of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP), on which platform he contested for the Senate in Lagos West District. The senatorial form was purchased on his behalf by Chief Kola Oseni, his relation. He was supported by the powerful political group, Primose, led By Chief Dapo Sarunmi. The group was locked in supremacy battle with the group, led by former Lagos State Governor Lateef Jakande, in the Lagos SDP. During the screening, the chairman of the panel, Alhaji Lanre Rasak, was surprised that Tinubu answered critical questions with much intelligence, despite being perceived as a green horn. He predicted that he will seize Lagos politics by storm. Tinubu meant business. He had develop the slogan:’Power is not served a la carte.’ He put all he had into the political process, seizing the politics of Lagos West by storm. Tinubu’s opponent at the senatorial  poll was Mrs. Kemi Nelson of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), who he defeated, emerging as the senator that polled the highest number of votes in the country. He had wanted to vie for the Senate Presidency, but was persuaded to step down for his compatriot and friend up till today Dr, Dr. Iyorcha Ayu. Tinubu was not a bench warmer. He was the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Finance, Appropriation and Currency. He those days, he spoke authoritatively and forcefully to power, daring the military on the floor of the National Assembly. It was distressing to him that the military later boxed the country into an avoidable crisis, following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by the late Chief Moshood Abiola. Tinubu joined the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), which fought the military to a standstill. When his life was threatened, he left the country and became the major financier and pillar of the pro-democracy movement abroad. It was almost a lost battle. Although the military surrendered power to civilians, the mandate was not restored to Abiola, who died in detention. In 1999, Tinubu bounced back. Having played his hand on the political plough, he never looked back. He returned home to participate in the Abdulsalami transition programme. Although he wanted to return to the Senate, the leaders of Afenifere/NADECO believed that he will be a good governor. They were right. Their words had a predictive value. The Justice Forum was rooting for him. The only dissenting voice was the late Chief Ganiyu Dawodu, who had pitched his tent with Funso Williams, former Works Commissioner. Reflecting on the struggle for the Alliance for Democracy (AD) ticket, a party elder, the late Oba Olatunji Hamzat, said: “Dawodu’s preference for Williams who had served in Abacha’s government over his own comrades who suffered in the trenches with him remains a puzzle.” Other aspirants were the late Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, Second Republic minister, who became a senator, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Alerele, Uthman Sodipe, a journalist, Tawa Williams, an engineer, Rasheed Shitta-Bey, a former House of Representatives member, and Dapo Durosinmi Etti. None of them could match Tinubu’s arsenal and goodwill. Although Bucknor-Akerele was a NADECO chieftain, she was not harassed by the Abacha government, unlike her colleagues. Her structure was not solid. Also, Durosinmi-Etti, a lawyer, lacked a strong campaign machinery. Although he was Dawodu’s cousin, his name did not feature on the AD ballot paper during the primary. Tawa Williams, the former General Manager of the Lagos State Water Corporation, was not considered as a serious candidate. Many believed that he was warming up for the deputy governorship ticket. Shodipe’s mounted a vigorous campaign siwaju Bola Tinubu’s 70 birthday is an event of national significance. Today in Lagos, the yearly colloquium taking place at Eko Hotel, Victoria Island, will attract many eminent Nigerians from the six zones; relations, associates, disciples and followers. Professor Olufemi Bamiro, former Vice Chancellor of University of Ibadan, is keynote speaker. The theme: ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the new world order: Imperatives of Good Governance.’ Panelists will discuss “Technology, Entrepreneurship and the future of work”. The panel discussion to be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko will have Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the Lead Discussant. Other panelists include Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soiless Farms, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank, Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, Co-founder, Jand2Gidi and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes. Tinubu has unfolded his ambition to offer credible leadership to the country. Many believe that, if he becomes president, he will transform Nigeria. As governor, he transformed Lagos into a Centre of Excellence. Courage, determination, resilience, devotion to principles and commitment to the high ideals of democracy are the virtues that have defined and shaped the character of the enigma and icon in his 32 years of his sojourn in politics. In post-Bola Ige era, no other politician has bestrode the political landscape like a colossus in the Southwest. For 16 years in this dispensation, the Asiwaju of Lagos was the most outstanding opposition leader, held in high esteem by the forces opposed to the mainstream politics. Also, he made history as the arrowhead of progressive forces that aborted the dream of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to ruin the bewildered country beyond 2015. The birth and survival of the mega party, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), are attributed to Tinubu’s power of ideas, foresight, strategy, and organisational prowess. He rallied other compatriots to give hope and bright future to Nigeria. Many challenges have confronted the progressive administration headed by President Muhammadu Buhari since then. But, if power had nor shifted in 2015 or consolidated in 2019, the situation could have been worse. As the extraordinary statesman rolls out drums for his 70th birthday, the progressive family should be united in celebration of a soldier of democracy, whose illustrious career, ideas, battles, patriotism and service to the nation offer an inspiration to the younger generation. For the Jagaban Borgu, the road to fame was long and tortuous. Tinubu is not a politician without a second address. He had a rich curriculum vitae before venturing into politics. He had worked hard and made fortunes in the accounting profession as an auditor in Mobil, a thriving oil company. He relishes his professional calling as a financial surgeon; an accountant of note and worth. He was destined to be the man of the future. He was undeterred by his troubled childhood and other obstacles on the way of a struggling youth. He confronted life difficulties with uncommon courage, converting the vicissitudes into an opportunity to struggle, work hard and excel. A promising young man, Tinubu left Nigeria for the United States of America in search of the proverbial golden fleece in 1975. He carried on his head the bow of fate and destiny. His next point of call was the Richard Daley College, Illinois, where he was on the college’s Honours’ List, and later, Chicago State University, Chigaco where he acquired a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration, with specialization in Accounting and Management. Tinubu shone like a star in the tertiary institution. In his second year, he was accorded the honour of teaching remedial tutorial classes on part-time basis to the students of the faculty. He was focused and serious. He was on the Dean’s List throughout his undergraduate years. His awards included the Outstanding Students’ Award, University Scholar’s Award and Certificate of Merit in Accounting and Finance in his first year. Politics was in his blood. Apart from his academic prowess, he was also a campus politician. He was elected as the President of the Accounting Society in his final year. It was possible that he had also observed and participated in the political activities of his illustrious adopted mother, Iyaloja Abibat Mogaji, a strong women leader in the defunct Action Group (AG) and Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), led by the indomitable Chief Obafemi Awolowo. After his university education, Tinubu worked with the American based-accounting firm, Arthur Anderson. Later, he moved to ‘Deloitte Haskins and Sells’, now Deloitte Haskins and Touche, for his professional training. He was always interested in learning for the purpose of professional fortification. The young accountant also received professional training in other prominent firms, including General Motors, First National Bank of ChicagoProcter and Gamble, International Harvester, Fortune 50 Firms, and DEC, the largest communication and utility company in the United States. As a technocrat, Tinubu was devoted to the goals of organisational efficiency. The key was efficient performance. He knew that the white men he worked with will never condone indolence, idleness and laziness. He was an outstanding staff traveling across the globe with huge responsibilities on his shoulders. Between 1981 and 1982, Tinubu was a member of the Deloitte team that established the financial sytem of ARAMCO, the giant oil company. He was even retained by the firm to supervise the implementation of its financial system. However, his employment with the Mobil Producing Nigeria as a senior auditor marked a turning point. He rose to the position of the Audit Manager, and later, Treasurer of the Mobil Producing, Nigeria. Under his leadership, there were prudent financial management, aggressive corporate think-tank for the reorganisation of the company’s financial system and treasury activities, the integration of staff development, cost saving and fraud detection and prevention. The experience made Tinubu to describe himself as a financial surgeon; a wizard. In Lagos of 70s and 80s, he rocked Lagos social circles. It was reminiscent of how he followed a DJ to Ado-Ekiti because of his love for entertainment. He is a lover of crowd; the masses, poor and indigent, who are in the majority in the society. In the Third Republic, Tinubu entered politics as a new breed. His colleagues in Mobil were taken aback that he was leaving a lucrative job for an uncertain career in politics. He was a founding member of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP), on which platform he contested for the Senate in Lagos West District. The senatorial form was purchased on his behalf by Chief Kola Oseni, his relation. He was supported by the powerful political group, Primose, led By Chief Dapo Sarunmi. The group was locked in supremacy battle with the group, led by former Lagos State Governor Lateef Jakande, in the Lagos SDP. During the screening, the chairman of the panel, Alhaji Lanre Rasak, was surprised that Tinubu answered critical questions with much intelligence, despite being perceived as a green horn. He predicted that he will seize Lagos politics by storm. Tinubu meant business. He had develop the slogan:’Power is not served a la carte.’ He put all he had into the political process, seizing the politics of Lagos West by storm. Tinubu’s opponent at the senatorial  poll was Mrs. Kemi Nelson of the defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), who he defeated, emerging as the senator that polled the highest number of votes in the country. He had wanted to vie for the Senate Presidency, but was persuaded to step down for his compatriot and friend up till today Dr, Dr. Iyorcha Ayu. Tinubu was not a bench warmer. He was the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Finance, Appropriation and Currency. He those days, he spoke authoritatively and forcefully to power, daring the military on the floor of the National Assembly. It was distressing to him that the military later boxed the country into an avoidable crisis, following the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by the late Chief Moshood Abiola.   Buhari may attend Eagles, Black Stars tie     Amuneke: Eagles ‘ll explore Ghana’s weaknesses     Bonke, Chukwueze doubtful against Black Stars   Tinubu joined the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), which fought the military to a standstill. When his life was threatened, he left the country and became the major financier and pillar of the pro-democracy movement abroad. It was almost a lost battle. Although the military surrendered power to civilians, the mandate was not restored to Abiola, who died in detention. In 1999, Tinubu bounced back. Having played his hand on the political plough, he never looked back. He returned home to participate in the Abdulsalami transition programme. Although he wanted to return to the Senate, the leaders of Afenifere/NADECO believed that he will be a good governor. They were right. Their words had a predictive value. The Justice Forum was rooting for him. The only dissenting voice was the late Chief Ganiyu Dawodu, who had pitched his tent with Funso Williams, former Works Commissioner. Reflecting on the struggle for the Alliance for Democracy (AD) ticket, a party elder, the late Oba Olatunji Hamzat, said: “Dawodu’s preference for Williams who had served in Abacha’s government over his own comrades who suffered in the trenches with him remains a puzzle.” Other aspirants were the late Dr. Wahab Dosunmu, Second Republic minister, who became a senator, Senator Kofoworola Bucknor-Alerele, Uthman Sodipe, a journalist, Tawa Williams, an engineer, Rasheed Shitta-Bey, a former House of Representatives member, and Dapo Durosinmi Etti. None of them could match Tinubu’s arsenal and goodwill. Although Bucknor-Akerele was a NADECO chieftain, she was not harassed by the Abacha government, unlike her colleagues. Her structure was not solid. Also, Durosinmi-Etti, a lawyer, lacked a strong campaign machinery. Although he was Dawodu’s cousin, his name did not feature on the AD ballot paper during the primary. Tawa Williams, the former General Manager of the Lagos State Water Corporation, was not considered as a serious candidate. Many believed that he was warming up for the deputy governorship ticket. Shodipe’s mounted a vigorous campaign on the platform of the Eko Forum, with the slogan: ‘new vision, new leadership.’ Surprisingly, he came fourth. It was a turbulent primary. The party chairman, Dawodu, could not been seen for two days for the release of the result. According to the results, Tinubu scored 10,933 votes, beating Funso Williams (9,678), Dr. Dosunmu (6,023), Shodipe (381), Bucknor-Akerele (223), Tawa Williams (112) and Durosinmi-Etti (five votes). Since Dawodu was in hibernation, the AD Acting National Chairman, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, intervened and took Tinubu’s name to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office to beat the deadline for the submission of the party’s nominee. Following Tinubu’s success at the primary, supporters of Funso Williams in the Network Alliance, including Hon. Omotilewa Aro-Lambo, Dr. Leke Pitan, Mrs. Nelson, “showed up in the Tinubu camp, singing loyalty and adherence.” The three made the cabinet list after the general election. Bucknor-Akerele emerged as the deputy governor. Cracks appeared on the wall as predicted by a party elder, Alhaji Busura Alebiosu, that it will be difficult for Tinubu and Bucknor-Akerele to work as a team. Later, they parted ways. After Bucknor-Akerele’s exit, Olufemi Pedro became the deputy governor. Tinubu’s attention was diverted from governance by his detractors. His foes went to court, challenging the authenticity of his hard-earned certificate. But, he triumphed. The dust settled and he continued with the implementation of his programmes, which earned him a second term in 2003. The aim of his programme was the abolition of poverty. While his colleagues-Lam Adesina (Oyo State), Adebayo Adefarati (Ondo), Adeniyi Adebayo (Ekiti), and Olusegun Osoba (Ogun) were swept away by the political earthquake in the Southwest, Tinubu survived the PDP onslaught. He was the last man standing. However, his 2007 senatorial bid was aborted by the power that be. The coast was not clear. That was how Ganiyu Solomon went to the Senate to represent Lagos West. But, the former governor succeeded in handing over to a competent successor, Babatunde Fashola (SAN). Tinubu played a major role in the return of stolen mandates in Ekiti, Ondo, Edo and Osun, which catapulted Kayode Fayemi, Olusegun Mimiko, Adams Oshiomhole, and Rauf Aregbesola to power. He was subjected to harassment, following his trial by the Code of Conduct Bureau. Again, he survived the ordeals and mobilised like-minded compatriots across the political parties to merge into the APC, ahead of 2015 general elections. Tinubu rejected President Goodluck Jonathan’s National Conference. He clarified that he rejected the move because it was a Greek gift, stressing that the initiator was not sincere. The outcome of the conference was discarded by the government that set it up. He had become the leader of opposition since 2003. Under his leadership, the power shift in some states in the Southwest and Southsouth became the bedrock of the struggle for power by the opposition at the centre. Many doubted the capacity of the alliance to depose the PDP from power. But, Tinubu offered the inspiration, saying that  the coalition will be supported by Nigerians because they were desirous of a new lease of life. Reflecting on the success of the APC in 2015 polls, a chieftain from the Southwest, Ayo Afolabi, Southwest APC Publicity Secretary, said: “Tinubu is a strategist extraordinaire.” A party chieftain, Abiodun Ogunleye, described Tinubu as a factor in the Nigerians politics.” Lagos East Senator Mukhail Adetokunbo Abiru paid tribute to Tinubu, hailing his leadership capacity and ability to headhunt star talents that will deliver great services to the people. He added: I belong to that class of outstanding professionals you encouraged to have a stint in public service for the greater good of the people. The learning curve remains valuable even now as a serving Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The transformational government you led in Lagos State between 1999 and 2007 is still being referenced till date across the land. You rescued a state at the edge of a precipice. In education, health, waste management and road infrastructure, you delivered exceptionally. Sir, there is no doubt in my mind that Nigeria will experience an impressive transformation if your patriotic quest to provide quality leadership at this critical period in the nation’s history is acceded.” Asiwaju Support Group, in a congratulatory message, said: “Tinubu’s sterling leadership qualities as a national rallying figure are enviable, adorable and cherishing.” It added: “Undoubtedly, you have tenaciously built and elevated not a few people through your commitment to selfless leadership. “Your determination to lifting others is without borders –devoid of ethnic colouration, tribal affiliation, age grouping and socio-economic strata. “Little wonder the array of followers and soldiers you have molded over the year. These political soldiers cut across all spheres of human endeavour.” House of Representatives member James Abidun Faleke(Ikeja Constituency) said described Tinubu as a pride to Nigeria’s founding fathers, a rare gift to this generation and a role model to future generations. He said: “In Nigeria’s political space, you have become a brand. Your preference for politics without bitterness and politics of tolerance stands you out. “You have proven yourself as an administrator per excellence, having left an indelible footprint in the private sector as a seasoned boardroom guru before making a foray into active politics. “In the public sector, the purposeful leadership you offer continues to breed leaders in every sphere of life. You have not only been a consistent democrat, but exceptionally strategic in building bridges.” Senator Gbenga Bareehu Ashafa said: “Your life’s journey is indeed an inspiration to many, just as your legacy of visionary leadership, patriotism and benevolence remains a learning curve for all those following in your footsteps.” The Oniru of Iruland, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, said: “The celebration of a Platinum Jubilee is the achievement of a great feat especially for a great man who is many things to many people. For me, it is a time of thanksgiving and appreciation to God for sparing the life of a mentor and an elder statesman thus far. It is also a time to reflect on the outstanding achievements of a great man in leadership and the political history of Lagos as a state and Nigeria as a country.” Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Wasiu Eshinlokun Sanni said: “Your birthday is a national event; a celebration of an enduring vision and noble ideas of courage, political sagacity, pro-democracy activism, dedication to welfarist ideology and productive service to the nation. “You are an invaluable asset, a great thinker, a bridge builder, optimistic risk taker and believer in the greatness and survival of one united Nigeria. “As governor of the Centre of Excellence between 1999 and 2007, you presided over a model administration that became the model, which your worthy successors have continually built upon. “It is gratifying that as the National Leader of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), your pathfinding roles heralded the enthronement of a human and progressive administration at the centre. “As we gaze at 2023 with hope and excitement, we pray to God to increase your wisdom, endow you with robust health and give you greater and historic opportunities for higher service to the greater glory of our fatherland.” Lagos State Environment Commissioner Tunji Bello and his wife, Prof. Ibiyemi, felicitated with the celebrator, who they described with fondness as “our leader, mentor and role model,” adding that Tinubu is a quintessential leader; a humanist, a political colossus, an embodiment of courage, bridge builder and an apostle of unity. ” House of Representatives member Olajide Jimoh (Mainland Constituency) described Tinubu as the Tutor-General of Nigerian Politics. He said: “What you celebrate today is the impact of dynamic leadership, worthy legacies as senator, pro-democracy crusader, Governor-Emeritus of Centre of Excellence, and contributions to the emergence and stability of a progressive government at the centre. “As a financial surgeon, seasoned administrator, strategist, powerful tactician and tested, trusted and dependable leader, you have become a reference point. “You have built a lot of people. Now is the time for you to build the nation.” Lagos State Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs Dr. Wale Ahmed said: “Your platinum birthday is of national significance, judging by the historic roles you have played in nation building and development. “What you celebrate is your power of ideas, legendary organisational capability, sound strategy, mobilisation prowess, administrative acumen, superlative talent hunt, noblest examples of political tolerance and accommodation, and permanent loyalty to cherished progressives principles. “You are a a national asset; a tested and trusted leader, a visionary, thinker and a builder of men and institutions, and gregarious, kindhearted; and a man of the people. “May the Almighty Allah give you wisdom, robust health and greater opportunities for diligent service to your fatherland.” House of Representatives member Prince Rotimi Agunsoye (Kosofe) said: “We rejoice with you because you have a lot to show for your fruitful existence and productive service to the nation. “Your achievements in the areas of human development, political organisation and mobilisation, bridge-building, practical state craft and philanthropy are legendary. “As an apostle of democracy, tolerant and accommodating leader, and father figure, you have taught us the basic principles of service, love and compassion, and defense of public welfare.” Lagos State APC in a statement by Chairman Cornelius Ojelabi and Publicity Secretary Seye Oladejo said: “What we are celebrating today is the evidence of courage, political sagacity, potency of strategy, power of mobilisation, organisational prowess, dedication to the cause of democracy and permanent commitment to public good. “You are a colossus; an exceptional progressive arrowhead, a consistent democrat, a bridge builder, master thinker, man of foresight, and tested, trusted and dependable leader. “Your strength lies in your power of ideas, resilience, and your legacies as a builder of men, seasoned administrator and statesman. “We glow in the pride of the privilege to be counted among the beneficiaries of your love, compassion, support, tolerance, accommodation, guidance, patience and kindness.” A federal legislator from Eti-Osa Constituency, Lagos, Ibrahim Babajide Obanikoro, said: “Daddy, today as always, we celebrate you as you match into a new decade of your life. “We appreciate your uncommon wisdom and remarkable vision for the nation as you have been a fantastic role model to us all that want to make an impact with our lives. Thank you for your brave and fearless leadership. “On behalf of myself, my family and the good people of Eti Osa, we wish you peace, good health and happiness as you continue to lead us.” Nigerian Diaspora Commission Chairperson Abike Dabiri-Erewa said:”Your entry into the Septugenarian Club is a special milestone and a significant national event, in view of the roles you have played in the socio-economic and political development of our beloved country. “Your resourcefulness, mental energy, mobilisation prowess, uncanny capacity for strategic thinking, incisive wit and power of foresight are invaluable assets to the polity. “Many still have a lot to learn from you as a bridge builder, tolerant and accommodating leader, and an astute planner and organiser, and very courageous actor. “As we gaze at the future with hope and optimism, we pray that God should endow you with more wisdom and grant you robust health and opportunity to play a leading in the re-shaping of your fatherland.” Ikorodu APC apex leaders in a congratulatory message prayed that God will enable the next national leader to actualise his dream of becoming the president in 2023. Ambassador to Spain Demola Seriki hailed Tinubu as “my greater leader and leaders of leaders,” wishing him the best now and in the future. Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola, in a congratulatory advert, simply sent his best wishes to the leader. Minister of State for Health Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora described Tinubu as “our indefatrigable leader and leader of men, outstanding among his peers and defined by three major qualities – courage, vision and strategy.” Former Housing Commissioner, Bosun Jeje said Tinubu is a national asset, a great talent hunter, a strategist, humanist, lover of the poor and man of the people. He wished him success in his bid to rule Nigeria, adding that if he succeeds, Nigeria will be better for it.”