To promote environmental sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria is targeting 15 per cent collection and recycling in the year. Director, Public Affairs, Communications, and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Amaka Onyemelukwe, explained the efforts to stem the tide of environmental degradation had seen the company making huge investments in leadership, by fostering industry collaboration, encouraging investments, and attracting international intervention, including funding. To achieve the target, she said the company, its bottling partners Nigerian Bottling Company and through funding from the Coca-Cola Foundation, would increase its investments to scale PET collection across the country and drive the required behavioural changes. She stated that through funding from The Coca-Cola Foundation in partnership with a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) and a waste aggregator, a mini-factory has been set up in Delta State for the conversion of PET bottles into strapping belts, which would be inaugurated in the second quarter of the year. It is expected that this will drive more positive actions as regards environmental sustainability.   NEITI: Firms rush to pay N2.6tr debt     Air passengers lament 100 % fare hike     IPMAN, NUPENG bicker over illegal increase in petrol price   She said: “We are aware that more investors have begun to have the confidence to invest in the setup of recycling plants to further drive positive action, which will be commissioned later in 2022. In 2021, over $1.1million in grants were awarded to various NGO partners and social ventures to drive recycling initiatives in various communities. It’s our resolve to open up the sector for more participation, with a view to attracting counterpart funding from the international community.This is based on the prospects we see in the recycling sector that can produce thousands of jobs for the teeming population.” She said Coca-Cola and its partners are committed to implementing collection initiatives across communities, while the Coca-Cola with funding from the Coca-Cola Foundation will be investing over $2million to scale up collection across the six geographical zones and drive behavioural change projects in the year.  ”Our goal is to achieve our 2030 ambitious goal of enabling 100 per cent collection for every packaging we put in the market,’’ she said. Onyemelukwe praised the government and urged it to provide more tax incentives for companies investing in recycling infrastructure, to attract more investors while also introducing environmental-friendly policies. She called on individuals and corporates to make the environment better by embracing behavioural change. The success story of Coca-Cola’s leadership is in the establishment of a coalition known as the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA), an industry partnership among Coca-Cola, Nigerian Bottling Company, Nestle Plc, 7UP Bottling Company and Nigerian Breweries, partners coming together to build a sustainable economy for food and beverage packaging, which has evolved to a 21-member coalition championing environmental sustainability in the food and beverage sector.    “Our journey to a world without waste requires that we all come together in collective action for a litter-free world. Our consumers in local communities are being educated and enlightened about the importance of waste management to aid our advocacy in the recovery of recyclable materials,” she added. She highlighted that a greener environment remains a priority for Coca-Cola, which is why environmental issues are considered business enablers that sit at the core of all their decision-making processes.