GOXI Micro Insurance Company officials have taken   the company’s “We Dey Ur Back” campaign to traders in some  Lagos State markets to help educate them on the importance of insurance to their business. During the sensitisation at Oke Arin market, Lagos Island, the traders were delighted with the product. The Business Development Manager, Goxi Micro Insurance Mr. Efe Isiorho, explained that traders could have their goods insured with as low as N500 under the GOXI Ma Business insurance package. “Goxi Ma Business is an insurance plan developed to help traders insure their wares.The insurance plan helps to provide funds whenever goods get damaged following the occurrence of burglary, theft or fire. It also provides alternative shop for the business,” he added. Efe introduced other products such as the Goxi Microloan Protection, which helps with the repayment of loans or debts following occurrence of unforeseen events like loss of job or untimely death.   Allianz to sponsor athletics championship     AIO’s 48th Conference holds June in Kenya     African Alliance pays N1.42b claims in two months   Others are Goxi Agric Loan Protection targeted at farmers to help them to repay loans following occurrence of unforeseen events like flood or damage of crops or farm produce and Goxi Welfare, which is a plan designed for staff, family, and association members to have access to medical treatments expenses in the event of accident or permanent disability. The campaign team visited Oke-Arin, Balogun, Tejuosho, Iyana Ipaja, Igando, Ikorodu, Ikeja and Agege markets. A trader at Oniwaya market, Agege, Alhaja Temitope Dada,  appreciated Goxi Micro Insurance. She recalled that her shop was looted during the #ENDSARS protests and lost everything because she didn’t insure her shop. She urged her traders to buy the policy. The Chairman, Goxi Micro Insurance, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamusoe,  saiid: “We are poised to deliver responsive insurance policies through our flexible and innovative structures. “For us at Goxi Micro Insurance Company, we noticed that most traders have little or no information on the benefits of insurance. Due to this reason, we decided to  embarked on the “We Dey Your Back” campaign to educate traders, farmers and other low-income Nigerians on the various insurance policies that will insure them against all forms of risks. “Goxi Micro Insurance Company is the first licensed stand-alone micro-insurance company under the guidelines of the National Insurance Commission. We are open to partnership with microfinance banks, institutions, and different forms of association, telcos, and other aggregators to deliver risk management solutions to their members.