As we count down to the end of President Muhammadu Buhari’s presidency, this column urges him to watch out for political enemies, especially those operating within. As the Igbo adage says, it is the rat living in the house that will tell the bush rat that there is fish in the house basket. So, the president has to be wary of those who would try to loot the nation’s treasury from inside, as their parting gift. He should also be chary of those who due to their incompetence or malice would further blunt his few redeeming legacies. While he would soon become what political sociologists call a lame-duck president, he still possesses the power to do away with such aides whose action deprecates his efforts in the past seven years. Some of those the president should watch out for include those who have succeeded in denting his legacy of stable fuel supply. That stability in fuel supply in the past seven years, albeit at huge cost to the nation’s treasury, was one of the few things the ordinary Nigerians gained from his presidency. President Buhari will remember that among other unforced errors which the emergent All Progressive Congress (APC) took advantage of to unseat the bumbling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was the fuel crisis. Nigerians will not forget in a hurry the Occupy Nigeria protests, some of which President Buhari championed. To show that his legacy of stability of fuel supply is a thin one, Nigerians would not forget that the then contestant Buhari boasted that the fuel subsidy was a scam, which he will deal with accordingly. So, while it is bad enough that he has spent trillions of naira to pay for the so-called phantom fuel subsidy, the people are once again exposed to the excruciating pain of fuel scarcity across the major cities of the country. Many Nigerians believed that it was the fear of being dealt with ruthlessly by the Buhari that made the bandits who traded on our common misery, give artificial fuel scarcity a wide berth. Who would forget in a hurry the elevation of fuel subsidy scam to a national policy under the past regime? So when Buhari brought stability after a hefty increase in the pump price, many Nigerians were willing to gift him the benefit of doubt, as to his sincerity of purpose. But as his tenure draws to a close, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipriye Silva and the Managing Director of NNPC Mele Kyari, and other officials in charge of the fuel supply chain are assiduously working hard to leave a messy legacy behind. The first salvo was to supply bad fuel to Nigerians, which they may have taken a humongous price to clean up, without any person taking responsibility. Considering the awe with which the president was held, it is strange to his die-hard supporters that those managing the industry have treated the Buhari persona with scorn by importing such large quantity of adulterated fuel.   The curious case of Mai Mala Buni     IPOB battles own ghost     Kwara 2023: Whither equity, fairness and justice?   To further compound the threat to his legacy in the fuel supply chain, these stragglers have not only ignored his directive to deal with the importers of adulterated fuel, they have added fuel scarcity to the menu. Now just like in the better-forgotten era, Nigerians spend hours at filling station to buy fuel. So, all the boast by the NNPC ltd of having millions of litres of fuel in reserve to wipe out the scarcity within days have become tales by the moonlight. Another playing ground for enemies of the president is the ministry of education. Again the common belief that the Buhari persona would solve the lingering crisis in the nation’s university sector has proved a mirage. Just like in the era of Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, perennial strikes by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASSU), have remained a national nightmare. Those whom the president sent to sit with the union in the many conferences between government and ASUU have suddenly woken up to tell Nigerians that the agreements cannot be kept. To further compound the legacy of Mr. President in the university sector, many Nigerians are wondering what manner of Minister of Education was unable to engage in an ordinary dialogue with students as to the challenges of the sector. If Minister Adamu Adamu could not efficiently marshall out reasons why the crisis is persisting before the visiting students, any wonder he is unable to convince the teachers to sheathe their sword. If the minister is competent, he would have used the opportunity of the NANS visit to explain the challenges facing the government to the students. But rather because of the inefficiencies of those tasked with resolving the problem of ASUU and federal government, his legacy in that sector is in tatters. This column wonders why the Minister for Labour Dr Chris Ngige is only coming out now to tell Nigerians that the agreement with ASUU cannot be implemented after he had severally told Nigerians that money has been released to ASUU, in furtherance of the same agreement. So all the while the minister was more interested in painting ASUU in bad colours than solving the crisis. Last week, the Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi gave a snippet of the coming blame game for the tawdry performance in that sector. He told the nation that the Chinese contractors whom Nigerians thought were Amaechi’s darling have started playing politics with the rail project. The minister threatened to report the Chinese contractors for the Kano-Kaduna rail line to Nigerians this week, if they don’t find their own money to continue the project. According to the minster, the Chinese had promised to fund the project. On the Port-Harcourt to Maiduguri rail-line which this column had written severally about the unfairness of the minister in his decisions, the minister lamely stated that some money has been released to the contractors. For reasons best known to the minister, he maliciously excluded one-half of the country, from the rail-line modernisation programme of President Buhari, while shamefacedly promoting the Katsina to Niger Republic rail project. Now that he cannot deliver his preferred rail lines as he had boasted, he is trying to conflate them with the neglected Port-Harcourt to Maiduguri project. No doubt, the Buhari presidency has had its bright spots, which this column has written about. But in the injury time of his presidency, apologies to the football world, the president must oversight his ministers so they don’t make a mince-meat of his few legacies. Those of them who are wearied or hell bent on helping themselves with the scarce nation’s resources, under one dubious project or the other, can still be shown the way out.