A journalist, Taiwo Alabi, has attracted reactions from social media users with his assertion about popular ‘zazu’ crooner, Portable. On his Twitter handle, the freelance journalist reproached the fast-rising singer’s benefactor for aiding him achieve fame and riches. Alabi argued they should rather have taken the controversial music artiste to a rehabilitation centre instead because according to him, Portable has been ‘ruined by drugs.’ “They gave Portable money and fame but ignored the fact that the dude is damaged and needs help. Drugs has ruined the guy, he needs to be in rehab not performing at shows,” he tweeted. Reacting to the journalist’s post, some Twitter users accused him of being judgmental while others took sides his stance. @ashman_babane tweeted: “You only hate good thing. Nobody dey give fame, he no force himself blow, It’s just his time make una rest.. all your favourite artists do drugs, na them chop banku pass. Take them to reharb. Abi you just say this to portable because he’s portable?” @taabiyi01 said: “Let’s get facts right before we comment…personally…iIalso dont like how he manages his fame…. Some big artists do all these drugs than him!!!”   Will Smith is best actor at BAFTA 2022     Nigerian comedians can sell out 02 arena – Kenny Blaq     American actor William Hurt dies at 71   @Tomi_official31 wrote: “Only God can help him he has gone wild out of range.” @iamzeezaga stated: “You can only take a horse to the stream, you can’t force it to drink water.” @MenOracle asked: “I don’t know portable neither do I care about him but you see people like you are the reason why I pray and want him to succeed in whatever he’s doing. What kind of prejudiced statement is this? Who is “they” that is now Sharing Fame and money? @Takeoffpunter tweeted: “Everything na “bad Belle/hate” to some of you till the person involved gets to the points of no return. One true about this tweet – the boy needs urgent help & guidance. But continue fanning the flames of his erratic behaviours!” @DJKaarmaNG said: “At least someone else also sees this about this guy, he seriously needs help, not to be celebrating him like he’s OK, he’s not.” @OluObanla wrote: “Unfortunately some of his diehard fans will not agree with your honesty assertion.” @jibolamakinde stated: “I hardly think this is drugs. He seems to have a short fuse and other behavioral problems most likely uncurbed from a younger age. Then he feels the best way to settle issues is the ‘street’ way. Yes to therapy tho.”