The All Progressives Congress (APC) Non-Serving Senators’ Forum, on Wednesday night, urged the party to use its forthcoming national convention to fine-tune strategies for a hitch-free congresses and national convention to elect its flag bearers at all levels for the 2023 general election. The forum said this in a statement after its formal inauguration in Abuja and the ratification of its 18-man National Executive Committee (NEC). The statement was signed by Senators Nurudeen Abatemi-Usman (Northcentral), Ayogu Eze (Southeast), Basheer Garba Lado (Northwest), Fatima Raji Rasaki (Southwest), Dr. Jalo Zarami (Northeast) and Bassey Otu (Southsouth). The forum is being chaired by Senator Nurudeen Abatemi-Usman with Senator Ayogu Eze as Secretary. Other members of the executive are: Senator John Danboyi (Publicity Secretary), Senator Jalo Zarami (Treasurer), Senator Umaru Dahiru (Ex-Officio), Nkechi Nwaogu (Ex-Officio), Fatimat Raji Rasaki (Financial Secretary), Senator Clever Ikisikpo (Welfare Officer), Senator Basheer Garba Lado (Vice Chairman, Northwest), Senator Ibrahim Ida (Ex-Officio), Senator Domingo Obende (Ex-Officio), Senator Margery Okadigbo (Ex-Officio), and Senator Ahmed Barata (Ex-Officio). Others are: Senators Lanre Tejuoso (Vice Chairman, Southwest), Ifeanyi Ararume (Vice Chairman, Southeast), Bassey Otu (Vice Chairman, Southsouth), Abubakar Sodangi (Vice Chairman, Northcentral), and Abubakar Tutare (Vice Chairman, Northeast). Present at the meeting were two former Senate Presidents Ame Ebute and Ken Nnamani who are to serve as patrons of the association. Senator Abatemi-Usman said the forum, which started three years ago, became necessary to bring non-serving senators under one umbrella where they can contribute meaningfully to the development of the APC in particular and the country in general.   Consensus: APC within the law for chairmanship candidate,…     Court directs Jimoh Ibrahim to publish committal…     FUPRE wins ‘petroquiz’ competition   The statement reads: “In the aftermath of the inauguration and in consideration of the status of the association as a pressure group within the APC, the following resolutions were made after a rigorous interrogation of a number of issues affecting the APC and the Nigerian polity.” “States our confidence and implicit faith in the APC as a vehicle for salvaging Nigeria and positioning it as the most influential country in Africa. “Congratulates the party, its officials and members for surmounting the existential challenges it faced recently in the run-up to its national convention through a deft and mature brinksmanship, anchored by the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari. “Urges the party to use the March 26, 2022 national convention to fine-tune strategies for hitch-free congresses and national convention for the election of the party’s flag bearers at all levels in the 2023 general election. “Expresses optimism that the APC will win the 2023 general election provided that the incoming party officials, to be elected on March 26, 2022, pursue an altruistic and robust process that will produce the best candidates for all positions. “Restates our commitment as members of APC to offer our experience and expertise to assist the incoming party officials to attain the lofty ideals of the APC. “Noting that the rich resources of this group have not been maximally tapped by the party so far, it urges the party to stop the marginalisation of one of its most valuable constituency.” “Urges the party and the government to rev up current efforts to ameliorate the economic well-being of Nigerians who are currently battling the global hardship occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic and upheavals in various parts of the world. “Commends President Buhari for steering and stabilising the ship of the Nigerian state, especially for combating insecurity and virtually defeating Boko Haram in the Northeast and insurgents in other parts of the country.”