Amid rising costs of diesel, the national electricity grid collapsed again and again – almost 24 hours after warning from electricity Generation Companies (GenCos). Already badly enmeshed in imbroglio, the Nigerian electricity supply industry raised a lot of dust last Sunday as GenCos brought their side of the sector’s sordid story to the fore. Not later than 24 hours after they battled to tell their tales of neglect and abandonment, the electricity market recorded another grid collapse, worsening the nationwide near darkness. Besides, the latest grid collapse confirmed the GenCos’ position that the Nigerian System Operator (SO), the technical wing of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), had been prevailing on the energy generating firms to switch-off and on their plants on a daily basis. Technically, the machines should not be turned off and on for more than 20 times in a year. But owing to the weakness of the grid, which cannot endure over 4,000mw, the generating plants have been switched off and on up to 365 times in a year. This practice, said the Association of Power Generation Companies (GenCos), Executive Secretary, Dr. Joy Ogaji, has worn out the generating plants. In that condition, she said, the GenCos are now in dire need of funds to maintain the ailing plants. In addition, over N1.6 trillion debt overhang for unused capacity over the years by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company Electricity (NBET) Plc has weighed them down from optimal operation. Speaking during a press conference she organized in Abuja, she noted that the GenCos, which she represented, were out to counter the claims of the TCN that blamed load-shedding on the low energy generation. Her speech was mostly directed at the press statement of the TCN, Public Affairs General Manager, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah. On the other hand, it was a veiled rejoinder to the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, who, on March 3rd, informed State House correspondents in Abuja that the current load-shedding was due to low water level in the hydroelectric dams. “Before I conclude, I would like to discuss the increased load-shedding you may have observed in Abuja and other areas in the country. With the reduction in hydro capacity during the dry season, additional load needs to be taken up by our gas plants,” Aliyu was quoted to have said. It was pertinent for the Minister of Power to speak to the issue as the hue and cry of the manufacturers, residential customers and event dependent consumers were rife in both mainstream and social media to the embarrassment of the government. Regrettably, as the electricity market recorded less than 3,000mw last week, the TCN mouthpiece issued a press statement to reveal how the GenCos had plunged the country into outage. She said the TCN only depends on the energy it receives from the GenCos and allocates power to Distribution Companies (DisCos) based on approved percentage (formula approved by National Electricity Regulatory Commission), of the total generation available per hour or on day-ahead nomination. “Presently,  the cumulative generation nationwide is low and generation companies have attributed this to several factors, including poor gas supply, fault in generating units of generating companies, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, all of which have caused most power generating companies to limit their generation, and sometimes not  generate at all,” Mbah said. Continuing, the TCN General Manager revealed that a summary of the power generating profiles in the last two months, for instance, clearly showed that 14 gas powered generating stations were either not generating at all or had limited generation at various times within the period, further depleting the quantum of power generation available for transmission into the grid on a daily basis. “Power generating stations in this category include: Omotosho units 5 & 6, Olorunsogo units 3, 4 & 6, Omoku units 3 & 6, Omotosho NIPP units 3 & 4, Delta units 15, 17 & 18, Afam VI units 11 & 12, Olorunsogo NIPP unit 3, Ihovbor NIPP unit 2, Sapele Steam unit 3, Sapele NIPP unit 1, Odukpani NIPP units 1 & 3, and Okpai units 11, 12 & 18.” Also, within the same period, Jebba Hydro and Shiroro Power Generating Stations were either out or had limited generation, causing additional loss of 232MW from the grid; while other power generating plants such as Omotosho units 3 & 4, Olorunsogo units 1, Delta units 10 &20, Afam VI  unit 13, Ihovbor NIPP units 4, Geregu NIPP units 22&23 and Odukpani NIPP units 2, 4 & 5, have also been out either on fault or for scheduled maintenance, causing a further loss of about 3,180MW from the grid. A combination of the above scenarios has persisted and the total effect on the grid is persistent low generation, which TCN operators have had to strive to dispatch in a way that will not jeopardise the stability of the grid. More recently, from the 1st to 4th of March, 2022, there was generation shortfall due to water management in Shiroro and Jebba hydro with the loss of 307MW and 125MW respectively from both stations. Within the same period, there were fault and technical problems in Egbin, causing 514MW shortfall and in Geregu causing 230MW shortfall, while reported fault at Alaoji NIPP reduced generation from the substation by 263MW. Gas constraints alone in Olorunsogo gas generating plant had reduced generation from the station by 104MW. In the same vein, Omotosho gas lost 102MW and Sapele NIPP lost 263MW. In Omotosho NIPP, there was generation shortfall of 233MW and in Omoku a shortfall of 112MW. Two units in Okpai have limited generation due to technical problems, causing a 204MW drop in generation and in Afam VI 511MW drop in generation. Gas constraint and fault in Olorunsogo NIPP reduced generation by 240MW, Geregu NIPP by 435MW, and Ihovbor by 142MW.  Also, due to gas pipeline pigging, Odukpani NIPP was shut down, which caused a reduction of generation by 575MW. “TCN further reiterates that a combination of issues ranging from gas constraints, fault, and technical problems within generating plants caused persistent low generation and consequently low load allocation to Distribution Companies nationwide. This is based on the fact that TCN can only transmit what is being generated by GenCos and presently they are all generating below capacity.” Apparently, this revelation infuriated the GenCos to tell their side of the story to energy reporters on Sunday. Speaking through Ogaji, they said, “Illiquidity, caused by the huge sums owed GenCos by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET), has more than ever before continued to frustrate the GenCos and kept them incapable of meeting their obligations, which are extremely necessary to keep their power plants running and make capacities available, while observing required Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) standards.”   ‘Maintain existing rotation of governorship position’     Taraba attacks: Ishaku donates relief materials to victims     Sani to Hisbah: wage more war on terrorists, bandits than…   Such obligations, according to her, include GenCos operations and maintenance (O&M) as and when due, procurement of critical capital, spare parts and accessories, payment, and servicing of existing loans from lenders and financiers, employee-obligations, etc. Ogaji recalled that recently the  GenCos cried out to the authorities and “are still looking forward to a favourable consideration of their pleas for foreign exchange (FX) support to enable them to procure critical spares for their across the country,” adding that there is  “no corresponding investment and improvement was made on this anomaly over these years, compelled GenCos to begin to question the optimal generation. Issues of gas volume, gas quality, gas pressure and gas recovered or added by GenCos through huge investments done by them to generating capacity depend on expected returns and costs.” Mbah opened up that “one of the reasons that the power plants are down was due to inefficient management of the grid.” The spokesman recalled that while the power sector was technically managed by an expert Marcel Martin, it was better off. She urged the government to swallow its pride and recall him to continue managing the plants. “Recently, you must have heard that Egbin lost several units. I pity the National Control Center (NCC), Osogbo staff. They need to be empowered. Some of you who were here when Marcel Martin was in Nigeria, both the generation companies and distribution companies, he developed tools that were used to manage the grid. The grid was not as bad as this. Let’s look for Marcel to develop more tools. Let’s stop claiming that we know it. Let’s ask for help,” Mbah said. The TCN always prides itself with using in-house manpower to solve technical challenges in the grid. But it was obvious from her veiled assertion that that self-help has not been good enough. Although she convened the briefing, she was ambivalent about how to make public some classified figures. As the session was degenerating to “I don’t have the figures” kind of briefing, the reporters asked why she invited them with half facts against opponents that had already nailed the GenCos with naked facts and figures. Consequently, the eloquent lawyer returned to her seat, and at best, rolled out the age-long concealed facts about the handlings of the sector. “The reason I don’t want to give you figure is also the lack of transparency in the market. So, if I give you this as the exact figure, it is the figure that the NBET can say no, this is not the figure.” At that point, reporters still pressed her to open up. Ogaji said: “I am going to give you some figures since you are still insisting on having some figures.” Following the Power Purchase Agreement in the sector, the NBET pays the GenCos for unused power, which is referred to as capacity. Thus, she rolled out the figures from 2015 to January 2022. According to her, it totalled N1.644 trillion. Her words: “Currently today, on capacity we are owed by NBET is N1.644 trillion.” Similarly, Ogaji, who could not state the shortfall in the power sector, attributed it to the opaqueness of the NBET management. She said: “In terms of the current shortfall in the market, I am afraid, I cannot give you the figure. Unlike me, I would have been able to give you that figure, but you can see, there has not been transparency in the market recently. I owe due respect to the former MD of NBET (Marylyne Amobi); every month we could go to the website of NBET, we can see what is our invoice and what has been paid. Since she left, we have not had access to that data. We have requested for it severally through NBET and it is not forthcoming.” Meanwhile, speaking to The Nation on phone, the NBET’s Head of Corporate Communications, Ms Henrietta Ighomrore, insisted that the GenCos must open their plants for NBET to test their acclaimed capacity. She also noted that the power sector is an integral part of the national and global economy and has been disbursing funds to the GenCos proportionally to remittance from available funds. She revealed that, recently, the NBET disbursed N32 billion to the GenCos for the month of December 2021. “There is no money in anybody’s account that has not been remitted to them. As an entity, the GenCos also have their financial records where they put what they sell and what they received. Asking you want to see the books of another person is out of place and it borders on mischief because there is a regulator in the sector. “What the sector requires is transparency and collaboration. So the GenCos should be able to meet NBET at the point NBET is able to provide services to them. So, we were doing capacity test toward activation of contracts you should allow us come to your plants as scheduled and check your capacity. We have to ensure that our payments are done properly. We cannot be funding inefficiencies in the sector. So, if you say you have capacity, we have to test it. So when payments are made, they are made to fund efficiencies,” Ighomrore said. The next day, providence was at work. This time, it was the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) that notified its customers that national grid collapsed at 10:40am.  The terse notification reads: “Dear esteemed customer, we experienced general outage across AEDC network at 10:40 am today due to a system collapse, which occurred on the national grid. Appropriate measures are now being taken to restore normal supply as quickly as possible. We sincerely apologise for the inconvenience.” As Nigeria’s electricity grid collapsed for the umpteenth time, it has compounded the woes of many businesses by foisting higher energy costs on businesses that are already battling skyrocketing costs of diesel. With limited electricity supply from the grid, many businesses said they are forced to embrace alternative energy that has become extremely expensive as a result of rising global prices of crude oil. Many business owners complained the situation is compounding the woes of the country and many Nigerians, with implications for higher production costs and living expenses. The crisis has forced the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) to plead with government for palliative as diesel price and aviation fuel now increase almost on daily basis, with stakeholders afraid that the ugly development may cripple businesses and worsen existing unfriendly living conditions in the country. While Small and Medium Scales Enterprises that survive mainly on the premium motor spirit are struggling with the scarcity of petrol subsidies, bigger organisations that depend on diesel generators now have to buy the product at prohibitive prices.  The price of diesel has soared by almost 170 percent in one year to N620-650 (or more depending on the location) per litre from N220-N240 in March last year. The surge in the price of diesel, which has been deregulated, is a response to global oil prices – a crisis worsened by the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war. Brent, the global oil benchmark, is currently selling for over $100 per barrel in the global market. Consequently, as businesses groan over rising operating costs, many individuals are feeling despondent as a result of rising food prices. Thus, surging prices of diesel in Nigeria have brought about a fresh spike in food prices, dashing hopes of returning to a more stable market condition. This is because food producers and retailers are now facing intense pressure from rising energy costs as they have to spend more on diesel to power their factories and on logistics. Since the national grid is within the purview of the TCN and it cannot stand more than 4,000mw, the agency has to open up on how much help it needs. However, it is now evident that the power sector condition is like that of a tattered rag whose redemption is beyond quick fix.  Although the sector has been enmeshed in a blame game, the fact is that the GenCos lack the capacity to produce more than 4,000mw. The TCN, too, lacks the capacity to wheel more than the energy already produced. On the other hand, the DisCos are reluctant to absolve more load in order to control their remittance. Admittedly, the NBET has no capital to sustain payment for unutilised power. Thus, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) must wade into the situation with a holistic solution.