The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday unveiled the official hashtag for its convention. Unveiling the hash-tag during a virtual news conference, the Chairman of Media and Publicity Committee of the convention, Abdullahi Sule, said that APC was set to host the biggest party convention in Africa. The governor of Nasarawa State was represented by Chairperson of the New Media Sub-Committee, Mrs Mary Ikoku. He said that the hashtag would be used to give blow-by-blow accounts of development during the convention on social media, websites and applications, such as twitter. According to him, the hashtag, #APCNationalConvention, is to announce the upcoming convention of ‘the largest party in Africa’, which is holding on March 26, at International Conference Centre, Abuja. “This media parley is to unveil to the media and the public the official hashtag of the convention and to reiterate that the party is united. “It is also an avenue to tell the world that the party is ready to deliver on those mandates that got it elected into office by millions of Nigerians. “We all know the functionality of the social media in expanding and amplifying communication, and this is why we are launching the hash-tag to push home our message on the importance of the convention to the global online audience. “The chosen hashtag is ‘#APCNationalConvention’ and we adopted this to solidify our narrative that we are united party men and women with one aim, which is to have one of the best party conventions ever seen in this country,” he said. Consensus forces versus election forces The forces pushing for convention and election were stuck in a stalemate last night, with each side fiercely seeking an edge. An aide of the President was not sure how soon the issues might be resolved. President Muhammadu Buhari had proposed a consensus chairman. His rivals reluctantly stepped down after much persuasion by some governors. However, there is no extensive preparation for an elective convention. There was no trace of ballot paper yesterday for possible use today. The long wait for unity list The chairman of the Convention Publicity Committee, Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule, told reporters yesterday that the Unity List was not immediately ready yesterday owing to delay in ironing out some cogent issues at the local level-states and geo-political zones. While some of the zones had their list ready yesterday, others were still consulting. He briefed reporters at the party secretariat around 12 noon yesterday. No manifesto by the anointed When party members from many states were asked whether the anointed candidate for chairman ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu had unfolded his plans for the party, all the people interviewed said they were not aware of his manifesto. Eagle Square ready for convention Although it could not be said that the party was totally ready as at 6pm yesterday, the Eagle Square venue of the convention was ready. It wore a new look with colourful banners flying in self-jubilation. A war of posters also ensued. Posters of those contesting for party offices competed for spaces as did those of presidential aspirants. A big billboard at the site bore the inscription ‘Fayemi for Nigeria.’ The posters of Tanko Al-Makura also hung on poles in the vicinity.   ‘How I feigned madness to abduct children’     Controversy trails death of 200-level varsity student in…     APC convention: Battle rages over unity list as aspirants…   Uncertainty over number of delegates No committee or sub-committee member was available to authoritatively speak about the number of delegates being expected at the convention. A source said: “The party is pushing for voting by affirmation. Since there is no anticipation toward an elective convention, there is not going to be much accreditation hurdle.” Day of clandestine meetings A lot of clandestine meetings took place yesterday at various locations. The president had met with the eight chairmanship aspirants on Thursday. It was inconclusive. An aide of the president said the meeting was expected to resume yesterday. “The discussion continues until all issues are settled,” he said. For five hours, APC governors were also locked in discussions yesterday. An aide of a governor said: “It is still tough o. There is confusion. The governors are still meeting.  I think they will finally come to an agreement.” Legacy leaders in crucial meeting Besides, APC founding fathers, some of who seemed to have been sidelined, met to see how they could broker truce between aggrieved governors who are divided over the micro-zoning of the chairmanship slot on the one hand and the governors and the president over his preference for a particular aspirant. Bumper time for hotels Major hotels in the metropolis and suburb of the federal capital were fully booked by last night, leaving many delegates stranded. National Secretary: Not yet concluded Party sources said the president had been contacting key stakeholders in the Southwest to replace Iyiola Omisore with Ife Oyedele. Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi and his Ondo State counterpart Rotimi Akeredolu are insisting on the former Osun State deputy governor as national scribe. This means that Omisore may not return to the Senate in 2023. Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola is said to be rooting for Oyedele. Already, Isaac Kekemeke from Ondo State has been tipped for National Vice Chairman (Southwest). Two key party positions cannot be zoned to a single state.   Sympathy for disadvantaged states The president and the National Caretaker Committee are insisting that states that have not produced national party officers before should be considered for offices that are zoned to their regions. In other words, micro-zoning should take cognisance of complaints about exclusion and past cases of injustice.