Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) has said escalation of the unfolding conflict in Ukraine will affect food and nutrition security in West Africa. The organisation, which noted there was a high level of hunger and malnutrition in West Africa, said less than 10 years from the deadline of 2030 agenda for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the region was far from eradicating hunger and malnutrition. FAO’s Assistant Director-General Mr. Abebe Haile Gabriel spoke on the need to join efforts for extraordinary thinking, ways of doing business and effectiveness to fast track delivery of SDGs. Noting that the region made impressive gains, he said it still has a long way to go to achieve the SDGs on eradicating poverty and ending hunger and Africa’s priorities spelled out in Agenda 2063. He said the challenge of youth employment and women’s empowerment had been heightened because Africa as Africa was not taking sufficient advantage of the demographic dividend. “West Africa and the Sahel is a region with ever-looming challenges but also opportunities; the sub region has varied bioclimatic zones, economies are also diverse across many dimensions of development, and it is the region with some of the continent’s least developed countries. Young people and women continue to have difficulty accessing productive resources,” he added. Ukraine faces a grain revenue loss of $6 billion as the blockade of its ports by Russian forces prevents it from selling wheat and corn earmarked for export by June, a senior industry official said. Countries that rely on Ukraine for wheat; Egypt, Turkey and Yemen, will need to find alternative supplies, aid agencies have warned. Ukraine, a major producer of grain and oilseeds, exports 98 per cent of cereals through its ports and only a fraction by rail, where costs are higher. It was the world’s fourth largest grain exporter in 2020/21 while Russia ranked third, International Grains Council data shows. The two countries combined accounted for 22 percent of global exports. But with Russian warships off Ukraine’s southern coast preventing cargo ships from leaving the ports, including the major hub of Odesa on the Black Sea, grain exports have all but ground to a halt since the start of the war in February 24. Ukrainian maritime officials said fighting had left around 100 foreign-flagged vessels stranded in the country’s ports. “We are sitting on a potential loss of $6 billion,” Mykola Gorbachev, chairman of the Ukrainian Grain Association, told Reuters. He said the country had around 20 million tonnes of wheat and corn still to export from the 2021/22 season, which ends in June, at an average price of around $300 per tonne. He said there was no way Ukraine could transport that kind of volume by train, as the railway had a throughput capacity of some 600,000 tonnes per month, a tenth of what ports handled before the war. Ukraine exported around $27 billion in agricultural products in 2021, making up about half of its total export income.   Lagos records 276 building collapse     Plateau unveils energy efficiency code to curb erratic power     Brent crude prices rise to $114 p/b as EU mulls Russian oil…   “Now we are just losing this sector,” Gorbachev said. The World Food Programme said on Friday that food supply chains in Ukraine were collapsing, with key infrastructure such as bridges and trains destroyed by bombs and many grocery stores and warehouses empty. Russia, which has been hit by Western sanctions and has imposed export curbs, had been the world’s top wheat exporter in 2020/21 but may lose that mantle to the European Union in the current 2021/22 season, according to IGC forecasts. The Ukrainian crisis will add further fuel to already rampant food inflation following global supply chain problems attributed to the COVID-19 pandemic. The United Nations food agency reported this month that world food prices hit a record high in February, posting a 20.7 percent year-on-year rise. read more While Ukrainians who are not trapped in besieged cities like Mariupol or Kharkiv in the east are not at an immediate risk of food shortages, the war could disrupt agriculture for a long time. Gorbachev said Ukrainian farmers may also be thinking twice before sowing new crops out of fear for their safety but also because their grains could go unsold if the war continues. Ukrainian farmers – who produced a record grain crop last year – say they are short of fertilizer for the dormant winter wheat planted last autumn, and they also lack sufficient fuel to power their equipment. read more Meanwhile the new crops of corn and barley must be planted over the next month or it will be too late, Gorbachev said. At the weekend, presidential adviser Oleh Ustenko said Ukraine may not produce enough crops to export if the invasion disrupts this year’s sowing campaigns. “Ukraine has enough grain and food reserves to survive for a year, but if the war continues … (it) will not be able to export grain to the world, and there will be problems,” he said. The country has started sowing spring grain in some areas but no mass sowing campaign has yet started, deputy agriculture minister Taras Vysotskiy told Reuters last week. Also, Sub-Regional Coordinator, FAO West Africa, Robert Guei, expressed concern over rising obesity and other non-communicable diseases. He attributed the challenges to insufficient diversification of healthy diets and consumption patterns. According to Guei, after stagnating for five years in West Africa, the prevalence of undernourishment increased from 10.8 per cent in 2016 to about 21.8 percent in 2020, which means that 85 million West Africans experienced hunger in 2020. He added that the number of children aged zero to five suffering from stunting is 19.5 million and those suffering from wasting are 4.5 million. “Many of today’s agri-food practices are also taking a heavy toll on our region. Our agri-food systems are not functioning as they should. “Increasingly, food supply chains and the livelihoods of agrifood system actors are disrupted by shocks  from droughts and floods to armed conflict and food price spikes as well as by long-term stressful situations, in particular climate change and environmental degradation. “The vulnerability of agri-food systems was evident in 2020 when measures taken to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) disrupted national and global supply chains and caused an economic downturn. in numerous countries,” he added.