The African Ministers’ Council on Water (AMCOW) will celebrate its 20th Anniversary during the 9th World Water Forum in Senegal’s new city, Diamniadio. The Council will use the occasion to launch activities to formulate the post-2025 Africa Water Vision towards a prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development. This is the second time in the 25-year history of the World Water Forum that the event is being held in Africa. As part of the Forum programme, the Republic of Senegal will also be convening a session of the Heads of State and Government to discuss water and sanitation issues. Obinna Anah, AMCOW Knowledge Management and Information Sharing Officer explained in a statement that commemorating 20 years of AMCOW leverages ongoing processes to refocus AMCOW’s ambition in the face of current global trends, including the COVID-19 pandemic. “The events will include dialogue and discussion sessions that collectively contribute to strengthening and ensuring the sustainability of AMCOW. “The commemorations will also launch activities to formulate the post-2025 Africa Water Vision towards a prosperous Africa based on inclusive growth and sustainable development,” Anah said. During a special luncheon some founding leaders of the Council including former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo would be honoured. Obasanjo would be recognized for his foresight and benevolence to establish the AMCOW Secretariat in Abuja. Others are President Macky Sall of Senegal, a former AMCOW Vice President who is at the forefront of initiatives to promote water and sanitation issues at continental and global levels.   Guterres condemns arrest of UN personnel in Central African…     Kenya announces passing of envoy to Nigeria     Liberia Telecoms firm, LoneStar Cell MTN, sues rival over…   Key among these initiatives is the establishment of a Blue Fund to expand sources of capital for sustainable, climate-resilient WASH infrastructure investment; and Mukthar Shehu Shagari who served as the first President of the AMCOW Council of Ministers. The water community will also celebrate working in partnerships with AMCOW’s various funding, implementation and technical partners. Highlights of this will include announcements of implementation and funding arrangements for facilitating alignment of member states’ sanitation and hygiene policy environments with global and continental commitments and international best practice; and translating into action the AMCOW Secretariat Work Programme for the period 2022 – 2024. In a recent consultation, Abdoulaye Sene, the Executive Secretary of the 9th World Water Forum Secretariat in Senegal, underscored the significance of AMCOW’s activities during the Forum. He said, “AMCOW is unique. It is the only platform on water established by a continent. We need to celebrate this uniqueness and encourage other continents to emulate such initiative.” In 2002, the African Ministers responsible for water – after critically examining the global water situation and its implication for Africa – adopted the “Abuja Ministerial Declaration on Water – a key to Sustainable Development in Africa”. This declaration established the African Ministers’ Council on Water (AMCOW). The World Water Forum, also called the Forum, is organised by the World Water Council in collaboration with a host country every three years. It is the largest water event globally that mobilises governments, water sector leaders and professionals, development agencies, civil societies, students, youth, the academic and research community and the media for joint action for change in the sector.