Nigeria’s annual loss of $14 billion to incessant farmer-herder clashes is mitigating government’s efforts towards attaining food security, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said. Speaking yesterday at the opening of the Livestock and Aquaculture Trade Fair in Lagos, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, described as unfortunate that Nigeria loses a humongous $14 billion yearly to the frequent clashes between farmers and herders. The fair was organised by Linkers Continental Resources Ltd in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture. The vice president noted that with Nigeria’s population expected to rise to 250 million people by 2030, it is disheartening that the country loses such huge income and opportunity to further bridge its food security. Osinbajo, who was represented by Efosa Onyezebe, the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP) Delivery Advisor at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development, explained that to overcome the challenge, the Federal Government initiated the NLTP to support and strengthen the development of market-driven ranches in the livestock ecosystem. He said the plan would lead to improved livestock productivity through breed improvement and pasture production as well as efficient land and water productivity. The vice president outlined that 22 states have so far sent letters of expression of interest; 10 has set up the state Livestock Transformation Office; while four states have identified and mapped the gazetted grazing reserves in their domain and are ready for take-off. He noted that some states have received funding for the development of the pilot ranches. According to him, the NLTP is projected to create about two million jobs if implemented successfully across the country while the plan will also lead to peaceful co-existence, economic development and food security for the entire population. He said: “Nigeria is a land with large opportunity, the agriculture sector has huge opportunity and the livestock sector predominantly also has enormous opportunity because demands for meat and dairy products continually grows. “Therefore, there is need for the livestock sector to radically transform to respond to the increasing demands for meat and dairy products.” He outlined that under the Green Imperative Programme (GIP), a Euro 995 million 10-year bilateral development programme between Nigeria and Brazil, government seeks to create of a network of service  centers for delivering an agricultural total transfer technology package to help mechanize Nigerian agriculture.   2023: PDP groups clash over zoning     Tinubu: I can’t celebrate when people are mourning victims…     8 dead, 41 injured, many still missing in train attack   According to him, there will be 632 primary production service centers and 142 value addition and processing service centers across all the local governments in the country. He noted that the overall project goal is to generate significant increases in agricultural production and productivity on existing hectare of land while the secondary goal is offering healthier food, reducing the price of the basic food basket, and boosting exports. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Mahmood Abubakar, also called for the development of the nation’s fishing industry. Abubakar, who was represented by Mrs. Omolara Oguntuyi, Zonal Director, South-West, Federal Ministry of Agriculture, noted that the nation has no business importing fishing going by the nation’s abundant marine resources. “If you look at Nigeria’s capacity for producing fish for example, it is enormous, andr truly we don’t have any business importing fish. “Fish do not grow on sand but in water and the country is blessed with abundant amount of water. We have lakes; creeks, rivers and Atlantic Ocean all fill with different kinds of fishes. “We also have diversity of fishes in our waters. So, what we should be doing is to take advantage of these natural resources which has been ignored for a very long time. “A typical example is the abundant stock of shrimps in our water, drift fish and large lantern fish population that we can use to make our fish feed which is important to aquaculture production. “We have to develop our fishing industry; we cannot be dependent on importation. God did not make a mistake when he gave us the Atlantic Ocean and those lakes we have, it is only a prodigal child that will have resources and will not use it and instead be looking at what others have. “What we can do now is to promote what we have within our own country and a lot can be achieved in the livestock and aquaculture production. “We have cattle, sheep, goats, pigs, poultry, rabbit, snail, tilapia and catfish among others that we can promote. A lot of farm estate can be promoted; cage culture can be constructed within some of our rivers so that we can produce a lot of our own animals and fish needs.”     “The only thing that is unacceptable is for Nigeria to be totally dependent on other countries for animal protein source when we have land and water we are not making use of. The time is ripe for us to revolutionise agriculture in Nigeria especially in the livestock and aquaculture development and the youths should be the bedrock of our drive to transform this sector in agriculture.” Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms. Abisola Olusanya called for collaborations among stakeholders to make food production more sustainable and resilient in the face of global food shortages.