It is not for nothing that the court verdict that sacked Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi state and his deputy, Kelechi Igwe generated intense public interest. This should be expected in view of the sensitive nature of the issue in dispute. Justice Inyang Ekwo of a federal high court, Abuja had declared illegal, the defection of Umahi and Igwe from the Peoples Democratic Party PDP to the All Progressives Congress APC in a suit brought before him by the PDP. The court ruled that the offices of the governor and deputy governor of Ebonyi State belonged to the PDP and that the option for Umahi and his deputy is to vacate office and wait for the next election to contest under the platform of the new party. The court restricted Umahi and Igwe from parading themselves as governor and deputy governor of Ebonyi State on the ground that by Section 221 of the constitution and the democratic system of government operated in Nigeria, votes are won by the political parties and not their candidates. By the same token, the votes won at an election by a political party cannot be transferred to or utilized for the benefit of another political party or member of another political party. In another judgment, Justice Ekwo also sacked 16 members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly who defected from the PDP to the APC on the same grounds the governor and his deputy got removed. Surprisingly, Umahi reacted angrily to the court verdict bandying damaging allegations against Justice Ekwo and Nigerian judiciary. In an outburst, he described the judgment as “jungle justice” and Justice Ekwo as “a hatchet man” who was on a mission to embarrass the APC and the federal government. “I feel sorry for the Nigerian judiciary” he said at a press conference. He did not just pass a vote of no confidence on the judiciary but arrogated to himself the powers of the appellate courts when he called on the people of Ebonyi State to “disregard the judgment because it’s null and void”. But he appeared to have contradicted all these claims when he vowed to appeal the judgment. Why appeal a judgment you claimed to be null and void? One would have expected the occupant of such elated office to have called for calm while arrangements were being made to appeal the ruling. But he would never have any of such as he spoke in a manner that cast serious slur on his leadership credentials. Is this brash reaction the temperament of a man aspiring to lead this beleaguered country? He was to approach the appeal court the following day apparently to prevent the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC from issuing Certificate of Return to the candidates hurriedly forwarded by the PDP to replace him and his deputy in line with court directive. His tirade against the judge and the judiciary was so much so that the Nigerian Bar Association NBA had to challenge his claims, demanding apology.  He has since apologized.   Tradition triumphs     Nigerian leaders and the led     Shame of an oil producing nation   But that is beside the point. The issue involved is very fundamental and at the heart of the survival of the democratic contraption this country is operating. It is a contention on the propriety or otherwise of governors and their deputies as well as legislators elected on the platform of a political party defecting to other political parties in manners that offend public conscience. We are dealing with the dearth of principles and ideology among elected political office holders that propel them to jump ship at will. It is a concern for the survival of multi-party democracy driven by the conviction that something must be done to check mindless defections in our political process. It is nothing personal nor is the Ebonyi case different from events in some other states. But Ebonyi has become a test case and many are happy that serial defectors are being made to account for their scant regard for principles. Umahi argued that the constitution provides three ways to remove a governor: death, resignation and impeachment. That is correct. But the judge also raised issues on the conflict in transferring the votes of a political party to another or using such votes for the benefit of another political party or individual. The contention that the constitution is put in jeopardy where the collective will of the electorate is brazenly merchandized by elected officials without consequences is unassailable. That is the substance of the matter which the superior courts will have to determine. Whichever way it goes, jurisprudence will be better for it. But the overall objective should be to find effective therapeutic responses to the incalculable harm wrought on the democratic enterprise by politicians who take refuge in loopholes to compromise the mandate given them by the electorate for self-serving ends. If Umahi is challenging the verdict on the basis that it is outside the constitutional grounds on which a governor can be removed from office, the same cannot be said of the 16 members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly also sacked on the same ground. Section 68(1) (g) and Section 109(1) (g) of the constitution provides conditions in which federal and state legislators can defect without losing their seats- division in the political party of which they were previously members, merger of two or more political parties or faction by one of which they were previously sponsored. For the lawmakers, no such situations existed in their party prior to their defection. Neither did they adduce such reasons. The ruling is a landmark judgment. It is perhaps, the first time such defections have been seriously challenged. It may well signal the end of the madness called defections that compromise multi-party democracy and assail the collective will of the electorate as expressed at the ballot box. Concerns on the dangers of defections on these shores are not new. There is a bill awaiting second reading at the House of Representatives which seeks amendments to the constitution to have a defecting president, vice president, governor and deputy governor expressly vacate their offices in the absence of the conditions stipulated in sections 68 and 109 of the constitution. Nigeria urgently needs such laws to save our democracy. Before now, scholars have argued that the African culture abhors opposition. That appears the emerging tendency in the spate of defections. The danger of a one party state is real unless those who defect are compelled by law to vacate their offices.