Arsenal have joined the fray of top clubs that are trying to prise Super Eagles attacker, Victor Osimhen away from Napoli. According to La Gazzetta dello Sport reports that Newcastle United have concluded plans to make a new bid to sign Osimhen in the summer, but Arsenal, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester United are also interested. The Nigeria international has scored 15 goals in 25 appearances this season, 11 in 20 Serie A games alone.  He was out of action for nearly two months following a cheekbone injury at the end of November, continuing to score consistently after his return to action in mid-January. His performances have attracted interest from many clubs around Europe, especially from the Premier League.   Boris Becker faces trial in London     Debut goal for Copenhagen delights Amoo     Belgrade 2022: : Sports Minister lauds Brume’s silver…   La Gazzetta dello Sport reports that Newcastle United made an official bid in the January transfer window and will make a new attempt at the end of the season. Arsenal are also keeping tabs on the 23-year-old after failing to secure the services of Dusan Vlahovic in January. Tottenham and Manchester United are also monitoring the former Lille star who joined Napoli in 2020. Spurs could see Harry Kane leave in the summer, while Cristiano Ronaldo and Edinson Cavani’s future at Old Trafford is uncertain. Napoli are in no rush to sell their star, given that his €4m-a-year deal at the Stadio Maradona runs out in 2025. Nevertheless, President Aurelio De Laurentiis would consider offers in the region of €100m. Meanwhile, Napoli head coach Luciano Spalletti has lamented the unavailability of Osimhen for the away trip to Atalanta in Bergamo on April 3rd after the Nigerian picked his fifth booking of the season against Udinese. “Probably if we had always had him we could have enjoyed more alternatives considering that we played with 18 men every 3 days. He always puts his head, his foot and also a huge will into it. We have missed him in the past and we will also miss him in the next race in Bergamo,” Spalletti told the club’s official website. Osimhen have been booked on five different occasions this season against Cagliari, Verona, Inter Milan, AC Milan and Udinese and he is due to miss Napoli’s next game against Atalanta after the international break.