A professor of Alternative Medicine and Consultant to Agewell Healthcare Limited, Prof. Sunday Baderinwa Adewale, has urged Nigerians to prioritise personal health, saying doing so will have positive impacts on the national productivity. The health expert made this clarion call during a media parley with reporters at The Agewell Experience Programme in Lagos. Adewale, who described Nigeria as blessed with great potential to lead the rest of the continent in the sector, said the country leads the continent with the highest yearly Gross Domestic Products (GDP) of about $432.3 billion – making it the strongest economy in Africa. To sustain this position, he said the populace must pay personal attention to their individual health. “When you are not sound in health, everything about you will be affected; from your looks to your work output. If care is not taken, your entire body system could shut down and this could affect the entire productivity of the country,” he advised.   Tackling cervical cancer through 10,000 women initiative     LASUTH launches ‘Project Eagle’ to improve…     One in every five Nigerians mentally ill, says psychiatrist   He, therefore, counselled that no matter one’s profession, the level of one’s contribution to the national GDP depends on the state of the individual’s health condition. The expert added that there is need to live a healthy life, stressing that when one learns to live healthy, it will not only boost the individual’s productivity but also helps in aging well. The aging well process, according to Adewale, is very crucial in every person. To contribute to boosting the nation’s healthcare, he said  Agewell Healthcare recently introduced to the market Agewell Virgin Coconut Oil Capsules, a certified multifaceted natural organic health supplement that offers health benefits. Mr. Moses Awobode, an IT guru who was at the forum,  said  Nigeria with over 200 million people should not toy with the health of its citizenry. He said the product has multi-health benefits such as making one’s skin smooth and hair lustrous. Other benefits, he said, are strong immune system to fortify the body against any infection as well as the control of the blood sugar level to check diabetes. Also, Mr. Robie Jay Ukah, a media and advertising consultant, said the product provides sustainable energy, with a capability to restore lost memory, prevent and treat arthritis, urinary tract infection, fibroid, breast and ovarian cancer in women. He added that it equally aids fertility and boosts the academic performance in children.