A former police commissioner and senator representing Plateau Central senatorial district, Hezekiah Ayuba Dimka, has indicated interest to contest next year’s Plateau State governorship election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Dimka, who is the chairman of the Senate Committee on Drugs and Narcotics, made his intention known at the APC secretariat, Kabwir Pada Ward, in Kanke Local Government Area. Our correspondent learned that the Pada Kabwir Ward was the same ward that produced the first senator, Malakayas Bawa and the first House of Representatives member, Baba David Dimka respectively. Dimka said he was given the mandate to represent Plateau Central at the National Assembly based on his antecedents. He said: “The experience is, in many respects, a school for me. I am convinced beyond any doubt that I am prepared to take higher tasks in the next general election. “I am aware that my motivation to take on a higher challenge is borne out of many years of service to my fatherland in different capacities. Those years of service in government and in politics have prepared me well enough to take on new challenges.”   ‘Why I want to represent Ondo South in Senate’     Sagay faults Senate’s refusal to amend Electoral Act     ‘Legislation alone cannot address electoral…   The senator said he is ready to build on the foundation that has been laid by successive administrations in the state if given the mandate to serve. He said his 35 years of experience as a former police commissioner has prepared him for service to the people. Read Also: ‘Legislation alone cannot address electoral challenges’ He said: “I make bold to state my motivation and commitment to cause a different intervention in securing our communities and return peace to our people. We need each other to live; we must endeavour to dialogue and build trust between and amongst the people of the state.” In their reactions, the district head of Kabwir, Nde Dominic Gofwen; the chairman of Kanke Local Government, Henry Gotip; Kanke APC chairman, William Gombwer; as well as the APC chairman, Pada Kabwir Ward, Sunday Nenman assured Dimka that they will support him. The Nation reports that Senator Hezekiah Dimka has now joined over 20 governorship aspirants jostling for the ticket of the party in the forthcoming primary. Other aspirants eyeing the APC ticket are Dr. Patrick Sunday Dakum (Pankshin South Local Government); Dr. Danyaro Dakon Sarpiya (Mangu); Prof Dakas C.J Dakas (Pankshin); Nde David Victor Dimka (Kanke); John Sunday Sura (Mangu); Prof Sonni Gwanle Tyoden (Mangu); Chief Garba Pwul (Mangu); Pukat Shehu Barde (Mangu); Dr Nentawe Yilwatda Kanke); Dr Sipak Shase’et (Pankshin); and Chief Amos Gizo (Kanam). Others are Sunday Biggs (Mangu); Dr. Danlami Lengkwop (Kanke); Dr Fitka Steve Bilshakka (Pankshin); and Kizito Dakar Gukas (Mangu).