If only Oluwabamise Toyosi Ayanwole had listened to her intuition, perhaps she would be alive today. Only that she might not have had any story to tell because her death would have been averted and we would have lost the golden opportunity of taking a closer look at the operations of the Lagos Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) buses. We would have continued to see the buses as the  haven that the Lagos State government intended them to be. Indeed, Bamise’s unfortunate incident vividly brings into bold relief what I have always felt whenever people are declared missing. How can human beings just disappear? Are they needles? Something must have happened to them. Imagine what the scenario would have been like if Bamise had not been intelligent enough to record her experiences in the chats she had with her friend and colleague at work when she sensed danger? She would have joined the long list of missing persons, with her relatives and loved ones left with the agony of looking for her, perhaps patronising all manner of spiritualists, some of whom would have continued to swindle them by raising false hope that she would still be found alive. The lesson here is that people should not just go in and out like fowl, without letting those who should know have an idea of where they are going at any point in time. Bamise, a 22-year-old fashion designer got missing in transit on February 26, after boarding a BRT bus number 240257 going to Oshodi from Ćhevron Bus Stop in the Ajah area of Lagos, at about 7.00 pm. She sensed danger immediately after boarding the bus as she was the only passenger until the driver, Andrew Nice Ominikoron, picked three more male passengers at another bus stop (Agungi). We don’t know yet the connection between the driver and the three passengers, whether they were accomplices-in-crime or innocent passengers. Meanwhile, Bamise had reportedly been engaging her colleague at work, one Felicia Omolara, using voice notes on her phone. She had given details of how dark it was in the bus, the bus number, as well as the alleged advances by the driver, etc. to her friend. She ended it with “Please pray for me.” But the prayer came too late as that was about the last that was heard from her. It was her corpse that was discovered on Monday, last week, at the Ogogoro community on Carter Bridge, Lagos Island, where it was dumped. Her elder sibling, Titilayo, alleged that certain vital organs were missing, suggesting that she might have been killed for ritual purposes. This however contradicted the claim by the police who said her body was intact. But why this discrepancy in murder cases in the country these days? It was the same experience with the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Masters in Business Administration (MBA) student, Timothy Adegoke, who was allegedly murdered at Hilton Hotel and Resorts, Ile-Ife, Osun State, late last year. Moreover, is it true, as Bamise’s elder brother, James Joel, alleged, that her body was found the same day she boarded the bus? What role did the Lagos Bus Service Ltd, managers of the buses, play in the saga? The BRT driver would seem to have made several contradictory statements, thus fuelling suspicion that he knew something about the dastardly act. First, he was reported to have said that the three men he picked at Agungi were gunmen and that he was therefore under their instructions for fear of being killed if he did not obey them adding that it was the gunmen that eventually ordered him to stop at Carter Bridge where Bamise’s body was found. He said he knew them not from Adam. He was later said to have admitted that he raped Bamise and that the lady jumped out of the moving bus as a result, and that he too could not report the incident in the office as a result of the inappropriate relationship he forced on her. But why would anyone want to kill aninnocent lady in such circumstance? Was she killed by Ominikoron to cover the rape? Was the rape only a bonus to the original idea of using her for money or other ritual purposes? Only those who perpetrated the evil can answer these questions. The security agents would appear to have their job cut out for them. But it may also interest the state government and the security agencies to look beyond these rape and ritual theories. Is it a bad idea to look in the direction of some unscrupulous transport operators in the state who might see the BRT as a threat to their existence? Only those who do not want to be honest with themselves would say BRT is not a potent threat to the existence of some of these transporters who have vehicles, some of which are as old as Methuselah. That may not be a problem if the vehicles are regularly maintained. But in most cases, they are not. That is why they work in fits and starts. No rational human being would see the BRT with all its comfort – air conditioner, charging points for phones, etc. and opt for the rickety contraptions called commercial vehicles that would have been marked “Off road” in the era when things were still working in the country. Lest we forget, one other reason why people prefer the BRT buses is the relative security that boarding them guarantees. It is possible that some people would want to discredit that advantage and one sure way of doing this is to create artificial crisis like this to buttress their point. Perhaps the major reason why the BRT is becoming popular among Lagosians is its monopoly of its routes popularly called the BRT corridor. This makes it possible for the buses to bypass the usual Lagos traffic, thus saving the passengers a lot of time they would have spent in traffic, with the attendant hardship.   The new normal     Future Boko Haram     JAMB’s last train   We have to look in the direction of disgruntled transporters in the state because we saw evidence of the hatred that some undesirable elements harbour against the buses during the #EndSARS riots in 2020 when about 80 of the buses were burnt at Oyingbo and some other areas where the vehicles were parked. I do not think the genuine #EndSARS protesters would have set those vehicles ablaze because they knew they would be shooting themselves in the foot by so doing. I am not sure the state government was able to apprehend anyone in connection with the premeditated arson. As a tax-payer, this is painful to me. I hope, however, that whatever circumstances that made apprehending at least some of the suspects involved in the burning of the buses difficult have been adequately addressed. We need CCTV all over Lagos. The government must be able to put faces to crimes. Even if the criminals run underground, it can smoke them out of their hideouts. The state government may have tried to ensure the safety and security of passengers in the BRT buses but the lesson that this incident has taught us is that these safety and security measures are no longer adequate. The fact is; criminals are never resting. They are always improving on their modus operandi. The good thing though, is that criminals, no matter how clever they might be, always make one costly mistake or the other that eventually gives themout when their time is up. As they say, every day for the thief, one day for the owner. We must however commend our security agencies, particularly the Department of State Services (DSS) in this case for smoking out Nice in Ogun State despite his antics to evade arrest. I want to believe that if a thorough investigation is done, it is not unlikely that he would live up to his name by being nice to tell beyond what he has told us so far, particularly if he had been involved in similar criminal acts in the past. We must be able to establish his motive. I do not want to believe that he would just have parked the vehicle in anticipation that a female would be the first passenger to enter the bus and he would thereafter zoom off once that female passenger came in. Were there other motives for abducting the poor lady? Was the driver aware of the communication between Bamise and her friend? Indeed, could that have been the reason for killing her to cover his/their tracks? We must do everything to get to the root of this matter. And, no theory should be dismissed, including the conspiracy theory of the possibility of some transporters  trying to discredit the BRT. Those of them that are ready to embrace modernity could be assisted by the government to modernise their operations. This includes enlightenment on the need to change their culture that it takes being a law breaker to successfully operate commercial vehicles in the state. The ruffian mentality must give way to seeing their job as an essential and dignifying one. The state government must also take a keener interest in its commercial vehicle operations, especially as smaller buses similar to the present private commercial ones would soon join the fleet of vehicles on the roads in the state. If Lagosians feel insecure in large buses like the BRT, we can only imagine their apprehension when those smaller buses join the fleet. Indeed, the police and other security agencies in the state must understand that they have more jobs to do to make commuting in the state pleasant and memorable. The government cannot invest heavily in buses only for the beneficiaries to be reciting Psalm 91, Quaranic verses or chanting incantations on safety and security before boarding them. It is unfortunate that Bamise died the way she did, with her death linked to a BRT. Again, such incidents should be a wake-up call on the government and the operators of the BRT for periodic review of their operations. The recruiting process has to be more thorough, with potential drivers , checkers and conductors properly profiled. Who are they? What are their antecedents? This should not be a man-know-man affair. Even commuters need to be constantly reminded of the modus operandi of the BRT. For instance, it is doubtful if many BRT passengers know or often remember that once the lights in the buses are put off, or the radar is not displaying, that means the bus has closed for the day. Moreover, it is now imperative that every BRT bus must have CCTV camera with a central control such that drivers, checkers and conductors cannot tamper with them. While we all await the autopsy report on Bamise with bated breath, all those involved in this matter must understand the need for transparency, especially with concerns that matters like this are usually swept under the carpet. We cannot bring Oluwabamise back to life. The least we owe her is to ensure those who killed her get their due comeuppance too.