Lagos State Commissioner of Police Abiodun Alabi has warned operatives to desist from uncivilised behaviours, brutality and extortion of residents. He also told them the days of accidental discharge were over. He gave the warning at the Area G Command, Ogba, during his maiden tour of Area Commands in the state. Alabi warned the operatives to stay committed to their jobs and avoid seeking bribes or forcing people to part with their resources. He also kicked against criminalising civil matters by operatives, warning them to desist from involving in such cases. “If a civil matter is brought before you, advice parties to sort it out in court. Once there is no ingredient of crime, tell parties so. Do not input offence where there is none.   OAU student: Guru Maharaj disowns Adedoyin     Two pastors paraded over woman’s death     Police rescue alleged kidnappers from jungle justice in Oyo   “Under my watch, acts of brutality, torture or use of maximum force would not be tolerated. I want you to do your job with human face. “If anyone is arrested for any crime, deal with it expediently. Do not keep suspects in bailable cases. Over-detention is unprofessional and unlawful. Relate with members of the public as friends. Cooperate with Magistrates who come to your division to check your cells. They are not enemies,” he said. Alabi warned against accidental discharge and extortion of residents, stressing that such acts would not be tolerated. “I don’t want to hear of accidental discharge. There is no excuse for misusing your firearms. Guide your arms jealously because if you misuse it, you will face the consequences of using your arms when you are not supposed to use it. “Finally, I want to still reemphasise that the police have banned the issuance of tinted glass permit and it is the instruction of the Inspector-General of Police that policemen should stop requesting for tinted glass permit from motorists. If you are caught requesting for tinted glass permit from motorists, you will be dealt with,” Alabi warned while addressing operatives at Area H Command, Ogudu.