AMEH: I am Mrs. Grace. On November 23, 2020, I received some fund, which I believe, was the RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. However, we are awaiting the payment of the death/life assurance benefits of Mrs Ameh who died in February 2015 after 10 years in service. PENCOM: You are advised to contact Mrs. Ameh’s employer who should process the proceeds of the Group Life Insurance Policy and ensure payment by the insurance company to her beneficiaries since she died in active service. Thank you. SEGUN: The president okayed the payment of outstanding accrued pension, death benefit with 2.5 per cent and increase of monthly pension contribution for foreign employees. I want to know my eligibility. I am 50 years. PENCOM: You are required to provide details of your employer to ascertain your eligibility. ANNONYMOUS: When I turned 50 years, I received a congratulatory message from my PFA, Fidelity Pension Manager, Ilorin. But my lumpsum has not been remitted to my RSA. PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. ANNONYMOUS: When will retirees of last year be paid their lumpsum? PENCOM: Please provide your RSA PIN. SHELLE: Greetings to you, and your family. I am Shelle, a retiree of the Nigeria Railway Corporation, Zaria (NRC) at 35 years. My complaint is the non-payment of my 2.5 per cent arrears with Premium Pension since June, last year, though I am with Leadway Assurance Anuity Pension. I will be grateful if Premium pays me the arrears. Looking forward to hearing from you. PENCOM: Investigations have shown that the 2.5 per cent arrears were remitted into your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) in August, last year prior to your purchase of a retiree Life Annuity Plan last November. UWEM: Mr Godwin Uwem was a teacher at Poly Staff School, Ibadan for many years. He was compulsorily retired five years ago without any gratuity. At present, he is languishing in hunger, he has turned a street beggar and his children roam the streets of Ibadan in search of what to eat. Every effort to meet the Provost of Ibadan Polytechnic proved abortive. Please, how can you help to savage the elderly man and his suffering children?   PTAD eliminates 14,686 ghost civil service pensioners     Our stand on 75% lumpsum payout, by PenOp     ‘We’re on right track towards universal healthcare coverage’   PENCOM: Please provide your uncle’s PFA and RSA PIN to enable the commission investigate further. HASSAN: I am Hassan. My RSA shows that there was no remittance by my employer in 2015, 2016, 2017 and part of 2014 and 2018. Please help find out why. PENCOM: Please write to the commission, stating the non-remittance of pension contributions by your employer. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for Annuity. The Federal Government recently said it has released funds to pay the 2.5 per cent it is owing out of its 10 per cent. When and how will this money be paid? I am being owed 24 months. PENCOM: Please be advised that if the amount payable is less than N100,000, it will be paid into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider. GIMBA: My complaint is about the non-release of my pension since October 2020. My name is Gimba from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. PENCOM: You are advised to  forward your details such as your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Pin, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA), full name as well as other valid information to enable us investigate further. Please be advised that retirees of Federal Government Tertiary-Funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies are required to undergo a verification and enrolment prior to retirement. If you are yet to undergo this process, kindly visit http://www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the process and then proceed to your PFA for verification and enrolment. In addition, please be informed that the Commission has paid the benefits of those who retired between January and December 2020. OGUNLEYE: My name is Ogunleye. I retired from Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST). The 2.5 per cent approved by President Muhammadu Buhari has not been paid to me. My question is: what is delaying the payment to the affected retirees ? I understood that PenCom had directed the PFAS to spread it to our monthly pension. I think this decision should be rescinded. PENCOM: Please note that the eligibility for the arrears of the 2.5 per cent employer portion of pension contribution took effect from July 2014. It was paid based on regulations  on how additional retirement benefit income are treated. Kindly visit your PFA as the payment has been made if you retired  from July 2014.