ON Thursday, March 17, 2022, MultiChoice, organisers of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards, announced that the 8th edition will hold on Saturday, May 14, 2022, in Lagos, Nigeria. The organisers also used the opportunity to announce an eight-day series of events to herald the 2022 edition of the movie awards ceremony. Speaking at the event, the Executive Head, Content and West Africa Channels, MultiChoice Nigeria, Dr. Busola Tejumola, stated that the introduction of the eight-day series of events will reinvent and bring exciting changes to the awards which had its first edition in 2013. “We are focused on shining the light on the many aspects that make the African film and television industry truly magical and beaming that magic to millions of Africans who watch the awards every year.   Last Man Standing: Sanwo-Olu, Abiodun, Akande watch Lateef…     Liquorose, Ruger, secure ambassadorial deal     OT Bolts premieres Rising Sun, bags endorsement deal   Read Also: OT Bolts premieres Rising Sun, bags endorsement deal “These curated events will feature a celebration of fashion, technology, food and African culture. There will also be panel discussions and film screenings from our MultiChoice Talent Factory, industry sessions, and competitions for digital content creators and budding fashion designers” she said. The eight-day event, Dr. Tejumola noted, will commence with an Opening Night on Saturday, May 7. This will be followed by a first-ever AMVCA runway show on Sunday, May 8. On Monday, May 9, will be MultiChoice Talent Factory Day with movie screenings and panel discussions by students of the MTF academy. Africa Magic will host industry stakeholders to a special Content Market Day on Tuesday, May 10. This will be followed by a pan-African food festival and cultural day on Wednesday, May 11. A Digital Content Creators’ Day to spotlight the growing popularity of online content creators will hold on Thursday, May 12. While a special gala for nominees will hold on Friday, May 13 before the awards night, which will hold on Saturday, May 14.