If you did not see the letterhead, you might think it came from a political party. A PDP, or APC, or APGA could not have penned the directive more elegantly. It had no mystical air. You did not see the ghost of the holy spirit, or the balm of the word. It was a felicitous tone for the political battlefield. But a general overseer, not a general, was behind the call to battle. The signee was not important. A pastor can sign a PDP letter, or a bishop an APC memo. The wall of partition has for long been torn between the spiritual and temporal in the life of politics. But never before have we seen, in the country, that a church would set up a directorate of politics as the Redeemed Christian Church of God has done. It is even hard for this essayist to accept it. When I first saw it, I chalked it up to internet provocateurs seeking to throw dirt on the altar. But in Nigeria, fiction has become so real that even the magical sort popularised in Latin America is tame in the Nigerian experience. In faraway Colombia, novelist Garcia Marquez must have squeaked in his grave last week at the sound of Bianca’s queenly palms in Awka. The mighty writer’s ghost surely rose to see how a mighty slap made mincemeat of his genre. It was not RCCG alone. For emphasis, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria joined RCCG in the call for such a directorate. My first instinct was the contradiction. If PFN espoused the idea, were they calling for each church to support their candidate, so that we have, say a Winner’s candidate at loggerheads with an RCCG candidate? If you read the RCCG letter, it was a call specifically for a Redeemed candidate. Their hierarchy of politics was from the zone to area to parish. It looks like a political party from national to state, to local government area to ward. The spirit is learning from the letter. The word taking a cue from the world. Or are they implying that if each Pentecostal church has a candidate, they will organise their own version of a primary? Who will vote? Will it be the church with the largest vote, or it will be based on the pastor with the biggest dose of the holy spirit? How will they determine it? If it is the church numbers, maybe it will be a nod to the Catholics. But if the Pentecostals believe they are more authentic than the old church, we shall have even more exquisite mess. So even at that, will they yield to the mega churches? Does the Bible judge by numbers or by faith? Are they going to “cast lots” as in when Matthias emerged to replace Judas? That will be an interesting scenario, and I would want to know the umpire? In the case of Mattias, Bible scholars still quibble whether the expression meant voting in the electoral sense, or simply communing with God for answers, since no opponent was named in the story. Whatever the scenario, I fear the prospects of how historians described a Polish parliament in the medieval age: A “divinely ordained confusion.” It is obvious these guys did not go to the altar to seek from God before jumping into the public arena. Do I oppose Christians going into politics? No. The church as an institution? I say no. Christ said, “My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then will my servants fight that I be not taken by the Jews. Now is my kingdom not of hence.” The mistake of the church is that it has become too rooted in the material obsession and forgotten its heavenly mission. Hence, they are more interested in numbers instead of members, whole money instead of holy mourning, joy in things rather than joy in the spirit. Some have quoted phrases like “occupy till I come,” or “give to Caesar what is Caesars.” What did Jesus occupy on earth? Certainly not political power. He didn’t seek it. He evangelised. He tended the broken hearted, and inspired the poor. Rather our church is more interested in ephemerals: wealth, healing, earthly glory. They are good, but secondary. They preach those things as though primary. What did Jesus give to Caesar, was it power? No. he spoke of “giving” not “taking.” The reference to the age of kings in the Old Testament and the kings in Israel as an excuse is an error. A mistake of context and texts. That was before Jesus came. Israel was a prefigure of the church as a people of God against gentiles. In political power, they tended to fail like David, who stumbled and Solomon after him and many more. The kingdom broke in two and mired in wars. Prophets like Elijah and Elisha chastened them. Theocracy stumbled. The priestly order cautioned them. Not time yet for the kingdom. Even many a prophet erred, like Jonah, Nehemiah, et al. When Christ came, Jews were no longer privileged, and “the gospel of the kingdom will be preached in all the world.” Not the kingdom of this world. Paul said the world belongs to the devil, “the god of this world.” It was because of this that Christ said, “let the wheat and tares dwell together until the day of harvest.” In a politically fragile country like Nigeria with religious suspicion, are they not aware that it is a combustible step? They forget we have Muslims in this country, even in larger numbers. What if they decide on a Muslim candidate? Shall we now turn our politics into a theocratic slugfest, war of faiths? Jesus said, “I send you as lambs among wolves, be ye wise as a serpent but harmless as a dove.” Even in the U.S where the Christian Right pushes its agenda, it didn’t, until Trump, come out this brazenly. They know they can’t do it alone, so they work quietly with Wall Street, capitalists and gun advocates in what Nixon enunciated as the southern strategy: God, guns and Gays. Religious leaders should concentrate to set the values in the society rather than play up sectarian differences. If they succeed, they will have a righteous nation by osmosis, rather than a Maccabean revolution. The church will do well to pursue values and not valorise factions or persons of their faith. The best candidate is not always a Christian, but a Nigerian. Again, they should unleash battles against drug addiction, corruption, moral laxity, kidnapping, cultism. They do less of these. They should chide governors who fail rather than supine co-ops and photo-ops.   Policemen shouldn’t ask for Customs papers, others, says…     35-year-old Daniel joins presidential race     We are reviewing Southeast security, says Buhari   It is all right for individuals to pursue causes. William Wilberforce detonated slavery. Mary Slessor conjoined twins with culture. Not glorifying wealth as though the poor are sinners. Seek ye first the kingdom, not wealth or earthly vanity. The churches ought to be careful. The spirit is more important than things. What the PFN and RCCG are doing reveal what the French writer and playwright, Charles Peguy wrote: “All begins as mystique and ends as politique.” We don’t want religious war. We seek the holy of holies, not hurly-burly.   It was not only a sartorial stamp, but the charisma of his macho presence. He made a political regalia of his Akwete top and trousers, red cap and his glowing dark skin, and you could not miss the voice: The boom of the Anambra orchestra. No leader, perhaps since Tafawa Balewa, will lead with the rare philtre of his vocal gift. No broadcaster, but he will dwarf any electronic larynx evangelising his own programmes. imagine an Ikenna Ndaguba, Ernest Okonkwo or Kevin Ejiofor on the throne. But he has more. Chukwuma Soludo, at last, mounted the throne as governor of Anambra State. He does so with a mighty credential hardly matched by any in any office. The former CBN chief now becomes a chief servant of one of Nigeria’s top entrepreneurial states. He calls his people an itinerant tribe. He is beckoning them home, like the existential philosopher Heidegger who says home is the object of all quests. His speech was a promise but a restraint, an embrace but a caution, a flight but a crawl, a dream inside a pragmatic vision, soars but saunters, at once revolutionary and conservative. Unmistakable is his avowal of an ideology called Pan African market progressivism. It brings the market impulse for popular good. Goods for the good of all. It reflects a man with a mission, and aware of the watch-eye of posterity. He spoke with zest and detail. He wants to transform many things. For commercial brio, to praise and challenge Nnewi and Onitsha duopoly, and stir the people to trust and taxes. For politics, to create a cooperative society by dimming the tides of violence and enlisting the renegade forces of IPOB, criminality and ESN to a band of brothers. Culture will brandish standards and locally made goods in a high-tech context to bring “Anambra to the world and the world to Anambra.” To bring plenty through a frugal style. All under the umbrella of an ideology at once indigenous and universal. It was delivered in a tone at once sober and optimistic, but putting off celebration until the job is done. For optics, no one could forget his reference to Innoson as his official car, and all meals and clothes and shoes within Anambra confines. He has presented the agenda. After the people, Anambra big wigs, led by the inimitable Oby Ezekwesili, anointed him. He has whetted the appetite. His gunpowder is dry. The eagle is looking at the sky. He has fluttered his wings. Now in flight. Lookout.