Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar spoke interestingly on Tuesday on zoning and power shift. It was during a meeting with Board of Trustees (BoT) members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Realising that zoning has come to stay in national politics as a prelude to the 2023 general elections, Atiku tried to rewrite history. Observers believe it was not just an attempt to rewrite history but to falsify it. He said: “Yes, people have not stopped talking about power rotation and zoning, or whatever it is. ”For sure, in the party, we invented and formulated this zoning policy simply because we wanted every part of this country to have a sense of belonging and I personally have paid my dues on the issue of zoning. ”Many of you were members of our government when all PDP governors came in 2003 and said I should run and I said no. ”We had agreed that power should remain in Southwest. Why should I contest? Some of those governors that supported me at the time went to jail. Some of them were kicked out of their offices but we made sure that we kept the zoning policy.   Malami makes further clarifications on DCP Abba Kyari     What Buhari said on my presidential ambition – Tinubu     Viral video: NYSC probes corpers’ erotic dance at camp   ”So, you cannot come and try to imply that PDP has not been following the zoning policy.” It was a clever maneuvers but one that would not miss the attention of history students. When half-truths are garnished with embellishments, it would be good to refresh historical minds with the facts of that era. First, he said all PDP Governors supported him to run in 2003. For sure, some then PDP Governors approached Atiku to contest the 2003 presidential primary. They couldn’t have been all. Former Rivers Governor Peter Odili didn’t back Atiku. So, did many others. But indeed some PDP Governors backed him, including former Delta Governors James Ibori and his Bayelsa counterpart late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. And certainly Atiku didn’t say no. He couldn’t have said so since he nursed the ambition to be President even before emerging Vice President. He indeed wanted to run. He set up structures and spent lavishly to oil his extensive machineries. Such was the magnitude of his ambition and preparations that many PDP leaders feared his ambition might cause the party to explode. Many of them who spoke with him met a defiant man bent on contesting the primary. Yet, it was all against the spirit of zoning. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo had just served his first term. Power was ceded to the South for two-term. But Atiku’s ambition was too big to respect such a gentlemanly agreement. He didn’t give a hoot or budge despite the appeals of many PDP leaders. Obasanjo had to personally take over the begging assignment, leading to the famed insinuation that he prostrated to get Atiku to back off. Few days to the primary, the Turaki of Adamawa was still oiling his structure. His media handlers came up with the clearly ingenious Mandela option. It was an appeal to Obasanjo to serve only for one term like former South African President Nelson Mandela who handed over to his vice Tom Mbeki. Obasanjo’s media men responded there was no Mbeki in Nigeria’s case, perhaps insinuating Atiku was not fit to take over. So to turn around just 19 years after to say he gave a definite no to calls on him to run against the zoning arrangement then amounts to outright falsification of history. His disdain for zoning is playing out again ahead of 2023. He is planning to contest when all stakeholders have agreed power must shift to the south to give everyone a sense of belonging. While at it, it is always good to put history in proper perspectives and not attempt to falsify it.