DANIEL ESSIET writes on efforts to mobilise private sector investment to boost agriculture.  The global food system, including Nigeria’s, would need to produce more to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and meet the Paris Agreement, according to the World Bank and other international agencies. They estimate that the global population would hit nine billion by 2050, increasing the demand for food by 70 per cent and requiring at least $80 billion in yearly investments to meet this demand. In addition, global watchers maintain that an estimated 270 million smallholders across regions require $188 billion yearly to cover their agricultural needs, such as input or investments in mechanisation and $50 billion yearly to cover non-agricultural household-related expenses. However, analysts still consider agriculture as one of the riskiest sectors for banks, which leads to insufficient allocation of capital to finance agricultural business models. Consequently, this has resulted in increasing finance gap considering the additional capital required for the transition to more sustainable practices. Since public funding alone is not enough to achieve SDGs goals by 2030, the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) is calling for a combination of public and private sector funding known as blended finance. The FAO Investment Centre is working with its partners in promoting private sector investment and seeing how blended finance can help small-scale farmers and agribusinesses. To de-risk investments, donors are supporting commercial funders to assist local agricultural SMEs with goals that align with gender inclusion, food security, nutrition, and/or climate resilience goals in driving food production. Under a blended finance vehicle approach, they are investing in agricultural production and businesses along the agricultural supply chain. Generally, blended finance combines public and private sector funds to achieve a specific social or environmental impact. In recent years, public and private investors have launched blended funds and facilities to finance – via debt or equity – private sector projects that deliver sustainable development impacts while also providing a positive return on investment. Project Lead, Impact Investors’ Foundation (IIF),Maria Etemore Glover believes impact investment funds are fast becoming the vehicle of choice for governments and donors looking to invest in agriculture. She sees  development agencies and private sector investors working together to plug a stubborn agrifinance gap by investing in agricultural investment funds. For analysts, blending public funding with private sector resources to de-risk some of these challenges is the best solution to finance sustainable agriculture at scale. For Nigeria agriculture to witness change, analysts believe the sector would require private sector and concessional funding. As part of a plan to help increase investments in rural areas and the private sector overcome the challenges of investing in small-scale agriculture, donors and financial institutions are working to support rural small and medium enterprises (SMEs), which they believe, constitute an untapped business opportunity. Organisations such as IFAD fund private sector entities and invest in funds targeting rural SMEs and small-scale producers’ cooperatives. This enables them to fund many projects increasing poor rural peoples’ productive capacities, improving their benefits from market participation and promoting the use of climate-smart practices. IFAD inaugurated the Agri-Business Capital (ABC) Fund to assist SMEs in developing countries. With a target of EUR200 million, it has announced a $60 million fund to de-risk investments of small loans in agriculture value chains in Africa. The IFAD investment was made possible with the support of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) to mobilise about $240 million in private capital. The ABC Fund is backed by investments from the European Union, the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States (OACPS), the Luxembourg Government, the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA) and IFAD. Launched in 2019, it is managed by Bamboo Capital Partners, in collaboration with Injaro and Agriterra, the fund’s mission is to provide capital and technical assistance to underserved agribusiness segments, while promoting sustainable and climate-resilient practices. The ABC Fund’s primary impact goal is to improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers in local agriculture and agribusiness value chains – particularly women and youths – while supporting the development of sustainable agricultural practices. Since its founding, IFAD has been tasked with investing in rural people and helping them improves food security and nutrition while increasing their incomes. In the past decade, the international financial institution has repeatedly run into the same problem: a lack of financing to build the types of businesses that will help rural communities process their crops and link them to markets. The ABC Fund, which will be managed independently, will provide loans of between $25,000 and $1 million to small businesses to address the “missing middle” of finance between microfinance and commercial loans. While IFAD’s mandate does not allow them to provide funding to the private sector, it is using its experience and other programmes to help identify a pipeline of investments and is funding a facility associated with the fund that will provide technical assistance or support to the small businesses to help them succeed. As part of its broader efforts to address rising hunger and poverty levels in the world’s poorest countries, IFAD established its Private Sector Financing Programme to spearhead an increase in much-needed private investment in small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers’ organisations and financial intermediaries. As part of its launch, the PFSP announced its first loan of US$5 million to a social impact enterprise, Babban Gona, working in Kaduna and other areas of the North. Babban Gona is an agricultural enterprise co-owned by smallholder farmers. Its services include education and training in sustainable farming practices, provision of high quality affordable agricultural inputs, provision of storage facilities, as well as marketing and distribution support. The loan will help Babban Gona support 377,000 small-scale rice and maize producers in the North with a package of training, quality input, and marketing. Babban Gona will also store and sell the harvest for its farmers when prices are higher. They aim to create up to 65,000 jobs for women and 66,500 jobs for youths by 2025. By committing these funds, the PSFP aims to stimulate larger contributions from other investors and help Babban Gona meet its target to raise $150 million to reach millions of small producers.   Repositioning aquaculture     Catching them young in agribusiness     Eunisell restates commitment to water treatment solutions   Also, EDFI AgriFI, the EU-funded Agriculture Financing Initiative, has committed EUR 5 million to Babban Gona. Its investment is expected to bring in an additional EUR 15 million, put towards creating sustainable employment in agriculture for one million individuals by 2025. The Babban Gona innovative business model has offered some 70,000 smallholder farmers to optimise their yields. Through its support, AgriFI will contribute to the recruitment of 12,000 farmers; the cultivation of 10,000 additional ha, and the production of some 40,000 MT of maize yearly. “We are very proud to back Babban Gona’s social business. Not only does the company support subsistence to commercial transition in rural Nigeria, it also seeks to leverage agribusiness to tackle insecurity in the country, rooted in entrenched levels of youth unemployment. AgriFI’s financing will support the expansion of Babban Gona’s innovative farmer service model that has proven to increase smallholders’ yield up to two times, and their income up to 2.5 times the national average,” explained EDFI AgriFI Manager Dimitry Van Raemdonck. With EDFI AgriFI’s support, we can expand our reach to empower more individuals at the bottom of the pyramid and protect the legacy of future generations. We drive towards impact, hand-in-hand with EDFI AgriFI,” explained Babban Gona Managing Director, Kola Masha. Another organisation driving blended finance is AFEX, a commodity market. Similarly, AFEX has launched a $100 million 10-year bond called the Food Security Fund (FSF) to produce three million metric tonnes of food yearly in Africa. The fund will help to finance 250,000 hectares of land for commercial and smallholder farming across Kano, Kaduna, Oyo, Ogun, Cross River and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Expectedly, a chunk of the funds will be allocated to constructing warehouses as Nigeria, according to the release, has the capacity to store only four per cent of its yearly grain production. It added that the restricted production has led to a 300,000 metric tonnes gap between demand and supply of seeds in addition to a 10 million metric tonnes gap in demand and supply of grains, thereby increasing food import costs, and declining capacity utilisation of processing plants. The Chief Executive, AFEX, Ayodeji Balogun, said the launch of the FSF is another milestone as the commodity market charts its journey into building the infrastructure for the continent’s commodity sector. He said: “Finance will always be a key component of that infrastructure and so we’re very excited to roll out this bond to deliver what will eventually be a decade’s worth of impact. One of our core missions is to help the continent feed itself and we deliberately aligned our company goals with the United Nations SDGs from the outset, in particular the first and second goals to end hunger and eliminate poverty.” Also, the AFEX bond is expected to boost food security in Nigeria, Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and Tanzania. Last month, AgDevCo, the specialist investor in early-stage African agribusinesses, announced a $90million funding from the CDC Group, Norfund and DFC which will allow firm to grow its investments in agriculture across Sub-Saharan Africa. This is in addition to its supplementary funding of about $5.4million from CDC, Norfund and the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) for its technical assistance facility.    Established in 2009, AgDevCo’s vision is a thriving commercial African agriculture sector that benefits people, economies, and the environment. The organisation contributes to this goal by providing investment capital and technical assistance to grow sustainable and impactful businesses across the agricultural value chain. In doing so, it aims to promote resilience, gender equality and the production of better-quality, more nutritious food. The new funding builds on the original endowment funding provided by the UK government, which helped establish AgDevCo over the past decade.This endowment has provided capital to agribusinesses that have created or sustained more than 15,000 jobs and to work with 750,000 smallholder farmers to help increase their income and improve their resilience to climate change. It has also allowed AgDevCo to build a capability and track record to the point where it can secure external investment capital. In welcoming the investment, AgDevCo’s founder and Chairman, Keith Palmer said: “Securing investment from CDC, Norfund and DFC is a major milestone in AgDevCo’s history. It is a strong endorsement of AgDevCo’s team and our strategy. We are excited that our vision is shared by our new funders, who recognise the important contribution that AgDevCo investments can make to productivity, sustainability, and inclusivity in Africa.Their funding marks the beginning of a partnership in which AgDevCo will use its sector specialism, drawing on our new funders’ networks and resources, to increase the number of impactful investments in African agriculture.” United Kingdom Minister for Africa, Vicky Ford, said: “I am proud to see how AgDevCo’s investment has boosted sustainable agriculture across Sub-Saharan Africa over the past 10 years, including deepening impact on smallholder farmers and SMEs. This new investment will bring continued growth, by enabling agribusiness SMEs to expand, improve farmer incomes, create new jobs and strengthen climate resilience across Africa.’’ CDC Managing Director for Africa, Tenbite Ermias, said: “This investment reinforces our long-term commitment to investing in key sectors in Africa including agriculture, which is critical for creating jobs, promoting gender equality and supporting people to build a better life for themselves and their families. Furthermore, it reflects our continued focus on climate finance which is central to our new strategy over the next five-year period, to support emerging economies that are most vulnerable to the impacts of the climate emergency.”   Executive Vice President, Scalable Enterprises in Norfund, Ellen Cathrine Rasmussen, said: “Norfund is very pleased to partner with AgDevCo to deliver on our joint mission: to create jobs and improve lives by investing in businesses that drive sustainable development. A thriving commercial African agriculture sector is vital for economic growth and job creation. More than half of Sub-Saharan Africa’s population work in agriculture, yet Africa does not produce enough food to feed the continent. The investment in AgDevCo will create jobs, increase food production, improve climate change resilience, and promote gender equality. The AgDevCo team’s skills, networks and achievements are impressive – and we look forward to working with them.” DFC’s Vice President of External Affairs and Head of Global Gender Equity Initiatives, Algene Sajery, said: “DFC is thrilled to support AgDevCo with a $20 million loan to bring additional capital to smallholder farmers and agricultural businesses in Africa, promoting food security for lower-income communities across the continent. DFC’s loan, alongside financing from our partner DFIs, will enable AgDevCo to link more farmers to markets and create jobs for underserved populations, with a focus on women farmers.” Aceli Africa, a market incentive facility is working to catalyse lending to agriculture in sub-Saharan Africa. Through its work, its hopes to address the region’s $65 billion yearly financing gap for agricultural SMEs. Aceli Africa’s goal is to improve the financial attractiveness of lending to agricultural SMEs by increasing the capital supply, providing technical assistance and generate data and learnings for policy changes benefitting agricultural SMEs. To de-risk investments, Aceli Africa assists local agricultural SME lenders by providing two to eight per cent of the qualifying loan amount ($25,000 to $1.5 million; aligned with gender inclusion, food security, nutrition, and/or climate resilience goals) into a reserve account, which can be drawn on to cover first losses of any qualifying loans across the local lender’s portfolio. Another blended finance vehicle is Africa Agriculture and Trade Investment Fund (AATIF, which through its investments, aims to increase food security, strengthen income among people employed in the agricultural sector, and strengthen the competitiveness of local agriculture businesses. The fund, managed by DWS, provides direct financing to commercial farms, processing companies and cooperatives, and indirect investments to local financial institutions and large agricultural intermediaries on-lending to small and medium companies. The fund provides financing in the form of debt, mezzanine or equity to companies or financial institutions. A $6 million technical assistance facility provides technical support to beneficiaries, including for due diligence impact assessment and accounting. Since its inception in 2011, the fund has disbursed $300 million to 19 investees and indirectly supported over 250 agri-businesses in 16 countries.