The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has distanced itself from Saturday’s burning of the house of President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor. The group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, described the act as barbaric, shameful and disgraceful, vowing to unmask those behind the attack. It regretted that the Ohaneze President had done nothing to deserve such devilish attack, alleging that perpetrators were those against Biafra’s liberation and release of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The statement reads in part: “We totally condemn the burning of the house of Professor George Obiozor, the President General of Ohanaeze. This barbaric act is shameful and disgraceful to Ndigbo. “There is no gainsaying the fact that criminals behind this cowardly act are those against the liberation of Biafra and the release of our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU so as to create the wrong impression that Biafra agitators are violent. “Those behind this evil act have nothing to do with IPOB, ESN or Biafra agitation. They are sponsored criminals and must be made to face the consequences of their action. “We don’t consider Professor Obiozor an enemy of IPOB and Biafra struggle. So, anybody targeting him is treading on a dangerous ground. He has done nothing to deserve such devilish and wicked attack.   Vigilantes kill abductors of six Kwara APC chieftains     OAU student: I’ve no connection with Adedoyin – Guru…     BREAKING: Court sacks 20 Cross River lawmakers   “IPOB will stop at nothing in unraveling those behind this dastardly attack. “The criminal elements being recruited by evil politicians wrecking havock across our land should stop their murderous activities or brace up for IPOB. “Wicked politicians must be held responsible for the on-going destruction of IGBO land. “IPOB is ready to confront these criminals created by politicians in the name of Ebubeagu security outfit which they intended to use to replace ESN. “Ebubeagu security outfit has turned to unknown gunmen terrorising our people. They are involved in Kidnappings and burning of people’s properties and houses in Imo State and other states. “ESN operatives need the cooperation of the public to deal with the Ebubeagu security outfit because they have been a torn in the flesh of our people and must be stopped. “Civilians taking soldiers and DSS to burn people’s properties or houses must also stop or blame yourself for whatever that may befall you.”