The CEO of Prince Luxury Group, Prince Omoha Nduka John and others have been named the 2021 impactful CEOs. Prince Omoha as he is popularly called is one of the 41 CEOs named in a special projects publication of March 16, 2022 tagged “The Guardian’s Special Focus On Most Impactful and Award-Winning CEOs That Contributed to Nigeria’s GDP Growth in 2021”. Others are: Armstrong Akintunde of Aerofield; Aisha Dahir-Umar of National Pension Commission; Baker Magunda of Guinness Nigeria; Alex A. Okoh of Bureau of Public Enterprises; Olawale Opayinka of Eko Development Company; Dr. Bashir Jamoh of Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and others. The CEOs selected, according to the special publication, has not only excelled in their chosen field of human endeavours but brought their expertise and administrative acumen and intuition to bare on the economic dynamics of the Nigeria, thus impacting on its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for prosperity. Armstrong Akintunde, the CEO of Aerofield Homes Limited made the cut on account of his giant strides in the real estate sector. His contributions in various capacities of human endeavour was lauded. It is said that he recently distributed various tools to thousands of beneficiaries in gratis. For Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, the Director-General of National Pension Commission, her selection was based on her initiatives at the Commission as a driver of change and innovation. She is reputed to have turned around the focus and the mission of the Commission. She reportedly has implemented many life-changing programmes since she took over the reins of leadership at the Commission.   ‘We were forced to pay claims on #ENDSARS protests’     ‘Why some SMEs find it difficult to raise capital’     ‘Nigeria has huge reinsurance capacity gap’   Baker Magunda of Guinness Nigeria, was recognised for institutionalising operations driven by data, creating shared values and enriching communities. Also worthy of mention is his partnership with farmers, with the company having turned about 30 thousand small scale farmers into proper commercial sustainable agri-business owners. Alexander Ayoola Okoh of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, according to the publication, is a quintessential reformer, turning the tides at Nigeria’s Bureau of Public Enterprises. Dr. Bashir Jamoh acts as the Director-General of Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and is recognised as the chief strategist innovating Nigeria’s maritime industry for national prosperity. Olawale Opayinka who runs Eko Development Company as its Managing Director cum CEO is being celebrated as the brain behind the company. The company is being recognised as the developers of the multi-building skyscrapers called Azuri Towers located in the Eko Atlantic. Prince Omoha, according to the publication, is a silence achieving businessman whose simplicity, humility and hard work has no doubt contributed to the geometric rise to success in driving growth across sectors as a result of the activities of his Prince Luxury Group (PLG). PLG is privately owned conglomerate investment company, committed to changing lives and developing human capital of Nigeria and indeed Africa. Under the conglomerate are PLG Properties Limited, PLG Construction limited and GOGO Express limited known as GOGOX Nigeria are subsidiaries of Prince luxury Group.