THE President of the Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria, Women Committee (MHWUN) Plateau State Council, Comrade Jeji Danjuma Francisca, has accused Nigerian politicians of not being interested in the promotion of gender equality in the political atmosphere in the country. Jeji said the 9th Assembly should reconsider its actions as they will continue to press until their voices are heard and implemented for the betterment of the nation’s democracy. Jeji stated this while addressing members of the Women Committee of the Medical and Health Workers, Women Committee Plateau State Council during a ceremony marking the 2022 International Women’s Day held at their Secretariat in Jos. The president stressed that, “Women deserve respect, love, care, and happiness. The empowerment of women is a great responsibility that all women need. The world becomes a better place when women don’t feel ostracised. This is the world we are striving to create for our daughters and this is the world we will create.”   AEDC cries out over vandalism in FCT substations     NYSC: Corps members who fail to report for mobilisation risk…     Benue Dep. Governor canvases power shift, joins guber race   In line with the 2022 theme of ‘Breaking the Bias,’ Jeji insisted that bias against women has almost become a norm in the world today. “Women are subjected to certain limitations and restrictions in different parts of the world. In Nigeria, the bias against women came recently when the National Assembly jettisoned the bills aimed at promoting gender equality in the socio-political space of society. The action of the legislature is a clear indication that the politicians are not willing to join the rest of the world to break the bias. This has sparked pockets of protests by different women groups. “The men of the 9th National Assembly by their actions have taken us backwards. Their actions undermine the importance and relevance of women’s contributions to the governance of Nigeria, including the key roles women play to bring victory to political parties in elections at all levels across the country.” The union leader maintained that women will not tolerate the discriminatory bills which “among others, deny citizenship to a foreign-born husband of a Nigerian woman while it allows Nigerian men’s foreign-born wives to be awarded citizenship. It denies Nigerian women indigeneity through marriage; denies 35% appointed positions for women while settling for 20%; denies women affirmative action in party administration and leadership; and denies specific seats for women in the National Assembly.” In her words: “We the women strongly demand for the representation of the gender bills. We would continue to make case for our male counterparts in leadership and political positions in the country.”