The arraignment of one Ogbolu Chidinma Pearl for alleged distribution of kegs of petrol as souvenirs at a party is as interesting as it is embarrassing. But it symbolizes a foreboding imagery of a country unable to get its priorities right. Ogbolu’s arraignment followed a viral video in which kegs of petrol were being distributed as souvenir at a social even in Victoria Island, Lagos. The Lagos State government and the state police command had taken exceptions to the incident and ordered investigations which led to the arrest of the suspect. The state police command said the suspect was arraigned on four-count charges of conduct likely to cause a breach of peace and endangering human life by distributing combustible matter in public gathering. The other charges are intent to do harm to another and unlawfully carrying on the business of storage and containerizing petroleum products without a permit. These are no doubt, weighty allegations. It is improbable the suspect had prior knowledge of the gravity of these offences. It is also doubtful whether these were her intentions as she set out packaging petrol as souvenirs for her guests. She may have equally been ignorant that her action infringed on the laws of the land; though ignorance does not constitute an excuse in law. So the suspect risks being jailed on some or all of the charges. It is also possible she could be discharged and acquitted on all of them. Her situation is bound to divide opinion because this is the first time an individual is being arraigned for giving out petrol as souvenirs in a party. It is a novel, albeit absurd situation. And in this novelty and absurdity can be located some of the failings and contradictions of our national life. It is probable Ogbolu was propelled by the desire for innovations. She may have been moved by this aspiration to respond to the challenges of her environment. She packaged the ‘gifts’ at a time the country was groaning under the pangs of debilitating fuel scarcity. The thought of her guests being stranded after the event may have compelled her to think out of the box on how to ensure they do not run out of fuel while going back home. That may have been her prompting; her little way of showing appreciation to guests at a time movements across the country were seriously hampered by debilitating fuel scarcity consequent upon the importation of a lethal variant of the commodity. That was the setting in which she located a fuel source with which she struck a business deal. How she located the fuel source at a time of biting scarcity is not known. Neither is there information on how she came about packaging the product or the dealers that worked in concert with her. But her innovative souvenirs seemed to have struck the right chord when the guests willingly accepted them and happily too. Who would not in view of the period the offer was made? So she is not the only offender. The government that put the commodity out of the reach of citizens has blames to share. Those who received the souvenirs and others that assisted her to package them must have shared in her concerns.   Umahi’s court sack     An airline’s brush with an emir     Those afraid of electoral bill!   Does that not say something about us a country? Is it not a national shame that Ogbolu saw nothing wrong with her packaging and presentation of petrol as gifts to her guests? These are the issues to ponder as Ogbolu faces trial at the special offences court. Nigeria is a major oil producer in the world oil producing matrix with the commodity accounting for the largest chunk of its foreign exchange earnings. Yet, it is interminably faced with epileptic fuel supplies and shortages that have made it difficult for businesses and normal activities to thrive unhindered. It is a country unable to refine its products locally and have had to depend on importation of fuel to service its domestic needs. This has left country vulnerable to the vagaries and fluctuations in the international oil market. It is therefore not out of place for citizens like Ogbolu to accord very high premium to the commodity such that moved her to package it as valuable gifts for her guests. After all, buying fuel in kegs has become a norm in the face of constant power outages. So what difference does her novel souvenirs really make when black market is all over the place and fuel sold in kegs? We are confronted with an uncanny dilemma that should prick our collective consciences. The incident is a serious challenge to our leaders for serially failing to get the compass of the country’s ship right. It signposts the metaphor of a country bountifully endowed with oil by Mother Nature, yet its citizens live in its scarcity. So the hullaballoo about petrol gifts is just scratching the surface of a more fundamental national challenge. It has no solution to the embarrassing inability of the government to make the product available and at affordable prices. It has no solution to the hi-tech corruption that has been the sad story of fuel importation and the so-called subsidy regime. These are the real challenges if we are seriously concerned by the seeming embarrassment of the petrol souvenir incident. Again, a number of events within the same week Ogbolu was arraigned appear to draw huge sympathy for her predicament. Within the same week, there was nationwide power blackout as the country’s power grid collapsed on two occasions. The same week also, airlines threatened to shut down operations on account of aviation fuel scarcity. Before then, a train on transit had stopped abruptly inside the forest as it had no diesel to further its journey. This is in addition to persistent nationwide scarcity of petrol that has put its price beyond the reach of many. Are these not a damning statement on the fuel situation in the country?  Ogbolu’s souvenirs; as potentially dangerous as they appear, signpost the contradictions of a country bountifully endowed with a commodity, yet its citizens live in want of it. It is both a metaphor for national failure and collective shame.