Dogecoin is an open-source cryptocurrency. It was started in 2013 by software engineers, Jackson Palmer and Billy Marcus. It initially started as a joke and was seen as a sarcastic meme coin. It is based on Litecoin and uses the same proof-of-work technology. Dogecoin uses a scrypt algorithm and some of its features are its low price and unlimited supply. In this article, I will be explaining the step-by-step process of how to sell Dogecoin in Nigeria, factors you should consider when selling, factors you should consider when choosing the right crypto exchange platform, recommendations on crypto exchange platforms and also the future of Dogecoin. Let’s get started. Choose a Crypto Exchange Platform This is the first step you take when you decide to sell your dogecoin. It’s also a crucial state and a lot needs to be taken into consideration. Why is it a crucial stage? Not all exchange platforms work the same way and you need to pick the one that is the best fit for you, depending on some factors. Below are some factors to consider when choosing the best app to sell dogecoin in Nigeria. 1. Price: You need to do research on which exchange platform gives you the best possible market price for Dogecoin. 2. Fees: Ask questions such as; What are the exchange fees for depositing Dogecoin? What are the withdrawal fees? 3. Limits: Some platforms have certain limitations which might not be in your favour. 4. Reviews: Always check out reviews of existing users to get their opinions and know the reputation of the exchange platform. 5. Security: Due to the sensitive nature of cryptocurrency, you need to make sure the platform is completely secure and your crypto is safe. Do your research to make sure they have proper security measures in place. 6. Customer support: This is also very important as you need to make sure customer support is always available in case anything goes wrong. Other questions you should be asking when choosing the best way to sell your dogecoin are: 1. Is Dogecoin listed on this exchange platform? 2. What type of deposit does my bank allow? 3. How do I want to receive payment? 4. Am I comfortable with these fees? These questions and the answers provided would guide you on your path to choosing the right crypto exchange platform. Below is a list of recommended crypto trading apps you should consider when trying to sell your Dogecoin in Nigeria.   1. Breet  BREET is an OTC crypto trading platform that enables users and businesses to seamlessly convert their crypto to Naira and withdraw to their local bank account in less than five (5) minutes with NO WITHDRAWAL FEES, NO THIRD-PARTY and NO EXTRA CHARGES. With BREET, you can easily convert your Dogecoins to cash with no risks involved. 2. Coinbase: Coinbase is an online platform for buying, selling, transferring and storing cryptocurrency. The company was founded in 2012 by Brian Armstrong and Fred Ehrsam. 3. Binance Binance is a global crypto exchange app that enables users to trade on an extensive range of reputable coins in this world-renowned exchange. It is popular for its high liquidity and multi-language support. Though Binance uses a peer-to-peer exchange system, which may be time-consuming. In Nigeria, the deposit method is bank transfer (ACH). 4. Kraken Kraken is a good crypto trading app to sell Bitcoin in Nigeria reputed for its variety of options to deposit funds in selling bitcoin. Transactions can be achieved in Kraken with the use of SWIFT, SEPA, bank wire and bank transfer. Kraken uses peer-to-peer trading. Register/Sign Up   5 Best Forex no deposit bonus brokers in Nigeria     In celebration of women shining bright, premium beer brand…     Help fight the corona-pandemic from your garden   Now, you have chosen your preferred platform to sell your Dogecoin. Next, you create an account. In this stage, you enter information about yourself. Below is some required information you’ll normally come across. 1. Enter your email address or phone number 2. Enter your full name 3. Enter your username 4. Create a password 5. Confirm your password 6. Click sign up/register For extra security measures, you will be required to verify your email address and activate a Two-factor authentication to protect your account and funds against fraudulent activities. Some other extra security checks that might be required of you are listed below. 1. Enter personal information: This includes your name, country of residence and a valid ID. You may be required to upload a scan of your chosen ID or simply enter your ID number. 2. Upload documents: A clear photo or scan of your ID with no glare or obstructed view is necessary. You will also need to upload a copy of a utility bill or bank statement that matches the address and name on the valid ID you provided. 3. Upload a selfie: This involves taking a photo of yourself with a full view of your face. You must be holding a piece of paper that has your name written on it and the current date. Some sites will provide a unique code that you need to write on a piece of paper. 4. Activate 2FA: This step is optional, but it is recommended. Some exchange platforms may require it regardless. Activating 2-factor authentication adds an extra layer of security to your account and keeps it safe. Deposit Dogecoin To sell your Dogecoin, of course, you’ll have to deposit it first. To deposit your DOGE, you’ll have to generate a wallet address. This wallet address works just like a regular bank account number. You send the wallet address to the sender, it then goes through the confirmation process where you’ll have to wait a certain amount of time, where you’ll reach a certain number of confirmations before your transaction can be completed. Dogecoin transactions are usually fast so it might take between 5 to 30 minutes, but sometimes it might take a longer time due to pending transactions in the dogecoin blockchain or congestion in the blockchain. But if you want your transaction to be hastened, you can pay a higher network fee. When sending DOGE to your wallet address, you must double-check and verify the address or you might risk losing your crypto. Sell Dogecoin Once your Dogecoin has been successfully transferred to your wallet address, you then decide how you want to sell it. Using a peer-to-peer exchange platform, you would need to search for a buyer willing to purchase your DOGE, but with Breet, your Dogecoin is automatically converted to the Naira equivalent depending on the current rate, which you can then withdraw to your local bank account within seconds. Withdrawal Process Once you have sold your Dogecoin, you need to verify what withdrawal method options are available. These may include the following: 1. Bank transfer 2. Credit/debit card 3. PayPal Below are some factors you need to take into consideration when withdrawing your funds. 1. Fees: Some exchanges require a withdrawal fee. But with BREET, no withdrawal is required as you get the best out of your fiat 2. Limits: You need to check if there is a limitation to how much you can withdraw. 3. Processing time: Some exchanges take seconds to withdraw to your local bank account while some take a longer time. Choose the one that is the best fit for you. Conclusion Although Dogecoin started as a joke, people like Elon Musk have openly supported Dogecoin in 2021, tweeting in May that he was working with the coin’s developers to improve transaction efficiency. The future of Dogecoin is looking promising and we look forward to how it will pan out. Selling your dogecoin doesn’t have to be stressful, with BREET you are guaranteed a seamless trading experience with no extra charges and you get your withdrawal to your local bank account within seconds. For more help and support, contact them at support@breet.app, visit Breet website or call/WhatsApp 08090569499.