Airtel Nigeria has announced the introduction of ‘Roam Like Home’, a new value offering that will afford customers the opportunity to roam their lines in over 100 popular international destinations including Ghana, United Kingdom, Canada, United States of America, Kenya and United Arab Emirates at very affordable rates. With this move, Airtel has taken a giant stride to make international roaming more affordable, more accessible, more enjoyable and offering customers more value at amazingly discounted rates. Airtel said the idea behind the bold move is to allow its customers to roam their lines while abroad without fear and enjoy calls at almost local rates in the countries they are visiting while using their Airtel lines, thereby eliminating the need to purchase a local makeshift SIM. The plan is available to prepaid and post- paid customers and no opt-in code is required to activate the offer.   FG flags off loan scheme for 460,000 N-Power beneficiaries     Olubadan-In-Council to review honorary titles     Alleged drug deal: Charges against Abba Kyari, others…   In addition, Pay As You Go (PAYG) rates, under the new plan, are almost equivalent to the local call tariffs in the visited countries. Commenting on the ‘Roam Like Home’ plan, Chief Commercial Officer, Airtel Nigeria, Godfrey Efeurhobo, said that the slash in international roaming rate to over 100 popular destinations is a bold and significant move that underscores Airtel’s commitment to creating more opportunities for Nigerians and all its customers. “At Airtel, we are constantly innovating to delight our customers and we are committed to our major goal of promoting inclusion as well as connecting our customers to the people they love and the things they cherish. Our customers should roam without fear in any of these international destinations. “It is our belief that this new offer will provide comfort and ease to our customers as they no longer need to worry about cost or alternate sims before connecting to their loved ones and business associates,” he said.