Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, yesterday inaugurated Jaiz Bank Plc’s branch in Akure with a call on all citizens to patronise the bank irrespective of their social and religious affiliations. He said the coming of the premier non-interest bank in Nigeria to Ondo would open the doors for all to enjoy non-interest financing. “The bank is not for Muslims alone. I am not a Muslim. In fact, I am the Chancellor of my own church and I am going to have an account in the state. “Over the last five years, we have made efforts to bring development to the state and today we are bringing in Jaiz Bank to the state. The state is underbanked. We need more,” Akeredolu said. He urged civil servants in the state to transfer their salary accounts to Jaiz Bank so that they can take advantage of the bank’s mortgage facility.   High food, fuel prices push inflation to 15.70%     Incessant grid collapse: Evidence of moribund power sector     ‘Maintain existing rotation of governorship position’   “There is no bank where you can get facility just after six month, Jaiz Bank did this and I can say that if not the eighth then it is the ninth wonder of the world,” Akeredolu said. Managing Director, Jaiz Bank Plc, Mr. Hassan Usman commended the governor for his support towards the establishment of the bank in Ondo State. He noted that the coming of the bank to Ondo State was because the governor created the enabling environment for investments to thrive in the state for the benefit of the people. He noted that since Jaiz Bank started operations in 2012, it has been providing ethical services to individuals, corporate and government entities with the mission of making life better through ethical finance. “Since its debut, a decade ago, the nation’s premier non-interest bank has maintained its leadership role by deepening this alternative model of financing, thus providing the foundation for its expansion, and providing the needed ethical funding for infrastructural development in the country.”