Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf in this report examines the intractable power crisis that has continued to have rippled negative effects on the nation’s fragile socioeconomic life with huge implications for commerce and industry. EVER wondered why the nation’s ugly power situation has remained unresolved despite concerted efforts by all concerned? Well, a penny for your thoughts: a combination of forces both superficial and complex may be responsible for this, The Nation can authoritatively report. Investigation by our correspondent revealed that at the root of the power crisis is the issue of national grid collapse, under-capacity utilisation, mounting debts, and monopoly across the value chain within the power sector. Speaking with a cross-session of experts, many of them insisted that the country’s power situation was the outcome of defective policies and sheer lack of commitment on the part of the government to address the issues frontally. Incessant national grid collapse One problem that has been cited as a major drawback in the power situation is the issue of national grid collapse. A cursory view of the timeline of national grid collapse in the last one year showed that the problem may have gone full circle. Checks by The Nation showed that the grid collapses recorded from February 17, March 15 and May 12, 2021, respectively, was massive. Investigation by our correspondent indicated that the country may not have seen the end of the power sector system collapse as many problems, including the aging transmission network, obsolete substation equipment persist. Outages/grid collapses occur when there are system disturbances along the transmission grid. Such disturbances could include a massive drop of load from a sub-station that would cause the grid to become unstable. The country’s power sector from 2013 when the electricity privatisation process was completed) has witnessed about 130 grid collapses; a challenge which experts and operators said would linger for a long time, investigation revealed. A breakdown of the development shows that the sector recorded a total of 45 partial grid collapses and 82 total collapses between 2013 and 2020. However, following the May 12, 2021 incident, TCN had revealed that it is waiting for the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, to approve the 260megawatts, MW, spinning reserve it recently procured, being part of 400MW reserve needed to contain the grid’s frequent failures. While addressing the issue of national grid collapse, Dr. Muda Yusuf, renowned economist and erstwhile Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), noted that the government is to blame for allowing the issue of the ugly power situation to fester like a sore thumb. “Power is very strategic for the running of any economy. If you take power out of the equation in any economy, then there would be huge economic crisis,” he empahsised, adding that “The idea of sticking to the national grid has not been to our advantage, this is because once it collapses as its most often does, it affects the economy on almost all angles.” Yusuf who is the Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise [CPPE], while offering useful suggestions on the  way out of the frequent collapse of the national grid, said, one best way to fix this problem is to develop off-grid solutions and decentralise the power sector. In the short term however, Yusuf said, the government needs to sort out all the issues about gas supply, and pricing of electricity. Echoing similar sentiments, Celine Oni, Director, Learning and Development/Projects at the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), noted that the recent crisis in the energy sector with the collapse of the grid is both worrisome and unfortunate for the nation. Also, a source from PriceWaterHouseCoopers (PwC), noted that the issue around system collapse has to do with TCN’s lack of wheeling capacity, and there is need to expand transmission lines, procure more spinning reserves for generating power stations and refusal to fast-track construction of digital control centres. He said, “At this period TCN should have minimal GENCO capacity required to always deploy available electricity at short notice when another system collapses. The system would serve as a protection scheme for critical transmission-distribution interfaces. “There is a need for available capacity that can be deployed anytime a hiccup occurs within the transmission system. “In actual fact, collapses will occur but how you deal with it is what is of utmost importance. TCN often doesn’t have sufficient funds to procure this equipment or pay GENCOs that could also have this spinning reserve as a backup in case of collapse. “One of such cases is the structure of the energy market, power deal with Siemens Energy Nigeria to deliver 25,000MW by the end of 2025 and to fix the archaic transmission and distribution infrastructure in the sector.” This project signed in July 2019, by Presidential Power Initiative with the German firm, is being truncated with policy flip-flops. The PwC Power Partner, however, recommended that for Nigeria to avoid another power collapse, the TCN must develop a sustainable remediation plan. This must follow a process and not the usual fire brigade approach. Timeline of power cut from January 2022 till date A summary of the power generating profiles in the last two months, showed that 14 gas powered generating stations were either not generating at all or had limited generation at various times within the period, further depleting the quantum of power generation available for transmission into the grid on a daily basis. Power generating stations in this category include; Omotosho units 5 & 6, Olorunsogo units 3, 4 & 6, Omoku units 3 & 6, Omotosho NIPP units 3 & 4, Delta units 15, 17, and 18, Afam VI units 11 & 12, Olorunsogo NIPP unit 3, Ihovbor NIPP unit 2, Sapele Steam unit 3, Sapele NIPP unit 1, Odukpani NIPP units 1 & 3, and Okpai units 11, 12 & 18. Also, within the same period, Jebba Hydro and Shiroro Power Generating Stations were either out or had limited generation, causing additional loss of 232MW from the grid, while other power generating plants such as Omotosho units 3&4, Olorunsogo units 1, Delta units 10 &20, Afam VI unit 13, Ihovbor NIPP units 4, Geregu NIPP units 22&23 and Odukpani NIPP units 2, 4 & 5, have also been out either on fault or for scheduled maintenance, causing a further loss of about 3,180MW from the grid.   Oluwo unveils new queen as they get married in Kano     How I prevented full blown physical combat between Bianca,…     Electoral Act: NASS seeks legal advice, may challenge court…   According to informed sources, gas constraints alone in the Olorunsogo gas generating plant reduced generation from the station by 104MW, in the same vein, Omotosho gas lost 102MW and Sapele NIPP lost 263MW. In Omotosho NIPP, there was a generation shortfall of 233MW and in Omoku a shortfall of 112MW. Two units in Okpai have limited generation due to technical problems causing a 204MW drop in generation and in Afam VI 511MW drop in generation. Besides, gas constraint and fault in Olorunsogo NIPP reduced generation by 240MW, Geregu NIPP by 435MW, and Ihovbor by 142MW. Also, due to gas pipeline pigging, Odukpani NIPP was SHUT DOWN which caused a reduction of generation by 575MW. The devil is in the details One major stakeholder involved in the power crisis conundrum is the power generation companies (Gencos) under the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC). While speaking at a briefing in Abuja penultimate Sunday, APGC’s Executive Secretary, Dr. Joy Ogaji argued matter-of-factly that a situation where the energy dispatched by the power generators was used as an index for power generation capacity was detrimental to their survival. “We are currently owed N1.644 trillion. One of the reasons that the power plants are down is due to inefficient management of the grid,” Ogaji said. According to her, the Gencos have exhausted all their borrowing sources, as the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had reportedly warned the banks to desist from lending money to them. Ogaji noted that the illiquidity caused by the huge sums owed the Gencos by NBET had continued to frustrate them and render them incapable of meeting their obligations. Such obligations, she said, included Operations and Maintenance (O&M) as and when due, procurement of critical capital, spare parts and accessories, payment, and servicing of existing loans from lenders and financiers and employee- obligations. Ogaji listed foreign exchange as another challenge faced by the hydroelectric power plants, whose concession fees, she maintained, were “dollarised.” “Since 2013 when the power sector was partially privatised till date, weak and inadequate infrastructure (transmission and distribution) have continued to render inconsequential, a significant portion of the generation capacities recovered or added by Gencos through huge investments done by them to increase their respective generation capacities.” Ogaji stated, “We should address the root cause and not the symptoms, for the sustainability of the NESI and the power sector. “The current state of the national grid must be addressed; otherwise we will continue to always deny Nigerians their legitimate expectation of unhindered rights to reliable supply of electricity.” However, the debt claim by the Gencos was immediately refuted by the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET). NBET disputed the figures quoted by the power generators, saying only companies with active gas supply and transportation contracts are paid for unutilised capacity. The Head, Corporate Communication, NBET, Henrietta Ighomrore, explained that in the country, only five power generation companies with active Gas Purchase Agreement (GPA) were entitled to be paid for unused capacity. Ighomrore argued that the Gencos had always been paid as and when due, explaining that in the last payment cycle alone, the Gencos were paid N38 billion for electricity distributed on the grid. Why power generation is fluctuating, by TCN In a statement cited on its website by our correspondent, the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) while stating plausible reason for the current power crisis, with the title, ‘Power Generation and ongoing Load shedding nationwide,’ explained that the current load shedding being experienced nationwide is as a result of very low power generation by the Generation Companies (GENCOs) for TCN to wheel through the transmission grid to distribution companies nationwide. Specifically, the TCN said for the purpose of clarity that, “TCN does not generate electricity and therefore can only transport cumulative generation from all the generation companies nationwide to distribution load centres. The distribution companies are responsible for end-users consumption. TCN allocates power to distribution companies based on approved percentage (formula approved by NERC), of the total generation available per hour or on day-ahead nomination.” The TCN further noted, “More recently, from the 1st to 4th of March, 2022, there was generation shortfall due to water management in Shiroro and Jebba hydro with the loss of 307MW and 125MW respectively from both stations. Within the same period, there were fault and technical problems in Egbin, causing 514MW shortfall and in Geregu causing 230MW shortfall, while reported fault at Alaoji NIPP reduced generation from the substation by 263MW.” Governors rise to the occasion Worried about the intractable power situation, the governors of the 36 states have scheduled a meeting this Wednesday to discuss the worsening energy crisis in the country. The virtual meeting, planned to commence by 2pm, is also expected to discuss ways to improve the economy and healthcare. The Head, Media and Public Affairs at the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, disclosed this in a statement released late on Friday. The statement reads: “As a reaction to the lingering power sector ineffectiveness of the last couple of weeks, power projects’ delivery across the states will dominate their conversation when governors meet on Wednesday. “The governors have sought the attendance of the Minister of Power, Engineer Aliyu Abubakar, according to an invitation issued to all governors by the Director General of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, NGF, Mr Asishana Bayo Okauru, today. “Okauru pointed out that the virtual NGF meeting which is the third of its type this year slated for Wednesday 23rd March will commence at 2pm prompt. “All invitees are expected to begin to log in from 1300hrs.”