NOT surprisingly, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, has continued to receive torrents of congratulatory and laudatory messages from across the globe as he clocked his eighth decade of existence this side of eternity on Tuesday, March 2. The famous cleric’s story is an amazing tale of uncommon transformation from grass to glory on the wings of grace. Daddy GO, as he is famously and fondly addressed across diverse age, denominational, religious, ethno-regional and racial groups, has told the story of his life thousands of times in his innumerable sermons, addresses and publications. He attributes nothing in his life trajectory to his innate intelligence or any extraordinary gift of his but rather ceaselessly gives glory to God for all he has achieved so far in his epochal journey. Reckoned as perhaps the largest Pentecostal church in the world with millions of members in over 196 countries, the status of being the leader of this extraordinary assemblage of churches that continues to grow in leaps and bounds, is no insignificant position. Indeed, pastor Adeboye towers in influence and prestige above many secular world leaders who preside over organizations with vast economic resources or over polities with immense military might. A possibly apocryphal story has it that when Winston Churchill in January 1944 suggested to Joseph Stalin, the leader of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), the possibility of the Pope being involved in some of the decisions to restore peace to a war-torn world, the latter replied: “The Pope, the Pope. How many divisions has he?”. This was obviously in utter contempt for and derision of spiritual authority which lacks the backing of arms and men to be put to use in battle. Of course, the Catholic Pontiff commanded no troops compared with the legions at the disposal of the Russian leader. Yet, today, Stalin is long gone and the communist empire he presided over significantly decimated. But the Catholic Church and the papacy live on. To exercise spiritual leadership and authority in non-formal organizational structures like the church or other religious groupings demands far greater sense of responsibility, charisma and levels of acceptance voluntarily given than is the case in secular organizations which can draw on formal organograms, economic resources or state-backed punitive sanctions. Coming from an insignificant, poor family in an obscure village, Ifewara, located in Osun State, Nigeria, Pastor Adeboye has placed his rustic birthplace on the global map by ranking among one of the most outstanding and iconic leadership figures in our contemporary world. I can vividly recall that during my secondary school days in the mid-1970s, the burgeoning Scripture Union movement at the time was widely believed to be the ultimate refuge of academic, career or marital failures who sought spiritual solace to compensate for secular lack of success. By the time I was admitted into the University of Ibadan in the early -1980s, however, the story had begun to change astoundingly. At that time, the exceedingly active and vibrant Ibadan Varsity Christian Union (IVCU), had as members some of the best and brightest students academically not to talk of some of the most beautiful ladies on campus. Pastor Adeboye’s Christian Odyssey can certainly not be attributed to any failure in the secular realm. He never addresses himself or seeks to be addressed by his earned academic doctoral degree. He is simply Pastor Adeboye even though his field of academic specialization, Applied Mathematics, shows clearly that his intellect soars far above the average. Many whose scholastic attainments are far less impressive than that of Daddy GO scoff haughtily at the very idea of God. ‘There is no God here but man’, the great outstanding educationist, social critic and unrepentant atheist, Dr Tai Solarin, once thundered in one of his newspaper articles. The atheist confidently asserts that there is no God and that the concept of a creator is an absurd human construct. On his part, the agnostic claims that he cannot know if God exists or not because he has not been given sufficient evidence to decide on the matter. I side with the psalmist who declares that “The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament shows His handiwork”. My perhaps overly simple mind finds it difficult to comprehend how there can be a creation of which I am a part without a creator. Pastor Adeboye’s belief in the existence of the creator is categorical, inflexible and uncompromising. Only the most absurd would attribute his faith to any form of mental or other deficiency. He was even an amateur boxer in his youth! Even if he had not abandoned his secular professional career to serve in the Lord’s vineyard, Daddy GO would still have attained considerable success as a prized professor of Mathematics in any distinguished university in any part of the world. I have often listened with amusement to many of the supposedly sophisticated secular minds who attribute the difficult-to-ignore financial prosperity of the modern Pentecostal church to the business, entrepreneurial skills and manipulative strategies of the church leaders. My challenge to those who make such claims is to ask them to urgently proceed to the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to register a church business and see how easily and speedily their millions will begin to roll in without the specific call of God on their lives. There are perhaps more churches that start and die than those that succeed and become spiritual and material success stories. The truth is that there is something called the covenant anointing for prosperity. Beyond this, those who simply notice and commend the current prosperity of some Pentecostal churches including the RCCG are possibly unaware of years of hard spiritual Labour and material deprivation endured by some of these leaders before experiencing spiritual and financial breakthroughs.   Carabao Cup: What was that… 11-10?     Hunger, rape, betrayal tales rock Benue communities after…     Anxiety lingers in Anambra over killing of 20 at…   Of course, it is not impossible for some unscrupulous spiritual leaders to resort to occult and other unseemly dark and evil practices to attain wealth. Here again, I differ from those who aver rather arrogantly that it is scientifically, logically and empirically impossible for people to become wealthy through rituals involving, for instance, the harvesting and utilization of vital human parts. They delude themselves. Occultist and diabolical forces of darkness are as real as the material world of sight, sound, smell, taste and touch. St Paul famously asserted that “we fight not against flesh and blood but against principalities and powers; against spiritual wickedness in high places”. If the entire enterprise of making money through ritual killings is fake and illusory, why has the practice become so prevalent across the country? By the fruits of both genuine or fake spiritual leaders, agents of light or darkness as the case may be, we shall know and classify them. Yes, many Pentecostal church leaders in particular have definitely not demonstrated Godly wisdom in the utilization of the gift of prosperity it has pleased God to bless them with. There was a Bishop who, for instance, once boasted in a soft sell magazine interview that he used to go around Lagos in Molue buses but now owns a private jet. At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, another Abuja-based cleric prayed that the pandemic should continue because he had acquired two private jets during the lockdown. That clearly is not the spirit of Christ. But even here, Pastor Adeboye has been exemplary. He is never loud. He is never vain. He is never boastful. He is not arrogantly showy or exhibitionist. He is always an epitome of humility and unassuming self-effacement. Under him, the Corporate Social Responsibility interventions of the RCCG to help the underprivileged in diverse sectors is massive and impactful. President Bill Clinton once remarked that he felt exceedingly humbled once when he was in the presence of Mother Theresa, a Godly woman of unusual modesty. The humble Nazarene walked the backwaters of Galilee ministering to the poor, weak, vulnerable and shunned even as the powerful Caesars reigned in the magnificent and opulent palaces of the Roman Empire. The Caesars today lie in dust but Messiah lives on in the hearts and minds of multitudes. Just like the Lord Jesus hardly ever concerned himself with the politics of the Roman Empire, not even with the cause of the political emancipation of the Jews, Pastor Adeboye confines himself to his single-minded mission of preaching the good news of salvation through faith in the Lord Jesus. He keeps a wide berth from partisan political commentary and involvement. It is obvious that many leading political and economic Titans feel humbled in the presence of this modest man of God. But then, is Daddy GO a model of human perfection? No, there is no such thing as a flawless mortal. For instance, the RCCG’s opposition along with other Pentecostal churches, to the code of corporate governance drawn up by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) under the tenure of its former Executive Secretary, Mr Jim Obazee, and passed into law by the National Assembly, is responsible for that very important law being held in abeyance till date. Not only has the corporate governance code designed to guide the conduct of non-governmental organizations been rendered comatose, Obazee was fired from his job most unfairly in my view for seeking to enforce the law. While Obazee, also a Pentecostal pastor, could have been relieved of his job if found guilty of any infraction, the code which was designed to bring some sense of responsibility and accountability into the running of churches, mosques, NGOs and other non-formal organizations within the realm of civil society, should have been allowed to come into effect in the larger national interest. It is precisely because a not insignificant number of religious leaders, particularly of the Christian Pentecostal stock, do not possess Daddy GO’s high level of self-discipline, humility, restraint and prudence that the code of corporate governance drawn up by the FRC ought to come into force. Again, Daddy GO and the leadership of the RCCG will ultimately have to decide if the church’s revolutionary goal of planting a branch of the church within five minutes driving distance in developed countries or five minutes walking distance in developing countries, an objective responsible for her phenomenal expansion, does not fundamentally contradict its ongoing unprecedented expansion of facilities for mass gatherings at its headquarters along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Wishing the great man of God many more years of service to his creator and humanity.