The Senate yesterday threw out President Muhammdu Buhari’s Bill seeking to amend the Electoral Act, 2022. The Bill titled: “A Bill for an Act to amend the Electoral Act 2022 and for related matters, 2022,” was overwhelming rejected, a development that effectively stopped its second reading and passage. Section 84 (12) of the Act provides that ‘no political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party’. The implication is that political appointees who wish to participate in their party’s primaries, which will hold between April 4 and June 3, must resign. The provision is at variance with sections 66, 107, 137 and 182 of the Constitution, which provide that those in public service who wish to contest for political offices must resign 30 days before the date of the election. The Bill had earlier scaled Tuesday despite an order of a Federal High Court, Abuja that barred the Senate from considering it. Before the Senate commenced consideration of the Bill yesterday, Senator Adamu Aliero had, while citing order 52(5) of the Senate Standing Rules, urged the Senate President to jettison any proposed action on the Bill. Lawan, however, reiterated his position that only senators may reject the Bill and not the judiciary. Senators voted overwhelmingly against the Bill to stop it from being read a second time. The move to reject the Bill was signalled by a call from Senator Aliero for it to be stepped down after the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, moved a motion for the bill to be read a second time. Aliero, who came under a point of order, drew the attention of his colleagues to the provision of Rule 52(5) of the Senate Standing Order. Order 52(5) provides: “Reference shall not be made to any matter on which a judicial decision is pending, in such a way as might in the opinion of the President of the Senate prejudice the interest of parties thereto.” The Kebbi Central Lawmaker, therefore, advised the upper chamber to step down consideration of the bill pending the vacation of an order made by the Federal High Court, Abuja, on Monday. “Going ahead to consider the bill obviously will mean that we are disrespecting that order, and this is an institution of the Senate – the symbol of Nigeria’s lawmaking body. “We should not be seen to be disobeying the court order. No matter how bad that court order is, we should respect it,” Aliero said. The Senate President, while ruling on Aliero’s point of Order, insisted that the move by the upper chamber to amend the Electoral Act was in line with exercising its Constitutional duties and following due process. Lawan said: “Looking at the request does not mean granting the request. Members of the National Assembly are at liberty to review the request to see if the arguments by the Executive arm of government are convincing enough. “If the arguments are not convincing enough, the National Assembly can deny the request, and that is how it is. We have no encumbrance from that order.” The Senate Leader was then given the floor to lead the debate on the Electoral Act Amendment bill. Contributing to the debate, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South), kicked against the deletion of Section 84(12) of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill as requested by President Buhari. He said: “All over the world, there are certain rules which we don’t need to be told about. “One of those rules is the fact that you cannot be a referee and a player on the same field. It is either you’re a referee or a player.   Why Buni was kicked out, by El-Rufai     Fed Govt’ team to Second Niger Bridge not involved in…     Many killed in bandits’ attack on deputy governor’s convoy   “So, every other place in the world where democracy is practised including Nigeria, we don’t need to be told that if we want to run for office, we have to resign. That is a sine qua non that we don’t even need to debate.” Senator Smart Adeyemi (Kogi West), also opposed consideration of the Bill. An effort by the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, to save the Bill failed. Senators later voted ‘nay’ to reject the Bill when it was put to a voice vote. An eminent professor of law Itse Sagay (SAN) believes political appointees can challenge Section 84(12) for conflicting with the constitution. He said: “The issue was not removed by an amendment of the Act, which they had promised the President. “This means if you are a contestant and you are an appointee, you have to leave government before the primary. “I’m not sure about when they should resign, but probably it’s the same one month that is in the Constitution that they will follow. “If that is the case, it means the if primaries are in May and elections are in January next year, effectively, they are being forced to resign more than six months before the election they wish to contest in.” Asked if the provision can be challenged in court for being in conflict with the Constitution, Sayay said: “I believe so. That is my view – that it is unconstitutional.” Another professor of law, Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN), also said the courts would have the final say on Section 84(12) Electoral Act. He said: “This is one of the most controversial provisions of the newly signed Electoral Act 2022. It has been the major bone of contention between the National Assembly and the Presidency. “The section makes clear that a political appointee, for example, a minister or a special adviser, cannot vote or be voted for at a party congress or convention. “This implies that such a political appointee cannot be a delegate or aspirant unless he/she resigns from such political appointment. “The question is when must such resignation take place? This provision seems unrealistic and unacceptable to political appointees, who would rather eat their cake and have it. “They would prefer to remain in office for as long as possible to continue to use the power and influence of office as well as public funds and other resources to prepare for their elections. “This is one of the most radical provisions of the new Electoral Act. However, can it stand in view of the provisions of the Constitution on a similar subject? “Section 84(10) of the Electoral Act 2022 (EA) seems to be in conflict with the provision of the constitution, which does not place such requirements on political appointees but on people employed in the civil or public service of the federation. “It is not clear whether the term civil service or public service of the federation extends to political appointees. “Even if they are so considered, civil or public servants are only required by the Constitution to resign from their employment 30 days before the date of the election. “It does not bar them from voting or being voted for either as a delegate or aspirant at a Convention or Congress because, by the time it is 30 days to an election, all processes including primaries leading up to an election would have been completed. Only the election itself would be left. See Sections 66(1)(f), 107(1)(f),137(1)(g). & 182(1)(g) of the Constitution. “The safer route, however, is for the National Assembly to amend the provision and bring it into conformity with the Constitution. “However, if the Legislators stick to their gun, the provision will be left for judicial interpretation. “Any political appointees who want to vote or be voted for at a party congress or convention must resign his appointment before participating in these events. They cannot eat their cake and have it.”