As Nigeria struggles to achieve universal healthcare coverage, Prof Mohammed Sambo, Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), reflects on the journey so far and exudes confidence that the country is on a success course. He spoke with Moses Emorinken Unveiling my three-point rebranding agenda   By July 15 2019, we assumed duty in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), and we unveiled a three-point rebranding agenda. If I can recall vividly, one of them is restoring the value system that will make NHIS to be a credible, result-oriented organisation. Second is general transparency and accountability in the entire operation of the NHIS. Thirdly, to accelerate the drive towards attaining Universal Health Coverage (UHC), and if you remember vividly we have constructed the element of each and every of these agendas. For the first one, which has to do with restoring value system, the reason why we would put it as the first agenda that we would pursue is because NHIS has been bedevilled by so many problems, and there was internal cohesion and externally; there was a lot of loss of confidence in the system. The organisation that is supposed to attain universal health coverage with over 200 million population had no credible roadmap to achieve that, and there was a lot of scrambles within the organisation. I was the 12th Chief Executive Officer in the 20 years of the existence of the organisation. If you do a simple calculation, you would realise that in every less than two years, one CEO would leave. So it has become a fairy tale in the NHIS that a CEO can’t pass two years in office. That was why when I celebrated my two years in office, unknown to me that it was two years, people came to me and they were celebrating and I asked ‘what was the cause of the celebration?’ and they said ‘oga, you are two years in the organisation and the last time we saw a CEO serve beyond two years was a very long one.’ So, one thing we can say we have been able to achieve is that stability. The organisation wasn’t stable before, and through the implementation of the value-orientation element, we have been able to stabilise the organisation, we have been able to create a clearly defined roadmap that will help us attain robust health coverage. The scramble whereby tear gas was being thrown into the organisation is no longer in the organisation, and you now see people working assiduously towards meeting the objective of the organisation. We met a health insurance whereby most of the activities that were taking place were largely driven at the level of headquarters. We have about nine zonal offices, thirty eight state offices and FCT; by 38, we mean that Lagos state has two different states as designated. Those state offices were there, but they were not functioning because most of the activities were driven at the level of headquarters. Also, more than 40 per cent of their staff, that is, about 1,400, were within the headquarters. The state offices were in a situation whereby you would go and see only six staff in some of the states; most states had a staff workforce of less than ten. You now have a situation where you would pay rent, pay security, and pay everything for only five or six staff. If you look at the real operation of health insurance, you can technically say that, with the coverage of almost 100 per cent of the formal section at the federal level, except for some few MDAs, we could say that Abuja is almost to universal health coverage because it is a city of Federal Government workers, and they have been enrolled into the formal sector health insurance programme, but at the level of state, there was a lot to be done. So, if we have a concentration of staff in the headquarters then it means that those people residing in the states will have no one to cater for them. So we employed the principle of decentralisation of governance to strengthen our state offices and made them very credible to be able to perform a decentralised function, and to that extent we have achieved quite a lot. We haven’t only decentralised, we have ensured that we have injected relevant, critical human resources that will drive activities at that level. In the previous interview I made mention of the fact of the 1,400 staffing in the National Health Insurance Scheme, only 46 are health care workers. By healthcare workers I mean the doctors, nurses, the lab scientist and the pharmacist, all other professions; social scientists and people from humanity, and this is a health sector driven organisation.   The state of health insurance coverage in Nigeria   I have said several times that I don’t want to use numbers, numbers are very crucial. Health insurance first is a decentralised system. Before I came in, states were not performing health insurance. There was a law that was passed that states should have their own social health insurance system. As at 2019 when I came, there was no state that had technically commenced social health insurance, but because there is a provision under the national health act to bring about states to come to deliver the basic healthcare provision fund, which is a Federal Government fund that is supposed to cover the vulnerable population, we have been able, through the Honourable Minister of Health and other stakeholders, bring about that programme in line now. We now have 37 states that have started implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF), and based on the resources that we have delivered to them, they have been able to cover a lot of ground in terms of numbers. So if you want to get the actual number (of Nigerians coverage) it requires aggregation. All this coverage that has been done at the state level; some are basic healthcare provision funds that we have given them, of which some have covered about 70,000 people; some have covered 50,000 people; some have covered 20,000 people. This is the basic healthcare provision fund. Some states under our guidance of health insurance under one roof have started their formal sector. For you to get the totality of the number of people under health insurance you need to do that mathematics, and it is not only those people that have been covered since my coming. Last week, we launched the NYSC programme where we are going to have about 360,000 youth members that are registered. If you have been following us critically, you will see that the National Assembly has put in a lot of money in their constituencies which they call constituency projects and we have been visiting those communities and we are getting them enrolled into the social health insurance. Then we have also launched what we call GIFSHIP. NHIS is driving the formal sector social health insurance programme and the informal sector social health insurance programme which is through the GIFSHIP programme – Group Individual Family Social Health Insurance Programme, which is an attempt to bring informal sector into the scheme of things and through this programmes, thousands of Nigerians are coming in to register and we are expecting to see more coming – even people at the level of diaspora. Maybe in absolute numbers, we can say we have covered over 15 million Nigerians, but it is a continuous process.     Tackling money rituals involving human sacrifice     Third force, third farce     Constitution review: National Assembly on another jamboree?   Health insurance and catastrophic health fund   Tell us about the established catastrophic fund for diseases, especially terminal illnesses. Also, how about the partnership with Roach, a big pharmaceutical company to produce cancer drugs for Nigerians at a subsidised cost? NHIS came up with the idea of establishing a catastrophic fund, and before I came, there was a budget that was appropriated for cancer for NHIS. Unfortunately, that money was sent to the Ministry of Health and you know once money gets into a system, it is very difficult to move to another system. But I know that the ministry has aggregated stakeholders and they are trying to drive that process. However, at the level of health insurance, you might have known about NHIS drug initiative, which is a very noble programme that we have introduced to ensure that we have drugs available in our system and cost also subsidised. We had a very good interaction with drug manufacturers association of Nigeria and they have agreed to collaborate with NHIS and all the stakeholders so we can start branding drugs with health insurance prescription, and by doing so, we will be able to have availability of the drug and we will be able to have the cost of the drug coming down. In fact, we have a Memorandum of Understanding with Roach that they are going to subsidise the cancer drugs by 70 per cent. So it means that the enrolees of NHIS will only pay 30 per cent of the cost. Last week, Roach informed us that they have secured the approval of NAFDAC to start branding these anti-cancer drugs with NHIS branding. This is how far we have gone. We are determined to make cancer drugs available through this kind of collaboration that will bring down the cost of the drugs.   What NHIS needs to provide universal health insurance coverage   It is a simple arithmetic; assuming no Nigerian has access to healthcare services globally and you want to bring all of them into the health insurance system at the cost we are currently using, which is N15,000 per head per annum. So, if you multiply N15,000 by 200 million people, you are talking about N3 trillion – this is just a projection. We are not saying you have to give NHIS N3 trillion to get healthcare delivery service, this is the cost that is required, and this is the effort we need to do. But you already know that the formal sector is on the national health insurance scheme. Then we have a basic healthcare provision fund already. We also have state health insurance that is coming. We have a private sector which has a role in health insurance. So for those ones and their family, we have to deduct them because they already have access to healthcare delivery. The self-employed are divided into two; those that have the capacity to pay and those that can’t pay, who are now within the vulnerable segment. So if you want to make a case for people that are not covered under the health insurance, you have to do all these subtractions and now get the real number of vulnerable, and it is those vulnerable that you would want to create some innovative financing mechanism that will enable NHIS as an Agency to generate funds to cover them.   Why health insurance should be compulsory   That is if the law of the national health insurance scheme is mandatory. But as we speak, the law of the national health insurance scheme is not mandatory. No country will dream of attaining universal healthcare coverage if the law of health insurance is not mandatory. The reason being that the rich who has capacity to have access to every big healthcare service will not want to join healthcare insurance scheme, but if you make it mandatory, the Director in Shell will contribute to the fund and the passenger in Lafia Local Government will contribute to the same pool, then you now have a big pool. When you have a pool, you will be able to extend services to the vulnerable even from the contribution of the existing contributors. Every country where you see universal health coverage ascertained, there are those vulnerable groups and there are mechanisms which the government put in place to pay for them. There is a popular innovative financing mechanism that is moving across sub-saharan countries which has to do with telecommunication funds. How do you get one kobo per second to be accumulated for the coverage of social health insurance? Assuming that initiative, let’s say will bring about N600 billion into health insurance, how many vulnerable people will we cover with it? Health insurance is a very dynamic system whereby there is a need for a lot of thinking and brainwave to be able to harness resources in an innovative manner to bring about funds that will cover the vulnerable. Anytime soon, I think Mr. President by the Grace of God will sign (the reviewed NHIS Act) because this mandatory social insurance is very critical to turn around the healthcare delivery system, and I think there is no contention on whether to sign.