The aspiration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to become the next president of Nigeria got boosted as another group of political stalwarts validated Tinubu’s quest to lead the country. The group under the aegis of Bola Tinubu Support Organisation (BTSO) UK Southwest Diaspora, which met at the weekend in Lagos, said it believed in Tinubu’s aspiration and would do everything humanly possible to ensure he emerges the next president of Nigeria. Prince Adekunle Olusanya, Patriot of the group said Tinubu, with his pedigree, stands a better chance and should be given the chance to steer the ship of the country, which will sail smoothly in his hands. He said Tinubu in both private and public life has been tested and can be trusted with power, adding many political leaders have passed through has gone through pupilage in his school of democracy. He said: “We are of the view that Asiwaju Bola Tinubu will emerge the presidential candidate of the APC and by the grace of God, he will eventually become the next president of Nigeria. And because we believe in that course, we have resolved to do everything humanly possible to support this aspiration. “Having done a lot for this country, we believe strongly that the time has now come for him to emerge as the next president. “With what we know about him, we are convinced that he has the character, capacity and competence to reshape the country to what it should be. “Tinubu has a better chance than other candidates.  He has set a high pedigree for himself while in both private and public services.  He achieved sterling performance during his private life and the record when he led Lagos as the governor between 1999 and 2003 still speaks volumes.   Defection: Court fixes April 11 for judgment in suit seeking…     2023: Ortom, Ishaku, Ugwuanyi, 34 others in PDP zoning…     Non-service stalls hearing in Abba Kyari’s extradition…   Read Also: Why Tinubu should succeed Buhari, by Abiru “He transformed Lagos to a megacity and those that took after him are still building on the foundation he laid.  He has good managerial abilities to galvanise both human and material resources to take Nigeria to the promised land. Olusanya dismissed the allegation of ill-health against Tinubu, saying he has been more active than most people who claim to be healthy. He said: “We are aware that some are saying he is sick.  But I can tell you that, Asiwaju is better than many Nigerian politicians and we can only continue to wish him stronger health. The issue of his health has nothing to do with his lifetime aspiration. “It is what we all know that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has the experience, resources and technical know-how to govern this country. He knows what and what the country needs.  Tinubu is loaded and it will be in the interest of Nigeria to give the chance and support him to get the APC ticket and become the president. Prince Tunde Edward, Coordinator, BTSO UK Southwest Diaspora, Lagos Chapter said they decided to restrategise to ensure the group achieves its mandate of ensuring Tinubu becomes the next president. Edward said that the group was out to mobilise and reach every nook and corner of the state and the southwest to raise the political consciousness of the people. He said: “We want to reshape the structure of the group in Lagos State.  We have been able to invite all the senatorial leaders, the group’s coordinator and the local government executives to galvanise our purpose and restrategise our plans to ensure we penetrate all communities and mobilise people from every polling ward and unit in Lagos.  This became necessary to raise the political consciousness of the people of Lagos.