An All Progressive Congress (APC) chieftain in Kaduna, Alhaji Ahmadu Yaro Coca-Cola, said attempts to dislodge the ruling party over the leadership crisis will fail. According to him, the party will overcome the current leadership crisis because there are still members that believe in it and President Muhammadu Buhari. He explained further as one of the founders of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change(CPC) he knows the difficulties they passed through alongside Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN); All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), a faction of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and the new Peoples Democratic Party (New PDP) members including President Buhari to form the APC in m 2013. Yaro, while addressing a news briefing on the current leadership crisis in the party, said as members of CPC that went into the merger with other political parties which formed the APC they will remain in the party with Buhari.\   Osun 2022: Atanda picks ADP governorship ticket     Osun 2022: PDP stakeholders move to mend fences     2023: Who will go for APC in Orlu Senatorial District?   He cautioned the CPC members in APC to be careful with the new political parties coming up ahead of the 2023 general elections, saying as politicians they should remain in the ruling party despite the challenges facing the part untill the ruling party resolves its crisis. According to him: “Let me use this opportunity to say that APC will overcome the leadership crisis because the crisis is a deliberate attempt to dislodge the party. But the party will not collapse. “This is why I call on our members, particularly those from CPC not to leave APC for another party because of the current crisis in the party and other challenges. We are with President Buhari before the merger and will remain with him in APC.” He urged the APC leadership to find a lasting solution to the crisis because members are not happy with the situation alleging that there are people working to sabotage president Buhari’s administration. Yaro insisted that the ruling party had done its best in fulfilling most of the campaign promises made to Nigerians from year 2015 to date, assuring the party loyalists that the party will not collapse comes 2023.