Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, has advised Nigerians against discriminating against the girl-child, particularly in the area of education. Oloyede spoke at a lecture commemorating the elevation of Mrs. Morufat Balogun to the rank of professor and the 55th birthday celebration of her husband, Alhaji Abdur-Rahman Balogun, yesterday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mrs. Balogun was recently elevated to the rank of professor of Genetics by the University of Ibadan (UI). NAN also reports that the theme of the celebration was: Celebration of the Girl-child Education. The JAMB registrar noted that education of every child, whether male or female, mattered. He maintained that more attention should be given to education of the girl-child. “Every child, male or female, deserves to be educated. “From the statistics available from the university, if you go to the registration centre now, you will see that less than 60 per cent of those registering for JAMB are girls.”   APC chieftains to meet Ayade on zoning     Constitutional amendment: National Assembly to engage…     NESI loses $743.49m to TCN’s failure to wheel 743,490MW   “This used to be from a particular part of the country before, but it spread to the whole of the country. We must change our slogan, as education of every child matters,” Oloyede said. Speaking on the new professor, the JAMB registrar recalled that her father gave birth to seven daughters, some of whom include doctor, pharmacist and lecturer. According to him, giving birth to only females by the father of the professor has not reduced anything from him; it is even an indication that everyone must strive to educate their children – males or females. In their separate lectures, Prof. Afis Oladosu of the Department of Arabic and Islamic Studies at UI and Dr. Khadijat Shobowale of Lagos State University (LASU), stressed the importance of education. Shobowale said Islam makes seeking of knowledge compulsory for any gender. “More than 800 verses of the Qur’an reiterate the importance of knowledge. So, there is definitely no reason for you not to get educated. “If you have people who are still preventing the girl-child from getting educated, it should be attributed to societal and cultural norms, and not Islam,” she said. In her remarks, Mrs. Balogun said the celebration of the girl-child education was borne out of the need to increase awareness on more effective utilisation of women. She added that the celebration was also to show her appreciation to God and her husband, who has been a pillar of support to her.