Bolatito, wife of late Timothy Adegoke, an Obafemi Awolowo University Master student, who was allegedly murdered in Hilton Hotels and Resorts, Ile-Ife broke down in tears on Monday while testifying in the ongoing murder trial of her husband.. She was giving evidence before Osun State High Court, Osogbo presided over by Justice Adepele Ojo. She was led in evidence taking by the prosecutor, Ochogwe. Narrating her account, she told the court: “On 5 November 2021, my husband left home for his final exam at Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife. My husband doesn’t joke with his family, when he was going he arrived the Airport, he called me that he was at the Abuja airport. “He had a meeting with tax officers in Ibadan. He was carrying a leather box which he said he would not want to go to Ile-Ife with. “I called a friend named Iyabo Ogeji at Akure to collect the leather box from him. He called me that my friend has collected the leather box from him and my friend also called to confirm. “When he arrived Ife, at Hilton Hotel he called me again. At about 8 pm, I called him to report one of our children to him. “He told me that I should not worry that he want to wake up by 12 to read. He said we will talk later. “My husband used to call me before he go for the exam but on Saturday 6th November 2021, I did not see his call.   BREAKING: Police arrest Lagos BRT driver     BREAKING: Police confirm missing lady in BRT dead     Sylvester Oromoni: Accused Dowen College student suffered…   “I called him more than three times. I was worried and I told my children and started weeping because the issue of kidnapping is rampant in Nigeria. “Since that time I continued calling his phone till around 4 pm. When he did not respond to the calls I informed one of our church Shepherd in Abuja. “He consoled me that I should be patient but I told him that such a thing has never happened since our marriage. “I informed his office about the situation. On Sunday 8th November 2021 around 5 PM, I called one of my husband’s sisters in Osogbo. “I told her to help me check my husband at the exam hall, I also called one of his friends chartered accountant and he called his friend at Ile-Ife to check hotel and exam hall. I told them that he lodged at Hilton Hotel. “When they checked Hilton, they said nobody bears that name that lodged in the hotel. I checked that document of my husband in Abuja and I saw the previous receipt of the Hilton Hotel. ” I snapped and sent it to my people who are in Ife. The police used the receipt to conduct thier investigation. I later reported at the police station where I wrote a statement and signed it.” She burst into tears and told the Court: “I want true justice for my late husband.”