2022 has been fruitful so far for some Nigerian celebrities in the area of childbearing. Comedian Woli Arole, and wife welcomed their new baby boy on Sunday January 2, 2022. He broke the news on his Instagram page. The comedian wrote: “There are some testimonies you can’t share wearing clothes. “God has blessed our family with a bouncing baby boy. “Woli Arole the latest Daddy in town. God bless you my wife. “Yemi, you’re God’s gift to me. “In case you see me dancing around today or smiling up and down, don’t ask me why oooo. “I am a daddy.” Actor Williams Uchemba and wife welcomed their first child, Chikamara Isabella Uchemba on Tuesday February 8, 2022. The excited father shared a video which revealed the pregnancy journey of his wife, Brunella, as he made the announcement. Celebrating the good news, Williams Uchemba appreciated his daughter for fulfilling his greatest desire of being a dad. Ex-BBNaija season 4 housemate Omashola welcomed a baby boy with fiancée on Monday January 10, 2022. Omashola revealed this via an Instagram post on Tuesday where he shared a short clip in which he was seen opening and popping a bottle of champagne. It the post’s caption, Omashola made the announcement. He wrote: “It’s a boy.” This happened several days after the reality TV star shared a video of his fiancée’s sonogram which displayed the baby’s movement in the womb.   Actors ‘packaged peacocks’ – Actor Gideon Okeke     I’m going to break stereotypical barriers – Whitemoney     Four Nigerian musicians with royal roots   Movie producer Yomi Fabiyi welcomed a baby boy in February. Fabiyi announced the news on Thursday February 10, 2022 via his Instagram page where he shared a collage of videos with the mother of his child showing her bare belly in her heavily pregnant state while they were in a car. The other showed him holding his newborn son beaming with utmost excitement and joy. The new dad expressed gratitude to God for the baby’s safe arrival and appreciated the doctors, their parents, friends and neighbors for their support all through the journey. Lanre Gentry, former husband of actress, Mercy Aigbe, welcomed a baby girl with his new wife, Oluwabusayo, on Sunday February 27, 2022. Lanre remarried Oluwabusayo in September last year. Confirming the arrival of the new baby, Lanre wrote on Instagram: “Thank you Lord for the gift of marriage. I’m very happy. “It is a baby girl. Thank God.” Lanre and Mercy parted ways after a 7-year tumultuous union. Super Eagles midfielder Oghenekaro Etebo welcomed a new baby on Friday, February 11, 2022. Etebo took to his official Instagram account to announce the arrival of the new baby. In the photo posted, Etebo and his wife posed with the baby. The post also came with a message that said, “we did it again Introducing our bundle of joy @isietebo thank God for the courage and strength you put in bringing this cutie to the World Dancer Korra Obidi welcomed her second child, Athena Dean on Tuesday March 1, 2022. The dancer, who is married to Dr. Justin Dean, also has a daughter named June Dean. Korra revealed that she had her second child through a “natural raw water birth.” “Welcome the latest addition to the #DeanClan @AthenaDean_,” the dancer wrote in a caption to a photo of her newborn laying with her, her husband Justin Dean, and big sister June.