About 3,464 smallholder rice farmers in Kebbi State have received agricultural inputs from WACOT Rice Limited under the Argungu Outgrower Expansion Programme (AOEP). The recipients, from Argungu, Augie, Suru and Dandi Local Government Areas (LGA), were given agricultural inputs ranging from improved seeds, fertilizers and crop protection chemicals to machinery, irrigation and knowledge. The AOEP – a partnership between WACOT Rice Limited and the West African Trade and Investment Hub (TH) – seeks to increase the quality of smallholder farmer livelihoods via access to required agri-input financing, capacity building trainings on Yield Enhancement Techniques (YET) and Good Agronomic Practices (GAP). The input distribution was carried out at village and community levels. The Emir of Argungu, Alhaji Samaila Muhammad Mera (CON), flagged off the 2021/2022 Dry Season agri-input distribution exercise at his palace in on the 8th of December 2021.   Tambuwal’s politics of inclusivesness, tolerance     2023: Only SGS has notified APC of intent to contest Katsina…     Three killed, 16 injured in Bauchi ghastly accident   The ongoing programme involves 3,464 registered farmers in four LGAs. These farmers, comprising 10% women and 25% youth, have received agri-inputs and as the season progresses, they will also be supported with both on and off-field training sessions. Commenting on the exercise, WACOT Rice Limited’s Chairman, Farouk Gumel, said the distribution of certified seeds, agrochemicals, and fertilizer to the project participants will enhance their productivity and thus, income. “I am excited about the significant participation of youth and women this season who continue to play a critical role in Nigeria’s agricultural value chain. I will encourage more to sign up as this will support our ambitions to become a self-sufficient nation,” Gumel added. One of the beneficiaries, Hajia Kulu Augie, who has a three-hectare rice farm at Kasuwanamu Fadama area of Kebbi, commended WACOT and its partner, the Trade Hub, for the kind gesture, noting that it had made life easier for the farmers by empowering them.