Dancehall Cynthia Morgan has declared Grammy award-winning afrobeat singer Burna Boy as Africa’s biggest and best artiste. The singer said this in a bid to carpet a troll who spoke down on Burna Boy by referring to him as a ‘vixen’ while hailing his favourite artist Wizkid for his feats. The ‘brouhaha’ began when a Burna fan expressed gratitude that he made the billboard else he would have received a lot of backlash from critics. “I just thank God say Burna Boy got a Billboard Hot 100 entry, if not these streets would have been really cold for Outsiders,” he tweeted. Responding to the tweet, a Wizkid fan wrote: “Wiz been balling with them top guns when your fave was doing video vixen for Cynthia Morgan.” Cynthia Morgan, who stumbled on the argument, schooled the Wizkid’s fan that Burna Boy has always been a great artiste. “Burna Boy has always been a big artiste. You were just a kid,” she tweeted. Quite pissed, Cynthia Morgan wondered why people will ever think Burna Boy was a ‘nobody’ when he featured on her major hit track “Simatiniya.” The rap also reminded critics that at the time, ‘Odogwu’ was way bigger than her. “It is quite annoying seeing people say Burna Boy was a nobody when I had him on Simatiniya. Really? IMO Burna was bigger than me,” she wrote. However, while the rap star clarified critics on Burna Boy’s role in her 2015 project and position, she noted he continues to be the biggest and best artiste in Africa until she decides to return to the music scene.   Rema launches NFT ahead of album release     I’m ahead of Wizkid, Davido, Burna Boy, others –…     Most people on social can’t defend their successes – Shade…   “To me, Burna boy was the biggest artist in Africa when I picked him for Simatinya video and I remember almost losing my record deal with Jude Okoye’s label for standing my ground that it was only Burna boy I wanted and no one else,” she wrote. “I know a lot of you love living in lies either due to tribalism or personal hatred but please I never wanted to see my name in a sentence that has to do with a Burna Boy slander. “He is the best and biggest artist in Africa till I pick the mic again,” she stressed. In December 2021, Cynthia Morgan critiqued the “Twice as Tall” singer’s musical prowess. According to the ‘German juice’ crooner, Burna Boy has lost his musical touch. She explained his performance on his work, “Ballon D’Or” which he featured Wizkid was unimpressive. The “I’m Taken” singer argued the song was probably made in a hurry while also faulting the intro, melodies and rhyming. She, however, hailed the beatmaker of the song. “Burna Boy is losing it with his musical arrangement. Wizkid is ok but his last 8 bars was weak,” she wrote. “To me, I feel like they made this record in a hurry so I will give it a 5/10. The first 9seconds of the song was unnecessary. “Also with the intro? The melodies/rhyming on the chorus is incomplete? “Please I need a rematch. Shout out to the beatmaker though. You’re a boss #inspireme.”