A partnership between the Lagos State government and the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) to meet the housing needs of the people of Lagos appears to be in the offing. The plan was mooted when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu told CCECC of the willingness of the state to provide lands at any place in the state for housing development. Sanwo-Olu said he is in search for partners for housing development and since the CCECC was already interested in the sector through the estate it already has at Sangotedo on the Lekki-Epe expressway and lately in Ikoyi. He was at Ikoyi to perform the ground-breaking ceremony for the Grand Panorama at the upscale Alexander Road when he dropped the hint. In reaction, the Managing Director of the Real Estate Company Limited, a subsidiary of the CCECC, Mr. Jimmy Zhong said the company was willing to take up the challenge and contribute to filling the housing deficit in Lagos and Nigeria.   Complete abandoned school project, old students’ beg…     EKSU, Alumni announces endowment prize     Campaign gives firm edge   The Governor lauded CCECC for venturing into real estate development by diversifying from the mainstay of its business, which is construction. The governor expressed happiness that the company is assisting in the objective of the state to provide affordable housing to all classes of citizens of the state, and challenged them to go beyond the high-income area of Ikoyi into developing for the masses. “I would be glad to welcome you for a partnership in housing development even in the low-income areas of Lagos. We are ready to work with you to realise our objective of providing affordable housing for our people. I am ready to provide you land for such development in any part of the state,” he said. Chinese Consul General, Mr. Chu Maoming said the diversification of CCECC into real estate development is a sign that the company has come to stay and sees itself as a part of Nigeria, and ready to contribute to the development of the country.