The Ghanaian senior national team player have promised to beat the Super Eagles of Nigeria to book a place in the 2022 World Cup scheduled to be hosted in Qatar, reports modernghana.com. In the first leg of the playoffs, Ghana were held to a 0-0 drawn game against their rivals at the Baba Yara Stadium on Friday night. Ghana will be hosted at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium on Tuesday, March 29 for the return leg. With the country chasing its fourth World Cup appearance having missed out in the last edition, the players have ensured to book qualification over their rivals. According to the Communications Director of the Ghana Football Association [GFA], Henry Asante Twum the players made this vow in a meeting with the technical team and the management committee of the Black Stars. He added that the players are bent on making themselves and the country proud. Meanwhile,  the  Ghana’s contingent  for today’s decisive 2nd  leg of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off tie against Nigeria arrived safely in Abuja  yesterday.   Ronaldo admits tough test  against North Macedonia     Salah leads Egypt ‘ World Cup war’ against  Senegal     WTT Doha: Aruna edge Chinese star in crunchy tie   The team which  reportedly departed the Kumasi Airport around 11:30am (12:30pm Nigerian time.  touched down at  the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja around 1:30 Nigeria time. According to a release by the Ghana Football Association (GFA) on its website, ‘all the 26 invited players made the trip to Nigeria with the exception of Edmund Addo who missed the 1st leg due to injury.’ Ghana  Full Squad against Nigeria. Goalkeepers: Lawrence Ati Zigi, Joseph Wollacot, Nurudeen Manaf, Richard Ofori Defenders:Dennis Odoi, Gideon Mensah, Andy Yiadom, Alexander Djiku, Daniel Amartey, Joseph Aidoo, Montari Kamaheni, Mumin Suleman, Dennis Korsah Midfielders:Idrissu Baba, Mohammed Kudus, Elisha Owusu, Thomas Partey, Daniel Kofi Kyereh Wingers/Strikers:Felix Afena Gyan, Jordan Ayew, Christopher Antwi Adjei, Issahaku Abdul Fatawu, Kwasi Okyere Wreidt, Osman Bukari, Yaw Yeboah, Joseph Paintsil.