The Katsina State chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Alhaji Sani Aliyu JB, has declared that only the Secretary to the Government of the state, Alhaji Mustapha Mohammed Inuwa, has so far declared his intent to contest the 2023 election for the governor of Katsina State Alhaji Aliyu, who made the disclosure while receiving the Secretary to the Government of the state in his office, said several other aspirants have only expressed their intentions on social media and newsprints but yet to formally approach the party. Meanwhile, Alhaji Inuwa has formally declared his intention to contest the governorship seat of the state during the 2023 general election. Inuwa, who made the declaration during a press conference at Government House Press Center, Katsina, said he had formally notified Governor Aminu Bello Masari, the Deputy Governor, Manner Yakubu, as well as other governorship aspirants on the party’s platform, about his intention.   Three killed, 16 injured in Bauchi ghastly accident     NASC confiscates vegetable seeds for non compliance in…     Sani-Bello visits IDPs in Gwada, warns bandits   The SGS had earlier notified the party leadership in the state at its state secretariat as well as conducted rallies at various parts of the state capital, and the Emir’s palace to formally announce his entry into the contest. He said, “Many people have been carrying out previous political promotions and publicity on my behalf, but I have never financed their efforts, due to the fact that the party is yet to take a stand on the issue. ‘’I wish to formally inform you that I have formally joined the race for the Governorship of Katsina State. ‘’I have earlier consulted the Governor, his deputy, and other contestants who started earlier, we have one party, the APC, and we shall abide by the rules and regulations. “I have the capacity for the kind of leadership the state desires. I will work hard and make necessary consultations and whatever the outcome, we believe its Allah’s wish.’’