A business and management consulting firm, Phillips Consulting, has said African businesses and industry leaders are facing daunting challenges to navigate the post-COVID economic environment being shaped by accelerating digitisation, rising hybrid workplace, diversity, globalisation and Artificial Intelligence. It warned that doing nothing about these portends danger to businesses and the prosperity of the continent. Its Managing Director, Mr. Rob Taiwo, who provided insight into the ‘Future of Work’ and exploring emerging trends in the ‘Future of Work’ and its potential impacts on critical industries across Africa at AfricaNXT2022 during a panelist discussion, said a recent study has showed that 97 per cent of employees stated that they had some kind of work related stress, adding that this is the best time for a reset, especially after COVID. He said the company has, in the past two years, re-imagined the future of work as the world comes to grips with the new normal, businesses and teams have to continue to adjust and react quickly to remain competitive. The panelists at the event mapped how critical enablers of the fourth and fifth industrial revolution will profoundly drive transformation across industries and redefine the future of work. The African economy can forge a different pathway from the rest of the world if opportunities in the emerging “Future of Work” are harnessed correctly by businesses and industry leaders, they averred.   Aspine Homes launches 2,600 houses     Bayelsa residents report fresh oil leak from Aiteo’s…     IWD: Eunisell celebrates female employees   Mr. Taiwo said: “Employees are looking for different types of leadership. Old school methods of command and control are collapsing; it is a new day and a new time. Companies that are going to win are embracing a new way. People are looking for more than money; increasingly people are working for purpose. Work-place culture is also taking the forefront in the way people seek employment.” Also speaking, the Senior Managing Consultant & Head of Advisory, Mr. Joshua Ademuwagun, said the company shared best practices and offered industry-focused considerations on how business leaders need to rethink their business models and strategies to best position themselves to leverage emerging opportunities.” Founder & CEO Spacefinish & Design Match Up, Remi Dada, said the future of work is about being empowered to work how you want, when you want. When employees are empowered, performance becomes the goal. “Tech is in more demand than before; “work spaces” are more relevant than pre- COVID, which is why creating spaces that are meant for collaboration, making your office space feel as relaxed as your home is the future. Space finish Designs is working to blur the lines between the work space and living spaces for the Future of work,” he said. Corroborating earlier speakers, Head, HR & Admin, Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, Arinola Fetuga, asked rhetorically: “How do we transfer knowledge and build strong relationships between employees and employers when everyone is working in a different environment? That is where Technology comes into play when building the Future of work. But company policies, feedback, structure, and processes have to be adaptable to fit the evolving future?”