Super Eagles attacker, Odion Jude Ighalo has listed promotion with Watford and scoring a brace against Liverpool as his favourite moments at the Hornets while playing in the English Premier League. The current Al Hilal striker also picked his first goal in the EPL against Everton on his debut as his favourite Watford goal while discussing his best moments with the Hornets, his career since leaving the club and his thoughts on some of the current players in the squad, on the recent edition of Inside The Hive.  “The promotion game, and our game against Liverpool. I think that was one of our best games and it was a great moment for me and the fans, and all of the players,” Ighalo told Watford official website.  “My goal against Everton; that was my first goal in the Premier League. It meant a lot to me, the Premier League was my dream, and to score in my first game meant so much to me.” The Super Eagles forward also acknowledged the roles played by the duo of former Nigeria internationals Nwankwo Kanu and Austin Okocha in his career, adding Kanu’s performance for Arsenal and Okocha’s brilliance for Bolton Wanderers inspired him.   Lokomotiv Moscow Coach quits over Ukraine invasion     Transfers: Gwagwalada club owners holds seminar     250 players set for Osun Table Tennis competition    “Growing up watching [Nwankwo Kanu for Arsenal, Jay-Jay Okocha at Bolton Wanderers, you watch the league and see fellow Nigerians doing well, and it gives you joy and happiness that one day you will be there.” Meanwhile, Ighalo has advised the Hornets to keep Super Eagles attacker Emmanuel Dennis, Ismaila Sarr and Joshua King fit in top form in their bid to escape relegation.  “He (Dennis) is a very good player. He has good technique, he’s fast and can score goals, he’s very intelligent,” Ighalo said in the comments published on the club’s official website. “He just has to keep fit, keep taking his chances, and score goals. I think if the season is going to turn around, they have to keep Dennis, [Ismaïla] Sarr, and [Joshua] King firing, get goals home and away, and escape relegation.” Ighalo has scored two goals in two league games for Al Hilal after crossing over from Al Shabab before the end of the January transfer window. He netted 12 times from 18 games for Al Shabab also in the Saudi Arabia Premier League.