Study by the World Bank Group has shown the positive impact of Netflix television drama on the lifestyles and finances of its viewers. The report said viewers of the programme are twice as likely to test for HIV and live better live. It said the show’s storylines, touching on HIV prevention, gender-based violence, safe sex and more, have educated a growing fanbase across the world since the show debuted in Kenya in 2009. Netflix also announced that the MTV Shuga full library is now available for streaming on their digital platform. The pan-African series initially launched in Kenya, has since expanded into Nigeria, South Africa and Cote D’Ivoire.   Farmers, marketers hit by high diesel cost     Marketers, airlines in talks over aviation fuel price hike     Nigeria: What a country!   The show’s success includes two seasons in Kenya, four in Nigeria, two in South Africa and two in Cote D’Ivoire; all of which are now available on Netflix. MTV Shuga is a multi-platform edutainment campaign initiative from the MTV Staying Alive Foundation that has integrated pop culture, trending music and youthful storytelling to positively impact and change behaviuors of young people for over a decade. “We’re thrilled that Netflix is taking the full MTV Shuga series. Not only does it give the Netflix audience the chance to see some of the biggest actors across the continent – including Lupita Nyong’o and Thuso Mbedu – starring in several MTV Shuga series; but it also allows us to reach a brand new and wide audience with our proven behavior changing content for the continent’s youth”,  Executive Director at MTV Staying Alive Foundation and Senior Vice President of Social Responsibility, at Paramount, Georgia Arnold, said. Fan favourites and star power across the series include familiar Pan African talent from Kenya: Lupita Nyong’o (Ayira), Nick Mutuma (Leo); South Africa: Thuso Mbedu (Ipeleng), Mamarumo Marokane (Dineo), Ayanda Makayi (Sol); Nigeria: Tomiwa Tegbe (Wasiu), Jemima Osunde (Leila), Timini Egbuson (Tobi); Côte D’Ivoire: Ange Eric N’Guessan (Daniel), Soukeïna Koné (Rubi) and several other notable characters. Memorable musical artists supporting the series with vibrant music include musicians from Kenya: Madtraxx, P-Unit and Nameless, Nigeria: Tiwa Savage, Vector Tha Viper and Larry Gaaga; South Africa: Nasty C, Kwesta and NdunaRoyal; Côte D’Ivoire: Zeynab, Serge Beynaud and Big Tyger. “MTV Shuga continues its commitment to contribute to improving and inspiring behavioural change at the grass-roots level by reflecting authentic social issues impacting young Africans through storytelling. We welcome the partnership with Netflix and we believe we will collectively work together to build stronger communities and encourage deep and meaningful conversations amongst the youth”, says Monde Twala, Senior Vice President and General Manager of Paramount.