The Chief of the Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya has said the service will not let the country down in addressing the multifaceted security challenges being faced. He also insisted that the military was winning the war against insurgents, citing a recent Global Terrorism Index (GTI) report that commended the country’s efforts. Yahaya gave the assurances in Lagos after unveiling the solar and electricity borehole, street lights built at Isale Eko community by the Army Corps of Engineers to enhance civil-military relations. He said security agencies have recorded several successes in the war with obvious results despite isolated attacks by insurgents, adding that appreciable milestones were also recorded in the fight against banditry and kidnapping. He urged the people to continue to support the armed forces as eradicating the scourge completely would take time. Yahaya said: “In other aspects of banditry and kidnapping we are achieving successes both in the North West, North East and North Central and across all tiers even in the South East where we are confronting secessionists. “We have achieved a lot of results. Like I said, it is not as if there are no isolated incidents here and there; but those also we are tackling with the support and commitment of the president and the synergy between the Nigerian Army, Nigerian Navy, Nigerian Airforce, other security agencies and stakeholders. We won’t let the country down.” On the projects being unveiled, the COAS said it was aimed at bringing succour to the community as well as bringing the army closer to the people.   We shall make APC bastion of internal democracy –…     NDLEA intercepts consignments enroute five countries     FUTA confirms death of ex-VC, Prof Daramola   “This time the projects that are ongoing in the army were identified areas where we have very senior officers who have through hard work, dedication and commitment, risen to the enviable rank of Major General. They were asked to identify projects of needs in their communities in order for the army to undertake them. “This is just one that we have commissioned today. Maj.-Gen. Kamalu Kadiri the Commander Corps of Engineers decided to come back to his roots at Isale Eko and provided them with water, street lights amongst others. “We have commissioned several others, three weeks ago at Okene and other places…” In his remarks, Maj.-Gen. Kadiri said each borehole has two power points one solar light and electricity, adding that also provided were generators to the street lights. “We have 38 solar power street lights for selected part of the community. We started the project in November last year and it ended this month,” he said. The Nation reports that Yahaya also inaugurated projects at Dondan and Abati Barracks including the Army Finance Corps Soldiers’ Transit accommodation; Army Ordinance School Students’ Hostel, Ablution Block; 70 Command Supply Transport Transit Officers’  accommodation; newly built official residences for Regimental Sergeant Majors (RSMs) of 81 Division, NA Engineers Corps and Signals,  as well as office houses at Apapa for the Commander and Deputy Commander, Finance Corps. The COAS also visited the Oba of Lagos, Rilwanu Akiolu during the three-day working visit, who thanked the army for their intervention during the #ENDSARS violence and desecration of his palace.   Akiolu dismissed rumours that death was recorded at his palace and urged the youths to stop destroying public infrastructure, just as he expressed optimism that next year’s general elections would be peaceful.