Nine Nigerians have emerged winners under various categories at the under 40 awards ceremony at Accra, Ghana. The ceremony, organised with the support of the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Ghana, initially had 163 nominees and was pruned down to 63 nominees. This is contained in a statement by Mr Ayokunle Ayoko, Founder, Kaizen Academy Ltd., on Monday in Lagos and winner of the law category. Ayoko noted that the award programme was organised to celebrate successful Africans under the age of 40. He said that the awards were conceptualised to identify, honour, and celebrate a cross-section of the continent’s most influential and accomplished young business icons under the age of forty. According to him, the icons identified are those with great commitment to business growth, professional excellence, and community service. Ayoko added that the nominees selected from different African countries had excelled in politics, banking and finance, energy, agriculture, theatre and arts, journalism, fashion, law, sports, event management, health, technology, and innovation amongst others.   Portable sacks manager, promoter, DJ     Music loses power when it becomes competitive – Korede…     How I spent Mother’s Day, by Jada P   They are: Mr Ayokunke Ayoko (Law), Chinenye Onuorah (Education), Edirin Edewor (Authorship and Creative Writing), Efe Ukala(Social Support), Emmanuel Ezima(Fashion) and Folabi Edward Obembe (Digital Education). Others include Janet Faremi (Sales and Marketing), Pelumi Aribisala (Agriculture & Agro Processing) and Santiago Roberts (Industry and Lifestyle). Last year’s aspirant in the Ugandan Presidential elections, Mr Bobi Wine, won the Government and Governmental agencies category. Ayoko, commending the organisers, expressed optimism about the future of Africa. “It is reassuring that the future of Africa is in good hands. “The massive strides African youths are making in sports, entertainment, and other areas of endeavour mean that we are witnessing a reawakening of the African continent and the future is bright,” he said. Speaking after awards, Mr Santiago Roberts, Head, Events, Linda Ikeji TV, expressed satisfaction at the quality of nominees and the recognition given to future leaders who are making an impact across Africa. Chinenye Onuorah in her remarks recounted her tough and beautiful journey in providing succour for the African Child, saying the award gave her renewed vigour to do more.(NAN)