Three Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors – Samuel Ortom (Benue), Darius Ishaku (Taraba) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) – are among the 37 wise men to determine the zoning of the party’s 2023 presidential ticket. The leadership of the party announced the composition of the 37-member committee in Abuja yesterday, following its earlier decision at the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on March 16. The panel members are to be inaugurated today at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Members of the committee have a mandate to work out modalities for the sharing of positions of Senate President, House of Representatives Speaker, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and other leadership positions in the two chambers of the National Assembly among the six geopolitical zones.   IMF ready to lend more to Nigeria     Soyinka decries protest over OAU VC     National Assembly to appeal judgment voiding Electoral Act…   In a statement by its National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Umar Bature, the party also listed other members to include; former governors Ayo Fayose (Ekiti), Sule Lamido (Jigawa), Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Liyel Imoke (Cross River), Boni Haruna (Adamawa), Ibrahim Dankwabo (Gombe), Ibrahim Shema (Katsina), Ibrahim Idris (Kogi) Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto) and Jonah Jang (Plateau). Other members include Chief Tom Ikimi (Edo); Mao Ohuabunwa (Abia); Emmanuel Ibokessien (Akwa Ibom); Prof. A. B. C. Nwosu (Anambra); Sen. Abdul Ningi (Bauchi); Boyelayefa Debekeme (Bayelsa) and Sanusi Daggash (Borno). Others are: House Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu (Delta); Amb. Franklin Ogbuewu (Ebonyi); Mohammed Abdulrahman (FCT); Chief Fidelis Izuchukwu (Imo); Amb. Aminu Wali (Kano); Kabiru Tanimu Turaki (Kebbi) and Kawu Baraje (Kwara). Also on the list are Chief Olabode George (Lagos); Mike Abdul (Nasarawa); Prof Jerry Gana (Niger); Daisi Akintan (Ogun); Dr. Omotayo Dairo (Ondo); Prof. Adewale Oladipo (Osun); Sen. Hosea Ayoola Agboola (Oyo); Austin Opara (Rivers); Adamu Maina Waziri (Yobe) and impeached Zamfara Deputy Governor Mahadi Aliyu Gusau.