THE 2023 election offers a highland to viral nature, the fabled staircase to the Nigerian paradise, as espoused by new kids on the block, The National Movement (TNM), and National Consultative Front (NCF). The emergence of both parties wildly projected as a mythical ‘third force’ meant to thwart and grab power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and a weak opposition, People’s Democratic Party (PDP), however, flies in the face of reason. While The Nation’s erudite columnist, Olakunle Abimbola, aptly dissects the emergence of the so-called third force as a farce, a previous report by the newspaper listed likely partners of the group, ahead of a formal launch in Abuja on March 8 to include:  People’s Redemption Party (PRP: Nigeria’s current oldest party, founded by the late Mallam Aminu Kano, pre-Second Republic, 1979-1983), African Democratic Congress, National Rescue Movement (NRM) and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). Thus this minute, the political space pulses with the usual theatrics. A cursory glance at the characters constituting the farce of a group reveals familiar faces – self-confessed patriots and “thought leaders” who pride themselves as Nigeria’s saviours. As we approach the elections, they present themselves as the nation’s most dependable compass for navigating a brighter future. They will claim that they’d do a better job projecting a positive image for the country on the global scene by their exploits in academia, politics, entertainment, literature, and digital technology. This supposedly pro-youth group would argue that the incumbent leadership has failed, citing its perceived inefficiencies and contempt for the youth. They would claim that poor leadership pushed the youths to the extreme hence the high rate of crime and terrorism. But even amid their storm of spunk and slogans, Nigeria will thirst for a liberating elixir. Rarely have we seen or read, an instructive and realistic strategy at reclaiming the country from the vulturine political class – to which most of their members belong. They would argue that their boutique or Ivy League education, international exposure, and friends in high places affirm their sagacity and depth in local politics. It’s all part of their hustle. When the hustle pits them on the side of the oppressive oligarchs, they arrogate to themselves a false sense of worth and significance in national affairs. They jostle to be part of the government’s ‘think tanks,’ they lobby to become political aides, playing Goebbel to Nigeria’s Hitlers. When the hustle pits them on the side of the ‘masses’ or youth divide, they think they are deeply engaged in politics by debating the latest developments on social media. They might sign an online petition or start a #Hashtag for or against anything and everything. They follow the news presenting sexy realism and varnished perspectives on local and international politics – often rehashing other people’s views. This breed of the intelligentsia will reel by rote why the Arab Spring’s failure must be seen as inversely successful. Groups like the so-called third force, are part of the afflictions of political Nigeria. Nigerians must learn to scorn such platforms that only emerge a few months to the polls. Most of the group’s members are often led by desperation and grudges against a system that rendered them irrelevant or “short-changed” by their initial platforms. Nigeria is in dire need of a new class of political leadership, but the people must seek first mental freedom; a new class of citizenship must emerge to actualize this.   Abuja primary school teachers’ strike     Don urges govt to establish science and innovation centres…     Tackling cybercrime, ritual killings among students   Frantic movements like the TNM are built to fail. Its immediate past predecessor, the defunct Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT) initially showed promise, until its members began to speak in a selfish, private dialect that obscured meaningful communication with the citizenry segments whose votes and support they needed to upset the status quo and gain a foothold. Greed and covetousness stifled rationality and judgment among their elitist divide. Eventually, they failed to convince the people, let alone inspire their mandates. To rescue Nigeria back from the vice-grip of its plunderers and oppressors, a new class of political leadership must insert itself in the lives of the ordinary people, including street urchins, commercial transporters, the armed forces, students, shanty communities, and the unemployed, whose votes and base sentimentality the ruling class consistently exploits at election time. In the wake of the 2019 elections, these characters constituting the “third force” could have gone to work. They had ample opportunities to woo the people, the voter segment, in particular, but as usual, they retreated into their fancy fortresses, deigning contemptuous glances at the boondocks. How visionary it would have been of the PACT collective, for instance, to remain intact while launching a humanitarian effort to distribute justifiable palliatives directly to the citizenry segments impoverished by the pandemic, among other efforts. This, of course, could be misconstrued as a variant of the manipulative character often deployed as part of the political class’s artifice but it would be of a disarmingly milder tenor. There was ample time for the self-styled “disrupters” and “people’s liberators” to upset and re-order the political space. Most successful revolutions are fundamentally non-violent. The Russian Revolution was victorious once the Cossacks refused to fire on the protesters in Petrograd in 1917 and joined the crowds. And the clerics who overthrew the Shah of Iran in 1979 won once the Shah’s military abandoned the collapsing regime. The superior force of despotic leadership is disarmed not through violence but through conversion. The electoral ideal by which many vote for a candidate without reflecting over the import of their votes, is utterly wrong and must be repudiated. In Nigeria’s case, the revolution must be achieved via the ballot box. There must be a renegotiation of norms and concessions around Nigeria’s nationhood. In the new deliberations, negotiating parties must come to the table as equals. Those human segments usually exploited as pawns by the incumbent political class must be wooed by offering them more dignified and pivotal positions at the table. This would excite their confidence in the hypothesized epoch where the government is humane and leaders truly serve the interests of the citizenry. The TNM would make no impact on the forthcoming elections. And like their kindred spirits in the defunct PACT collective, they would fail to rise from the ashes of electoral defeat and their dormant platforms, to re-engage with the citizenry, after the elections. Beyond their hastily-convened townhall meetings, corny platitudes, and revolutionary chants at election time, the aftermath would offer them wonderful opportunities to reconnect with the grassroots, the youths, academia, pensioners, and market women of the sidewalk, among other broad segments of the electorate in realistic terms. But they would eagerly pass. After their ill-fated outing in 2023, the TNM and cohorts must stop trumpeting off the perceived failings of the electoral process; they must avoid obsessive preoccupation with anticipated failures of the victors. If they are truly broadly cultured patriots driven by love to nurse and rebuild Nigeria into a prosperous nation, they’d actively collaborate with the new government in addressing our social crisis, outside the toxic perimeters of thought. Currently, we suffer the lack of honest and broadly cultured men endowed with patience, humility, good breeding, and taste. It’s about time we practiced truly progressive politics and espouse it as a culture beneficial to all. Until we attain a broad, busy abundance of such understanding, not all the finest crumbs of the proverbial national cake can dull the affliction of the predatory political class.