FRIDAY: My name is Friday. Though I applied for my 25 per cent arrears’ contribution last month from my PFA, Premium Pension, I am yet to be paid. Kindly help. PENCOM: Please be advised that the Commission is processing your benefits. Your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) will notify you once it has been concluded. Thank You. OGBAJE: My name is Ogbaje, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I retired in 2019, but my resettlement allowance has not been paid. Can you help trace it? PENCOM: Investigations show that your retirement benefits have been paid since October 2020. Kindly visit your pension fund administrator (PFA) for more details. Thank you. ADETUNJI: I am Adetunji. I reside in Ibadan, the Ogun State capital. My daughter just got a job and she was asked to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA). Please, how do we go about it. Thank you.. PENCOM: Please visit the commission’s website at http://www.pencom.gov.ng for a list of Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and their contact details. Please feel free to contact any of them so they can advise you of their nearest branch to you. They would assist you in the opening of a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) for your daughter. Thank you. ANDERSON: Good day. I am  Anderson Anzaku, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). It is quite some years since I last received my monthly SMS. I do not know what is in the Savings account. Please help me. PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) so they can update your telephone number as well as your email address for you to receive alerts and statemets monthly. Thank You. JOE: My name is Joe, the next-of- kin to the late Mr. Daniel, the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), Deputy Director, Warri office. His contract expired in 2013 and  died seven years later. I have submitted all documents to Stanbic IBTC Pension for his RSA contribution and others, but I did not hear from them. The last time I was there I was told that NPC had not sent the approval. Please, help get response from NPC. Thank you. PENCOM: Please forward to us some information such as the RSA PIN, full name as well as Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for us to investigate further. thank you. TIMILEHIN: Good day, my name is Timilehin and I am a retired soldier. All efforts to get my voluntary pension contributions from Stanbic IBTC Pension management have proved abortive, despite meeting  their requirements.   PTAD partners EFCC, ICPC to fight crime     ‘Pension fund hit N13.61tr in January’     Return Head of Service, Perm Secs, AGF to CPS, says NUP   SUPOL BROWNSON: Hello, I am Supol Brownson, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I retired from the police on February 4, 2019, having done the verification with PenCom officials in August 2018 at the University of Port Harcourt,  Port Harcourt. Since then, I have not received any payment. Please help me. PENCOM: Investigations show that your retirement benefits had been paid since May 2021. Kindly visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more details. Thank you. OLADIPUPO: Dear Omobola, my name is Oladipupo. I really appreciate the time and energy you are expending on pension complaints. This is the third time I am writing to you. I have no issue with my PFA, Stanbic IBTC. Also, my long unanswered question has been answered when I read, “Over 500 retirees benefit from MPG.” in The Nation of November 24, 2021, page 24. God bless the newspaper. However, with Reference to “75% lump sum payment”, it is dangerous for the pension industry to allow it happen and more dangerous for most of the pensioners. It will jeopardise the purpose of preventing pensioners from dying in penury in a country adjudged as home base of the world’s poorest. How many of those agitating for the lump sum payment of government subsidised pension could manage the salaries, bogus and frivolous allowances earned in service? Please, let the pension remains as it is but the enhancement be improved upon and promptly. Thank you. MRS OKON: I am Mrs. Okon. Before I retired on September 25,  2020, I took promotion interview to Director in the Federal civil service. The result came in last year. I had done the verification in my former office. Please, how do I upgrade my pension. PENCOM: A copy of the promotion letter indicating grade level and step and effective date  should be   forwarded to PenCom along with a copy of your registration slip obtained during enrolment. DANIEL: My name is Daniel and I am a next-of-kin to Mrs Grace Ameh. I received some fund in my UBA account which I believe was her RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are awaiting the death/life assurance benefits of the late Mrs Grace,  a staff member of the Federal Poly, Idah, who died in February 2015 after 10 years in service. PENCOM: You are advised to contact Mrs. Ameh’s employer who should process the proceeds of the group life insurance policy and    ensure that payment by the insurance company to her beneficiaries since she died in active service. Thank you.