The Federal Government has attributed the current unstable power supply to low water level in the nation’s hydroelectric dams. Power Minister Abubakar Aliyu addressed State House correspondents yesterday on the power supply situation during the weekly ministerial briefing organised by the Presidential Media Team at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. Aliyu, who spoke on various initiatives the ministry had taken, including Presidential Power Initiatives (PPI) being driven by Siemens, said the government was doing everything to ensure optimum supply of gas to ensure quick restoration of power. “Before I conclude, I would like to discuss the increased load shedding you may have observed in Abuja and other areas in the country. With the reduction in hydro capacity during the dry season, additional load needs to be taken up by our gas plants. “We are having maintenance work in the Eastern axis, around Odukpani, leading to reduced power supply from the usually reliable NDPHC Calabar Power Plant and we are having challenges at Okoloma Gas Station linked to Afam VI Power Plant. “We are working with the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) and other gas suppliers to improve the pressure on the Western axis that is precluding units from reaching optimum supply. These challenges are surmountable, and we have a three-pronged approach we are executing. “We are working on more firms for gas supply contracts for the Power sector backed by improved liquidity. These contracts will have stiff financial penalties for under-performance.   Why govt can’t meet union’s demands, by Ngige     Govt raises panel to renegotiate agreement with ASUU     Adoke tackles Malami over link to JP Morgan’s case   “…We will complete the Zungeru Hydro Plant, the Katsina Wind Plant, Kashimbila Hydro as well as ensure that the challenges with Gurara are permanently resolved (partnering the Ministry of Water Resources). We are also working to resolve issues that have prevented large on-grid solar from taking off in Nigeria,” he said. On the national metering programme, the minister said the metering gaps were being reduced across the country with the rollout of 1 million meters for the first phase of the initiative, while awaiting 4 million others under the second phase. The minister stressed that the meters are free, cautioning distribution companies (DisCos) that sell meters to desist from such act. “We have said, times without number, that these meters are free. They are instruments for generating money. How can we be selling meters? “We continue to engage with the organised Labour who have continued to monitor the process and provide important feedback on improvements needed for Nigerians. Gone are the days when charges are made with poor service,” he added. On the nation’s power generation capacity, Aliyu said: “I’d like you also to take away that we deliver 8,000MW of electricity daily through a combination of grid, embedded and industrial captive supply of electricity (not 4,000MW as is frequently reported). Much of this capacity was added during the life of this administration. “These are not my figures; they are based on an industry study conducted by KPMG, recently.”