Local hunters and vigilante groups have allegedly killed abductors of six Kwara All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains in a rescue operation. The APC chieftains were allegedly abducted by gunmen between Obbo-Aiyegunle and Osi, Ekiti local government area of the state. The politicians were returning from Ilorin, the state capital to the base after the inauguration of APC excos last Wednesday when the incident occurred. The kidnappers were shot dead on Saturday night as the vigilante operators swooped on their hideouts in bushes around Ekiti’s local government area after hours of tracking, it was gathered. A security source said the State Government activated the security architecture which involved the police and local vigilante groups in the area. The vigilantes traced the abductors to their hideouts following detailed intelligence gathered from various sources. Part of the successful operation involved difficult terrains and night movement.   OAU student: I’ve no connection with Adedoyin – Guru…     Royal fathers decry alleged Obiano’s ill-treatment in EFCC…     Imo to workers: we will punish those who stay away on…   However, one of the victims, an APC woman in Koro Ward of Ekiti Local Government, was discovered to have died as the local security network engaged the criminal in a gun duel. “During the exchange and operation that lasted hours, the criminals were killed and their corpses have been handed to the police. Sadly, we lost one of the victims while five others were rescued alive and are now being taken care of,” the source added. Sources noted that the operation was a difficult one and praised the heroic efforts of the vigilante. “It should be noted that based on what was observed during the operation, the criminal element had no issue causing us to lose all five (remaining) abducted victims. “The professionalism of the groups involved in the operation limited the number of innocent lives lost in the operation. A life lost is one too many, but we thank God for the successful rescue of the other five innocent victims,” one of the sources observed. He added that the government has, apart from supporting the conventional security networks, been investing in the local vigilante bodies to strengthen the security of lives and properties in the state.