The Jos-bred Akwa United defender Seth Mayi explained why he settled for his long-time girlfriend, Blessing Karimu, and the choice of the north-central city as the venue for his proposal. TUNDE LIADI reports. Akwa United defender, Seth Mayi held everybody spellbound when he proposed to his girlfriend at the turf of the New Jos Stadium shortly before their Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) Matchday 15 tie with Plateau United. It is not new for Nigerian footballers to propose to their sweetheart on the pitch with Daniel Etor, John Ogu, Abiodun Akande, and Ndubuisi Egbo having their weddings on the pitch. The Jos-bred Mayi who proposed to Blessing Karimu explained why he settled for his long-time girlfriend and the choice of the north-central city as the venue for his proposal “What inspired me to propose to my girl on the pitch was the bond that we shared,” Mayi told NationSport. “She motivates and inspires me a lot. With her, I found peace, and because of the love we share, I was so sure that we know the direction we are heading. “Why I decided to do it in Jos was because Jos is my home town, and I found the perfect opportunity to do it. “I decided to do it in Jos and because I love football so much, I wanted it to be in a place where I do something that I love.” The Akwa United midfielder said he had goose-bumps shortly before he proposed to her because of fear of what might likely be the outcome of what he was about to do but was thrilled that she replied in the affirmative. “I was glad that she came to support and cheer us up. It was perfect,” he said with smiles. “There was a little bit of tension because a marriage proposal is not what one is used to. “It is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity and when she said yes, I was so happy and relieved.”   Oshodi gets ITTF’s Task Force appointment     Europa League: Aribo, Balogun hit quarters with Rangers     Galatasaray 1-2 Barcelona: Xavi men thro’ to Europa…   Though Akwa United lost 3-0 to Plateau United, Mayi said his proposed marriage to Blessing is already blessed and the loss portends no bad omen, adding there are always three eventualities at the end of every football game. He noted that the 3-0 defeat didn’t reflect the way they played but affirmed that they hope to turn the corner in their subsequent games. “We lost the game and I felt terrible after that Jos is my home and I never saw us losing the game more so losing by that margin of defeat. It is how football goes,” Mayi added. “At times you don’t get what you prepare for. In the end, we have to move on. I quickly put that behind me. I believe we are going to do well in our subsequent games.” Mayi expressed his desire to speed up the marriage ceremony having found his missing rib and he gave insights into qualities his girlfriend is endowed with while reminiscing how it all started. “What next is marriage; when you find someone that gives you peace and pushes you to go extra time, motivate and help you to fulfil your purpose, it is just normal to stick with that person,” he said. “Having proposed to her, I am certain that marriage is next. “It is what we plan to spend the rest of our lives together and help each other grow. “She’s just amazing. You will find in her someone that prays for you and wants you to be focused. “In fact, we met in church where she is a Sunday School teacher. “We are both in the youth fellowship. We got talking and became friends. “We later realized that we are very closed and like each other. We both love God. I will not trade her for anything in the world,” he concluded.