Brazil has produced many brilliant free-kick takers in history. Some of them are: · Juninho Juninho Pernambucano is arguably the greatest and most versatile free-kick taker in football history. As he got older, through his early years at Vasco De Gama and his eight-year stint at Lyon, Juninho developed his knuckleball technique, something which the likes of Didier Drogba, Cristiano Ronaldo, and David Luiz, to name just three, have tried to replicate. However, none has come anywhere near the Brazilian’s level of mastery. His magnificent ability to make the ball fly through the air, veering in a number of different directions before finding the net, quite simply is the best. Moreover, distance made little difference. Whether 20, 30, or 40 yards from goal, the hits were often so pure, of such quality and ferocity that goalkeepers simply couldn’t do anything about them.   Nigeria vs Ghana: Seven things to expect in Qatar 2022…     No Barca plan to re-sign Messi – Laporta     2022 WCQ: Brentford wish Onyeka good luck ahead Nigeria vs…   Such was his quality with a dead ball that Juninho netted 44 of his 100 goals for Lyon from free-kicks and has notched many, many more during his career in football before he retired. · Zico: Once upon a time, the gifted Brazilian attacking midfielder Zico was the benchmark for set pieces, the man who set the standard and showed just how vital they could be to a quickly evolving game in the 1970s and ’80s. A wonderful striker of the ball, Zico matched tremendous technique with lovely control and placement, which so often left the ball beyond the reach of opposing goalkeepers. Close to the penalty area, the Brazilian would embark on a mere two-step run-up, yet he could still generate as much or as little power as he felt the situation needed. Perhaps the first to turn set-piece taking into an art form, he netted more than 500 goals, including 48 for the Selecao during his football career. · Roberto Carlos: The 48-year-old former Real Madrid left full-back scored 27 direct free kicks for the Spanish giants in 527 appearances with 43 other goals. He was renowned for his ferocious shots from any angle of the pitch, leaving many goalkeepers stranded.