The newly appointed Chairman of the Edo State Sports Commission, Yussuf Ali has assured Governor of Edo State Godwin Obaseki and the good people of the state that the team selected to turn around sports in Edo State will surpass his expectation and that of the people. Speaking to reporters shortly after the board’s inauguration Ali said the team assembled by Governor Obaseki will turn around sports anywhere.  “The team selected by His Excellency shows that he places a premium on merit above other consideration, and on behalf of our team I am assuring the good people of Edo State that we will surpass their expectation and that of the Governor,” he said. Obaseki said during the inauguration, “Yussuf Ali, the Chairman of the Edo Sports Commission has excelled, both locally and internationally. In Edo, we have to catch them young in sports. Almost a million of our young generation are under the age of 12. We must rethink sports and catch them young.   Rangers; Balogun in summer contract dilemma     Eagles’ Tracker: Dennis shines in Watford’s survival battle     Oshoala claims third Primera Iberdrola title with Barca   He noted : “Edo State can start now to prepare for a global market in sports by identifying young talents in schools and catching them young. In five years’ time, the state can train about 10,000 to 20,000 talents and if 1,000 of these talents become global stars, the state will benefit greatly.” Ali thanked the Governor and his Deputy Phillip Shaibu while promising that “our team will give the Governor and the good people of Edo State the best. “In the history of this country, there has not been a board as big as this, that’s an assurance that you want sports raised in the state.” “I want to assure you that this group will its best to reposition Edo Sports to its rightful top position.” Apart from Ali, other board members are Sabina Amiemenoghena Chikere (Permanent Secretary Edo State Sports Commission and Secretary to the Board), Frank Ilaboya, Anehita Emeya, Osayaba Osareren, Asue Ighodalo ( Chairman, Skye Bank Plc), Uyi Akpata, and Emmanuel Igbinosa.