The Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), has called on members of the Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN) to join hands with the regulatory body in her bid to sanitize the Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) industry. The Registrar/Chief Executive Officer of APCON, Dr. Lekan Fadolapo, who made the call recently said it has become necessary because of the role brand journalists play as critical stakeholders in the sector. He said this while playing host to members of the newly elected executives of the Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria in his Iganmu office recently. The executives led by its newly elected Chairman, Clara Chinwe Okoro had gone to intimate Dr Fadolapo led APCON on its planned activities, as a major stakeholder and regulatory body of the marketing communication industry. Since the introduction of the Advertising Industry Standard of Practice (AISOP) as the new rules of engagement in the advertising practice in the country, there have been concerns from some quarters over some clauses in the bill. But, the APCON boss said the rules are not different from what obtains from other climes especially as the aim is to strengthen the industry.   Worries as global powers launch new ‘scramble for Africa’     Group unveils agency banking for Nigeria’s unbanked…     Why more Nigerians should venture into agribusiness, by…   “Now that BJAN has a new executive team, we have discussed with our management on the need to collaborate with the association, we need to work together for a smooth working relationship so that we can have a better industry. Many things are happening and there is no way we are not going to be instrumental to the development of the industry,” the former AAAN boss said. Speaking on the AISOP rules the APCON boss said, what the regulatory body has done is in line with best business practice. “Even if you go to international law, they will tell you that, where the local law conflicts with international law, the local law prevails. That is why you will not see anybody going to Saudi Arabia to advertise alcohol—that is their local law,” he averred. Expatiating, he said, “The advertising industry spend is about N100b, what goes to the agency is about 20%,  the remaining 80% will go to the media either broadcast, print, out of home or new media. Meaning that, what we are fighting for is that 20%. “How can our agencies grow if we don’t play by the rules? There are things that are conscientious- they should speak to our conscience. “The same multinationals advertise on CNN pay in dollars and prepay. Yet they will come to Nigeria and tell you that they will give you 120 days i.e. four months. And you will bill them and then be expected to wait for four months and you know that the survival of any media house is heavily dependent on advertising. “For us, somebody need to bite the bullet- accept responsibility for a new industry to emerge and APCON has to take the lead and that is why we are on this conversation,” the APCON boss stressed.