The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) yesterday said despite its efforts at preventing any disruption to energy flows, the ongoing crises in Russia and Ukraine has triggered reasonable degree of anxiety and uncertainty in the global energy market. Its Secretary General, Dr. Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, expressed the fears in his opening remarks at the 60th Meeting of the Joint Technical Committee. He said: “Despite ongoing efforts and assurances to avoid any disruption to energy flows, the unfolding geopolitical developments have prompted significant anxiety and uncertainty.” According to him, these conditions are amplified by low commercial oil stock levels, which currently stand at 250 mb below 2015-2019 levels. The OPEC Secretary General explained that high over-conformity levels (129% in January 2022) at a time of steady upward adjustments in crude oil production by Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) participating countries, and  shrinking spare capacity (currently at around 3.3 mb/d in only a few countries) have intensified  perceptions of vulnerability and a tightening global oil market. In the light of the significant volatility in the market and the potential impacts on the balance of oil supply and demand, Barkindo promised that “we will pay considerable attention in today’s meeting to potential scenarios for the future development of the oil market going forward”. He earlier said: “We are experiencing high levels of volatility, which could impact supply on various fronts. Some of these contributing factors include geopolitical tensions, the potential return of Iranian volumes to the market, as well as the ongoing possibility of some consuming countries releasing up to 70 mb from their strategic oil reserves.” According to him, in recent days, OPEC has seen escalating geopolitical tensions, which are having adverse effects on energy markets across the world and resulting in heightened levels of volatility.   Fed Govt grants waiver for pre-departure quarantine…     Russian forces pummel Ukraine’s urban areas as convoy nears…     Russia-Ukraine conflict threatens African economy: S.…   He said the crisis is expected to have broader political and economic repercussions at the global level. The rising tension, said Barkindo, “has spooked investors and rattled the commodity markets, particularly given the potential impacts on oil and gas supply as trade and financial sanctions continue to be imposed with each passing day by governments in reaction to the crisis. “Europe, which is already having to address extremely high energy costs in the middle of winter, could be particularly affected by this unfortunate turn of events. “As an energy producing and exporting organization, allow me to remind us all of the vital importance of maintaining a steady flow of precious energy supplies to consumers. “Our hope is that all parties involved in this crisis can reach positive outcomes that will be acceptable to all. “In addition to this situation, the market is also factoring in uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as rising inflation, ongoing supply chain disruptions, central bank policy decisions and rising debt levels around the world. “We will continue monitoring these developments very closely in the days and weeks to come. “Before we begin with our agenda, allow me to share with you briefly the Secretariat’s latest outlook for the oil market.” OPEC, he said, is still forecasting healthy economic growth this year at 4.2%, following a strong rebound at 5.6% in 2021.