After the initial commercial collaboration by Dana Air and Ibom Air, Nigeria’s domestic aviation entered a new era on March 9, with six airlines forming the Spring Alliance: Air Peace, Azman Air, Arik Air, Aero Contractors, United Nigeria and Max Air. “In the aviation world, we have so many alliances that airlines key into …” noted Allen Onyema, chairman of Air Peace.  ”Airlines decide to key into those alliances for the benefit of both the passengers and the airlines themselves.”  True. Indeed, global aviation boasts three alliances: Star Alliance, Sky Team and One World. Star Alliance, first to debut in 1997, remains the biggest. Formed by Air Canada, Lufthansa, Scandinavian Airlines (SAS), Thai Airways and United Airlines, it now has 26 carrier-members.  Star Alliance has members from every continent of the world, with Egypt Air and South African Airways being its African members. One World, formed in 1998, was the second though smallest of the three with 14 members.  However, it has two members — American Airlines and Alaska Airlines — from America, the busiest civil airspace in global aviation.  Its founding carriers were American Airlines, British Airways, Cathay Pacific and Qantas. Royal Air Maroc of Morocco, from Africa, is also a member. Sky Team, founded in 2000 is the newest alliance, though its 19 members are bigger than One World’s 14.  The founding carriers were Aeromexico, Air France, Delta Air Lines and Korean Air.  Its 19 members include KLM, the Dutch airline, Aerofloat of Russia and Saudia of Saudi Arabia.  It also has Kenya Airways from Africa. This background clearly shows a Nigerian equivalent of these global air partnerships should have come much earlier, given the many challenges of domestic aviation.  The poor Naira forex parity is a key challenge.   Domestic airlines post their cost in dollars but earn revenue in the Naira.  That puts great pressure on every aspect of the business. But now that Spring Alliance has come, it should be commended — so long as the six airlines birth a more efficient, cost-effective and passenger-sensitive market.  That can’t be taken as given, except the collaborating carriers have re-tooled their internal operations; and have established and imposed, on their cartel, a sound technical capability. That, if so, would blend hitherto jarring marketing and operational practices into a new winning and collective culture that would inspire fresh customer confidence; and draw a bigger quantum of passengers.  That would take some doing.  But until all these areas are sorted out, Nigerian local aviation would not exit its crushing challenges.   A big risk     A minister’s strange alibi     Unknown at home   From individual airline challenges, we move to the health and competitiveness of the industry. Despite the celebrated successes of the international air alliances, The Economist, London’s ultra-right weekly, dismissed the alliances as “price-fixing cartels”, arguing that even the famed alliance boons had come at higher pan-carrier fares; insisting that such alliances, like other cartels, only reduce, if not outright subvert, competition. Could that thinking have made some other big global players, like Emirates, Virgin Atlantic, Etihad and Virgin Australia, to shun the obvious economy of scale benefits of such alliances?  Has it made them to stick with the micro benefits that come with operational flexibility that could translate into lower fares, which draw more passengers? Applying that to the emerging Nigerian situation: might this new cartel be a tool to muscle smaller domestic players out of the market?  If so, that would be cartelising crass inefficiencies, which continue to rip off passengers.  The industry regulators must ensure that never happens.  If it does, the market would only shrink and it would be lose-lose for all. All things considered, however, Spring Alliance has the prospects of breathing fresh life into local aviation fast turning comatose. “Safety is the number one priority and this is what we stand for,” quipped Captain Abdullahi Mahmood, managing director of Aero Contractors.  ”All these flight delays are caused by problems that passengers do not know … It is a challenging situation that we find ourselves.” Now, the Aero Contractors boss put his fingers on the growing notoriety among local carriers: utter contempt for scheduled flights.  He also betrayed the annoying paternalism with which airlines treat their stranded passengers — silence, instead of reasoned explanations.  Shouldn’t airlines always level with their passengers? Safety and flight promptitude are the twin-soul of airline business. The two must go together or you go bust.  If Spring Alliance somewhat manages to guarantee both, it would force a new and exciting dawn.  If it doesn’t, it would only cartelise operational slothfulness and inefficiency. Either way, the new air partners have their job clearly cut out for them!