Bandits continued their reign of terror in Kaduna on Sunday night, killing scores of people in Jema’a and Kaura local government areas. The gunmen attacked many communities in the two local government areas, razing houses. An eyewitness said he counted at least 15 bodies in one community. The state government has declared a 24-hour curfew in the council areas. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, said the curfew followed advice from security agencies. “This is to assist the security agencies to stabilise the situation in the areas, save lives and property and enable the restoration of law and order,” he said. “Government appeals to all residents of Jema’a and Kaura LGAs to cooperate with the security agencies in the urgent task of restoring peace and upholding law and order. “Government condemns the violence and all acts of lawlessness that have occurred in the area.” The eyewitness told our correspondent that the attackers storms the communities in numbers. He said: ”I was able to count about 15 people killed. There is the likelihood that there are those killed in their houses while others could have died in the buses as a result of gun wounds they sustained. “The destruction is so terrifying as the gunmen came in large numbers and were well-organised. They came with sophisticated weapons.”   How can a governor be removed?     Schools shut in Owerri over gunmen’s threat letter     Musa visits Gombe State Governor Yahaya   The state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) urged the people te to defend themselves. Read Also: Schools shut in Owerri over gunmen’s threat letter In a statement by its chairman, Rev. John Joseph Hayab, CAN decried the continued loss of lives at the hands of terrorists. It said: “CAN Kaduna State Chapter is sad and grieving following the continued killings, kidnappings, banditry, and the unimaginable evil going on in our state unabated without any substantial action by the government and security forces. “One only needs to see how human beings are killed and roasted by bandits who attacked Kagoro to conclude that this is one loss too many. How long will this evil continue and when will our leaders act dutifully? “Kaduna State citizens are tired of government’s rhetorical responses without concrete action taken to protect lives and property. “Accordingly, we want to hear and see the killers and kidnappers arrested as the government’s usual media condemnation whenever there is havoc is not good enough.” “Meanwhile, we appeal to citizens to also wake up and do the needful, protecting their lives and community. When a government fails to protect you, you ought to find a means of defending yourself. “For the records, Kaduna has lost several lives in the past four years while the leaders scarcely show empathy or concern for the victims. “The government’s response is usually in the media. Sadly, the dead cannot read nor listen to the news. Then of what use is media condemnation? “CAN, therefore, calls on the Kaduna State Government to swallow her pride and accept that she has failed the people and genuinely seeking help to immediately halt the wanton killings, kidnappings, and terrorist activities going on in the state. “Governor El-Rufai and his team should focus on the fight to salvage the state so that he will be remembered for good when he leaves office.”