Inspector General of Police (IGP) Usman Baba has ordered Commissioners of Police (CPs) in the states to take permission from the Force Headquarters (FHQ) before any officer can mount roadblocks. Baba said he would hold the CPs liable for any violation of the policy. The IGP read the riot act yesterday at a meeting with Assistant Inspector General (AIGs) and CPs at the Force Headquarters in Abuja. He said: “I have continually been inundated by complaints of excesses in the conduct of our men on patrol or stop-and-search duties and I have personally had the cause to drive round in the course of which, I witnessed some of these illegalities particularly in relation to road blocks. “I want to re-emphasise that while stop-and-search strategy could occasionally be an invaluable anti-crime tactic, such should not be done without requisite approval and must not be a permanent strategy. It must equally be conducted with extant police protocols which emphasises civility to members of the public and must be laced with the highest level of professional decorum. Such must not also be turned into an avenue for extortion. “Consequently, as strategic leaders, you could be held liable for any violation of this Force policy. You are, therefore, strongly advised to go back to your commands, review this development and ensure that your operations conform strictly to the vision of my leadership.   Political spending pushes up dollar demand     UNEP at 50: Buhari seeks broader action against…     APC zonal congress threatened as CECPC failed to sell…   “As mentioned during the recently concluded retreat and conference, it is anticipated that the Force would be further challenged by the enhanced political activities that are associated with the upcoming 2023 general election. “The import of this is that beyond our routine anti-crime activities, we have to be prepared not just to deal with politically-related infractions that could ensue, but also with preparations ahead to guarantee the security and credibility of the elections.” Baba advised officers to get prepared for the 2023 general election, saying the police authority would liaise with the leadership of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), civil society organisations (CSOs) and the Nigeria Police Legal Chambers to dissect the provisions of the recently amended Electoral Act. The IGP also said between January 2022 and now, collated crimes statistics revealed that 36 terror elements, 78 murder suspects, 110 armed robbery suspects, 50 suspected kidnappers and 150 suspected cultists were arrested during various police operations across the country. “Aside these, 204 kidnapped victims were successfully rescued, while 155 firearms of various descriptions and 1,561 live ammunitions were also recovered,” he added. Baba decorated a police officer, Mary Aina (aka Iron Abbey), who won the World Boxing Foundation (WBF) International Super Bantamweight title belt at the East Sussex, Landon, with her new rank – from Police Constable to Corporal.