The Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano Natural Gas Pipeline Project (AKKP) has reached 73.3 per cent completion stage, the Group Executive Director, Gas and Power, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr Abdulkadir Ahmad, said yesterday. The project was okayed by the Federal Government to  ferry natural gas from Ajaokuta, Kogi State, to Kano, Kano State. Ahmed stated this at the lecture by  the Kaduna Chapter of Nigerian Society of Chemical Engineers (NSCHE) in honour of the Emir of Lere in Kaduna State, Suleiman Umaru. Ahmad, represented by the General Manager, Commercial, Nigeria Gas Company Limited,  Emmanuel Ibokwuwe, spoke on: “Nigeria gas master plan and opportunities for the Northern states.” He said: “We have so far made tremendous progress as the project is about 73.3 percent completed, with only about 23.5 per cent remaining. “We have split the project into two to make sure it is completed at the earliest time possible since we are working within the timeline of 2022.”   UK, UBA Foundation, others okay £20m for girl education     CBN wants increased private sector investment in dairy…     ‘At 88, I am not tired’   Read Also: Off-spec fuel: Arewa youths laud NNPC’s ‘transparency’ “The immense opportunities are that Kaduna will have access to 900 megawatts of power generated by the time the AKKP is completed, and also have enormous access to gas that can support the springing up of industries and petrochemical plants.”   Also, the Executive Secretary of National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), Mr Idris Bugaje, who was also the chairman of the occasion, described AKKP as an important project, adding that upon its completion, it would solve the problem of inadequate power supply. “Most states, especially in the northern states, get only one or less than one per cent of what TCN transmits, as such, the AKKP is an opportunity to generate power and distribute to communities and industries,” he said. Earlier, National President of NSCHE, Mr Saidu Mohammed, said although there had been challenges with the gas sector which other sector depended on, he was optimistic that the desired results would be attained. Mohammed congratulated organisers of the event and urged participants to make good use of knowledge gained from presentations made on the occasion. The Emir of Lere commended the organisers and called for synergy amongst professionals to enable them impact positively on the people.