As I was closing out on this column, it was announced that the coronavirus, code-named COVID-19, had hit the grim milestone of 6 million deaths worldwide. So far, however, against all predictions and expectations, the toll of the coronavirus pandemic on Africa has remained very low, compared to other regions of the world. This is especially true of Nigeria, which houses one in every five Africans. After two full years of the pandemic, here’s how Africa stacks against other major continents (in parenthesis, infections and deaths, respectively): Europe (160m, 1.7m); Asia (121m, 1.3m); North America (95m, 1.4m); South America (54m, 1.2m), Africa (11m, 250,118; that is, just over a quarter million deaths). With a population of over 200 million, Nigeria has only recorded 254,657 infections and 3,142 deaths, whereas Brazil, with comparable population and climate, has recorded over 29 million infections and 652,207 deaths! However, much less is known about the factors behind the relatively low infection and death rates in Africa than about the predictions of possible devastation of the continent by the virus. Those predictions were based on four key factors, namely, weak health infrastructure; lack of social safety nets; crowded spaces, especially in the urban centres and local markets; poor leadership, leading to weak or weakened institutions and governance failure. Aware of these weaknesses, African leaders quickly took measures to address them, while politicians in Europe and the Americas were busy politicizing the pandemic or developing uneven measures based on contrived severity matrices for a virus that defies boundaries. Accordingly, as early as February 4, 2020, the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention quickly established the Africa Task Force to combat the novel coronavirus. That was 10 days before the first case of the virus was detected in Egypt. Within a week of the detection, health experts from the African Union’s 55 member states convened at the AU’s headquarters in Addis Ababa to jointly develop a plan, based on the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. The plan included several mitigation measures—wearing face masks; keeping at least 2-meter distance; avoiding crowds and indoor gatherings; and washing or sanitizing hands regularly. In addition, African leaders quickly established molecular testing labs, adopted early lockdowns, and provided economic palliatives to the poor and the elderly in partnership with private donors. In Nigeria, for example, isolation wards were rapidly established across the country and the list of molecular testing labs increased exponentially from just a few at the outbreak of the pandemic to well over seventy within six months. Although these mitigation measures assisted in curbing the spread of the pandemic in its early days, they could not explain the failure of the negative predictions, especially as the measures were relaxed, due partly to the governments’ inability to sustain them and partly to noncompliance as the economic effects of the pandemic began to take its toll on the restive populations.   APC senators decry crises in party     Judgment sacking Umahi throws Ebonyi into confusion     APC’s soft landing for Buni as Sani Bello consolidates   Besides, Northern countries with much better health facilities and stronger institutions succumbed to the pandemic at a much higher rate than African countries, despite the adoption of the same mitigation measures. Even after vaccinating well over half of their populations against the virus, infections and deaths still soared among Northern populations in response to the Omicron variant, which incidentally originated on the African continent, specifically in South Africa. These variable statistics have rekindled the search for explanations for the relatively low COVID-19 infection and death rates in Africa. Two major factors were quickly identified, namely, (a) Africa’s demography, typified by a very large young population, and (b) cross-protective immunity. Put simply, it is argued that Africa has demographic protection against COVID-19 due to its young population: Youths (35 years old and below), constitute over 60 percent of the population. Indeed, the average age in Africa is 20, compared to 39 in the United States and 43 in Europe. The age logic is based on the low infection and death rates among youths across the globe. The youth-led #EndSARS protests in the midst of the pandemic in October 2020 attests to this logic. A second explanatory factor, cross-protective immunity, is based on the assumption that Africans have developed strong immunity as a result of repeated exposures to various kinds of pathogens. Compared to Northern populations, it is true that Africans in general have been exposed to more parasitic diseases—from measles and smallpox to malaria, polio, and Ebola, not to speak of the endemic common cold caused by human coronaviruses. Nevertheless, as I pointed out earlier on this column, the explanatory power of this factor awaited scientific proof. It would now appear that evidence is emerging that past infections with parasitic diseases might provide some level of immunity against COVID-19. Late last year, researchers in Uganda found that COVID-19 patients highly exposed to malaria were less likely to suffer severe disease or death than people with little or no exposure to the parasite. Similarly, several studies have shown that preexisting immune responses against endemic human coronaviruses that cause the seasonal common cold can mitigate the manifestation of disease from exposure to COVID-19.  Along this line, a recent study, carried out by scientists at Imperial College London, found that high levels of pre-existing T cells (a type of cell in the immune system), created by the body as a result of infection with other human coronaviruses, such as the common cold, are effective in preventing infection from COVID-19. The study, therefore, suggests that there are so-called “never Covid” people, that is, those who never become sick of COVID-19, even after exposure to the virus. This study is the more significant, given the high levels of exposure to parasitic diseases in Africa. There is yet another research indicating that, when compared to COVID-19 patients of European heritage, a whopping 80 percent of COVID-19 patients of African ancestry had the protective gene variant (rs10774671-G) that is effective in breaking down the virus that causes COVID-19. This is not surprising since the most primitive (that is basic, original, or oldest) genes are to be found on the African continent. This means that there is no gene variant found elsewhere on the globe that could not be traced to Africa. Yes, there would be unreported cases of COVID-19 infections and deaths, but that is not peculiar to Africa. All considered, Africa has held its own against COVID-19. It is not yet time, however, to let down the guard.