A former Nigerian ambassador to The Netherlands, Nimota Akanbi, is definitely not enjoying her current time in the limelight. Akanbi, who is currently chairman of the National Secondary Education Commission, has been trending on social and conventional media platforms since a video showing a fully kitted policeman carrying her plate of food at a social event popped up online during the week. Though the former envoy has severally denied that it was her food the security detail was carrying, many Nigerians have refused to spare her, insisting the video represented the humiliation police officers attached to VIPs across the country are being subjected to. Akanbi’s explanation that the policeman was carrying his own food at a community engagement they both attended in Ilorn, Kwara State, wasn’t bought by most social media commentators, who were quick to point out that Akanbi, who was seen at the head of the queue of people serving themselves at the party, unlike others, had no plate of food in her hands.   Between Makinde and the EFCC     Controversy over ‘mysterious disappearance’ of 21-year-old…     Ajayi wants Pastor Adeboye to celebrate 130   Miffed by the viral video, the Nigeria Police Force says it has summoned the yet-to-be-named orderly to come and explain what transpired. Not a few Nigerians are waiting for the outcome of the summons. The Force described the scenario in the video as embarrassing and unprofessional. According to Acting Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, “the police authorities frown against such an act.” “He (the policeman) has been identified. He is coming to Abuja to meet us. We’ll ask questions from him and take necessary action.” But Akanbi urged Nigerians to disregard the viral video, saying that it might be the handiwork of her detractors. “The truth is that I allowed him (police orderly) to pick his food. I am a teacher and disciplinarian. I understand the importance and nature of the work of security operatives, and would never do anything to demean them,” she said.