The late Eddie Ugbomah (December 19, 1940 – May 11, 2019), actor and pioneer among Nigerian film producers and directors, once caused a stir among the younger Nollywood clan.  He mentioned a particular actor, claimed he starred in 20 ritual films, yet got crowned as actor of the year! That was years ago, before the current epidemic in reported ritual killings.  The actor at the receiving end first balked; with not a few of his actor-generation dismissing the old man as archaic.  Still shortly after, he stopped starring in ritual films! That’s the power of peer censure, even if those at the receiving end would first fight back.  That’s the power of suasion, friendly or hostile. The Nigerian government and people have every cause to be alarmed at the soaring cases of ritual murder.  Even more, they should be worried that many suspects claim they got the hunch and tricks from the social media; and from Nollywood films, which favourite themes are ritual killings. “… Ritual killings have assumed a worrisome dimension in recent years … Recently in Ogun State, four young men, one of whom is 18 years old, murdered their 20-year-old female friend for money rituals,” Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information and Culture, said on a visit to Daily Trust in Abuja.  ”One of them said they learnt about using human parts for money from social media.” This diagnosis is spot on.  But not the minister’s reflex crackdown on film and social media contents. He said he had directed the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) to weed out ritual contents in films and videos.  The Federal Government, he pledged, would also be the all-seeing “Big Brother” ridding the social media of dangerous contents. Inasmuch as the authorities could wield their right to sanitise public contents, a rigorous difference must be made between good-natured tweaking for public good and a crude invasion of the creative space.   Only Nigerians can save Nigeria     NPF and imperative of contributory pension      Yahoo-yahoo, ritual killing and get-rich-quick syndrome   In truth, the bulk of ritual films seldom glamorise the evil.  The general format would appear as good old James Hadley Chase, whose racing novels script the most perfect of crimes, with all its rogue thrills and frills, class and dash.  Yet, Chase’s abiding theme: there is no perfect crime.  No matter the crime’s seeming sophistication, the law always catches up with the criminal. That generally is the direction of most ritual films on Nigerian screens.  Most — if not all — of the ritual characters end up in grief; though there could be cases of careless handling and loose interpretation of roles, which could well glamorise ritual killing and money without sweat.  But all that could be corrected with tighter script writing, directing and editing. Which is why, instead of the reflex crackdown by handling NFVCB the big knife, the minister and his agencies ought to work more closely with Hollywood: its script writers, film directors and producers.  Happily, the minister himself suggested something similar. “I have also directed NFVCB to engage with stakeholders in the film industry,” he told his Daily Trust hosts, “in order to express the concerns of the government and Nigerians on the need to eschew money ritual content in their movies.”  That’s suasion.  It’s likelier to work better than official coercion, which by the way, might be fraught with abuse. Regulating the social media and censoring films (beyond the acceptable professional threshold) enter the realm of free speech — a palladium of democracy.  Besides, ritual killing, as evil and disturbing as it is, is society’s reality, which its mass media should mirror, if they were to fulfil their surveillance function in basic mass communication theory. But surveillance cannot be an end in itself.  The society surveys to correct.  So, to black out ritual killings in films, knowing full well it is an epidemic, would be living in a fool’s paradise.  Cracking down on films trying to mirror the ugly situation, with a view to correcting it, is tantamount to killing the messenger because he brought a bad message. Still, all stakeholders can work on concerted plans to attack the problem.  Film makers can make creative flicks that project the self-destructive futility and stupidity of ritual killings for money.  That is what the present situation demands. But beyond the make-belief: the political elite must project less the culture of wealth without sweat; which drives the grand delusion of slit-a-throat-and-get-rich-quick.  A more responsible behaviour from those in office and in politics will go a long way.