The Federal Government said yesterday that it had started eliminating passport racketeering, scam and corrupt practices in the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), with the launching of the e-passport administration. The government, which inaugurated Passport Processing Centre for the Southeast, warned Nigerians to stop patronising touts and officials of the NIS for the application of their international passports, as production of passports had been made easy. Minister of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, who made this known at the unveiling of the enhanced e-passport and inauguration of the Passport Production Centre in Enugu, said the payments for passports had been digitalised. He said the enhanced e-passport would improve application process for Nigerians in the country and abroad. Aregbesola told Nigerians applying to obtain or renew their passports to stay in their homes, use their smart phones to fill the forms and have a hitch-free application that would see them getting their passports in a minimum of three weeks. He said: “We have had some challenges in the recent past on delays experienced by some applicants in procuring their passports. This is regrettable. But it will interest you to know that between 2019 and now, the NIS has issued about three million passports to Nigerians. Last year alone, 1.3 million passports were issued. Also, the last time I checked, over 250,000 passports remain uncollected by applicants. Their owners will probably be among those complaining that they are yet to collect their passports. “However, many applicants are not going to have their passports because of the errors in their applications, which delayed processing. They may not know because they applied through touts and other illegal channels.   50 students shortlisted for scholarship     Women advocate law to reduce marriage rites     Qatar begins Doha-Kano flight   “A major challenge of passport administration is the illegal patronage of touts and NIS officials, instead of the stipulated online platform. Our application system is designed to eliminate personal contact, other than for biometric purpose. This is to curb corruption, extortion and inflation. But as long as applicants try to cut corners, they defeat our purpose and create avoidable problems. “The first problem that arises is unfulfilled expectations. Touts and officials are not in any position to guarantee anything. Our system makes room for six weeks for fresh application and three weeks for renewal. This is to enable the NIS investigate and verify claims by the applicants. It is advisable for travellers in need of passports to begin the application process early, factoring our timeline. “The maximum six weeks is reasonable and among the shortest application time in the world. Promising an applicant an express service is a scam. It is bound to end in disappointment and for most part, it does.” The minister appealed to applicants to follow the path the ministry provided through the online portal because that was the only reliable and assuring path to procuring a Nigerian passport. The acting Comptroller General of the NIS, Isah Jere, reiterated the call by the minister for citizens to stop patronising touts. He said with the unveiling of the facility, Southeast had joined other locations such as Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Kano, London, among others, that had migrated to the enhanced electronic passport regime. Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi,  represented by the Secretary to Enugu State Government, hailed the efforts of the NIS, saying the state would support the service in performing its duties.