Some private depots have surreptitiously increased their ex-depot price for Premium Motor Spirit (PMS, or petrol) to N185 per litre. This has forced some members of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) to be selling above the official band. Last week, the Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) had warned that the depots must reverse their prices to the official rate of N158.5 per litre within 24 hours. The union had asked its members to compile the names of those selling above the official rate for naming and shaming. IPMAN National Vice-President Abubakar Maigandi told The Nation on phone yesterday that “some of the private depots have rather increased their rates from the N180 of the time of the ultimatum (by NUPENG) to N185”. He added: “Most of the depots are not loading trucks. So, there is no petrol anywhere to load at official rate.” Consumers of the product yesterday continued groaning over the arbitrary hike of the pump prices. While some complained about the outright increase of the prices, even at the retail outlets, some expressed concerns over high cost of the product in the black market. On the other hand, some complained about the endless queues and under-dispensing of the product in many places.   Customs yet to halt VIN valuation system     PDP disowns ‘primary election timetable’     Women rice millers get N40m centre   Efforts to reach the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) were unsuccessful last night. Its spokesman could not be reached on phone while he did not reply to the text message sent to his phone number. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva had, last week, promised to oversupply petrol to Nigeria to the disappointment of its hoarders. He said: “So, why are they hoarding? We must find a solution to this. We must overflood the market so that they will not be able to hoard the product anymore. “So, in the next few days that will happen. We will be able to overcome those unscrupulous elements and ensure that the product gets to the people.” Besides, NNPC Group Managing Director Mele Kyari announced in Abuja that there were 1.7 billion litres of petrol in the country. Also, The Nation monitored the petrol market and observed that there was a very marginal improvement in the supply of the product. Some respondents attributed yesterday’s seeming improvement in petrol supply to lower demand while some insisted that the situation was getting better. Some retail outlets in Wuse and around Kubwa expressway sold the PMS for between the official N162 to N165/litre.