Shareholders of Vitafoam Nigeria Plc yesterday approved the payment of N1.9 billion as cash dividends for the 2021 business year amidst commendations for the board and management of the company. Shareholders will receive a dividend per share of N1.50 per share. Shareholders who spoke at the annual general meeting of the company yesterday in Lagos commended the company’s performance noting that the continuing growth in its operations underscored the success of the company’s strategy. A leader of Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Mr Adebayo Adeleke, said the company had a bright future as all its subsidiaries have become profitable. President, Noble Shareholders Solidarity Association, Mr Mathew Akindele said that Vitafoam Nigeria’s policy of attracting people of value to its board also continued to its exceptional performance. Addressing shareholders, Chairman, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Dr Bamidele Makanjuola said the company achieved strong performance through flexible financing strategy and excellent customer service.   NGX Group posts N2.3b profit in first post-demutualisation…     Banks, others to get regulators’ clearance for offers     NGX to consolidate on demutualisation   According to him, the performance of the company was driven by improved operational efficiency, excellent customer service, a business friendly funding window and steadfast implementation of its strategic initiatives. He noted that during the financial year, the company facilitated programmes that enhanced the quality and aesthetics of its products, enlarged the customer base, boosted technology investments to spur retail sales and strengthened its distribution channels. “The success achieved was due to the implementation of a flexible financing strategy aided by the Bank of Industry loan, as well as cost maximisation through internal efficiency gains. Through the deployment of fresh initiatives to expand our business frontiers, we shall remain innovative and customer-focused while vigorously driving internal efficiencies in all our operations. By so doing, we aim to drive up shareholder value in the interest of all stakeholders,” Makanjuola said. He pointed out that notwithstanding the challenging business environment, it was gratifying that the company posted a brilliant performance in the year under review. Audited report and accounts of Vitafoam Nigeria for the year ended September 30, 2021 showed that group turnover improved from N23.4 billion in the 2020 to N35.4 billion in 2021. Profit before tax grew from N5.64 billion to N7.34 billion while profit after tax also increased from N4.1 billion to N4.5 billion. Group Managing Director, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi had attributed the company’s consistent performance to its policy of putting its diverse customers at the centre of research and development. He added that beyond foams, Vitafoam produces a range of building materials with several subsidiaries contributing to the group performance including Vitapur, Vitablom, Vitavisco, Vono, Vitaparts and Vitafoam SierraLeone.