Education Minister Adamu Adamu has said the Federal Government is pursuing the release of N15 billion for the revitalisation of facilities in polytechnics across the country. He also said the government was pursuing the review of the Scheme of Service as well as resolving the issue of Consolidated Tertiary Institutions Salary Structure (CONTISS) 15 migration. Adamu spoke at a two-day retreat for chairmen of governing councils and principal officers of Federal polytechnics yesterday in Abuja. The event, with the theme: Improving Polytechnic Administration: The Role of Governing Councils and Management, was organised by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) in collaboration with the Committee of Federal Polytechnic Rectors (COFER). The two issues are among the demands of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) which the union has been agitating for. Adamu said: “The Ministry (of Education) is pursuing the release of N15 billion for the revitalisation of facilities in public polytechnics in Nigeria, reviewing the Scheme of Service as well as resolving the issue of CONTISS 15 migration. “The Federal Government is effectively engaging the workers’ unions on their demands. All these are geared towards the improvement in the quality of research teaching and learning in the sector.” The minister, who was represented by the Acting Permanent Secretary in the ministry, David Gende, said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration was committed to rapid development of the Education sector with particular emphasis on Technical and Vocational Education and Training [TVET).   Imo lawmaker denies involvement in killings     Buhari, Oyetola, Kalu celebrate Adeboye at 80     MC Oluomo replies NURTW’s query   “This is achieved through improvement of tertiary education funding, majorly by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), among others,” he said. The minister regretted that efforts of the government were hampered by prevalent corruption in the sector. He advised against unnecessary rancour between the chairmen and management, saying: “Because there are clear-cut areas of operation; and where such is found to exist, the government will not hesitate to take necessary action. “I must emphasise that the chairmen and management must work harmoniously through the provision of sound policies and ensure effective monitoring over the institutions’ activities and programmes. “In order to succeed in this honourable national assignment, I advise that you put in place appropriate and effective systems of financial and operational control to provide result oriented and quality service.” NBTE Executive Secretary, Prof. Idris Bugaje, called for the allocation of at least 50 per cent of the annual education budget to TVET, instead of the current average of 20 per cent. Bugaje described TVET as capital-intensive. He said realising the importance of skills development to the Nigerian economy, the board was currently engaged in well-coordinated advocacy and enlightenment campaigns across the country from its Secretariat and through the newly established six zonal offices.