Actor John Okafor aka Mr Ibu has cried out against persons using his sick condition to scam unsuspecting Nigerians. The comic act, who is undergoing treatment at Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre, Abuja accused fraudulent individuals of taking advantage of his illness to enrich themselves in a video. He said he was not the one soliciting for funds especially with his Instagram page which he said has been hacked. He said his condition isn’t as critical as some persons are making it to be. Mr Ibu said: “Some people have sold me like this…they don’t even want to hear from me. All they do is to sell me free of charge. The devil! It won’t work. “God has risen me up…God has risen me up. I am here with my wife. I haven’t gone anywhere to beg anyone for money. Mr Ibu added: “I am not saying that all my friends who pay me a visit cannot give me money. They can give me money, no problem. “But not as critical as they are talking about. So, anybody whose business is to criticise my sickness and take advantage of it, they should stop it. I can walk now just that I cannot run. Please…. His wife Stella Maris Okafor, said: “And please, his Instagram account has been hacked. Anybody using that account to collect money or doing any sort of thing, please stop it! You people should stop it, please. Verify very well before you start acting.   My marriage ended before BBNaija show-Tega     My happiness is all that matters, says Oxlade     How a record label boss almost ruined my career, life, by…   “If you want to do anything like he said, any good person or family members or well-wishers that want to help him should come to the hospital. Or better still call him. And you can even call me and give it directly to me.” “And let my account officer call me”, Mr Ibu chipped in Ibu has had health issues in the past which according to him almost sent him to an early grave. In 2020, he recounted his near-death experience after he was poisoned by his staff whom he alleged was paid by his kinsmen to murder him. The comic actor who spoke with Nigize TV attributed his still being alive to God as he explained the reason behind his protruding stomach. He said: “I don’t take alcohol up till now. Some people say I don’t take alcohol yet my stomach is big. It was after they gave me that poison. It was bigger than this before. If you had seen it, it was like a foam. I took medicine and it began to come down. Before I wasn’t able to see my legs. “They took me to Nnewi, saying we had a show. They held me there and beat me up. They beat me and then inserted poison in my mouth and ran away, leaving me there. It was my boys and dancers that came and carried me home. It was in Enugu that I woke up. God said no, you are not going yet.” He added: “Here in my office, they brought the first poison, I took it. I was falling around and nobody came to ask. Even the workers did not enter here even though they were hearing me fall around. I vomited something in my bathroom. “They gave me the second one, The people that gave me are the people working with me. I swallowed another one unknowingly because I never suspected them until when God opened my eyes. “They paid them and gave them enough money to make sure they eliminate me. All these plans are from Enugu, my towns people and age grades that are surprised that I can own some things, build some houses, buy house in Lagos. They asked them to go and kill me.”