This is not the best of time for travellers on the Abuja-Kaduna corridor. Air travel is out of reach to many. Bandits’ ambush has made road transportation unthinkable. The rail that came to the rescue is becoming nightmarish. Many are still struggling to recover from the shock of Monday’s devastating terrorist attack on Abuja-Kaduna train. At the last count, eight people lost their lives, 41 injured and many, including a bank Chief Executive Officer (CEO) were still missing. To many, the Monday attack was a preventable calamity, a disaster that could have been avoided if necessary security measures had been taken. But it was not the first on the newly-constructed Abuja-Kaduna rail line. In October last year, bandits blew up the rail track on the same line. Many Kaduna-bound passengers were stranded in the middle of nowhere. Another train had to be called from Idu station, near Abuja to evacuate the frightened passengers. One could say that the bandits flew a kite with the October 2021 attack that went unchallenged.   Qatar 2022: Rohr fires broadsides after Eagles’ exit     Primary schools in dire straits as UBEC funds remain unused     Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike   On March 26, three days before the Monday attack, the daring bandits struck at the Kaduna International Airport, gaining entrance into the facility through the perimeter fencing. They were repelled by troops and other security operatives that mobilized. They killed an airport worker. The broad-day light attack prevented a Lagos-bound aircraft from taking off. This is aside other security breaches, including kidnapping for ransom, targeted killings and banditry that have become routine, especially in Southern part of Kaduna State. Maybe the Monday train attack that affected the high and the mighty will be a wake-up call for the appropriate authority to take the issue of security along the rail track seriously. The Abuja-Kaduna road is a no go area. Bandits have been in control of the route for more than five years. The soaring ticket fare compounded the woes of ordinary Nigerians. The Abuja-Kaduna train has been turned into a death trap. Where would the people turn to? If Abuja-Kaduna road is not safe, Abuja-Kaduna train that used to be a safe haven for even senators has become a death chamber and the cost of air travel is rising daily, how will those who have anything to do in Kaduna access the state?