Caffeine is a  drug that stimulates the central nervous system. It is the most commonly used psychoactive substance mainly found in dark chocolate, kolanut and coffee, and so on. It is mostly consumed by students during examinations to ensure sleepness nights in the cause of  reading. Its side effects outweigh its benefits. While the intake of dark chocolate, coffee and kolanut has become popular among students for keeping them awake at night,  students should be informed that caffeine  affects the central nervous system. Side effects of excessive caffeine  may include headache, nervousness, trouble sleeping, irritability, rapid heartbeat, insomnia, addiction, high blood pressure, fatigue, increased alertness, excessive urination, sweating, tremor and restlessness. Even if you usually sleep well, caffeine might disrupt your body’s natural hormone levels and wake-and-sleep cycles that help promote restful sleep. As a result, you are more likely to need caffeine to keep you going the next day. Likewise if you’re someone who suffers from high stress levels, caffeine is not  a choice for you.   How to curb incessant strikes, by AASU     Artificial Intelligence and future of humanity     CIEPUK to give scholarships to Nigerian students   Addiction or dependency on caffeine can result in  not being able to perform his or her daily activity until one takes it. Relying on caffeine for  energy is dangerous to the body as it can exacerbate or get in the way of healing adrenal fatigue and mask serious health issues. A dose of caffeine as little as 500 milligrams could potentially produce some symptoms of caffeine overdose. While some might be fine at it, other get sick and weak immediately. For toxic doses, they are usually considered anything over 10 grams per day for an adult, this is to say one cup of coffee contains 80-175 milligrams of caffeine depending on the preparation method. So, someone would need to have roughly 50-100 ordinary cups of coffee to reach a lethal dose and be termed as caffeine overdose.