In “The Two April Mornings” by Williams Wordsworth, and its companion poem, “The Fountain,” a 72-year-old schoolmaster bemoans his youth as an energetic man. Virility is canonised only when lost. Youth is documented as distant narrative removes, nostalgia within memory: the first poem ends with Wordsworth recalling the schoolmaster’s memories. Masculinity is contemplated through the bleared lens of age. Apology to Paglia. In “The Last of the Flock,” we meet a full-grown, healthy man. But he is weeping in the road. Once rich, he has sold his fifty sheep to buy food for his children. Wordsworth turns the flock’s diminishing into a litany of dwindling manhood: fifty, ten, five, three, two, one, none. The poet’s arithmetic charts the shrinking of patriarchal domain and masculinity’s supple patch. As his property shrivels to the borders of his body, the protagonist, like Akara Oogun, Odysseus and Lear, diminishes to nobody. Are we prepared for that dreaded epoch when we may become nobodies? Are we prepared for that period when our shiny glories in the time of youth may command only a terse applause, a perfunctory nod, or the crisp tribute of a grudging hand clap? Are Olusegun Obasanjo, Muhammadu Buhari, Yakubu Gowon, Abdulsalam Abubakar, living that epoch? How does a man welcome the frightening reality outside the corridors of power, when the unforgiving measure of his deeds as a public officer and private citizen determines the tenor of his twilight? Forget public officers, are you, dear reader, prepared for that direful eventuality? The Wordsworthian male decline, like Sango’s domestication by Oya and Kleist’s male mastectomy in Penthesilea, is a surgical reduction of self that beggars reflection and urgent intervention among Nigeria’s male-folk. Wordsworth empathizes with the virile male of “The Last of the Flock” because he is suffering, and because his masculine identity is fast approaching vanishing point. For Wordsworth, a man becomes greater as he becomes less. Self-sacrifice and public martyrdom canonise him in the cult of female nature. As a man, do you attain greatness as you become less? Have you made any sacrifice worth canonisation by the cult of female nature? Would your name enliven high society and suburban poetry long after you return to dust? What quality of manhood do you pose to your wife (wives) and the Nigerian female? Would you wish your kind upon your daughter as a husband? What calibre of men steer the ship of the Nigerian state? Beyond dubious feminist treatises on men? Beyond our politicised, economic, sociological theories, who is the Nigerian male? What’s his value to the Nigerian state? Who are we, stripped of the veneer of professed spiritualism, feminism, chauvinism, masochism, intellectualism, among other isms and schisms that define us? The moral nihilism espoused by the misled male would terrify shayateen. It terrified Adorno thus his contention that radical evil was possible only by the presence of sinister men and the collaboration of a timid, cowed, and confused population; a system of propaganda and mass media that offered little more than spectacle and entertainment, and an educational system that did not transmit transcendent values or nurture the capacity for individual conscience. He feared a culture that banished the anxieties and complexities of moral choice and embraced a childish hypermasculinity. Such hypermasculinity has its logical fruition in Boko Haram, armed banditry, herder-farmer carnage, kidnap for ransom. It manifests in our lack of compassion for the homeless, the impoverished, the unemployed, and the sick. It seethes in our lack of respect for our wives, our sons, our daughters, and our persistent fear of being neutered by rebellious femininity. Resistance to these realities cannot take place without a degree of knowledge and self-reflection. We have to name these acts and transform moral outrage into concrete attempts to prevent such human violations from taking place in the first place, notes Giroux.   Herders’ settlements razed in Southern Kaduna     Eko Bridge shut after fire     Kumuyi: Christianity has brought real change to life   But contemporary youths accept the system they inherited and find a comfortable place within it, biding their time to subvert and cheat it. Thus we shut our eyes to the venomous superstructure foisted on us – fuelled by insentient politics, retained by toxic economy, all borne of savage manhood, and sensationalised femaleness. In the system that we have created, treasury looters feign sickness, a handicap, and faint outright, in frantic bid to avoid public inquiry or any attempt to make them answer for their misdeeds. Such comical jaunts have attained a pedestrian taste of the splattering kind. It’s gross buffoonery, and yet a rite of pagan worship in Nigeria’s sorely spiritualised and bigoted political space – some rogue pastor or alfa, religious and ethnic group eventually threatens perceived detractors of their favoured son or daughter. Thus any blockhead or egghead may attain public office, loot the coffers, and collapse during a public inquiry or arrive on a stretcher. It never gets old. It’s pure radical evil that eroticises the horror banished by norms. Feminists blame the patriarchy but our problem isn’t the patriarchy but the trans-generational ideal of callousness. A matriarchy wouldn’t fare better in a society built on the belief that virility consists of the maximum capacity to circumvent and cheat the system. This has foisted upon us generations of savage citizenry. Savagery dominates our culture. It runs like an electric current, powering our politics, short-circuiting morals, and our comatose economy. It activates our reality television and trash-talks radio programmes while superintending a bigoted, pliant collective. Society blames it all on the man and the feminist-misandrist blames it on the “evil patriarchy.” Several males display an incapacity for moral choice thus retreating into an ostensibly ferocious collective that must be led and vilified, they argue. Heck! Let’s all blame the male for the tragic turn of the Nigerian enterprise. Grammy award-winning artiste, James Brown, released the album in 1966, “It’s a man’s world, but not without adding “But it wouldn’t be nothing, nothing without a woman or a girl.” A man must live wary of the woman and vice versa. That’s tact. But to stew in such fear is to be inimical to self and society. The North American myth of the toothed genitalia gruesomely connotes such female power and male fear. Metaphorically, the female genitalia has secret teeth, for the male exits as less than when he entered, according to lore. Yet it takes a woman to make a man. The importance of women empowerment, their presence in leadership roles, and their representation in government could improve governance and reduce corruption only if they commit to the task shorn of corruption. The gravest challenge to our hopes and dreams as a nation are the messy political transactions prevalent at the grassroots and party arena. We can no longer shut our eyes to the venomous superstructure foisted on us, fuelled by insentient politics, retained by toxic social economy. More women suffer the scourge of tarnished awareness in this political high drama that renders their conscience, a pitiful hostage of its flesh envelope; “whose surges and secret murmurings they cannot stay or speed,” says Paglia. If the woman’s body is truly a labyrinth in which the man is lost, the Nigerian woman should loom formidably before him as negotiations intensify on the country’s next social, political hierarchies. The conflict of economies and social ironies notwithstanding, a new class of womanhood must emerge not as a corpse in future argument with itself, but as a heroic shiner of light and hope on Nigeria’s dark aspects. This cosmos of ‘strong women’ are reliant on Atlas’ strength yet imperiled by his shrug. More is the pity.