An information communication technology (ICT) firm, Africa Data Centres, has called for in-country hosting of cloud services across Africa to boost economic development. Its Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Krish Ranganath, made the call yesterday at a Zoom Webinar with the theme: ‘Bringing you to the future: The Journey Towards a Cloud Lifestyle’. It was organised by CWG in partnership with Africa Data Centres and Zadara. He highlighted the benefits of in-house cloud services to include optimal service performance, improved network, data localisation, payment in local currency, in-country support and proximity to data. “Many companies worry about losing control over their data when it moves to the cloud, but when your company’s data is stored at a local cloud data center, you always know where your data is and how it is being protected,” he said.   NAHCO secures major renewal deals     West Africa’s food economy to hit $480b by 2030     ‘We approved, but have no records of $195m Deep Blue…   He maintained that localisation of data must be a priority when considering the adoption of cloud computing, as scalable cloud computing resources located within the region mean that companies can take advantage of the cloud without the drawbacks of moving workloads to data centers that are farther away. Explaining that some industries have regulatory and compliance requirements that mandate that data is maintained locally, the CTO stated that Nigeria and other African countries needed to start trusting their business which is locally grown. Such a gesture, according to him, will provide numerous employment opportunities for the young talents and improve the economy. “If your cloud provider is close by, you can even visit the cloud data center. Taking a tour will allow you to see what security resources are in place and to better understand the people and processes that exist to keep your cloud workloads secure and running smoothly,” he added. Africa Data Centres, one of the data center service providers in Africa that boasts of the continent’s first network of interconnected, carrier and cloud-neutral data center facilities, is a business of Cassava Technologies Limited and a trusted partner to local and global enterprises for rapid and secure data centre services and interconnections in Africa. It owns and operates Africa’s largest network of interconnected, carrier and cloud-neutral data centre facilities. Strategically located, our world-class data centre facilities provide a home for business-critical data for enterprises in Africa. The company boasts of services such as colocation, pay-per-use power, cross-connects, Internet exchange, Cloud connections and Partner ecosystem.