The All Progressives Congress (APC) caucus in the House of Representatives on Wednesday overwhelmingly endorsed the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for the 2023 presidency. In an overwhelming voice vote, the members said Aiyes to the ambition of the former Lagos Governor when the House Leader Alhassan Ado Doguwa put the question to vote. Doguwa said Tinubu has supported several Nigerians to become Presidents, Governors, Senators and House of Representatives members, declaring: “this is the time for you to pay back.” Doguwa said APC House of Representatives members were fully in support of the candidacy of Tinubu. He said several members National Assembly members were in office because of Tinubu’s support. According to him: “I want to look at you in the face and tell you that this is the time to pay back. Tinubu has supported many to be Presidents of this country, to be Governors, Senators and members of the House of Representatives. Bola Ahmed Tinubu has no other time to be supported to achieve his life -long ambition than now.   Residents, scavengers clash as FCTA demolishes shanties     Ondo OPC leader remanded for disrupting mosque worship     2023: Atiku’s zoning formula   “We will continue to associate with you for the good of Nigeria and our people. We are immeasurably grateful. We will support you to achieve your lifelong ambition. “Sometime when we interact with some people, they tell you that the President is a former military officer. You are from this institution and we are looking forward to President Buhari handing over to someone with a legislative background so that we can also boost about it. “You are here preaching to the already converted because of the numerous contributions you have made to the development of Nigeria. “You are the only one we know and will support. You have all it takes to run for the office of the President, you have all it takes to be President”. To assure the APC Leader of the support of the Caucus, Doguwa put the issue to vote. He said: “Those of you in support that this gentleman should lead this country in 2023 say Aiyes”. Members of the Caucus massively chorused Aiyes. With the overwhelming endorsement, the earlier scheduled Executive session was shelved as members insisted that the message was clear enough.