The names of Buni and Akpanudoedehe were dropped from the list of the Central Planning Committee. Also missing on the list is former Minister of Aviation Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, who was initially pencilled down as the deputy chairman of the media sub-committee. Akpanudoedehe, who denied resigning as party secretary on Tuesday, was not at the secretariat to attend the meetings yesterday. Unlike the withdrawn panel list, which contained over 1500 names, the new committee list has now been reduced to about 200. Justifying the new composition while inaugurating the chairmen and secretaries of sub-committees, the CECPC acting chairman said: “We trimmed down the number to a workable size without undermining anyone and I think this decision is the best for our party.” The CECPC also released the zoning arrangement for party offices, with the national chairman being zoned to the Northcentral while the Southwest zone will produce the national secretary. The Director of Publicity, Salihu Na’inna Dambatta, said in a statement in Abuja, that the zoning arrangement was adopted, following the submission of the report of the zoning committee, led by Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq. Following the release of the zoning formula, only chairmanship aspirants from the Northcentral, including Senators Sani Musa, George Akume, Tanko Al-Makura and Abdullahi Adamu, as well as Malam Saliu Mustapha, Mohammed Saidu Etsu and Abu Bawa Buwari, are eligible. The zoning arrangement is as follows: National Chairman (Northcentral); Deputy National Chairman, North (Northeast); Deputy National Chairman, South (Southeast); National Secretary (Southwest); National Organising Secretary (Northwest); National Publicity Secretary (Southsouth) and National Legal Adviser (Northwest). Governors Bello Masari, Bello Matawalle, Ben Ayade, Kayode Fayemi, Badaru Abubakar, Abdullahi Sule, Dapo Aboodun and Nasir El-Rufai are chairmen of sub-committees while Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege, Minister of information, Lai Mohammed and Abike Dabiri-Erewa are members of sub-committees. Governor Sani Bello said the convention date is sacrosanct, urging the committees to work hard to ensure the success of the convention. He said that the committees were reduced to a manageable size for effective delivery. Sani Bello said: “We task you to exhibit these qualities to ensure the success of the National Convention. I know a lot of our party faithfuls wanted in one way or the other to serve in various committees as their support or contributions towards a healthy party. However, we must be mindful that we cannot accommodate everyone in the Sub-Committees. “I want to also commend the Caretaker Committee members for their efforts in compiling the list because our party being the largest party in Nigeria, probably in Africa. They went through hell because everyone wants to serve but I think they did their best. If you didn’t see your name in the list please don’t be offended. I am sure other opportunities will come in future. “I want to remind you that you have to work hard to ensure that the National Convention will go on 26th of March 2022. That day is sacrosanct.” Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, who spoke on behalf of the sub-committees members, thanked the party leadership for the opportunity to serve and contribute to its growth and development. He assured that members of the committees will discharge the assignment faithfully. Fayemi commended Bello and members of the CECPC for doing a job that reflected the party’s nature, adding that: “We are fully ready and committed to deliver on behalf of the committee.”   Buhari shuts out pro-Buni lobbyists     Senate refuses to amend Electoral Act     Fed Govt’ team to Second Niger Bridge not involved in…   Sen. Rochas Okorocha, former governor of Imo State, said that with the new leadership of the CECPC, there is light at the end of the tunnel. He added: “There is every assurance that the convention will be free and fair, given the leadership in place and the stand of President Muhammad Buhari. “What simply needs to be done, is to give every member of this party a sense of belonging, not forgetting the founding fathers and the parties that came together to form the APC.” He said if the founding fathers and governors are recognised and carried along, the party would have a peaceful convention. Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu said the party should strive to sustain internal democracy at the convention. He said the party must not throw away its chances ahead of next year’s general elections. Akeredolu, who spoke when he received the Senator Sani Musa campaign organisation in Akure, said the APC should represent a democratic institution that everyone would appreciate. Akeredolu stressed: “What we are faced with now, for me, is the soul of our party. My party, your party, our party. You have alluded to it that a number of people came together to form alliances to unseat a government that was in power for over sixteen years. We have the legacy parties and other people joined. “We got that mass of people to come together. We were able to change the narrative about politics. We took the bull by the horn. We have not been in office up to eight years. We cannot afford to throw away our chances. We must get our acts together as a political party. “We must have values. What are our core values? Do we want to represent a democratic institution that everyone would appreciate? Let’s create that niche for ourselves. I’m not opposed to zoning offices because there must be mechanism for balance. For me, I have nothing against zoning. What I have said, and that is why I will continue to encourage you, is that there must be internal democracy.” The APC Senate Caucus, on yesterday insisted that Buni is still the CECPC chairman. The Caucus Chairman and Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi reiterated the support for Buni at an emergency meeting in Abuja. Senators at the meeting included Senate President Ahmad Lawan, his deputy, Ovie Omo-Agege, the Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu and other principal officers. Abdullahi said: “These are trying times for major political parties in the country, the very reason we in the APC as Senate caucus met for the second day running this week towards required collaboration with other stakeholders for unity of purpose in the party ahead of the coming National Convention and 2023 general elections. “Required strategies have been mapped out by the caucus to bring all interests groups together in making the party stronger and well positioned for the 2023 general elections. “The reported storm in the party by the media is not true as there was no leadership crisis. “Governor Buni to us, remains the Chairman of National Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the Party. “He will resume in that capacity any moment he returns from Dubai where he went for medical check. “Governor Sani Bello who is acting in that capacity now is doing so to avoid a vacuum in leadership and most importantly, to put in place required arrangements for the forthcoming National Convention of the party which is 17 days from now.”