His name echoed fears in the creeks of the Niger Delta. He was a rebel with a course. General Boyloaf was his creek appellation. But he was born and named Victor-Ben Ebikabowei by his parents, Victor and Janet. His war name, General Boyloaf, however, became his household identity when he took up arms to fight against the alleged injustice meted out to the Niger Delta region by the Federal Government. As one of the dreaded commanders of the defunct Movement for Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND), a militant group that rattled the government, Ebikabowei was also one of the first commanders to embrace peace by accepting the Amnesty Programme offered by the administration of the late Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. Ebikabowei, who will turn 50 on March 28, has since dropping his arms transformed himself from a creek warrior to a peacemaker, a scholar, entrepreneur and philanthropist. Ebikabowei hails from Ezetu town in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. He was, however, born in Ubiaruku town, Ukwuani in Delta State. He attended Community Primary School, Amadiam and Stella Maris College in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He, therefore, spent all his early years in Delta, Bayelsa and Rivers states experiencing the living conditions in the Niger Delta. Recalling his childhood, he said: “My Childhood memories are very significant in my life. I can recall the best and bad times of my life and these memories have built my future and way of thinking. ” Growing up in the Niger Delta was not a tea party for him. The region’s environment was harsh and posed serious threats to children. “We grew up in an environment that is full of violence and children were being abused and forced to join bad gangs because there was lack of security and our parents could not provide us a safe environment, ” he recalled. As a child, Ebikabowei saw and felt the injustice that was prevalent in the Niger Delta and nursed the desire to wage a war against it. He singlehandedly began the agitation for equity and justice within his domain and in no time located other like minds. “It is not as if I have the natural tendency to fight. But the injustice I saw and felt in the environment launched me into it. I was the only one from the circle of boys I grew up with, who stood up for my people”, he said. Tracing the history of violent conflicts caused by crude oil, he said: “Conflict in the Niger Delta first arose in the early 1990s following tension between foreign oil corporations and a number of the Niger Delta minority ethnic groups. “The group felt  they were being exploited, particularly the Ogoni and the Ijaw. Ethnic and political unrest continued throughout the 1990s despite the return to democracy and the election of the Obasanjo government in 1999. “The struggle for oil wealth fueled violence among the ethnic groups and caused  the militarisation of nearly the entire region. The violence discouraged foreign and even local investments.” In fact, life in the creek was very difficult. Ebikabowei once feared he could die in the creek during the struggle. But he was ready even to pay the supreme prize. He said: “Yes, I had it at the back of my mind that the struggle might take my life especially as we took up arms against the government of the day. But I was prepared for anything, including death. I was ready to push the struggle until our people were liberated from the oppressive government. “The arms struggle could have been avoided if our leaders did the right thing by bringing infrastructural development and human empowerment to the people of Niger Delta where the oil comes from. But, you see, they would never do the right thing, and the only language they understood was the trigger play.” Ebikabowei said the arms struggle achieved its purpose and was never derailed. He, however, recalled that some criminal elements in the region infiltrated the struggle and carried out criminal operations for their selfish interests. He said: “The arms struggle was never derailed during the old days in the creek of the Niger Delta. “It was the right  thing to do at the time because the system was not favourable to the people of the region and it was what had given us a good facelift. “The aftermath of the struggle is affecting lives positively. One of my biggest achievements is to see many sons and daughters of the region benefiting educationally and still benefiting from our struggle. “The amnesty proclamation and subsequent acceptance by the agitators has brought peace to the Niger Delta region. “Definitely, there were bad persons during the Niger Delta struggle,  whose mission was to attack and steal from the people in the riverine area. “They went as far as attacking fishing trawlers and other sea-going vessels thereby giving those of us in the struggle that meant well for the region a bad name. “But we tried our best to tackle and bring them to book in our own way to keep the waters clear of sea pirates and other criminals.” Ebikabowei was one of the first commanders that embraced the proclamation of amnesty by the Federal Government. The former MEND commander said he never entertained any fear that his colleagues would reject the offer. “I had the feeling of setting the pace because I believed that others would follow,” he said. On how the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP ) had been managed so far, Ebikabowei said: “Though there were two past administrations that did not leave up to the expectations of the delegates, the present administration of Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (rtd) has shown leadership and capacity by working to redirect the programme to its core mandate. The amnesty programme is a blessing to the Niger Delta people.” Ebikabowei says he  has no regrets taking up arms against the opression of his people. He said: “If I had a similar opportunity, I would do the same thing I did and push more for the Ijaw nation to speak in one voice, being the fourth largest ethnic nationality in Nigeria. “If we were united the way I anticipated while in the struggle, we would have been developed far beyond where we are now in terms of infrastructure, human capital development and political influence. “I also want to encourage my fellow ex-agitators in the struggle and the youths in the Niger Delta to always conduct themselves in a manner that will bring about peace and harmony among ourselves and to change the earlier narrative about us so as to change the negative perception people have about the youths of the Niger Delta region.   How Boko Haram shattered our life dreams, turned us into…     Mystery midnight fire wipes out family of seven     ‘Our miserable lives as refugees in highbrow Lagos…   “This will give confidence to would-be investors to invest in our oil rich region without doubt or fear. “Politicians in the Niger Delta region should keep to their part of the struggle. “They should ignore personal differences and political differences and focus on those things that unite us as a people. “They should use every opportunity at their disposal to develop the states in the region and avoid selfish tendencies in governance. “They should develop the states to change the wrong perception other Nigerians have about us”. Ebikabowei further identified persistent challenges in the Niger Delta and tried to proffer solutions. He said: “Instability and insecurity in the Niger Delta causes  lack of development and obstruct development from progressing.  “For example, companies may be put off investments in the region if they are afraid of losing them. “Competition for resource and political control, particularly over the revenue and related benefits which can be derived from the oil and gas industry, contributes to conflict. “Government attempts to resolve conflict often include an overly militarised approach to policing that tends to provoke tension and do little to reduce the high levels of communal violence in the Niger Delta. “Leaders and representatives from the region must take governance as a serious business; I mean how decisions are made and implemented, and how those responsible can be held accountable. “Weak political and institutional governance in the Niger Delta has led to misuse of public resources, poor service delivery and poor enforcement of the law. This has led to a breakdown in trust between citizens and the government. “Political power is commonly gained through patronage and violence, largely funded by the embezzlement of revenues from the oil sector. “Leaders and representatives of the region should aim to build closer relationships between citizens, and improve the ability of civil society organisations to scrutinise and publicly hold leaders to account. “Information on government and the oil and gas industry should be available and accessible to the public, and to support the use of this to hold government and the oil industry to account. “The government should continue to promote free, fair and credible elections, and a government that listens to and works with the people living in the Niger Delta to meet their needs, especially the currently excluded social groups. “The government should reduce their dependence on short-term solutions and political settlements including militarised approaches and increase long-term social and development interventions to tackle security and development challenges in the Niger Delta. “It should also seeks to increase dialogue, and the potential for mediation, between groups involved in conflict.” Despite the noticeable problems in the region, Ebikabowei insists that violence should not be an option. He opposed any attempt by anybody or group to take up arms against the government in the interest of Niger Delta’s development. But he warned that if the government continued to neglect the region, the next generation of agitators would be more brutal than the former. He said: “I personally drove the process by bringing the Niger Delta struggle to the limelight through the negotiated peace accord with the federal government of Nigeria under the administration of the late Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua, which brought about the Amnesty Programme. “I convinced the agitators then to voluntarily drop their arms to accept the Presidential Amnesty by giving the Federal Government the opportunity for dialogue to bring the needed development to the region. “This is  my stand and it is still the part I will continue to preach. But if the government refuses to do the right thing, I’m afraid that those that will come after us to fight the government will be more brutal.” Ebikabowei has been developing himself academically. He left guns and bullets to pick up books and pen. He recently bagged a first class in International Relations and Diplomacy at the Baze University, Abuja. As a scholar, he is currently studying for his master’s degree in Intelligence and Global Security at the same university. Unlike the abusive environment he grew up in, Ebikabowei said he had made a covenant with God to give his children and most kids in the Niger Delta good education. He said: “Today, I give my kids the best of life I didn’t enjoy and ensure they have the good education and behaviour so that they can influence the society positively. “Government must protect children from violence and abuse.” The former warlord then reechoed his stance when he dropped his arms at the Peace Park in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, saying: “If the government refuses to develop the region and continues the marginalisation and injustice, the youths that are coming after us will be more brutal than us.”