A mob in Anambra State nearly lynched a woman after her husband passed away, following an extensive session of intimacy with her. The incident happened in Aguleri, Anambra East Local Government Area, the country home of Governor Willie Obiano. The deceased, simply identified as Udoji, was said to be preparing for his mother’s burial on April 28, before the incident. One of his kinsmen, who gave his name as Osy, told The Nation yesterday that their late brother was a quiet man who worked hard to make ends meet. Police said they arrested a suspected member of the mob, who descended on the woman after her husband’s death. In a viral video, the woman was seen naked in a room while the body of her husband lay on the floor. The mob accused the woman of killing her husband with sex, and almost lynched her before police arrived.   Emmanuel kicks as compensated owners of structures refuse to…     Security personnel hit terrorists in Niger     BREAKING: Anxiety as ASUU may declare ‘indefinite strike’…   Police spokesman Ikenga Tochukwu said in a statement yesterday that a suspect had been taken into custody in connection with the incident. Tochukwu said the Command was studying the video with a view to identifying other suspects and bringing them to book. The statement said: “The Anambra State Police Operatives have…rescued a female victim from an angry mob in Aguleri. The rescue was as a result of a…trending video in which a lady was publicly molested and assaulted for an alleged incident of causing the death of her late husband.” The police spokesman said Commissioner of Police Echeng Echeng described the act as barbaric. “Further information reveals that the deceased had already been buried before the video started trending. The victim was rescued and she is currently receiving medical care in the hospital,” Tochukwu said. The Nation learnt that the community seemed to be angry that the woman had no child for their brother. They also alleged that she was seeing another man from a neighbouring community. Police operatives were deployed in the area to curb potential breach of the peace, The Nation learnt.