Nigeria’s Cricket Federation’s National Developments Manager, (NDM), in charge of North West, Oche Onoja, has said the quite a number of positives are currently being witnessed that may come together to position his region as the game’s powerhouse. Onoja, was speaking against the background of performances of the Northern teams at the recently concluded, PriceWaterhouse Copper’s sponsored Nation Under-17 National Championship concluded at the Moshood Abila National Stadium in Abuja, penultimate week.  “The only surviving Northern team into the Semis in Abuja was North West and North central and they both lost. But that is not the true picture of the development in the North,” he said. “In Kaduna for instance, we have struggled with playing on standard pitch in the past three years due to the investment of the state government to modernize out playing facility. “So the players have been making do with Astro-Turfs which has limited capacity to simulate match situation, like the case we had in Abuja during the U17 Championship.”   GCI Trumps GCI to firm up Second Place at the CCC League     Ibadan bubbles for South West U-19 Cricket tourney     MoC begins hunt for talented new athletes   Onoja, whose region had produced some key cricket talents that have contributed immensely to Nigeria strong ranking of late, hinted that the facility in Kaduna is almost ready and would be put to use before the 2022 season comes to close.  “Sometimes by the middle of the year, our Kaduna Cricket Oval with its World Class hospitality infrastructure will be fully ready for use an we are hoping that the state league which will also return this year will have some of its fixtures slated for the new Oval,” he said. He said the state target for grassroots developments’ outreach is set at 20, 000 for the game and given the pull strategy and the government support that the game has enjoyed under Governor Nasir El-Rufai, more kids are eagerly waiting for the state’s cricket association to come calling. He added: “Kaduna has a strong following for the game and we have a working team that is enthusiastic in growing the game. “ I am very sure once our new ground is opened, we will cover up the deficit we currently have racked up for using makeshift turfs in the past three years. I think from 2023, all things being equal we should begin to see the effect of the upgrade.”