After a lull occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic, the International Conference Centre, Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu, venue of the annual Life In My City Arts Festival (LIMCAF), came alive recently when it hosted the first Art Fair organized by the National Gallery of Art, in collaboration with Department of Fine and Applied Art, IMT, Enugu. The fair, which is the third in the series of NGA organised Art Fair after Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and the University of Jos is featuring outstanding IMT School of Arts works by selected lecturers and students (including alumni) of the department. It will run till March 17.  Beyond the individual manifestations, the exhibition is an overview of the stylistic tendencies of the art school. The artworks on display reflect the trajectory of the department and institute, which will turn 50 years next year. Expectedly, the works which are painting, sculpture, installation, photograph, textile, drawing and mixed media are of four generations of IMT Art School. The first generation being the earliest graduates from 1973 to 1982, the second generation between 1983 and 1992, the third generation from 1995 to 2005 and the fourth generation from 2006 to 2020. Notable artists of the first generation that exhibited include Chike Nwaka, Fryde Oko, Essien Nsikak, Bona Ezeudu, Boniface Okafor, Tony Umunna, Nich Alude, Tochukwu Amano, Chris Afuba, Anene Nzekwe and Obiora Anidi. Those of the second generation are Cyril Nwokoli, Obi Ekwenchi, Fidel Udenta, Chris Ude, Grace Oji, Maria Mbelu, Innocent Okoye, Goddy Udeh, Bona Aka, Eddy Okolo and Obiageli Offor. The likes of Damian Onyekuru, Amaka Chime, Harold Ekpelibe, Uchay Chima, Nnaemeka Ilechukwu, Ibe Ananaba, Ikenna Ude, Chidi Chukwu and Klint Afam Igwemba belong to the third generation and those of fourth generation are Chukwuma Maduka, Ekene Ireagwu, Samuel Palmtree, Chidike Ihekwereme, Kennedy Ohanagorom, Chinenye M. Eze, Amazu Nzube and Nnamdi Udoka. No fewer than 65 artists and about 105 art works made up of 28 sculptures, 18 ceramics, 42 paintings six photographs, five drawings, four textile designs and two computer Aided Graphic Designs are on display. Director-General National Gallery of Art, Mr. Ebeten William Ivara assured that Nga is willing to work with all stakeholders to move the sector forward. He noted that the gallery has since completed the harmonisation of NGA Establishment Act  for Repeal and Re-enactment Act in collaboration with the Society of Nigerian Artists. “Our next stop is the national Assembly. I urge you all to join in this quest by NGA to become a revenue generating agency by impressing on members of the National Assembly to give the bill accelerated hearing for it to be passed into law.   ‘COVID-19, insecurity no threat to tourists’     Celebrating matriarch of literature at 92     Fix Politics for screening Friday   “The benefits when this happens are immense. They include but not limited to the following: engagement of visual artists in urban and rural areas productively almost all year round to produce art works; explosion in studio practice; increase in visual art practice, entrepreneurship and mentoring; release of the much needed fund to reposition visual art as a viable discipline for young people to embrace and visual art will now contribute greatly to Nigeria’s GDP,” Ivara said. Chairman of the exhibition opening ceremony, Elder Kalu K Kalu recalled that the collaboration IMT entered into with Life In My City Art Festival in 2016, has enabled the survival and unbroken consistency of LIMCAF’s annual festival, which provides a platform to showcase, reward and promote young artists from all over Nigeria. “In the 15 years of its existence, LIMCAF has directly empowered over 1500 young artists and promoted and exposed them for the enrichment and growth of their careers. This year, for example, through the support of Emeritus Professor El Anatsui, LIMCAF will sponsor 18 young Nigerian artists from all over the country to attend the Dak’art International Biennale in Senegal. Others will receive training in various areas which are endowed by our sponsors,” he noted. He therefore, called on DG of National Gallery to take advantage of the opportunity of the great impact which LIMCAF is already making in the development of contemporary art  in Nigeria from a grassroots catch-them-young perspective to advance his mandate. Director School of Art, Design and Printing Technology, IMT, Enugu, Dr. Okay Ikenegbu remarked that IMT was the ‘first Art School in Southeast NGA is collaborating with in this magnitude at this crucial time . Interestingly, IMT will be 50 next year.’ Present at the ceremony included Igwe Dr. Titus Okolo, Igwe Amorji Nike, Dr. Ferdinand Anekwe, Dr. Obiora Anidi, Mr. Kevin Ejiofor, Mrs Virginia Okegbe, Engr. Sunday Udeh, Dr. Okay Ikenegbu, Dr. Ayo Adewunmi, and Dr. Simon Ikpakronyi. Others were Mr. James Irabor, Mike Ayim, Mrs Vera Chijioke, Dr. Henry Achugbu and Mrs Pat Nkwocha.