All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Tinubu yesterday took his consultation to Ekiti State. He held talks with traditional rulers before paying homage to the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe. The parley with the monarchs took place at the State Council of Traditional Rulers’ Chambers, Old Governor’s Office, Oke Bareke, in the state capital. The one-time Lagos State governor was accompanied to the meeting by Ekiti State Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi and high-ranking members of the Southwest Agenda (SWAGA) 2023 for Tinubu Presidential ambition, led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye. Tinubu said his mission was to consult with royal fathers on his plan to take a shot at the nation’s number one position next year. Asking for their prayers and support, Tinubu pointed out that his decision to contest was informed by a desire to renew hope for Nigerians irrespective of their social status, ethnic, religious and socio-cultural affinity. According to him, Nigeria needs a leader fully equipped with competence, experience, administrative acumen and leadership skills for continuity. He said only a leader with such character could maintain the unity of the country and keep the economy on its feet. Tinubu said: “I’m contesting this race to renew the hope and make the future great for our children. For Nigeria to stand united and develop, we require patience and wisdom. We have to be united, that is the only way we can be great. “That was why we formed APC based on principles. I want to tell you that Nigeria needs serious change. I knew how Lagos was when I took over and we never failed any election. There must be continuity in governance for progress to be attained. “I was the first governor in Nigeria to start paying the WAEC fees of secondary school pupils. I shall do it again as a President.” He explained that the parleys with the traditional rulers before making official declaration underscored the enormous respect he places on culture, value and tradition. The APC stalwart said: “I have been on Nigeria’s project since the 70’s. I was with the late Chief MKO Abiola in the SDP (defunct Social Democratic Party). I was a senator before he came out. I was the youngest senator of that era. I was about becoming Director of Finance at Mobil Oil, but I sacrificed to serve Nigeria. “They gave me a leave of absence to go and do politics for four years and come back, but I only spent two years as a senator when the military came and terminated our tenure.   Obasanjo seeks all-inclusive education reforms     Our concerns about 2023 general election, by INEC     Sanwo-Olu, Abiodun, Uzodimma in APC convention panels   “But I had an option to go back and enjoy at Mobil Oil, but I decided that I would fight for Nigeria. “We believed that there must be democracy in Nigeria, there must be freedom and there must be opportunities. “We joined hands with Soyinka, the late Pa Anthony Enahoro and others. Governor Kayode Fayemi was in University of London then, brilliant… and he joined the struggle.  He worked so hard, in fact, he is an excellent man. “We are here to answer the call of our children by educating them the right way, so that we can leave a Nigeria that is united, prosperous and abundant for them. We chose democracy and we must not fail in this task. “And to make Nigeria great, we have to collaborate, unite and promote ourselves instead of fighting. We all see what is happening in Ukraine today; we don’t need such experience here. We must elevate our technology and make use of available opportunities to develop Nigeria and that is what we are coming to do.” Speaking on behalf of the monarchs, the  Council  Chairman and  Onisan of Isan-Ekiti, Oba Gabriel Adejuwon, said Tinubu was eminently qualified to be President. He stated that the constitution permits every qualified Nigerians to aspire for any position, saying God will help him realise his ambition. The Ewi of Ado-Ekiti also said the APC National leader possessed the requisite potentials and pedigree to lead Nigeria. Oba Adejugbe stated that Tinubu has, by his unparalleled achievements since he held the fort as helmsman in Lagos, shown capacity as a transformational leader with purposeful and articulated vision to make Nigeria great. He expressed confidence that given the needed support, the former governor would turn around the fortunes of the country for the benefit of the citizenry and put it on the surest path of sustainable growth and development. “Asiwaju has impacted lives. We have no doubt in his competence, vast experience, intellectual prowess and administrative shrewdness. If he can do what he did in Lagos, then, he can do more for Nigeria,” the foremost monarch said. Adeyeye highlighted the efforts made by Tinubu toward promoting the development of Ekiti State. The SWAGA National Chairman said: “That APC is in Ekiti today is traceable to God and Tinubu. He struggled for it and restored progressive politics here. He has made many Ekiti people commissioners, Special Advisers and local government chairmen in Lagos. “Tinubu honoured our own hero in Ekiti, Adekunle Fajuyi by building a house for him. He has helped so many people, including myself. “Tinubu brought a paradigm shift to governance in Lagos. In fact, he is a miracle worker. As a governor of Lagos State, he was ranked first and no wonder he remained the last man standing when the then AD lost grip of the Southwest.”