Osun Governor Gboyega Oyeola has urged voters not to fall for the antics of the opposition parties, who he alleged were  out to distract them ahead of the July 16 governorship election in the State.   Oyetola said this during an engagement programme by the Civic Engagement Centre for Osun State Conference of Artists Designers, House and Spraying Painter on Sunday in Osogbo.   Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the Governor also urged members of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as, the electorate  to remain focus on his reelection bid.   Oyetola, who noted that APC is still intact and indivisible in Osun, urged them not to be agitated but remain resolute, unflinching and committed to the task ahead, noting that the mission is achievable and accomplishable.   The Governor urged the party members to continue to educate the populace on the need for stability, sustainability and continuity of his people’s oriented style of governance.   “As election is approaching we tasked all our  members at all level to employ door-to-door strategy to remind the electorate why our administration should be given a second chance to complete its developmental agenda for the state.     Stakeholders optimistic about Lekki Toll Gate’s reopening     ‘Nobody can claim ownership of UACC’     Oyetola to electorate: support me, you won’t be disappointed   “Osun APC is strong and indivisible .I want to appeal to our members as well as the electorate not to be deceived nor distracted by lies and deceit made by opposition parties.   “You have seen and witness a lot of positive impacts and achievements  we had made since the inception of our administration and you can be rest assured of more better things to come when we are reelected”, he said.   Oyetola, who noted that the opposition would soon engage in campaign of calumny with fake promises, urged the electorate to be firm in their determination to ensure continuity.   He commended members of the association for their support, adding that his administration will continue to provide friendly environment for  businesses to thrive.   Chairman of the association, Siyanbola Shaeeb, commended the Governor for putting human face to governance in the State.   Shaeeb  said that members of the association would support the reelection bid of the governor for his administration to continue with the good works.   He also appreciated the Governor for providing enabling environment for the association to do their businesses without any hindrances.