TROOPS of Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK) were said to have overrun and captured the stronghold of the Islamic States West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists at Ukuba/Camp Zairo, in Sambisa Forest. According to a report by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, in a statement on Friday in Abuja, said the troops also seized weapons from the terrorists. Onyeuko said the feat was achieved on Thursday in a special operation codenamed ‘Operation Desert Sanity.’ He said the troops routed the terrorists and captured their enclave, adding that the terrorists fled the camp leaving behind their weapons. Onyeuko said, “after thorough cordon and search of the captured camp, the gallant troops recovered various equipment including one Main Battle Tank, one 155mm Bofors Gun, one trailer, one 122mm gun, and two 105mm guns. “Other equipment captured are one Mines Resistance Ambush Protected (MRAP), fighting vehicle, one MOWAG Armoured Personnel Carrier, one Mack trailer, as well as a large cache of arms and ammunition left behind by the terrorists.” The Defence spokesman said the capture of the terrorists’ stronghold of ‘Camp Zairo’ was a major setback to the terrorists and criminals. He said the military high command had commended the troops for the success and enjoined them not to rest on their oars. He added, “but use this as a springboard to finally defeat the insurgents and also keep up the fighting spirit.”   50,801 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists surrender in N/East – Commander Meanwhile, in another report by NAN, No fewer than 50,801 Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists and their families have so far surrendered to the troops of the Operation Hadin Kai in the North-East between September 2021 to date. Major-General Christopher Musa, Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai (OPHK), said this at a news conference, on Friday in Maiduguri. Musa said the surrendered terrorists comprised 11,349 fighters, 15,289 women, and 24,163 children. He attributed the successes to the military’s intensified offensive and onslaught against the insurgents in the region. He listed other factors to include the infighting between the two factions of the insurgents which resulted in high casualties on both sides.   COVID-19 pandemic still with us, hard to predict — SGF     Health system underperformance result of misdirected –…     EFCC seals building allegedly belonging to Obiano in…   The Commander said the terrorists surrendered to troops in the axis of Bama, Gwoza, Banki, and other parts of  Lake Chad. Musa said the surrendered terrorists and their families would be carefully profiled by the Nigerian Army and other stakeholders before undergoing rehabilitation processes. He reiterated the commitment of the military and other security agencies to continue to be decisive and implement effective strategies to bring Boko Haram terrorism to a speedy end.   United States sanctions six Nigerians for supporting Boko Haram In another development, the United States of America has sanctioned six individuals for their support of the terrorist group Boko Haram. The U.S, in a statement by Department of States spokesperson Ned Price, listed the individuals as Abdurrahman Ado Musa, Salihu Yusuf Adamu, Bashir Ali Yusuf, Muhammed Ibrahim Isa, Ibrahim Ali Alhassan and Surajo Abubakar Muhammad. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) added Musa, Adamu, Yusuf, Isa, Alhassan, and Muhammad to the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, pursuant to Executive Order 13224, as amended, for having materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, Boko Haram. The statement reads: “Today’s action follows the United Arab Emirates’ prosecutions, convictions, and designations of these individuals for supporting terrorism.” The Department of State designated Boko Haram as a Foreign Terrorist Organisation and Specially Designated Global Terrorist organisation on November 14, 2013. “The Nigeria-based group is responsible for numerous attacks in the northern and northeastern regions of the country as well as in the Lake Chad Basin in Cameroon, Chad, and Niger that have killed thousands of people since 2009,” the statement said. The UAE Federal Court of Appeals in Abu Dhabi convicted the six individuals for transferring $782,000 from Dubai to Boko Haram in Nigeria. Adamu and Muhammad were sentenced to life imprisonment for violations of UAE anti-terrorism laws; Musa, Yusuf, Isa, and Alhassan were sentenced to 10 years in prison, followed by deportation.  The designations will prevent these individuals’ funds from being used further to support terrorism. All property and interests in property of the individuals and of any entities owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by them, individually, or with other blocked persons, in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons, must be blocked and reported to OFAC. Also, engaging in transactions with the individuals entails risk of secondary sanctions pursuant to E.O. 13224, as amended.  Pursuant to this authority.