Some All Progressives Congress (APC) governors are believed to be plotting how to summon a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party without the support of the leadership of the caretaker committee. Sources said Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello is spearheading this move. Yesterday, the governor, who is a member of the caretaker committee representing the Northcentral, met at this state’s liaison office in Abuja with some governors. In attendance at the meeting was the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami (SAN). Governor Sani-Bello is believed to have fallen out with caretaker chairman Governor Mai-Mala Buni and Secretary John Akpanudoedehe. At yesterday’s meeting were Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Simon Lalong (Plateau), and Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa). It could not be ascertained whether the meeting was able to fine-tune the plan. The Niger governor could not be reached. But, a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the party, Yekini Nabena, gave an indication of the crack in the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC).   Accept my leadership or quit, Obaseki tells Edo PDP leaders     IPOB takes on enforcers of Monday sit-at-home     Buhari commiserates with Keyamo on father’s death   In a statement in Abuja last night, Nabena urged the Niger governor to stop his plan to call a NEC meeting without the authorisation of the CECPC chairman. Nabena said: “I am using this medium to call on our leaders across the states to caution Governor Sani Bello. “The Presidency should also call him to order to immediately drop the plan to convene a NEC meeting without the knowledge of Governor Mai Mala Buni and the Secretary of the CECPC. “The likes of Governor Bello are working against our party and to cause anarchy in the ruling APC. “Governor Sani Bello is neither the Chairman nor Secretary of the National Caretaker Committee. So, where did he get the power to convey such a meeting?” According to Nabena, the large interest of the majority should be bigger than the personal ambition of governor Sani Bello. Responding to a text message enquiries by our correspondent, Governor Sani Bello debunked the claim that the party is in crisis, but did not comment on the allegation. He simply wrote: “No crises. I have nothing to say.” Pressed to react to Nabena’s allegation, Sani Bello tersely replied: “There is a caretaker meeting tomorrow (today). Decisions will be taken at a meeting.”