Lawyers have faulted the proposed National Information Technology Development Agency (Repeal and Re-Enactment) Bill 2021, which not only seeks to convert the agency into another regulator that will be wrestling powers from its regulators but prescribes asphyxiating punitive regime for business owners. Lucas Ajanaku reports. After setting the stage for discussion the webinar put together by the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Committee of the Nigeria Bar Association Section on Business Law (NBA-SBL), in collaboration with the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and Farisad Investment Limited (FIL) by the moderator, the Chief Executive Officer of FIL, Sanusi Musa, the NBA President, Olumide Apata, after a brief opening remarks, raised three fundamental concerns on the proposed Bill, which, he said, should be looked into by stakeholders. Represented by ICT Committee, NBA-SBL, chairman, Rotimi Ogunyemi, the NBA chief wanted to know how the Bill will align with the Startup Bill before the National Assembly; how the NITDA Bill intends to navigate its way within the broadband context of other regulatory functions of other regulatory agencies to eschew functions overlap; and what the impact of the harsh penalties for violation of certain sections of the Bill will be on the ICT business environment. George Ayotunde flayed NITDA for not consulting with stakeholders such as the NBA and tech community before drafting the bill. He wondered what the consequences would be if a law is passed that unintentionally kills a company like Flutterwave and slammed the agency for arrogating to itself arbitrary powers to make laws without recourse to the people the law will affect. He said the Bill was mute on the definition of national interest. Another lawyer, Olatunji Abibat said section 10 of the proposed law conflicts with laws granting powers to agencies to register. She cited the Computer Professionals (Registration Council of Nigeria) and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) as examples of agencies which the bill is conflicting with. Director, Legal Service Department at NITDA, Emmanuel Edet, had said the bill proposed a reduction in the number of the membership of the Governing Board of the agency because of its administrative cost. He had also said it was better to overregulate than under-regulate. He said agencies are empowered at issue authorisation, adding that NITDA just want to fill a in the gap, which he strangely said he doesn’t.   Computer Village relocation: Traders count losses     Women tech platform to expand     TikTok updates guidelines for safety   But the Lead Partner, Infusion Lawyers, Senator Iyere Ihenyen, differs. He said attention had not been paid to the Governing Board issue. He said attempting to arrogate powers to NITDA to do what the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), SON are doing was unacceptable. Rather he proposed an expansion of the board to include the CEO of NCC, CBN Governor. Ihenyen said lack of coordination, tension and fight over power encroachment are some of the things that he has noticed through his interaction with the ecosystem. Israel Usman spoke on the issue of overlap with other agencies of the government. According to him, already there are so many agencies in the industry, warning that there will be more trouble if the bill is allowed to go in its present position. He said NITDA is to develop and not to regulate, wondering how the agency will achieve the two. According to him, if the agency wants to transmute to a regulator, it should change its name. Barbra Omo Odudu raised concern over permits and authorization in section 15. She said levy is a loss and slammed the multiplicity of taxes in the industry. She said the issue of criminal penalties should be reworked or done away with. But Edet believes intrusion into other agencies power is the best option. He said regulatory overlap is a major issue that leads to collaboration. He said it is difficult to define concepts without overlap. He cited Iroko Tv, Netflix and others, arguing that the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) would have to redefine its concept of broadcasting. He insisted that the era of agencies regulatory independence is over, arguing that they must stray into each other’s territory. One of the participants who identified himself simply as Barde said the bill should be reworked completely because of its tendency for intrusion with other regulatory agencies. Other speakers aligned with his position because granting regulatory powers to NITDA is a recipe for stunting the growth of the industry. The NITDA Bill is negating institutions such as CBN, NCC, CPN, Federal Competion and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unity (NFIU), Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA), among others.