The government’s drive for Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has received a boost with the take-off of Hi Geen, a top pharmaceutical brand in Nigeria. Speaking at the launch in Lagos, the Country Representative of Hi Geen in Nigeria Mr Amro Alabsi informed that the company decided to come over because it sees the country as a good place to invest. He said: “We see Nigeria as a very good market and we feel Nigerians deserve the best products. “Of course, Nigeria has all the attractive elements for investment, the most important of which are security, infrastructure, and an educated and hardworking population. They are very energetic, creative and have entrepreneurial spirit.” On the brand’s partnership with Imperial Madeiz who are the brand representative in Nigeria, he said: “Dr Kofi Samir reached out to us and we sent samples of our products which were well received by patients who used them.   AMCON recovers N1tr from debtors     CBN disburses over N3tr to revive economy     Why Nigeria deserves a national carrier, by Sirika   “We decided to partner with Imperial Madeiz because he understands the business and the products; we have confidence in his ability to push these products into the Nigerian market and make a success of it.” Managing Director Imperial Madeiz, Dr Kofi Samir, noted the Hi Geen products had a quality others in the market don’t have. “It’s the reason we are eager to push these products into the market and why we invited them to come to Nigeria,” he said. He added the products were lifesavers for Nigerians who need those kinds of products because as he said: “The products are made from natural ingredients especially herbs and oils, so safe to use. They have everything including orthopedics and health care, nursing, personal care products, skin care, sanitisers and much more. “The products are of the highest quality which I can vouch for as a doctor with thirty years of experience. So, our customers will get value for their money.” Samir noted that through its unique distribution network, the company will create jobs thus empowering the youths and reducing youth unemployment in the country.