All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Tinuke Davies-Kesington explains to EMMANUEL BADEJO why Asiwaju Bola Tinubu should be the next president. Excerpts You have been Diaspora woman leader of Tinubu Support Organisation (TSO) and  a matron Asiwaju Volunteers Group, what are your mandates? The mandate that I have been given, stems from my involvement in politics in the United Kingdom, and my background in social Policy development, which I engaged in not only in the United Kingdom, but internationally. My political career in the UK, began, in the early 1990s as a community organiser, securing votes within the Black and South Asian community for the UK Labour party.  I then was elected as a Councillor, and through my work was able to secure a position as a policy adviser to the then Prime Minister Mr Blair and subsequently to his predecessor, because of other work I undertook as a member of there Think Tank. Using this experience, I founded the British Nigerian Association of Councillors, to allow for Nigerians in London, to have a voice in the political system in the UK as well as being an integral part of Operation Black Votes, a national organisation, that worked to ensure that Black people in the United Kingdom, had their interests listened to and acted upon by government. Some have been agitating that APC should jettison zoning. Do you agree with this and why? On the one hand some argue zoning is required to allow for proper representation of our diverse tribes, on the other hand, some say that Zoning shows that democracy in Nigeria is immature, and weak. Democracy is a western European ideology, that has been implemented in Nigeria. Looking at the idea of Zoning and the framework of democracy, it is not actually in alignment, given that democracy at its core promotes freedom of access. Zonal politics is not aligned with actual democratic principles. It is not what would be expected in a country that purports to hold democratic values. As the APC is, considering leaving Zonal politics practices behind it shows political maturity, advancing knowledge and true alignment with democratic principles.  Democratic ideology lends itself to people in a country, regardless of where they are from, being able to participate in the political process, and if they choose to serve, they can represent the interests of their constituents. It is not so much whether I agree with Zoning or not rather we should focus on the best candidates, who can deliver the best outcomes for every community in Nigeria.  That is what I agree with.  I agree with what will improve the lives of Nigerians of every tribe and denomination. As an APC leader, who do you think should emerge as the next presidential candidate of the party. There are many fine potential candidates in the APC.  We have heard of candidacy aspirations from Vice president Yemi Oshibajo, Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, APC party leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu and the Governor of Ebonyi state. They are all experienced politicians, they all have something to offer Nigeria, which needs a new direction, to be able to compete in the global economic and political system. But, among all these, who do you think should emerge? It’s simple, the candidate with the experience, determination and Intelligence. Proven record and vision for the of whole Nigeria. The candidate that can represent Nigeria on the world stage who understands politics, is my preferred candidate.  And that candidate is Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu.   2023, Onu and and Southeast’s quest for Presidency     No access roads in my constituency, says Chief Whip     Musa: I will reconcile, re-direct and reconstruct APC   There are others, who are jostling for the coveted office in your party. Why do you think Tinubu stands a better chance? Yes, there are other eminently qualified candidates, let’s face it, the field of candidates is excellent.  Nigeria as a country is showing its advancement, by producing world class statesmen as mentioned above. They are all credit to Nigeria.  But in my professional judgement, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, stands a better chance, because he has over the years, not only being known as a politician, but has become a brand, that is embedded, in the minds of Nigerians across all geographical locations. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is not only a statesman, but he is also a brand. He has a unique vision for Nigeria, a Nigeria that is powerful, with her people, healthy, prosperous, and educated. Your preferred aspirant is experienced politician, but Nigeria needs more than a politician to lead this country. What other qualities do you think Tinubu posses to lift Nigeria? I agree Nigeria needs more than a politician, Nigeria needs a visionary, a true visionary to guide the country into a better future, therefore we need Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu at this point in our history.  Nigeria needs to advance, rapidly and take a true leadership position in Africa. That requires a statesman, one who understands statecraft and one who cares about people and the people’s interests.  Bola Ahmed Tinubu dares to dream of a truly powerful Nigeria, that gives its citizens chances in life, security, and gives them the ability to dream and makes their dreams a reality. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu possess, a deep love for all of Nigeria, every Tribe, every region, and sees Nigeria as a whole.  As an integrated unit, that can take its place among leading nations in the world and make black people across the globe, have a beacon of HOPE and protection.  He has a truly international vision for Nigeria and a deep respect and love for all Nigerians. What attainments did he achieve while leading Lagos state that should make Nigerians to vote for him? The work Bola Ahmed Tinubu embarked on whilst Governor, are well documented.  He commissioned new hospitals, improved roads and he focused on infrastructure and fiscal responsibility.  His work as a private citizen with Aramco, one of the largest energy corporations on earth some 40 years ago. What does he need to do to eventually clinch the ticket of his party? Bola Tinubu is a unifying force that Nigeria needs.  Nigerians from all areas and tribes have immense respect and belief in Bola Ahmed Tinubu. They see a man that has transcended all tribal and religious barriers who will create a government that will reflect the country properly. Bola Tinubu is fair accountable and is obsessed with making Nigeria GREAT. What do think Tinubu will do and should do differently if he eventually becomes the next president? I believe that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu will be bold and courageous, he will take us to where Nigeria ought to be.