Many rely on using public transportation but it can be risky because it is just like putting your hands in the life of a stranger. Most reports of kidnapping, one chance, robberies that happen in Nigeria usually take place in public buses. No one boards a bus to get harmed; the only intention is to get to your destination in ample time. By being aware of your safety while on buses and even private cabs, you can greatly reduce the risk of attack or assault. 1. Be aware/alert: Always stay alert no matter how tired you are. Your driver could be just as dangerous as a common criminal. The most important way to protect yourself on public transportation is to be aware of your surroundings. If you feel uneasy or threatened, change your seat or alert the driver. If needed, get off at the next busy bus-stop. 2. Always inform close persons of your movement: Let someone close to you know your routine or travel schedule. However, two crimes that easily comes to mind when discussing travel itinerary is kidnapping and targeted robbery. So if you must tell people your travel plans tell it to those who need to know. 3. Whatsapp live location: If you want people to know where you are, turn on live locations in chats where it’s enabled.   Seven Nigerian celebrities that welcomed babies in 2022     Four Nigerian musicians with royal roots     Seven celebrities who survived gunshot wounds   WhatsApp location feature can be used to share one’s location in a WhatsApp message. You should only share your location with people you trust. On an iPhone: Go to WhatsApp > Account > Privacy > Live Location to see a list of the chats where you’re sharing this information, and remove anywhere you’d like to restrict live location access. On an Android phone: Go to WhatsApp > Menu > Account > Privacy > Live Location. From there, you can allow WhatsApp to access your device location while using the app or deny access. 4. Always trust your instincts: If you board public transport and you feel uncomfortable, move away if you can or alight from the bus. 5. Avoid public vehicles with tinted glasses, and Sienna cars used for public transport. Sienna cars do not have back windows that can be opened. 6. Avoid night journeys but If you must embark on the journey, follow vehicles that are registered, and have a known park/office. Criminals always look for the best time of the day to carry out their activities. They look for a time when they have a better chance of not getting caught by the security guards or law enforcement officers. Hence they exploit the early hours and late hours of the day. Traveling very early or at night may expose you to dangers. All of these measures are safety precautions you can adhere to. The tips are endless. All you need is to understand the environment that you’re and be security conscious.