The National Industrial Court sitting in Enugu has dismissed the suit filed by the Enugu State Government seeking to stop primary school teachers from embarking on strike action over non-payment of national minimum wage. The State Government had sought the relief of the Court to bar the teachers from embarking on any strike on the ground that they were essential workers. The matter was in an originating summon marked No: NICN/EN/01/2022, between Enugu State Government (Claimant) VS Theophilus Odo and another for themselves and on behalf of the teachers in Enugu State (defendants), The Court presided by Justice Oluwakayode Arowosegbe of Court II, had in an interlocutory injunction restrained the teachers from embarking on any form of industrial action pending the determination of the substantive suit and ordered for an accelerated hearing. Delivering its judgement on the suit last Tuesday, Justice Arowosegbe, dismissed the suit and ordered Government of Enugu State to go back and negotiate with the teachers, describing as discriminatory for the claimant to pay some workers in the state employee minimum wage and refused to pay the teachers same and ran to the court to stop the teachers from ventilating their grievances through industrial action.   Doctor said I have four more years to live – Kemi…     NDLEA intercepts three million opioid capsules at Lagos…     UPDATED: (Bamise murder): Court remands BRT driver till…   The Court, in its judgement delivered on Tuesday, March 8, 2022 which our correspondent obtained on Friday, held that the Primary School teachers in Enugu State do not fall within the categories of workers who provides essential services, hence they can embark on strike and other lawful means to press home their demand. It said: “The Court found as condemnable the attitude of the Claimant/plaintiff for its failure to implement the national minimum wage as approved by the federal government since 2020. Such act of the Claimant is discriminatory. “The claimant is hereby ordered to go back to negotiating table with the Defendant and implement the national Minimum wage. The defendants are entitled to be paid the Minimum wage.” The court further held that the Enugu State Government has no right to exclude the primary school teachers in Enugu State in the implementation of the national Minimum wage enjoyed by other workers in the state. The however, stated that “the law relied upon by the Claimant – the Trade Dispute Act, is inconsistent with the 1999 constitution as (amended) which prohibited discrimination hence the Trade Dispute Act is void.” Reacting to the judgement, Counsel to the Defendants, S.C Igwe described the court judgement as a victory for the education sector, particularly the primary school teachers who have suffered discrimination in the hands of the state government, Enugu State in particular and Nigeria in general.”