A far cry from the mostly ragged and derelict Molue buses that once dominated the roads and defined the transport landscape in Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial, industrial and financial hub, the more elegant, secure and dignified Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicles are now a permanent feature on diverse routes across the state, conveying thousands of commuters on a daily basis. These buses run by private management operators under the regulatory auspices of the state government are evidently safer, neater and more efficiently run than the all too often unhygienic, disorganised commercial yellow buses with their assortment of largely uncouth, rough and indecent drivers and conductors. The reputation for safety of the BRT buses has, however, been badly dented by the gruesome murder on February 26, of a 22 – year old fashion designer, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who had boarded one of the buses in the evening at Chevron Bus Stop, Lekki, with the aim of going to her sister-in-law at Oshodi but never made it to her destination. Rather, Oluwabamise’s body was found over a week later dumped on Carter Bridge in Lagos. Luckily, the young lady had been alert and smart enough to contact her friend through WhatsApp shortly after she entered the bus and discovered that the driver was not stopping to pick additional passengers apart from three other persons who were in the vehicle and that the lights were not on inside. The deceased’s communication with her friend on social media when she became uncomfortable proved crucial in tracing the identify of the bus with registration number 240257, its route and final stop. This in turn facilitated the arrest in Ogun State by officials of the Department of State Services (DSS), of the driver, Nice Andrew Ominikoron, who had fled most likely after discovering that Oluwabamise’s relatives had sufficient information to be making enquiries about her whereabouts. From all indications, he had routinely parked the vehicle after the dastardly deed and resumed for work normally the next day, believing that the secret would never be uncovered, only to later take to his heels.   NEITI audit     The Sokoto example     Slippery terrain   While the police and DSS officials deserve commendation for the relatively speedy apprehension of Ominikoron, the security authorities still have a Herculean task ahead of them as the case must be thoroughly investigated to identify, arrest and bring to justice all those implicated in this gruesome murder. A justifiably enraged public wants nothing but justice for Oluwabamise and her grieving family. Already, the initial seemingly hasty claim by the police that her body was intact and had not been tampered with contradicts that of her family members who alleged that her private parts had been removed in what is reminiscent of ritual killing for money. We wonder which version to believe. Again, the driver’s account that he was helpless because he was afraid the gunmen who abducted the girl from the vehicle might kill him if he disobeyed their instructions sounds like a cock-and-bull story. Why did he flee rather than report the incident to his company’s management and the police? Only diligent investigation can get at the truth. The identity of the bus and the driver were traceable from the deceased’s recording partly because of the relatively more organised BRT system. It is unlikely if this would have been the case had Oluwabamise been on one of the commercial yellow buses. Yet, both the operators of the BRT and the Lagos State government have to do more to enhance the safety and security of the BRT buses. We urge the governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to act speedily on his promise to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras, which cannot be disabled on all the buses. Indeed, this should have been done long before now. The state government should also step up action on its promise of citing monitoring cameras on major highways and routes across the state. This has become inevitable in a megacity like Lagos. Beyond this, the management of the bus operators should improve their mechanisms of tracking the movement of the vehicles at all times of the day as well as ensuring the character, trustworthiness and accountability of those employed as drivers and other staff of the buses. We also urge the state government to consider deploying staff of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) as security personnel attached to the BRT buses. It is gratifying that Ominikoron has been arraigned as prime suspect. We hope the matter would be thoroughly prosecuted and expeditiously concluded, with those involved handed their due punishment. However, apart from the BRT buses, this murder should also spur urgent action on sanitising the public road transportation system in the state, especially with regard to the operation of commercial buses and taxis. There is need for more efficient maintenance, tracking and monitoring of the vehicles, enforcement of higher standards of discipline and ethics among drivers and conductors as well as curbing the excesses of the road transport unions to enhance safety at motor parks and on the roads. All this we owe to the memory of Olwubamise Ayanwole even as we console and comfort her family at this trying time.