Miffed by the leadership crisis in Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos State, the  elders of the pan Igbo group met to resolve some of the issues tearing it apart. At the meeting held in Okota, Isolo, Lagos, stakeholders maintained that they cannot stand aloof and watch Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos State go down under the leadership of Chief Solomon Ogbonna Aguene. A statement jointly signed by the first inaugurated President of Ohanaeze outside Igbo land, Eze John Greg Ezebuadi; Eze Ndigbo of Lagos State, Christian Uchechukwu Nwachukwu Igbo 1; Eze Ndigbo of Mushin, Eze John C. Nwosu; Eze Ndigbo of Coker/Aguda, Eze Sylvester Oriaku; youth leader, Chief Kalu Uguru; Eze Ndigbo of Eti-Osa, Eze Gerald Onuchukwu; and the Administrative Secretary, Mazi Ugochukwu Ekwebelem said: “posterity will not forgive us if we choose to do nothing to correct these ugly developments in Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos State”. They accused Ogbonna of embarking on a series of illegal actions. Reeling off some of the “sins” of the outgoing leader of Ohanaeze in Lagos, the founding fathers noted that “ex-communication of the first elected President of Ohanaeze in Lagos State Chief John Uche marked the beginning of the now crisis-ridden administration of Chief Solomon Ogbonna in the state, the dissolution and disbandment of duly constituted organs of Ohanaeze in Lagos State such as Ohanaeze Women’s Wing, Youth Wing and the Local Government chapters of Ohanaeze which were elected and inaugurated into office the same day as Chief Solomon Ogbonna by Enugu Headquarters”. They also alleged that Ohanaeze is infiltrated by elements that use it to fleece innocent Igbo of their resources. They added: “Chief Solomon is aware that some of these criminal elements have been successfully prosecuted and convicted and declared wanted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).”   That the worst may not befall us     ‘Not voting is a vote for the status quo’     Bamigbetan unfolds plans for House of Reps   The founding fathers and elders of Ohanaeze said their primary motive for intervention is to proclaim their stand on some issues that are bound to tear Ohanaeze apart. They said: “We have investigated all the allegations made against Chief John Uche and discovered them to false and malicious. Therefore, we declare his ex-communication null and void and of no effect. “We have also discovered that the Elders Council constituted by Chief Solomon Ogbonna is illegal and we disown and dissociate ourselves from it. We have also noted the constitution of an electoral body by Chief Solomon Ogbonna and advised Ndigbo to disregard this committee and key into the electoral committee to be inaugurated by Enugu. “We reject the dissolution of local government chapters, women’s wing, and youth wing. We declare their dissolution illegal, unconstitutional and null and void and of no effect…” When contacted for comments on some of these issues raised, Chief Aguene said all allegations were false, adding that “all arms of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Lagos, including the women’s wing, the youth’s wing and the local government areas chapters are intact. None was dissolved.” On the allegation of tenure elongation, Aguene said the Ohanaeze constitution stipulates only one tenure and that it will be irrational to think about a second term. He said: “Since it is a constitutional matter, one has to be cautious. What happened was that several groups have endorsed me for the second term, because of my achievements since my inception as the President of Ohanaeze in Lagos State.” On whether he will succumb to pressures to go for a second term, he said: “I will not go against the provisions of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Constitution. It’s good for one to be appreciated for any positive thing that one did. All these endorsements are appreciations for what I have achieved. But, I will not listen to them because it’s a constitutional matter.”