NIGERIAN Ambassador to Benin Republic, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai (rtd), has said that President Muhammadu Buhari has laid a foundation for a new Nigeria, despite myriads of challenges. Buratai who is a former Chief of Army Chief Staff (COAS), made this assertion in a message to Nigerian youths, titled: “Dynamism in Politics and Nigeria’s Founding Fathers”, posted on his verified Facebook page. According to him, the Electoral Bill that President Buhari recently assented to, will improve the transparency and acceptability of the country’s future elections and promote democratic governance He insisted that Buhari has kept faith in his vision and principles, adding that the youths must carry these visions and principles beyond this administration. He advised Nigerian youths not let themselves be used as willing tools by do-or-die politicians who want to stir up trouble in their communities. He however challenged young people to embrace the tenets of political dynamism and root out every factor contributing to democratic deficit in Nigeria, such as voter apathy, ballot snatching, looting, arson, and the likes. Defining political dynamism as a vigorous political activity that is geared towards progress, the former Chief of Army, said youths can be a creative force, a dynamic source of innovations, as they have undoubtedly, throughout history, participated, contributed, and even catalysed important changes in political systems, power-sharing dynamics, and economic opportunities. Buratai said: “In countries emerging from or facing conflicts, young people can engage in peace-building by leading non-violent movements and using innovative solutions to mobilise societies to bring about the needed transformation. “Young people have demonstrated the potential to build bridges across communities, working together to help manage conflict and promote peace. “Young people play a big role in conflict and peace-building, and they can be agents of peaceful change and help rebuild lives and communities, making the world a better place.   Wike: Buhari lacks power to seek amendment of Electoral Act     Peace returning to troubled parts of Nigeria – CDS     FG rejects 15,483 mineral title applications, revokes 4,997   “President Muhammadu Buhari has laid a foundation for a new Nigeria. Despite the myriad of challenges, he has kept faith in his vision and principles. The youths must carry these visions and principles beyond this administration. “The legacies must be protected for a greater Nigeria and formidable future generations. My message to young people today is that they must not let themselves be used as willing tools by do-or-die politicians who want to stir up trouble in their communities. “Instead, you must embrace the tenets of political dynamism and root out every factor that contributes to the democracy deficit in Nigeria, namely voter apathy, ballot snatching, looting, arson, and the likes.” On the Electoral Act recently assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari, Buratai said the law will undoubtedly improve the transparency and acceptability of future elections and promote democratic governance. He said that elections devoid of integrity could not bring legitimacy to the winners, security to the losers, or public confidence in their leaders and institutions. This, according to him, weakens polities by encouraging disaffected groups to seek out less constructive outlets for their discontent. He said that President Buhari had laid a foundation for a new Nigeria, adding that he had kept faith with his vision and principles in spite the myriad of challenges. “I respectfully disagree. We are evolving, and as you can see, the system is improving daily as a result of our leaders’ periodic enhancements to the democratic system. “For instance, the 2022 Electoral Act which the President, Commander-in-Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari just signed into law, is a factor that will undoubtedly improve the transparency and acceptability of the country’s future elections and promote democratic governance. Democracy remains a universal aspiration because it actually delivers. “For example, of the 20 countries with highest levels of human development as measured by the UN’s human development index, 19 are liberal democracies. Among the top 40, 36 are liberal democracies. “And even the citizens of poorer democracies live, on average, nine years longer than citizens of poor autocracies, because they have better access to health and education. Democracies are also less vulnerable to famines and conflicts,” he added