A David versus Goliath sort of duel is looming between the lawmaker representing Oshodi-Isolo Constituency 1 at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hakeem Sokunle and Mayowa Alakija, a young aspirant eyeing the ticket of the ruling the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the next general election. The major contest for the seat is within the APC, which has dominated politics in Lagos since the return to civil rule in 1999. Sokunle who would be completing his second term by May next year has indicated his interest in contesting for a third term and has been busy trying to secure the backing of some stakeholders in the constituency. Thus, securing the ticket is not going to be a stroll in the park for Alakija, a grassroots mobiliser for the APC in the area. Sokunle is expected to use his power of incumbency, which translates to a large war chest and connection in high places within the Lagos chapter of the APC, to muscle the young aspirant to submission. But, Alakija, a former student union who is in his 30s may be an underdog in the race, but he believes strongly that the party leadership will make the right decision by giving the youth voice and positions in the next general election. He said: “All I need to do is to work hard and let the leadership see my effort, potential and my capacity to deliver when given a chance without deviating from the party ideology. I am working hard seriously now and everybody can see that in Oshodi. When some may believe that their network at the top will give them the ticket or previous antecedents. This success will be measured by current ability, effort, support from the masses, while the party leadership is a very key angle. “I am sure the party is willing to give the party ticket to the right candidate and youth in particular. I am sure the party will see the right candidate in me, considering that I am the only youth contesting for the position as of now. It has not been that easy and I know, I still have loads of work ahead of me. I will be strong and work fervently until victory is declared. I don’t have any doubt that I will emerge as the party’s flag bearer to represent the constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly come 2023 general elections by the grace of God.” One of the factors that will likely aid Alakija’s quest to represent the constituency is the youth agenda that is gradually gaining ground as the electioneering campaign period approaches. So far, Alakija is the only youth that has indicated an interest in the ticket to represent the constituency at the Lagos House of Assembly. Aside from Sokunle, Kayode Ogundipe (aka Omojumolo), a former Executive Secretary of Agege Local Government, is also in the race for the APC ticket. Different groups have been campaigning for power shift to young and capable candidates during the next general elections. The argument is that the youths are vibrant, capable and competent to take over leadership positions and help create a more viable, prosperous and secure socio-economic environment, particularly given the multiple challenges facing the country at different levels. Besides, young people below the age of 35 make up about 70 per cent of the population. Hence the growing campaign for young people to have substantial representation across all levels in the country’s political system.   ‘There is no room for imposition in Delta’     Why Riverine should produce next Rivers governor     Who emerges as APC national chairman?   Alakija is not a newbie in politics; he has been part of the current political dispensation since 1998, even though he was still in secondary school then. Indeed, he was born into a political family. His mother, Deborah Alakija (nee Sowunmi) was a staunch Afenifere member and strong member of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) during the late Moshood Abiola’s aborted quest to become president in 1993. His father, Olumuyiwa Alakija was also one of the leaders in Oshodi politics; he was a political adviser to the former chairman of the local government, Prince S.O Aina. His aspiration to represent the constituency at the state assembly began prior to the last general elections, but he was prevailed upon to step down because the incumbent was in his first term then. He added: “I felt I should hold on to my aspiration till 2023 when he must have completed his second term. My aspiration started with the need to serve my community. I don’t want to be one of the youths that complain about the system but will never get involved in politics or take a step that will enable them to correct a few things by contributing their quota to the system. I feel the need to get involved and proffer pragmatic solutions to some problems bewildering my community, my state and the country at large. “Nigerian youths are vibrant, capable and competent to take over leadership positions and help create a more viable, prosperous and secure socio-economic environment for the state and nation at large. This has been proven in other sectors outside politics. As the 2023 election draws closer, we call on our leaders, different institutions, political parties and all stakeholders to look towards young, competent and credible candidates that will pilot our affairs as a nation. We believe young people could be engaged not just by listening and giving them a voice, but also by giving them a chance to do things differently. “If I am given a chance, I will make sure I outperform my predecessor in terms of better representation and result that will be achieved at the assembly level as in bills propositions and my community by ensuring they enjoy the dividend of democracy. Oshodi is suffering in terms of what is due to us and what should be done within our community by the state government. The incumbent has performed and played his part. However, I will take it to another level entirely and close all the gaps, loopholes and look warmness that has denied Oshodi from benefitting optimally from the state government docile. My emergence as an Oshodi representative will increase the number of construction projects the Lagos state government will executive in Oshodi, it will usher in state hospitals and it will give birth to more schools and will lead to many benefits we cannot recount here. “Oshodi has been marginalized as to what comes in and what we benefit so far. It is not the fault of the state government or the head of the ministries. The responsibility is on the person representing Oshodi at the state level. As a business development expert, I am going to develop Oshodi/Isolo Constituency 1, business and concern at the state assembly and ensure we achieve sporadic and better results.  I will be transparent to the people when I get there, I will make sure I reach out to the people who voted for me. We will executive many projects that will focus on human capacity development, poverty reduction and many more. I won’t wait for the state and the Federal Government to solve all the problems. As a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, I will work to ensure that the good people of Oshodi/Isolo are well represented; I will put smiles on their faces and put Oshodi/Isolo on the national map for positive purposes.” Alakija studied History and International Relations at the University of Ado Ekiti, now Ekiti State University. He also studied Humanitarian and Refugee Studies at the University of Ibadan, Oyo State. He is a chartered member of the Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply Management of Nigeria (CIPSMN). He equally had a stint in advertising, where he handled accounts of many multi-national companies, such as MTN, Nestle, Guinness, Nigerian Breweries Limited (NBL) and the British American Tobacco Company (BAT).