Many households, particularly in the North, are yet to fully recover from the effects of COVID-19 pandemic, which disrupted means of livelihood across states, this year’s first quarter report by the Cadre Harmonise analysis has said. The CH analysis facilitated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), World Food Programme (WFP), and other  stakeholders, covered 21 states to include Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Cross-River, Edo, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Lagos, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe, Zamfara and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). According to the analysis, unless conscious and intensive efforts are made to sustain humanitarian support and other government intervention schemes targeted at households for recovery and resilience in their livelihood. Giving the reason for the increase in the number of people in critical need, the CH analysis stated that the reason for the increase in the number of people in critical need against the March, last year cycle could be the objective analysis of inaccessible/hard to reach areas of internally displaced persons due to banditry.   CBN’s loan scheme for NPower beneficiaries makes debut     National grid collapses     Court orders Arik Air to pay sacked pilot $126,500   The CH analysis called on the government and humanitarian agencies to sustain the implementation of life-saving interventions of food assistance and unconditional cash transfers to the vulnerable populations in the affected areas. It also called on the government to sustain the facilitation of humanitarian access to inaccessible/hard to reach areas so as to provide assistance to those in critical need. Furthermore, the CH analysis urged NGOs and Civil Society Organisations (CSO) and private actors to sustain and promote various empowerment programmes geared towards building the resilience of households through revitalisation of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs).   “Priority should be given to the vulnerable populations in these analysed states to enable them to get a fresh start-up for their livelihood. There is the need to support the vulnerable populations with agricultural production input. “Governments should consciously make budgetary provision to support the implementation of CH activities at both the national and state levels,” the report added.