Yulimar Rojas didn’t know whether it was “pure magic or chance”, but was left living a dream as she soared to a new world outright triple jump record as she won indoor gold yesterday.. The Olympic champion soared out to 15.74 metres on her sixth and final effort in Belgrade, smashing the previous world indoor best of 15.43 she set in Madrid in February 2020. Rojas also holds the outdoor world record, 15.67m, which she set when winning gold in Tokyo last summer. The Venezuelan set the new mark to win an unprecedented third consecutive world title after previous successes in Birmingham in 2018 and Portland in 2016. Worryingly for her rival triple jumpers, Rojas said her goal was now the 16-metre mark, also threatening that doubling up in the long jump could not be ruled out in the future, potentially at the upcoming world outdoor champs in Eugene, Oregon. “It’s been like living a dream for me today,” she said of her performance in the Serbian capital. “I wanted to come here with my coach (Ivan Pedroso) and have some fun. I was in great shape and I felt I could do great things. “I’m very happy because I achieved everything I wanted and more.” Rojas said she wasn’t sure whether her record-setting jump had been “pure magic or chance”. “It could have happened at any jump, but happened on the last one. It looks a bit like a jump for glory!   5th Ondo Auto Rally Announced for April 16     Akpata confirms NCF readiness for maiden women’s T20i     COVID-19 rules out Jordan Ayew against Nigeria   “Nothing is impossible, that’s my motto,” Rojas said when asked if the 16m mark could be under threat. “I have two motivations in life: achieve 16 metres and doing better than the legend that is my coach, Ivan Pedroso,” the former Cuban long jumper who won Olympic long jump gold as well as five indoor and four outdoor world titles. “I will get there. I was born to jump 16 metres and this is what inspires me to help inspire others… I know I have 16 metres in my legs and that is my target.” the final round of the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification later this month. Ighalo was not part of Nigeria at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations finals in Cameroon after he was not released by his then club Al Shabab to participate in the tournament. The former Manchester United star has since joined Al Shabab’s Saudi Arabian rivals, Al Hilal and he has impressively scored seven goals in six top-flight games for his new team. Having coached Ighalo at the under-23 level in 2012, Eguavoen will be counting on the 32-year-old’s experience to lead the attack against the Black Stars. “Up there we have got Osimhen, Sadiq, and the experience of Ighalo. I also spoke with Olayinka as well. I know their qualities,” Eguavoen told Elegbete TV Sports. “Odion Ighalo last played for me in the U23s, but I have watched him play wherever he was, up to Manchester United and where he is now. “We have to see him closely again, not that the door is shut for everyone out there, so this is only a game.”