Police have paraded Pastor Chidi Samuel Ejiogu and his assistant, Paul Zakari over  the mysterious death of a 20-year-old woman, Favour Okumazor, a member of their church, Life Builders Network. Ejiogu was said to have led Okumazor and some members of the church to a remote location in Oyan village in Ogun State on October 2, 2021 without the consent of her family for what he reportedly termed ‘Bible study.’ Participants of the church programme reportedly developed strange sickness Favour Okumazor, who was said to be stooling and vomiting, soon died, and was quickly buried without her family’s knowledge or consent, it was said. A survivor, who fled the wild retreat, reported the incident to the police and also led detectives to the location where Pastor Ejiogu and his assistant were arrested. Police Commissioner Lanre Bankole, who paraded the two pastors before newsmen at State Police Command Headquarters, Eleweran, said detectives were investigating the incident.   Police rescue alleged kidnappers from jungle justice in Oyo     Man killed, stepmother abducted in Plateau     PSP operators may suspend services over diesel cost   Read Also: Reactions as Pastor sprays Davido pounds In an interview with our reporter, Ejiogu attributed their experience to “spiritual attack,” stressing that he thought he could use “faith” to heal the afflicted members. He said he regretted not seeking medical help to address the health emergency. He also regretted burying Miss Okumazor in the remote village without informing her parents. “Since this fellowship started in 2018 nothing of such has been recorded. “All of us were struck down by an unknown sickness, even myself; we did not know what happened, we realised one morning when we woke up that she was dead. We did not know what to do, so, we had to bury her. We are very sorry and we apologise to her parents for not seeking their consent before burying her; that was the mistake we made,” Ejiogu said. Also, CP Bankole paraded one Saheed Ogundahun who reportedly  shot and killed a herdsman.