Two teams from Itesiwaju Local Government Area of Oyo State in the ongoing Peller Unity Cup have qualified for the semifinal after defeating their opponents in separate quarter-final matches. The excited Itesiwaju boys sailed through to the semi-final in the presence of scores of supporters who thronged the match venues to cheer their teams to victory. Itesiwaju defeated Irepo 4-2 via a penalty in the first quarter-final decided at Otu Township stadium, while Itesiwaju Rangers beat Atisbo Royal 2-0 in the second quarterfinal played at Ekunle High School, Iseyin. The tournament featured 20 teams from the 10 local government areas of the Oke Ogun area of Oyo State. Shina Peller, a member of the House of Representatives representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa, the initiator of the soccer tournament said the tournament was organized to foster unity among the youths in the Oke-Ogun region and to empower them.   NFF clears air on late FIFA Doping Control Officer     PSV picks Nistelrooy as new manager     Qatar opens huge sports museum for World Cup   “Football, being a universal language that everyone understands, helps connect people together irrespective of tribal, political, or religious belief. It helps to unite people. This is what the PUC stands for; it is a unifying tool for the people of Oke Ogun,” Peller said. Speaking after the match in Iseyin, Itesiwaju Rangers coach, Okesola Bolaji said he was  happy with the outcome of the game,  saying gradually they are achieving their aims. Also, the Local Organising Committee (LOC), Iseyin Local Government, Mudasiru Isiaka lauded the initiator of the competition noting that the competition has united youths in the region. Meanwhile, Former Super Eagles player, Femi Opabunmi, who is an ambassador of the tournament promised the best player of the tournament a trophy. The winner of the tournament will be rewarded with N700,000 while the second runner-up will get N500,000. The third and fourth positions will get N250,000 and N100,000 respectively.