The Nigerian military on Friday retired 329 senior Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) with a charge to continue to show unalloyed loyalty to the country. The retirees comprising 258 from the Army, 59 from Navy and 12 from Air Force were sent forth at a well attended ceremony held at the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), Oshodi, Lagos. Addressing the retirees, the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, reminded them that some of them could be called upon to render certain services including training of cadets, new recruits that would be deployed to various theatres of operations. He said that the level of insecurity had taken a new dimension, urging the retirees to be wary of subversive elements within their environment, adding that they should brace up for post service life challenges. The CNS said: “So many challenges are associated with post service life which includes how you manage your resources especially your retirement benefits, among others. “Also, influence from members of your family and friends, management of your physical and mental health as well as integrating with the civil society must be properly managed. “I urge you to be proactive in your conduct in order to overcome these challenges because your loyalty to the Armed Forces of Nigeria and the Federal Republic is non-negotiable. “Some of you may be called upon to render certain services. Your vast experiences are still relevant and the Armed Forces can tap into your expertise in terms of training of officers at the various schools for deployment at theatres of operation.” He also advised the retirees to avoid flamboyant and lavish lifestyles that are above their means, restating that retirement benefits should be invested in lucrative ventures. “The society will expect high moral standards and discipline from you and you will have to prove that you passed through a highly disciplined system. I am sure that your training exposed you to several vocational opportunities and general management skills to alleviate pitfalls in order to have a stress-free and meaningful life in retirement.   Hospital takeover: Presbyterian Church drags Umahi to court,…     Russia to ensure safety, wellbeing of Nigerians –…     Two dead, many missing as Cameroon bound Nigerian boat sinks   “It is our expectation that after your graduation, the services at this centre will continue to get positive feedback as you gallantly serve through post service life. You will from now on take full charge as planners and executors of your personal daily activities. “This may sound exciting and promising but beware, you will need to properly manage your freedom and make good use of your resources in order to be successful,” he said. Gambo noted that they were still beneficiaries of the National Health Insurance Scheme programme, advising them to ensure they did necessary documentation so they would not be charged from their retirement benefits. Gambo also commended the leadership of NAFRC under AVM Idi Lubo for it’s effort at ensuring that discharging trainees are exposed to master trends in global entrepreneurship and management frame. “Your reviewed curriculum has enabled personnel to benefit from the modern trend of doing business. I urge the Commandant to continue this laudable initiative for high quality human resource development so that the high standard for which the centre is known for is sustained,” the CNS said. In his remarks, Lubo said over 50,000 personnel of the Armed Forces had been trained in NAFRC since its inception in the 1980’s. “The centre has also successfully trained members of paramilitary agencies as well as members from federal ministries, departments and agencies. The training the centre provides, help beneficiaries to be equipped with skills for self-sustenance and meaningful income while approaching life with a positive mindset. “This will enable them contribute meaningfully to their various societies thus reducing crime, criminality as well as other vices from our society,” he said. The AVM congratulated the graduands of NAFRC Course 1/2022 for the laudable achievement. “The successful completion of these courses is proof of your determination, commitment and discipline in the number of years of your active military service to our dear land. “The training you acquired in the last three months is to enable you contribute positively to their various societies and thus helping to build a greater Nigeria,” he said.