Barring any hitch, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) will begin the demolition of some facilities used by organisations at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, that obstructs the aircraft maneuvering area for the new terminal. But, not all hangars involved in aircraft maintenance and repair services will be affected. KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. Confusion is brewing in the aviation sector as the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) plans to demolish facilities to pave way for the new terminal of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. Those to be affected include the Accident Investigation Bureau(AIB) building, Dominion Aviation Limited and Evergreen Apple Nigeria (EAN), hangars and offices. The new terminal was built with the $500 million loan from the Chinese Import Export Bank. Experts say property worth N20 billion may be lost to the relocation. Speaking during an inspection of the Lagos Airport, members of the National Assembly Joint Committee on Aviation called for caution in tackling the matter because of the huge losses and disruption the project will trigger. The development got worse at the weekend, as staff members of the  AIB, in its Lagos Office, were  ordered  to resume at the Bureau’s headquarters in Abuja by the Ministry of Aviation without relocation allowances. Sources said the Administrative Department of the bureau recently issued a memo to  the staff members of the bureau to resume in Abuja by yesterday. It warned that defaulters would be sanctioned. At the weekend, staff members of the bureau were seen outside the premises moving their belongings out. Some of them lamented that they were only given two days to comply with the directive. One of the staff members, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, wondered why the management would issue such a directive to the workers when relocation allowances had not been paid to them. He also decried that over 90 per cent of the workers were yet to collect January 2022 salaries and wondered where they would get the money to relocate. The source said: “We, on Wednesday, received a letter from the Administration Department, which directed us to move to Abuja without prior notice. We were given till Monday to relocate to Abuja even when we don’t have a befitting office there and nothing is being said about our accommodation. And as we stand, no one is talking about relocation allowances to the workers. “Even  in the civil service rule, you can’t compel staff to relocate without the payment of relocation allowances. Staff are using their personal resources to relocate government property to Abuja.”   Firm unveils passengers’ loyalty programme     How to drive travel growth, by Skal chief     Deepening oversight duties on agencies   The General Secretary, Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), Comrade Ocheme Aba, who confirmed the relocation order, said: “Information I gathered is that some of the staff have been paid relocation allowances for some period, but refused to move to Abuja. As you are aware, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) last week sent a letter to the agency that they wanted to demolish the building for apron for the new terminal at the Lagos Airport. “Because of this, the management now said everyone should relocate to Abuja. Though they have not been given relocation allowances, the ministry promised that all their outstanding would be paid to them once they move.’’ But, fresh  facts emerged at the weekend that the Fixed-Based Operators (FBO), including Executive Maintenance and Repair Organisation (MRO), Execujets and Caverton Helicopters will not erect any obstacle to the jet way for the new international terminal of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA). Investigations show that FAAN and the Aviation ministry planned to relocate other hangars that hinder the expansion of the airside of the new terminal. Specifically, aviation authorities have issued relocation notices to organisations whose facilities will be demolished to enable the Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) complete work on the terminal billed for inauguration before the end of March 2022. Industry experts say assets worth over N20 billion may be lost to the demolition. FAAN, it was learnt, is already reaching out to Evergreen Apple Nigeria, Dominion Aviation Limited and the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB),whose facilities are slated for demolition. In an interview, one of the facility managers, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Qiunts Aviation Services Limited, Mr Sam Iwuajoku, said the company’s hangar is not obstructing access to the new international terminal. He said: “The new terminal has nothing to do with Execujet, the safety envelope area where planes can move into the place is by Evergreen and Dominion. These are the two areas blocking the entrance to the jet way of the new terminal. It does not affect Caverton and Execujets.” Investigations show that the new terminal built in Lagos  by CCECC has not been put into use due to lack of maneuvering space and access for aircraft that would board and disembark passengers at the terminal. It was learnt that officials of the Ministry of Aviation and FAAN  had inspected the area and have started holding talks with the affected companies on how to relocate their operations to the new location. A source said: “What happened was that senior officials from the Ministry came some time ago to relocate Evergreen. When they came, they found a place where they are going to put Evergreen, they have given them land; it is just after the cargo terminal area. And they also gave Dominion  a place there. What they have to do is to disassemble what they have here and go and assemble them back there. “We have an airport facility that is ready but they are not using it because of those two hangars. It is not the fault of the hangar owners; it is the fault of the Minister at that time for not carrying FAAN engineers along in choosing a place where the new terminal would be built. They went and located that terminal at the wrong side of the airport.”