The United States President Joe Biden said yesterday that he aimed to give Ukraine the arms necessary to defend itself in the “difficult days ahead”. Biden said the U.S. is sending more anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons and drones to Ukraine to assist in its defence against Russia, announcing the help after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged the U.S. and other Western nations to do more in an emotional speech to Congress. The president’s comments came as he formally announced his administration was sending an additional $800 million in military assistance to Ukraine, making a total of $2 billion in such aid sent to Kyiv since Biden took office more than a year ago. About $1 billion in aid has been sent in just the last week. Biden said the new assistance includes 800 Stinger anti-aircraft systems, 100 grenade launchers, 20 million rounds of small arms ammunition and grenade launchers and mortar rounds and an unspecified number of drones.   Russia expelled from EU Council     ICJ orders Moscow to suspend invasion of Ukraine     British PM: ‘no way’ Ukraine is joining NATO soon   “We’re going to give Ukraine the arms to fight and defend themselves through all the difficult days ahead,” Biden said. Biden spoke hours after Zelensky delivered a video address to members of U.S. Congress in which he made an impassioned plea for the U.S. and West to provide more help to save his young democracy than world leaders have so far pledged to provide. Zelensky summoned the memory of Pearl Harbour and the September 11, 2001 terror attacks in appealing to the Congress to do more to help Ukraine’s fight against Russia. But, he acknowledged the no-fly zone he has sought to “close the sky” to airstrikes on his country may not happen. Livestreamed into the Capitol complex, Zelensky said the U.S. must sanction Russian lawmakers and block imports. But rather than an enforced no-fly zone that the White House has resisted, he instead sought other military aid to stop the Russian assault.