Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa and Odion Ighalo were among the early birds that arrived at the Super Eagles camp in Abuja ahead of the Qatar 2022 World Cup Play-off against Ghana’s Black Stars. Leicester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho, Watford’s defender William Troost-Ekong, Rangers’ Leon Balogun, West Brom’s Semi Ajayi, Torino’s Ola Aina, Brentford’s Frank Onyeka, Kaizer Chief’s Daniel Akpeyi, and Watford’s Oghenekaro Etebo joined the team’s camp yesterday from their various bases. Meanwhile, Black Stars have their first training session yesterday at the Accra Sports Stadium under the watchful eyes of their technical crew led by Atto Addo. According to Ghanaweb, seven members of the team including Captain Thomas Partey trained with the technical handlers in a closed-door training session. Apart from Partey, other players that trained yesterday include Jojo Wollacot, Fatawu Issahaku, Andy Yiadom, Edmund Addo, and Manaf Nurudeen.   Poverty virus     When Bianca slapped Ebelechukwu     EFCC chair: nothing political about Obiano’s arrest   The technical crew includes goalkeeper’s trainer Richard Kingston; technical advisor Chris Hughton; interim coach Atto Addo, as well as his assistants Didi Dramani and George Boateng. The closed-door training was at the Accra Sports Stadium while more players are expected to join the team’s camp today ahead of the first leg tie against Super Eagles on Friday, March 25 at the Kumasi Stadium. Coach Addo has, however, handed a late call-up to Accra Hearts of Oak left-back Dennis Korsah as a replacement for injured Baba Rahman. Korsah emerged as one of the leading left-backs in Ghana following his stellar performances with Ghana Premier League champions, Hearts of Oak since he switched camp from Ebusua Dwarfs early last month. The 26-year-old University of Cape Coast undergraduate could make his international debut on Friday alongside AS Roma teenage sensation, Felix Afena-Gyan, who has also been invited for the crucial encounter. Also, Ghana Minister of Youth and Sports, Mustapha Ussif has said that the rivalry between Ghana and Nigeria would benefit youths. “I believe these rivalries should rather be productive toward the development of our youths.”