Six Nigerian airlines have formed a strategic operational alliance that promises to curb flight disruptions and enhance service delivery. The airlines – Air Peace, Azman Air, United Nigeria Airlines, Arik Air, Aero Contractors and Max Air – signed what they called ‘Spring Alliance’, in Lagos. The alliance hopes to expand beyond Nigeria to African and international airlines. Under the alliance, the airlines will mutually support one another’s operations. Passengers from a member airline can be moved to another member airline to avoid undue delays and disruptions. Chairman, Air Peace, Allen Onyema, said the ‘Spring Alliance’ is for the benefit of the passengers who fly with the six airlines. According to him, in the aviation world, there are so many alliances such as Star Alliance and One World. “By this alliance, our passengers are protected whenever there is a problem with one airline. It is our response to the complaints of the flying public, so this alliance will enable us to satisfy them. “But with this alliance and what we are going to be doing henceforth, the flying public will reap the benefit. For example, if Air Peace has a tech issue on any of its aircraft, the passengers of Air Peace need not be delayed, if any member of this alliance is going to the same destination, all we need to do is move the passengers over to that other airline, a member of the alliance, at no further cost to the passenger,” Onyema, who is also the Vice-president of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) said.   My plan for Plateau, by governorship aspirant Biggs     Minister: Why Nigeria can’t meet OPEC quota     ASUU strike: We’re waiting for lecturers for upgraded UTAS,…   Managing Director, Aero Contractors, Capt. Abdullahi Mahmood said that the formation of the ‘Spring Alliance’ is a historic move, one that prioritises the satisfaction of the passenger. “History has been made here today in Nigeria, and this is the first time something like this is happening in Nigeria’s aviation industry. You can see that the airline operators are fully committed to making sure that our passengers are satisfied. Like we say, for every challenge, you see an opportunity and probably this is the time that we have seen an opportunity whereby the airlines can come together, work together and have a healthy competition whereby at the end of the day, we make our passengers happy and safe. “Safety is the number one priority and this is what we stand for and coming together, like my colleagues rightly said, you find out that all these delays are caused by problems that passengers do not know and we just carry them from one point to another on time and make sure that everything goes smoothly. We are asking passengers to give their utmost cooperation, we are doing our best, it is a challenging situation we find ourselves but yes, we are all in this together and we are hopefully coming out together,” Mahmood said. Chief Executive Officer, United Nigeria Airline, Obiora Okonkwo, said the alliance would revolutionise flight services for the Nigerian flying public as passenger satisfaction is the major objective behind the formation of the alliance. “There’s no doubt that Nigerian airlines are going through some situations and part of the ways to react to this is to have the passengers in mind. It is simply thinking out-of-the-box. We are not reinventing the wheel, we are just adopting what we have seen that has worked in other places, and it will surely work in Nigeria so that the passengers going to the airport are more guaranteed that they will fly. “On this note, we are thanking the passengers and we continue to appeal to them to show some understanding and to continue to show us love, knowing that we are in this together, that the airlines will continue to do anything possible within their strength to ensure efficiency of our services and then thanking the government that has been showing some understanding. “In the coming days, there will be talks and discussions as airline operators will be engaging stakeholders in the industry, all for the best of our services and efficiency,” Okonkwo said.