To those who have long given up on the numbing mathematics of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, and its principal, the federal government, the latest lecture circuit mounted by the minister of state for petroleum, Timipre Sylva, to sell a concocted a ‘strange alibi’ as this paper puts it in its editorial of yesterday must have presented a riveting epitaph of sorts. For while Nigerians may have been battered, pummelled and flummoxed beyond shockability – to borrow some of the typically extravagant phrases often deployed by one of the men of power to press their points home; and whereas the nation’s critical voices may have been dulled in the years of duelling with mediocre, egoistic personages running the affairs of state; there is mercifully enough left to suggest that the nation’s capacity to think have not been totally obliterated. Here’s the story – or shall we say the story behind the story. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, plus Russia, had, at its 25th OPEC and non-OPEC Ministerial Meeting last month, increased Nigeria’s oil production quota from 1.70 million bpd in February to 1.72 million bpd for March. By the way, the quota for January was pegged at 1.68 million bpd. As always, the cartel may well have spared their ink – and valuable time: Nigeria’s quota, simply put, was unrealisable. In fact, the nation’s total output has averaged 1.4mbpd over the course of the past 11 months. If you considered that a big deal in a country said to run on a tight shoe-string budget and, at a time when every nth kobo of the capital spend is borrowed, Minister Sylva, rather than see the emergency for what it is, has been in the wild goose chase for alibis. To him, not only are the international oil companies (IOCs) not doing enough, they are in fact, leaving too quickly for the nation’s health!!! And so for solution, he insists that we need to look – not at the enemy within, which the evidence leads, but at those without, for the source of our massive troubles in a sector that is fast fading. By the enemies without, he of course, meant the oil majors, who, apparently fed up with our oily ways, and hung on the new fad of green energy, are already looking far beyond our shores –beyond the allures of our once-upon-a-time sweet Light Bonny – for greener pastures! Now, thanks to Messrs. Tony Elumelu and Austin Avuru, the part, long denied is finally being discussed in the public square. The reality facing the country, they aver, is more nuanced, and certainly far more complex than painted by the minister or the government that he represents. In fact, the duo may well have said that the minister, in claiming that under-investment as against the brazen theft going on in the sector, not only told a lie but somewhat betrayed the nation’s hope in its struggle to break with an ugly past. Let’s look at what the duo said – starting with Elumelu: “How can we be losing over 95% of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200k barrels of crude oil daily, instead, it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator Shell to declare force majeure… It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple!” True or false? Surely, Nigerians are not in doubt as to who, between the minister and the businessman, chose to bandy untruths! To return to Avuru. He on his part admitted that the IOCs have not made any meaningful investments in the last 15 years. But then, he also noted that this was merely a symptom of a bigger ailment – the crisis of governance – something more particularly renowned in the corrupt, rent-prone oil sector. He spoke of an entire export pipeline network surrendered to vandals and illegal bunkerers while observing that the phrase “crude theft” which crept into the industry about 2010 has since taken on a new meaning with “some pipeline systems now (particularly in the East), where 80% (eighty percent) of production injected therein does not make it to the terminal!”   Finally, the meltdown…     A joke taken too far     Subsidy? Not a laughing matter   The result – every producer is now cooking up “alternative evacuation” schemes that cost four to five times what pipeline export would normally cost!” This stifling environment, says Minister Sylva, makes no difference. In his opinion, not only does IOCs owe Nigerians a living, they have no reasons to be leaving in droves as they are doing since the oil has not yet dried up. Trust the IOCs; they know better. For the Nigerian government, why bother with the activities of criminal gangs busting crude-bearing pipelines when officials could easily to take to the airwaves to deplore ‘incessant vandalisation of crude pipelines and theft’; when it costs nothing to make the right noises about the damage to the environment? In any case, who cares about the anarchy inadvertently loosed by a clueless administration with nary understanding of the national imperatives – in a clime where the government sees itself as a benefactor as against being answerable to the people? Who is talking about repositioning the African Giant in the fast-changing energy dynamics when there’s just enough gravy left to go round? It’s been nearly a year since the Auditor General of the Federation released its rather damning verdict on the NNPC’s creative accounting and its corollary, the massive heist reckoned in billions of unexplained and unexplainable discrepancies in account receivables. The report of the AUGF for 2019 specifically mentioned some 107,239,436 barrels of crude oil lifted for domestic consumption that could not be accounted for; PMS worth N7.06 billion claimed to have been pumped to the two depots (Ibadan-Ilorin and Aba-Enugu) between June and July 2019 not received by them as indeed other countless under-remittances by the corporation to the federation account. While no one has been called to account; and while the sector lies adrift; absent still are the hard, strategic thinking required to catalyse the sector, the fierce urgency that should ordinarily attend to them. Today, our un-leaders have reduced a once proud people to a joke – a terrible embarrassment to themselves and to the world.  A so-called giant daily revealed as one standing on the feet of clay. From railways running out of diesel as a result of faulty gauges, a perennially collapsing power grid with citizens left to duel on semantics of whether to treat the phenomenon as collapse or whatever. Sad how the midwives of incompetence – the same fellows – that not too long ago held the nation under the thrall of   ‘body language’ and change – have done little else than mouth rationalisations to explain away the current stasis after nearly seven years of being in the saddle. So where does all these lead? The answer is obvious – nowhere. Soon enough, Nigerians would get to know the difference between stasis and full-blown crisis. The signs already are palpable. There’s not enough oil export to cover our import bills; yet our non-export business are still very much at the most elementary levels. Our tax-to GDP revenues at 6.5 percent is a no-no. Inflation has hit the roofs while our manufacturers are gasping for breath. Unemployment, particularly of the youth has become something of a nightmare. Yet, the government is faced with a situation in which it has less and less to spend. The saying is true after all –you cannot give what you do not have. Hopefully, this season will somehow pass – not so much for the work done – but as Nigerians are wont to say – on the wheels of faith. Someone said the other day that we have seen worse. Really?