The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has nominated three Governors Samuel Ortom (Benue), Darius Ishaku (Taraba) and Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu) as members of its 37-member committee to determine the zoning of the party’s 2023 presidential ticket. The decision to set up the committee was taken at the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on March 16, 2022. The committee will also work out modalities for the sharing of positions of Senate President, Speaker of House of Representatives, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and other leadership positions in the two chambers of the National Assembly among the six geopolitical zones. In a statement on Wednesday by the National Organising Secretary of the PDP, Umar Bature, the party also listed other members to include former governors Ayo Fayose (Ekiti), Sule Lamido (Jigawa), Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna), Liyel Imoke (Cross River), Boni Haruna (Adamawa), Ibrahim Dankwabo (Gombe), Ibrahim Shema (Katsina), Ibrahim Idris (Kogi) Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto) and Jonah Jang (Plateau).   Defection: Court fixes April 11 for judgment in suit seeking…     Non-service stalls hearing in Abba Kyari’s extradition…     Tambuwal meets IBB, Abdulsalami, says zoning won’t…   Other members include Chief Tom Ikimi (Edo), Mao Ohuabunwa (Abia), Emmanuel Ibokessien (A/Ibom), Prof. A. B. C. Nwosu (Anambra) Sen. Abdul Ningi (Bauchi), Boyelayefa Debekeme ( Bayelsa) and Sanusi Daggash (Borno). Reps Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu (Delta), Amb. Franklin Ogbuewu (Ebonyi), Mohammed Abdulrahman (FCT), Chief Fidelis Izuchukwu (Imo), Amb. Aminu Wali (Kano), Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, SAN (Kebbi) and Kawu Baraje (Kwara) are also listed. Also on the list are Chief Olabode George (Lagos), Mike Abdul (Nasarawa), Prof Jerry Gana (Niger), Hon. Daisi Akintan (Ogun), Dr. Omotayo Dairo (Ondo), Prof. Adewale Oladipo (Osun), Sen. Hosea Ayoola Agboola (Oyo), Austin Opara (Rivers), Adamu Maina Waziri (Yobe) and impeached Zamfara Deputy Governor, Mahadi Aliyu Gusau. The party said the committee will be inaugurated on Thursday (tomorrow) at the Abuja national secretariat of the PDP at 11am.