THE Ukrainian Lviv University of Business and Law Club of Doctors in Nigeria has condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The body condemned the continuous “murder of innocent people, including the elderly, women and children by the Russian troops”. It said it was making adequate plans to open a temporary centre in Abuja where the evacuated Nigerian students will be offered advisory and support services, especially those who have been traumatised by the invasion. It said this in a statement by its representative and President of the Club of Doctors of Lviv University of Business and Law, Nigeria Chapter, Dr. Cliff Ogbede yesterday in Abuja.   Why it’s risky for Nigerians to cross Ukrainian border, by…     Zelensky predicts ‘third World War’, if negotiations with…     Four U.S. personnel killed in military plane crash in Norway   “We condemn the killing of civilians and destruction of schools, hospitals, buildings and public infrastructures in Ukraine,” the statement said. The club hailed the Federal Government for the timely evacuation of Nigerian students and residents in Ukraine at the beginning of the crisis and equally applauded the government and people of Nigeria for condemning in strong terms the invasion of Ukraine by the Russian forces. “The sympathy so far expressed by the Federal Government for the government and people of Ukraine at this period of Russian invasion is quite commendable and therefore; the club aligns with the government of Nigeria in their call to prioritise diplomacy and dialogue in resolving the crisis in Ukraine. “For the Nigerian students, who were displaced by the Russian aggression, the Lviv University Club of Doctors understands their pain as we are in touch with some of the Ukrainian universities, who have assured us of plans that will enable the students to continue their studies in the already adapted online mode, which will be temporary as the universities look forward to a peaceful resolution of the crisis in Ukraine,” the statement said. Dr. Ogbede stated that the Club of Doctors of Lviv University of Business & Law, which comprises the V.N karazin Kharkiv National University, Ivano-Frankivsk University of Oil & Gas and Kharkiv Aviation Institute, “join the rest of the world to condemn Russia for this aggression and promised to continue to stand by the government and people of Ukraine in their determination and resolution to defend their fatherland”.