The International Women’s Day is here again. As the world celebrates the contributions and achievements of women to societal development across diverse fields, the literati are not left out. The widely-revered matriarch of Nigerian literature Mabel Segun, turned 92 recently. The Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Lagos Branch, rolled out the drums to celebrate the nonagenarian in style. EVELYN OSAGIE reports. A woman from a literary family Like the marriage of the Sun and Dawn, the story of the development of Nigeria’s literature would not be complete without the matriarchs. The literary landscape boasts of exceptional matriarchs who are highly revered for making their marks at a time women’s access to education was almost non-existent. One of such women is Mabel Dorothy Segun. The nonagenarian is a versatile woman, whose outstanding achievements in the fields of literature, broadcasting and sports have won her local and international recognitions, including Nigeria’s national honour which she was awarded in 2009. Born in 1930 in Ondo town, the amazon of Nigerian literature comes from a highly creative family: the Aig-Imoukhuede family of Sabongidda Ora in Edo State. Her father, Venerable Isaiah Aig-Imoukhuede wrote the first Ora primer, a short history of Ora and was translating the Yoruba Hymn book into Ora when he died at the age of 39. He had also composed the first verse of the well-known Yoruba song, lwe Kiko, inspired by his farming upbringing. Mabel’s father, who died while she was eight, had a great influence on her, particularly her creativity, as well as her siblings. Her brothers – Frank and Aigboje – are also creative writers. Also, her sister was a household name in the 1960s as a children’s television producer. “The man was worth more than just a Reverend. He wrote “Iwe Kiko”. He influenced me and my brothers – Frank, the journalist and Aigboje, the former Managing Director of Access Bank.,” says Mabel.   A woman of many firsts Mabel is a woman of many firsts. She is one of the first Nigerian female writers to write from the perspective of a modern metropolitan woman. She was a poet, short story writer and broadcaster, who also taught for many years. In 1983 she was listed in Men and Women of Distinction, published by Cambridge International Biographical Centre. At the newly founded University College, Ibadan (UCI), she was deputy editor and advertisement manager of the University Herald with Chinua Achebe, her classmate, as editor. She began her literary journey writing poems. She contributed poems, short stories and articles to that pioneer students’ magazine. A short story, The Surrender, which she wrote in the year of her graduation, won the maiden edition of the Nigerian Festival of the Arts Literature Prize the following year, 1954. Looking back, Mabel says: “I feel fulfilled as a writer. I have written for children. And I have written poetry.” You can call her a writer with a heart of gold. And if you are wondering why, hear her: “I wrote poetry, and later I got diverted to children’s books because I wanted to raise the genre. I felt that it was a neglected genre.”   The matriarch and her books In 2007, she was proclaimed joint winner of Nigeria’s most prestigious prize for Literature – the NLNG Nigeria Prize for Literature which was awarded for her children’s book, Readers’ Theatre: Twelve Plays for Young People. Mabel has written, co-authored and edited several children’s books including the classic autobiography My Father’s Daughter and its sequel, My Mother’s Daughter, each of which has formed the subject of university theses and literary articles in Nigeria and overseas. She has published five books for adults including a poetry collection, Conflict and Other Poems, a collection of short stories published by Longman in UK titled, The Surrender and Other Stories, and a selection of her radio talks under the title, Friends, Nigerians, Countrymen, later retitled Sorry No Vacancy. Mabel’s stories and poems have been published in over 30 anthologies in Nigeria and abroad; and have been translated into German, Danish, Norwegian, Greek and Serbo Croat. Two of her children’s books have been translated into Swahili and Arabic.   Fix Politics for screening Friday     Uncertainty surrounds hosting of Ikeji Festival     NXT.ART Fair launches on black culture   Two years ago, when she turned 90, the nonagenarian was asked if she still writes and this is what she had to say: “If I don’t write, I won’t be alive, I still write. But it is painful when what you wanted to do has been interrupted so many times.” She is one writer that has often advocated a conducive environment for writers. In her view, creating a good environment for creatives, like writers, would not only impact on education but also the reading culture of the young and children. “We are living in a most unnatural condition,” she says, “I am fed up with this country. Why are we not progressing: why don’t we have constant electricity? In the old days, we used lamps. Today there is no excuse at all. Nobody wants to be straining their eyes at a book before you can see what’s written there. But we have gone back to it. It is a pity. I wonder when it will change.”   A matriarch of sports Incidentally, she is the first Nigerian woman to play table tennis. Mabel became an honorary male by entering for Men’s Singles tournaments and was awarded the University’s Table Tennis Half Colour. From her teens, Mabel has always been athletic as far back as her days at UCI, which is now the University of Ibadan (UI) where she was admitted in 1949. For this she was called, “tomboy”. “it pleases me now to see women refereeing men’s football, women doing pole vault, women doing all sorts of things. In those days, they said women couldn’t go up. I was swimming, canoeing, playing table tennis, shooting birds at Obalende, which was a bush then. Nobody lived there. I did all the things that men did and they called me a tomboy.”   Mothering another literary amazon From a literary family, Mabel has also raised a literary amazon in her own right – her daughter, Omowunmi. Omowunmi’s first piece of writing was a poem titled Crossing a busy street’ written at the age of 12 and published in Under the Mango Tree: songs and poems for primary schools edited by Neville Grant and Mabel Segun. The adage “Like mother, like daughter” best describes both writers. My book, The Surrender And Other Stories (1995), Mabel said “is dedicated to my favourite daughter, Omowunmi, who happens to be my only daughter,” Mabel says. While in her case, Omowunmi says: Third Dimple, my first novel, is dedicated to my mother.” In 1991, her novel The Third Dimple won the Prize for Prose awarded by the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA). The same book was shortlisted for the Commonwealth Writers Prize in the category ‘Best First Book’ (Africa Region). Omowunmi, who is referred to as writer-activist, writes stories for children, written during the period she volunteered for Amnesty International Nigeria, reflect her passion for human rights. She also co-edited an anthology of short stories by Women Writers of Nigeria (WRITA), Breaking the Silence (1996) and Ibadan Mesiogo: a celebration of a city, its history and people (2001).   Literati celebrates its Matriarch Mabel turned 92 recently. And to commemorate her birthday, ANA Lagos Branch, led by the chairman, Mr Ifeanyi Avajah, held a literary party in her honour in Surulere. The event was attended by her daughter, Omowunmi and other family members; the Chief Executive Officer, African Refugee Foundation (AREF), Mr. Olujimi Olusola and his team and ANA members, among others. Guests took turns to read from the works of the celebrator; while saxophonist OyinSaX (Oyin Ogungbade) entertained them. The nonagenarian was clearly elated and danced gracefully to the music to the ovation of the guests. Moved by the gesture, Omowunmi said: “I don’t even know where to start from. But I was blown away by the approach of the chairman of Lagos ANA. I really appreciate what ANA has done, including ANA as a body nationally. They have really treasured my mum. Speaking of her mother, her daughter said: “Sometimes when you live with a treasure, it’s difficult to forget because to me she is just my mother but to everyone else she is a treasure. I treasure her, mind you. We’ve grown up and been through a lot together. We are more like sisters than mother and daughter. And I know that my mum is really pleased.” At 92, her works continue to inspire the pen of many of us, younger writers, according to Mr. Avajah. “We truly appreciate our Mama Mabel. Her contributions to Nigerian literature are noteworthy. Also, she was a founding member of ANA.”