THOUGH unfolding, but the story of the 26-year-old trained screen and stage actor Omeche Oko in a couple of years’ time will be that of living one’s dream. Greatly inspired by music sensation Tuface Idibia, P-Square, Funke Akindele, Sussan Peters, Adah Ameh, Mr. Macaroni, Bro Shaggi, Oko is fast moving towards becoming a success story. Talking about her achievements since she moved to Lagos in 2018, the graduate of the University of Jos said, “I have featured in a lot of productions which include movies, series, commercials, reality shows, show host, youtube reels and productions locally and internationally.”   Olu of Warri receives Duke of Shomolu     Stan Nze highlights common mistakes made by upcoming actors     Come Play Naija: Viewers, participants win over N20m in…   Nominated by the Realtime International Festival (RTF) for her outstanding performance playing the lead character in the short film titled, ‘The broom and the Fly,’ she has worked alongside notable directors who commended her work. They include Imoh Umoren of Rucksack productions in the series Farmhouse; Tola Odunsi of Red TV in the series, Assistant Madams, Uduak Isong of Closer Pictures in the feature film, The crazy wife on YouTube, Darlington Abuda of Peekaboo productions in the movie, Meet the Garbas;  Funke Akindele of Scene One productions in the series, My siblings and I, Mary Remmy Njoku of ROK Productions in the series titled, Sister Sister and Becoming Mrs. Adams and Accelerate TV in the series,  Ratings where she co-starred alongside prominent comedian and actor, Mc Lively to mention a few. She has also featured in international commercials such as MTN as well as played a notable character in the stage play That Scoundrel Suberu by renowned director Olusola Roberts. On  her challenges, the Benue State-born, Oko said, “I love to take up challenging roles that reflect differently from what I could easily be stereotyped as. Each time I am offered a job is an opportunity to study, go into the mind of the character and become the character. Recently Nollywood has been breaking boundaries and exploring new territories and I am extremely grateful to be a part of it and witness it all. If I was not an actor, then I would definitely be behind the camera because one thing is for sure, the entertainment industry especially filmmaking is where I find peace and where I call home. When I was little, I would always struggle to audition and be amongst the children to wear white gloves and perform in front of the parents on speech and prize-giving day. I took the passion to secondary school and auditioned in front of the whole school to be on the school’s drama team. I went on to perform in plays at University until I moved to Lagos in 2018.”