Actress Mercy Aigbe has paid tribute to Dr Chinelo and other victims of the Abuja-Kaduna train terrorist attack. The film star also condemned social media users for lacking empathy as a result of their responses which followed the late Dr Chinelo’s tweet after she was shot. Chinelo tweeted that she was shot and sought prayers from Nigerians. “I’m on the train. I have been shot. Please pray for me,” she tweeted. But her tweet was received with doubt by many tweeps who claimed she was lying and called her a number of names. Unfortunately, Dr Chinelo’s tweet turned out to be true after her death was reported following a gunshot wound from the attack. This had led a good number of social media users, including celebrities react in differing ways.   Ubi Franklin dares Timaya to carry out beating threat     Actress Laide Bakare flaunts new mansion     Singer T-Classic slams fan for ‘struggling…   Aigbe said social media users lack empathy as she noted they are always quick to go behind their keypad to unleash ‘venom’. She further urged people to be more compassionate about others’ plight, suppressing the desire to judge situations too quickly. Sharing photos of the attacked train accompanied with screenshots of Dr Chinelo’s tweet with harsh responses that greeted it, the mother-of-two wrote: “I woke up with a heavy heart, completely heartbroken…. I am so drained… God, this country is exhausting… When exactly will God answer our prayers and flush out these evil leaders????” She continued: “Seeing the replies to Dr Chinelo’s tweet further broke me… has it degenerated to this? Where is the love??? No empathy whatsoever… people just hide behind their keypads and are quick to unleash venom …. how did we get here??? “I know we have horrible leaders but the truth is as a people, we can do better.. it doesn’t cost a thing to show love, you don’t know the actual situations people are in, don’t be too quick to judge most especially when you are not privy to events, situations, Dr Chinelo only asked for prayers, yet she was mocked, bullied, attacked, cursed.” “With sadness in my heart, I say R.I.P to another promising, young Nigerian, whose life was cut short because of this horrible system. R.I.P to those who lost their lives, Nigeria failed you. As a people we can do better, cos we are all we’ve got…”