Lawyer, author, and development consultant Ayisha Osori has spoken about the need for the youths to participate in the electoral process. Osori, an advocate for Anap Foundation, which has embarked on a campaign to sensitise Nigerian youths to participate in the electoral process, said “not voting is still a vote, for the status quo”. She said: “Nigerians are tired, disillusioned and not interested in politics, but ironically every government should be driven by young people because they have the drive, passion, and energy to build a sustainable nation.” Osori said Anap Foundation will be partnering with the Independent National Electoral Commission [INEC] and other advocates, celebrity ambassadors, corporate bodies, as well as volunteers in ensuring a huge success is attained in encouraging the youths in understanding that their votes count in having the right leaders at the country’s helm of affairs.   Bamigbetan unfolds plans for House of Reps     APC Convention: Fresh rumpus in Sokoto over state executives     2023: Nigeria needs someone like Tinubu – Badmus   The campaign is in full gear with the initial advocates of Anap Foundation, who have intensified efforts at encouraging young Nigerians to register and collect their permanent voter’s card (PVC) to vote in next year’s general election towards ensuring good governance and accessing the true dividends of democracy. Other advocates of the campaign are activist Aisha Yesufu; Director, Research and Training, the Da’wah Institute, Islamic Education Trust, Nuruddeen Lemu; poet, Dike Chukwumerije; musician, actor, and entertainer, Folarin Falana (Falz); founder of Stanbic IBTC Bank and president/founder, Anap Foundation Atedo Peterside; and Catholic Bishop of Sokoto, Matthew Kukah. Others are the founder, Connected Development (CODE), Hamzat Lawal; the National Chairman, Youth Party, Tomiwa Aladekomo; former Minister of Aviation and founder UnlockNaija, Osita Chidoka; and pastor and medical practitioner, Dr. Tony Rapu. The initiative is also supported by the Executive Director, EiE Nigeria, Yemi Adamolekun; former minister and professor of Public Health Leadership at Harvard, Muhammad Ali Pate; the 14th Emir of Kano and the Grand Khalifa of Tijjaniya Order, Muhammad Sanusi II; former minister, Dr. Salamatu Hussaini Suleiman; chairman, Tertiary Education Trust Fund [TETFUND] and president King’s College Old Boys Association, Kashim Ibrahim-Imam; the Chairperson, Royal African Society, a United Kingdom-based organization, Arunma Oteh and former  Group Executive Director at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Ibrahim Dahiru Waziri.