The Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) yesterday said some of the 77 oil and gas firms were paying part of their debts in the N2.6 trillion of outstanding Value Added Tax (VAT), Withholding Tax, Company Income Tax and others. The watchdog organisation’s Executive Secretary, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, made this known to reporters yesterday. According to him, NEITI will on March 7 unveil the 2020 Oil and Gas audit report that will disclose the payment status of the 77 companies. He said since the NEITI does not collect money from the indebted firms, he was not in a position to guess their payment status. Orji noted that the House of Representatives would on March 7, 2022 hold a public hearing on the N2.6 trillion debt.   Air passengers lament 100 % fare hike     IPMAN, NUPENG bicker over illegal increase in petrol price     Nigeria issues N7.9tr capital allowances in five years   His words: “Our fundamental responsibility as NEITI under the EITI principles is public disclosure. From our reports we provided information and data that 77 companies were indebted to government to the tune of N2.6trillion. “We placed that information openly in the public domain. The role of the media, the civil society and citizens is to use the information to hold the companies to account. NEITI is ready and available to provide more information and data. But for asking us how far, where is the money? “NEITI does not collect or keep money. Relevant government agencies do. “For taxes such as PPT, CIT and VAT, it is the FIRS that collects the them while for royalty payments, DPR now part of the Nigeria Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission collects the payments. “However, we are highly encouraged that the House of Representatives rose to the occasion; tabled the issue as a motion, passed it and set up an ad-hoc committee to investigate the issue. “A public hearing on that disclosure from NEITI begins on Tuesday 7th of March. I applaud the Speaker, the house leadership and the members for this exemplary role expected of the legislature in Section 4 (3) & (7) of the NEITI Act. NEITI will be there to help the committee in this investigation.’’