A lecturer at the Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos, Dr Dapo Thomas, has called for the removal of Russia as Permanent Member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) following its invasion of Ukraine. He suggested the European country be replaced by India. Thomas spoke during a symposium titled ‘Unpacking the Ukraine Conundrum: Analysis of the Russian-Ukrainian War.’ The Department of History and International Studies, Lagos State University held the symposium on the ongoing vicissitudes between Russia and Ukraine. Experts and scholars of International Relations both within and outside the department were all invited to table their analysis on the stipulated topic. Making his presentation, Thomas said: “If the objective of the United Nations Security Council is to maintain or to ensure global security and peace, Russia’s action/ attack on Ukraine has signposted the failure of that objective. “So, on what moral or political plank is Russia being retained as a Permanent Member of the UNSC? I propose Russia’s removal from the UNSC having lost the moral and professional authority to be a disciplined nation. In its place, I will suggest India for these reasons: a) It is the largest democracy in the world. b) It has a very stable polity that has NEVER been disrupted since 1947. c) It is also a major power with very disciplined and liberal foreign policy. •Scrap UNSC, Maintain only the UN General Assembly. •Cancel the Veto power and adopt a majority vote system or the concept of “Status Parity” Explaining what he meant by Wasteland Agenda in his presentation, Thomas said: “This is my coinage for the carnage going on in Kyiv. It means deliberate, methodical, premeditated and scientific extermination and decimation of all physical, biological and physiological entities of a defined geographical and political territory by the army of an adversary with machines of War. “What are these machines of War?: Tanks, aircraft, poison gas, armoured vehicles, heavy machine guns, cluster munitions, vacuum bombs and airships.   40 people injured during feminist demonstration in Mexico     China criticises U.S. ban on Russia energy imports     Our sanctions will hurt you, Russia warns West   “Who is this Emperor here? : Vladimir Putin. Why? : he has never been happy with the bifurcation of the Soviet Union and dreams of re-creating a new Soviet or Russian Empire under the guise of “ I am the victim “ “perceptive reality “. To avoid or prevent a Wasteland Mission, he said: ” Intervention by other states not involved in a war should be activated 2nd or 3rd day of attack irrespective of the status of the states involved. “Punitive actions like denuclearization demilitarization heavy fines should be imposed on any aggressor nation. “Death toll for War Crime investigation, trial and punishment should be specified. I am suggesting a figure range of 100-150 deaths.” He added: ‘I am advocating for the zero-nuclear weapon system. And if this is not acceptable to the major powers, then let every state protect its country according to the “available capability “. Putin raising his nuclear forces to high alert is a clear demonstration that madness is not restricted to Iran, Syria and any other perceived belligerent state. ” What is the purpose of allowing some states to possess nuclear weapons and denying others from doing the same?” Proliferation, he further said may be dangerous “but there is a need for fresh justification for preventing the non-nuclear states from having their own nuclear weapons. The old excuse of not wanting some madmen in Asia or Europe to be in possession of deadly and destructive weapons like nuclear weapons is no longer tenable. Today, some madmen also wear suits not only jalamia.” Thomas adopted the interpretive and prescriptive approaches in his presentation. Looking at the causes of war under the interpretive approach, he discussed the following: (a) Historical Excuse – 11&12th centuries incorporated into Russian Empire- 1793 Federated into Russia in 1918 German invasion in-1941 Retaken by USSR in 1944 Ukraine/Crimea joined together – 1954 Ukrainian independence- 1991(Dec 5) Crimean war-2014. (b) Ideological Rationalization – Don’t join NATO/EU (c) Personality/ identity Crisis Carl Rogers ( American psychologist): The personality or “self” is an organized, consistent pattern of perception of the “I” or “Me” that lies at the heart of an individual’s experiences. Under the prescriptive, he examined the concept of Align or Perish •Warning to all non-aligned States – Align now or be perished soon.