From all indications, Nigerians appear to be tired of the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), and would love to see a new mega party with a different orientation to the existing ones, particularly in terms of ideological focus. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI and Correspondent ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE examine the factors that have made the emergence of a third force political platform a mirage  Every election cycle, Nigerians have always been inundated with reports of attempts to form a new mega party or what has been dubbed the ‘third force’. Apart from the success story of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2013, most of these attempts usually fail to materialize at the end of the day for a number of reasons. Political groups like the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), the Nigeria Intervention Movement (NIM), the Alliance for the Defense of Democracy (ADD), and the National Consultative Front (NCFront) have at various times announced their intentions to create a mega party that could be regarded as a third force within the political scene. The latest addition to the list is The National Movement (TNM), which is being spearheaded by former Kano State Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso.  Other prominent politicians that were seen at the unveiling of the TNM are Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi; Alhaji Buba Galadima; former Sports Minister Solomon Dalong; Chief Solomon Edoda; Senator Nweze Onu; Mr Falasade Aliyu; Mr Rufai Hanga; former Kogi State Governor Idris Wada; and Prof. Rufai Ahmed Alkali. The NCFront, which was unveiled in 2020 by prominent Nigerians, appears to have some semblance of seriousness. Three months ago, the group announced that it is setting up a shadow government to provide alternative interventions and solutions to problems of national governance in the various sectors of the economy. The shadow government has Prof Utomi as president of the cabinet. He also doubles as the lead speaker on economic development. Other leading lights of the group are former House of Representatives Speaker, Ghali Na’abba; a prominent lawyer, Olisa Agbakoba; human rights lawyer, Femi Falana; former minister, Dr Oby Ezekwesili; Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Dr Tanko Yinusa; and former Cross River State Governor Donald Duke. But, the NCFront may not be able to participate in the next general elections because the clock is ticking and it may not meet the deadline of the electoral umpire to participate in the election. From all indications, Nigerians are fed up with the two major political parties, the APC and the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) and would love to see a political platform with a different orientation to the existing ones, in terms of ideological focus. But, there are no prospects that an alternate political party that can defeat the two major parties are in the offing. Less than a year to the next general elections, there is limited time for any party to establish grassroots structures nationwide, recruit members and meet up with the deadlines of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to take part in the election. Austin Aigbe, a Senior Programme Officer at the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), said Nigeria is not ripe for a third force. He said the election is too close and that those nursing the idea of a third force are not serious. Aigbe who spoke to our reporter on the telephone said: “If you are serious about creating a third force, you don’t do it just before the election; such political platforms are organized well ahead of the election. You don’t use an electoral cycle of four years to mobilize to create a third force; it does not work like that. If you want to take power from a ruling party, you make look as easy as participating in a local government election. So, there is no chance for a third force party winning the next election; one of the two dominant parties will win the election.” Aigbe said the so-called third force groups exist only on the pages of newspapers. He added: “You see, a movement is not created in a year. Let me give you a good example of what I am talking about; in 2013, ahead of the 2015 election, consultations began among three dominant parties in Nigeria. In 2014, there was a merger following that talk to pave the way for the transformation of the three parties into a single political party called the APC. The electoral umpire saw it as a merger of three existing political parties. Of course, members of the so-called new PDP were part of the merger and a faction of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) led by former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha was also part of it. “So, if you want to create a mega party, it is easier to achieve this through existing political parties that are already close to taking power. For example, you can work through APGA, Labour Party (LP) and maybe 20 of such existing parties; all of them can merge into a single party. This is better done at least two years before the election; not when we are just close to an election. Before they settle the in-house rumblings, the election would almost be over.” Civil society activist, Comrade Naseer Kura said those trying to create another mega party appears to be engaged in wishful thinking. “It will be difficult to realize,” he added. Dr Kura who is the Executive Director, Basic Rights Action, told The Nation that nothing would emerge from the idea of creating a third force at the moment because of insufficient mobilization on the part of those clamouring for such movements. He said: “It is so unfortunate that political parties in Nigeria have become mere avenues to make money for those at the helm of affairs. We have witnessed situations where failed politicians within the two major parties cleverly register new political parties to serve as alternate platforms in the event that they are unable to pick their party’s ticket.   Farotimi’s anarchism on Arise tv morning show     Bandits kill two, abduct Catholic priest in Kaduna     APC crisis: I’ve not resigned, says Akpanudoedehe   “The major factor militating against the emergence of a third force political platform is the narrow and parochial interest of the conveners of such groups. First, this reflects the lack of sincerity on the part of the adherents of the groups. This is why the idea has not been able to yield the desired result Nigerians are expecting from it. Secondly, the environment is so hostile and, three, there is insufficient mobilization and campaign on the part of those trying to create the third force movement.” The civil society activist said the basis for ideological participation was destroyed during Ibrahim Babangida’s aborted Third Republic when two parties were decreed into existence by the then military junta. His words: “People were more or less compelled to join any of the two parties, irrespective of their worldview or ideological orientation. That is to say that it was not something that developed naturally from the desire of the participating politicians. This is what gave birth to our present political arrangement where you don’t see any major difference between the PDP and the APC. The moment a member of one of the parties changes his political party; he begins to parrot a new ‘ideology’ without necessarily changing his way of thinking. Each of the parties’ manifestoes is the same, in terms of goals, aspirations, visions and missions. “Even in these so-called third force groups, there are no sound ideological bases for coming together. We all agree that the APC and the PDP have failed and the people are eager to see an alternative political platform, but what are the bases? What are the philosophies binding the groups together? So, there is no difference between the so-called third force movements that are clamouring for change and the two major parties.” Dr Kura said the challenge is not necessarily because of a lack of finance, as it is generally assumed. His words: “Lack of finance is part of the problems militating against political parties seeking to dislodge ruling parties, but that is not the major reason. You may have an idea that sounds fantastic, but the truth of the matter is that it is the political consciousness that nourishes any political party. If you don’t have any political consciousness, there is no way you can raise yourself to the level of becoming an alternate political platform. You will not be different from the so-called dominant parties or any of the mushroom ones claiming to be political parties with a difference.” Legal practitioner and human rights activist, Monday Onyekachi Ubani said the failure of Nigerians to rise above material inducements when exercising their franchise is the reason the major parties are taking them for granted. He said: “Nigerians look forward to political parties that would come and share rice and money. Thereby they mortgage their future for another eight years, after which they will start complaining.” The former second vice president of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) told our reporter: “I think there is a lot that needs to be done in terms of political education, to get Nigerians to look beyond these political parasites. They are coming out now to flaunt their wealth to win votes. But they have nothing upstairs to offer. Those controlling states want to control the Federal Government so that they can acquire more money; it is about what they will get for themselves and their families. They want the power to become a godfather and determine who runs for one elective position or the other or gets one political appointment or the other. “Until Nigerians learn to look beyond material gains in casting their votes and focus on the services the candidates can render to the people, the country will not move forward. The political parties are taking so much from the system; the huge amount they are budgeting on infrastructure is a gimmick to siphon money from the system. You and I know that nothing has been developed; our light system is bad, the roads are not there, there is no hospital and there are no schools. They use the money to enslave Nigerians. Until Nigerians are tired of voting based on sentiments and immediate material benefits, these so-called third force rescue efforts will not materialize. “If there is any one of them that has credibility and is capable of mobilizing Nigerians to chart a new course for the country, it is the Pat Utomi-led group. If you look at some of the groups that are touting themselves as a third force movement, they are parochial and sectional leaders. Those cannot be the ones to rescue Nigeria. For instance, look at how selfish these guys can be; the north would have been in power for eight years by the time President Buhari completes his second term next year, but they are still telling us that the north should retain power after the expiration of the president’s tenure. “This would give you an indication of their sense of fairness and justice. Any person that does not have a sense of fairness, equity and justice in his blood cannot be a leader. Anybody who has a conscience would recognize that it is wrong for the north to retain power beyond 2023 under the present circumstances. I never supported former President Goodluck Jonathan to run in 2011 because the north had not completed its eight years. Elder statesman and foundation member of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Alhaji Tanko Yakasai equally believes that the conveners of the various third force groups are not adopting the type of strategy that led to the formation of the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) during the Second Republic. Yakasai said: “If they are going by the way we did it before, it would be like history is about to repeat itself. We started with political associations that led to the formation of the first national movement that later on developed into the defunct NPN. At the time, there were other parties like the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), which everybody knew belonged to the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. There was also the defunct Nigerian Peoples’ Party (NPP), which belonged to the late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe; the defunct Great Nigerian Peoples’ Party (GNPP), which belonged to the late Alhaji Ibrahim Waziri and the defunct Peoples’ Redemption Party (PRP), which belonged to the late Aminu Kano. Only the NPN did not belong to anybody and that was what made it acceptable to all Nigerians. “Before we formed the NPN, the then national movement had branches in all the parts of the country, the east, the west and the north. So, by the time the military lifted the ban on political activities, we were ready. We had our constitution, manifesto and other things in place. It did not take us a week. What we did was to change the word ‘movement’ to ‘party’ and put ‘Nigeria,’ such that instead of the national movement, we had the National Party of Nigeria. In a matter of one week, we had our posters all over the place. They need to do something like this, but the most important thing is that they should give every Nigerian a sense of belonging in the party and to do that, they must involve them right from the word go.”