One of the most talented MCs/entertainers in Nigeria, MC Rhelax, the popular Hiptv ‘Streetz program’ host has come a long way in the entertainment space in Nigeria. In this interview with our reporter, he talked about his talent and what has kept him going in the industry. What makes your style stand out in the entertainment industry? Well, I would say I did not set out to stand out, I majorly came in as an addition to what was already on the ground, and so by doing “ME” made the whole difference. There can’t be two of you. So always do you..* How and when did you start entertainment? That was in my primary three, I was a leader of all cultural groups and acting crew back then. I did my first show then inside Schimid Hall at Mayflower Secondary School. I have always been in entertainment. Who would you say you owe your success? God, who gave me the talent, parent who believed in me, my mum is the current Vice President of all the Alaga IDURO/IJOKO in NIGERIA, met it at home kinda something..*   Gordon laments politicians’ recycled campaign promises     Filmmaking is where I find peace, says Omeche Oko     Olu of Warri receives Duke of Shomolu   How do you generate your energy while performing at events and what element drives you? My energy is natural. It’s a talent. However, as regards the elements, Music is an element that helps my energy and performance at events. The right music mix and control in an event go a long way for me. So as regards Music Mixes and Controlling at events which Up and Rising DJs have you worked with and complimented your energy? For Up and Rising DJs only a few have met my energy but one of which I can undoubtedly talk of is Undisputed DJ Wallace. The first time we met was back in FUTA days when he featured and performed on many school events and won several competitions and awards of recognition. I can say to the Up and Rising DJs that DJ Wallace is a force to reckon with in DJing and I believe any talented MC should be able to work perfectly with him. * Why are you called the ‘Energy King’ Actually, I was just distributing Joy and excitement at every event and show and people started calling me ENERGY KING it’s natural for me.. as I don’t drink I don’t smoke, this energy is a gift from God.* What is your ultimate goal? In the end, I would have influenced a generation in the right direction.. that many young ones would see a man full of vibes without vulgar and very very upright. I hope to see a generation who ain’t depressed who are confident of tomorrow because of their God-given talents and the God who generously gave them the gifts.*