BIG Brother Naija alumnus, Maria Chike Benjamin, has been in the news for several reasons since she appeared on national television to compete for a grand prize of N90million. After her eviction from the show in the fifth week, Maria has gone ahead to grab some brand endorsements and even featured in some television commercials for brands. The Nation reliably gathered that Maria recently signed the dotted lines to embark on a symbiotic brand relationship with a digital bank, Raven as its brand ambassador. Maria’s recent venture has fetched her multimillion Naira. However, she refused to divulge the exact amount attached to her ambassadorial role. In a chat with The Nation, the screen siren confirmed the tale saying the money was good.   Lanre Teriba set for US tour     Seyilaw returns to TV as Family Fame host     Lady Donli: I’m not intimidated by male colleagues   “I mean the money was good,” she began as she spoke about her new venture as the ambassador to the digital bank. Maria was quick to say that after her participation in BBNaija, she was open to endorsement deals that will suit her brand. “Going into the Big Brother House, when you come out, obviously the recognition will be there, the platform will be there and I was open to any brand that was going to come to me and I am actually thankful that Raven bank approached me.” Unknown to many, Maria had worked with a financial house, KBC financial services, inc, in the United Kingdom, hence, gaining some experience in financial houses. “Funny enough, back in London, I had worked with a financial house, KBC financial services, straight after I left the University. So, I do know a little about banking and I love money, so that experience, as well as my brand value and hard work, are some of the attributes I would be bringing to board.” On why she decided to pitch her tent with the Raven when many had thought she would have pitched her tent with Kuda bank, she said the Raven team’s vibe and transparency won her over. “One thing about me as a person is that I love honesty and transparency. I feel like any business or partnership whatsoever doesn’t work perfectly if I can’t see through the persons and they can’t see through me. Everything, in my opinion, and how I work, should be black and white. “So, I have had other digital banks approach me for this role before Raven bank approached me but when Raven approached me, we had a lot of discussion with my team and they opened up to me, they were real and transparent with me as to what they expect from me. We did bond without seeing ourselves through our conversations and negotiations. It was the vibe of the people at Raven for me despite other digital banks wanting me and I was comfortable with Raven. And the story behind the creation of Raven as a digital bank also wowed me.”