Ebonyi State Government has petitioned the Commissioner of Police (CP) against three members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for accusing Governor David Umahi of looting N6.7billion from the treasury. The government accused the PDP members of defaming the governor and urged the police to investigate, and prosecute them. The three members include Chairman of the party in the state, Tochukwu Okorie, a former House of Representatives member, Linus Okorie and a social critic, Charles Otu. The PDP Ebonyi State chapter had accused Governor Umahi of looting the treasury in the aftermath of a High Court judgment which removed him from office. The PDP, in a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), dated March 22, a copy of which was circulated online, alleged that the governor had withdrawn over N6billion in the past one week. The petition was signed by a lawyer, Nkemakolam Okoro of Dynamic Option Chambers, who claimed to be a lawyer to Ebonyi State chapter of the PDP. The lawyer in the petition claimed that the said money allegedly withdrawn by the governor was to fund his appeal of the court decision, which sacked him from office. According to the petition, the money is to be allegedly used to pay the Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) who the governor has hired to appeal the matter. They further alleged that the fund was withdrawn from the state’s accounts domiciled in about nine commercial banks within one week.   Group to governor: don’t run your administration on hearsay     Obaseki inaugurates electoral commission     ‘Nwajiuba will unite Nigeria if elected president’   PDP urged the EFCC to stop the governor from further looting the treasury. The allegations could not be independently verified. Ebonyi State Government in a statement on Wednesday denied the allegations contained in the petition. Commissioner for Information and State Orientation Uchenna Orji described the allegations as irresponsibly false and unfounded, cruel and malicious. He said: “The entirety of the content of the trending petition addressed to EFCC is absolutely and irresponsibly false, malicious and nothing but a serial of the politically-calculated attempt by the PDP and desperados to damage the hard -earned reputation of the governor and the integrity of the state government.” Orji further claimed that the petitioners wanted to use the allegations “to attack the credibility of the outcome of the dispensations of all institutions involved in ensuring that justice is done in all the legal actions framed up by PDP to distract the ever performing administration of Governor Umahi, especially to cause him distractions in his intention to run for the president in 2023.” He debunked the allegations, warning that the government would begin legal proceedings against the petitioners for defamation against the governor and the state government. Noting that the state government’s expenditure is in the public domain, Orji described the governor as a prudent manager of the state’s resources He said the government had asked the House of Assembly to waive its immunity and invite the EFCC to within 30 days, investigate the issues in the allegations contained in the petition by PDP and any other allegation of financial impropriety raised by them. He also urged the anti-graft agency to take sanctions against the petitioners for false and fake information if their allegations are not established.