Former Shooting Stars’ defence stalwart, Friday Christopher, is in dire need of financial assistance to undergoes correctional surgery for his poor sight even as he appealed to spirited Nigerians to come to his aid. TUNDE LIADI, reports. Friday Christopher known far and wide as Eruku, was a Trojan in the heart of many domestic clubs in his heyday but the once-feared defender is battling to regain his sight with N9million needed to undergo the necessary surgery. The human eye is said, to be an organ that reacts with light, allowing light perception, colour vision, and depth perception but that of Christopher is no longer in good condition. The former Shooting Stars’ defence stalwart is in dire need of financial assistance to undergoes correctional surgery for his poor sight even as he appealed to spirited Nigerians to come to his aid. Narrating his ordeal to NationSport, Christopher said his sight got worst in 2019 while working with Kano Pillars as an assistant coach and had to quit the job to get proper medication. “Sincerely, I have lost my sight to glaucoma and cataract,” the once-vibrant Christopher who led Shooting Stars to win the inaugural edition of the now rested MKO Abiola/ CAF Cup in 1992, said with an emotion-laden tone in a telephone conversation. “Initially, I thought it was what I could handle on my own, until doctors at the University College Hospital (UCH) in Ibadan referred me to India for further treatments, because according to him, ‘ the pressure and complications of the eyes is too much and cannot easily be handled here. “I am expected to undergo the treatment urgently at Appolo Hospital in New Delhi, and I need N9m to get it done. “I am appealing to Nigerians to come to my aid and support me so that I can have this surgery done in India to regain my sight again,” he said. Regarded as one of the unsung heroes of Nigerian football, Christopher was a delight to watch in the central defence and was dubbed Eruku (powerful) because of his prowess at ensuring that no attacker sniffs his area. The well-built defender started his football career with Hoestch FC of Ota, Ewekoro Cement FC before playing for BCC Lions of Gboko, Abiola Babes FC, Calabar Rovers, Katsina United FC and Iwuanyanwu Nationale FC of Owerri. But would forever be remembered as one of the stars in the 1992 all-conquering Shooting Stars side that won the maiden CAF Cup following a 2-0 aggregate win after a two-legged final victory against Nakivubo Villa of Uganda. Christopher recalled how his love for the Oluyole Warriors kept him in the team even when he had the chance to travel to Italy along with some of his teammates after their first-leg semi-final defeat to CA Bizertin of Tunisia.   MoC begins hunt for talented new athletes     ‘Nigerian boxing at crossroads’     Lagos Int’l Polo Tournament: Kano Lintex breaks stronghold…   “We had lost the game 2-0 but some of our players absconded on our way back home,” he recalled. “I had the chance to leave too but as the captain, I wanted to set a good example. “I also wanted to set the record as the first captain to lift the CAF Cup competition that was donated by the late Nigerian billionaire Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola. “The remaining players that came back home quickly began preparation for the return leg and luckily for us, we were able to win the second leg 3-0 in Ibadan, and qualified for the final where we beat Navikubo Villa of Uganda 2-0 on aggregate. “We were happy to lift the cup; I was extremely glad that I and the rest of the team took the bold decision to stay and we were rewarded with the title. “It was one of my happiest days as a footballer. “The other one was when Kano Pillars won the Aiteo Cup title in 2019. I was an assistant coach and it was nice winning it for the first time for the state after several decades. “We had lost the same Federation Cup to Enugu Rangers in bizarre circumstances in 2018 after leading 3-0 in the final but they drew the match 3-3 and went on to win the resultant penalty shootout.” The Imo State-born no-nonsense defender who was a member of the Super Eagles between 1987 and 1992, also shared his saddest moment as a player and coach: “My saddest moment was when we lost the rested African Cup of Champions Club final to Zamalek SC of Egypt 3-0 on aggregate. “We got to the final at the expense of the Togolese side, Semassi Sekode and we were hoping to win the competition for the first time for Nigeria. It was a sad experience. “I had left 3SC for another club when they got to the final again in 1996 but sadly they lost again to Zamalek SC.” Meanwhile, Christopher said he has tried to get in touch with the Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde and a few others about his predicament, adding his efforts have not yielded a positive outcome. “I am appealing to Nigerians to support me,” he said. “Nothing is too small, and they can pay to direct into my account (Account No: 2003554461. Account Name: Friday Christopher. Bank Name: Zenith Bank).”