Colleagues and fans have been offering words of encouragement and support to actress Kemi Afolabi, who recently said doctor told her that she has four more years to live. The 43-year-old actress disclosed this in a recent interview with media personality, Chude Jideonwo The actress said she was diagnosed with lupus. The actress said the disease can only be managed through medication. “I have lupus. It’s not curable. You just have to take medications for the rest of your life. I’ve spent over N1 million on treatment yet I did not get the desired result.” Lupus is an autoimmune, and inflammatory disease caused when the immune system attacks its tissues. It can also be referred to as Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). It can affect the joints, skin, kidneys, blood cells, brain, heart and lungs. Some of the reactions from celebrities and fans are as follow: Lolamagret said: “By the special blood of Jesus you’re totally heal. That report is not yours”.   Row over death of 33-year-old Nigerian in Dubai factory     Wike demands disciplinary action against Edo Deputy Gov.…     We won’t allow a second #EndSARS protest in Calabar –…   Kazimadeoti prayed: “May Allah be pleased with you and grant you mercy, peace and health”. Authenticmuy wished: “Happy 100th birthday in advance with love from me and mine”. Bimbo Afolayan, wrote, “I will never weep over you, Insha Allah. You will live long and you will be healthy by God’s grace.” “You shall not die but live and (sic) proclaim the goodness of your father in heaven. Jesus has conquered the grave on your behalf, darling. 2092, you will still be here with us cracking chicken bones in Jesus’ name,” another actress, Lola Magret, wrote. On his part, actor, Yomi Fabiyi, wrote, “O strong. God says discussion continues Omotibi. Much love I got for you.” @the_beardedsina said: “I’m just trying to read through the thread on Kemi Afolabi’s interview on Lupus, it was touching. I am wondering on what basis a Doctor told her she has 5 more years to live. One can’t necessarily say how many years a Lupus patient has to live. the tests don’t determine longevity” @callmesammylex: “This was when I last saw Kemi Afolabi when she visited the Lagos state university and was also the chief priestess of the theatre art students for last year induction ceremony, she was still looking agile and strong, I feel for her though buh I hope God take control here!!!” @Tee_Classiquem1: “I heard Kemi Afolabi is battling with Lupus, I really hope she beat this phase by the grace of God, she’s one of the top Yoruba actress out there with talent and great potentials” @michael_mickyt said: “Watching chude interview with yoruba actress kemi Afolabi really got me emotional and sad, I pray she lives longer. Lupus disease is crazy and doesn’t have a cure.”