ANY one caught building in Lagos without approval would be sanctioned. To this end, the state government has ordered that the building of a filling station be stopped.The station is situated at No.1 Robinson Gbagi/Benson Anoruo Street, Ajao Estate, Isolo. Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development Dr. Idris Salako told The Nation that the facility was being erected without any approval or stage-by-stage inspection by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) to ascertain the quality of materials used. Hee said: “As a matter of fact, we cannot even be talking about checking for compliance against approval that was never given in the first place and this is dangerous for the built environment as the safety and structural integrity of the facility cannot be guaranteed.’’ The unapproved construction has become a growing concern for residents of the area, who have petitioned the government against its continuation. Reiterating the importance of building right, the Commissioner emphasised that no construction should be carried out in the state without planning permits and stage certification. He said the owner/developer of the filling station would be brought to book for ignoring warnings by LASBCA, which served contravention notices and stop-work orders on the builder.   Property owners accuse developers of harassment     Experts fault White Paper on Fourscore Tower     Journalists condemn attacks on estate road arc   Salako urged residents, particularly actors in the built environment, to “build right and team up with the state in her efforts to combat building collapse and vouchsafe a livable and sustainable physical environment as enshrined in the THEMES Agenda of the Lagos State Government”. Also, the ministry has arrested three persons for parading themselves as staff members of LASBCA and embarking on development control.The commissioner noted that the impostors met their Waterloo when they posed as a government demolition gang and pulled down a disputed property in Ogombo, Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state. They have been handed over to the police while the third person, is on the run. The Commissioner assured that the culprits would be dealt with but urged residents to report suspicious persons to the police. He explained that the apprehension of the trio, which profited from the whistle-blowing mechanism of the ministry, would send a strong signal to others about the government’s determination to rid the sector of any illegality. He enjoined the public to be wary of fraudsters and ascertain the identity of anyone himself parading as a public official. He reiterated that enforcement of the Ministry usually follow a standard procedure, involving the service of statutory notices, bearing the insignia of government. He urged Lagosians to report any observed infraction in the built environment directly to the Ministry or through the online avenues, including the Lagos State MPP&UD App, which could be downloaded on Google Play store or Apple store.