Leceister FC winger Ademola Lookman has explained why he switched his nationality from England to Nigeria. Lookman, who represented England, was one of the U-20 players that won the World Cup in South Korea in 2017. But he debuted for the Super Eagles on Friday in the playoff for the 2022 Qatar World Cup against Ghana, replacing Moses Simon in the 74th minute. He told CAFOnline.com:  “I am very excited to be part of Nigeria’s National team and I’m feeling blessed and looking forward to helping the team. “Both my parents are Nigerians and I’ve always seen these [representing Nigeria] as a possibility. I came to Nigeria, frequently when I was much younger. “I am familiar with the people and built up a family here, so the switch from England to Nigeria is not an unusual one for me. I am glad I made the switch.” The Super Eagles will host the Black Stars in the second leg of the 2022 FIFA World Cup playoffs tie at the Moshood Abiola Stadium, Abuja on Tuesday.   Osinbajo, Obasanjo, Jonathan condemn coups in Africa     BREAKING: Opposition planning another #ENDSARS protest…     Court frees Jonathan’s ex-Minister of money laundering…   The Leicester City man is backing his side to subdue Otto Addo’s men and secure a place in Qatar. “This is a special event, special moments, the expectations are high. For us, it’s about winning and giving our best in the match,” Lookman continues. “Ghana is a strong team, very competitive and physical. We expect that but we’ll be ready.” The former Charlton Athletic and Fulham star is also relishing the prospect of making podium successes with the Super Eagles. “I hope to create great and memorable memories. Belief is a great thing not just in football, but I am sure when you believe put in hard work which I’ve been putting in you can achieve,” he said. “I work every day to achieve my goal. I am glad to be a part of African history and glad to be here and I hope to give you [Nigerians] sweet memories.” The winner of the doubleheader between the two nations will claim one of the five African slots for Qatar 2022 and Lookman will be keen to make an impactful presence in Tuesday.