These are truly hard times for Nigerian youths, and they are in the majority: According to available age distribution statistics, those aged 19 years and below constitute about 52 percent of the total population. When those between 20 and 35 are factored in, Nigerian youth bulge skyrockets to about 70 percent of the entire population. For quite some time now, demographers and other experts have been warning Nigerian leaders that this youth bulge is a ticking time bomb, more so now in the face of economic depression and high youth unemployment. The bomb has now begun to rupture, not with a one-time big bang but gradually and in a variety of forms, like an overinflated tyre leaking gradually from multiple punctures. Such a tyre may wreck the car and waste its passengers, if not mended in time. Years of neglect have led to multiple punctures in the lives and livelihoods of Nigerian youths: Schools, colleges, and universities are in deplorable shape, being underfunded, understaffed, and under-equipped. Exposed to a curriculum in dissonance with the job market, and hampered by incessant union strikes, they learn little or nothing to make them employable or self-employed. The job market is so small that only a small fraction, such as those who trained abroad, have a shot. Yet, graduates of polytechnics and technical colleges, who learned one trade or the other lack the start-off capital. Artisans lack necessary infrastructure to sustain their work. There is even a lack of patronage due to economic depression. As a result, many youths today cannot find food to eat. Some have nowhere to sleep. In major cities, you find them at bus stops, airports, supermarkets, street corners, and social gatherings (wedding, birthday, and funeral parties). Yet others are mere hangers-on, waiting to be recruited to any job or any crime like the second batch of youths, who converted an otherwise peaceful October 2020 #EndSARS protests into a violent looting spree. In the absence of interesting learning in school, some youths find engagement in nefarious groups, such as cults and gangs. Those among them who want to make quick money join fraudsters, popularly known as Yahoo Boys. A subset of this group, known as Yahoo Plus, engage in money rituals involving human sacrifice. Worse still, in the absence of gainful employment after graduation, many youths explore ways of escaping poverty by finding employment with the Devil: They professionalise the activities of their cults and gangs and engage in various crimes. Others become fraudsters, street urchins, area boys, or political thugs. Yet others join robbers, kidnappers, bandits, and terrorist groups. There are yet others, who seek an escape from Nigeria altogether, thereby falling prey to human traffickers, who falsely promise them gainful employment abroad, especially in Europe, the Middle East, and North America. The traffickers’ false social media adverts are echoed on radio and in newspapers across the country. In truth, however, the applicants are typically forced into labour or prostitution abroad. Worse still, some of them are sold into slavery. Unknown to them, the traffickers are engaged in the commodification of persons for profit. About five years ago, in the wake of the Nigerian government’s repatriation of hundreds of Nigerians trafficked to Libya, following CNN’s revelations of modern day slavery in that country, I reviewed the plight of a Nigerian, who fell prey to human trafficking (‘No Man’s Land’: Oladele’s Libya tales, The Punch, December 12, 2017). This was followed by an in-depth exploration of the causes and consequences of economic migration and how to curb it (Economic migration across the Sahara and the Mediterranean, The Punch, December 19, 2017).   Why Africans have survived the coronavirus scourge     Tackling money rituals involving human sacrifice     Akande on governance   To be sure, Nigeria has policies and agencies in place for the control of human trafficking, such as the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons, established way back in July 2003. There is also The Trafficking in Persons Law Enforcement and Administration Act, amended in 2015, which criminalizes labour and sex trafficking. However, much less success has been recorded than failures in curbing the scourge. Millions of Nigerians have been trafficked abroad since the agency was established. In 2020, Nigeria was in the news again  as she had to repatriate hundreds of Nigerians, mostly female, from Lebanon, following the outcry of a female victim trafficked into forced labour and repeatedly threatened with rape. As recently as last week, a national newspaper reported yet another case of human trafficking, involving at least 100 Nigerians from Ondo state, who were swindled up to N650,000 each over phony overseas jobs (Human Trafficking: 100 unemployed persons in Ondo swindled N65m over phoney (sic.) jobs abroad, Vanguard, March 10, 2022). I had previously heard firsthand accounts of four persons, who invested heavily with traffickers, who promised lucrative jobs abroad. One eventually made it to Libya and two to Dubai. All three returned safely within three years, but penniless and with harrowing tales of their experiences with forced labour. The fourth one was swindled nearly N500,000 before the swindler disappeared. I also heard about three others, who were trafficked abroad and died there. The truth really is that Nigeria remains a major source, transit, and destination country for human trafficking. That’s why, while acknowledging Nigeria’s increasing efforts to curb the menace, a wide-ranging 2021 report by the US State Department Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons puts Nigeria in Tier 2 and concludes that the country “does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of (human) trafficking”. The report identifies Nigerian traffickers as highly organized “crime webs” in Europe, recruiting most victims from Edo state for prostitution and forced labour in Europe and the Middle East. Others come from Abia, Delta, Ebonyi, Imo, and Kogi states as well as IDP populations in the North. Some of the victims are also exported to other West African countries. Internal trafficking is also on the rise, with traffickers recruiting victims from rural areas and exploiting them in commercial sex or domestic work in the cities. Victims are also engaged in agriculture, artisanal mining, stone quarrying, textile manufacturing, street vending, begging, and baby factories. Against these backgrounds, the job of curbing human trafficking must go beyond occasional repatriation of trafficked victims stranded overseas. Attention must be paid to internal victims and, most especially, to plugging the root causes of the problem. It also must be acknowledged that leaving the country altogether is only one way in which the youths are responding to a troubled nation that has little or nothing in store for them.