A teenager, Jane-Frances Okorie, 16, has won the maiden edition of the 9mobile FutureCEO speech competition. Okorie, a Lagos State Civil Service Senior Model College student, Igbogbo, Ikorodu defeated nine other finalists in a keenly contested speech battle held at the Immaculate Heart Comprehensive Senior High School, Maryland, Lagos. Over 50 students from secondary schools within the Lagos State Education District 2, comprising Ikorodu, Kosofe, and Shomolu local government councils, participated in the competition. The 9mobile FutureCEO is an initiative aimed at inspiring future leaders by stirring up their interest in business and leadership. The initiative also affords promising future leaders an opportunity to walk in the shoes of senior business leaders. Commending the finalists, the Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile Abdulrahman Ado, represented by the PR Lead, 9mobile, Chineze Amanfo, commended the participants for their courage, efforts, and hard work. She said, “You have all demonstrated sound intellectual prowess and excellence in your presentations. This is proof that you are future leaders who are determined to achieve their dreams. 9mobile is proud of you, and we hope that you remain confident in your ability to take up new tasks ahead. Justifying the telco’s commitment to promoting education, Ado stated that the 9mobile FutureCEO initiative would help build students’ leadership capacity for the future. “To be a good business leader requires much hard work, dedication, and sacrifice. I, therefore, urge you to be focused and determined in whatever you do in life.” Commenting on the competition, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mr. Abayomi Abolaji, lauded 9mobile for the initiative, stating that it was germane and in line with the sustainable growth plan of the Lagos state government. He said, “I would like to congratulate 9mobile for putting this competition together. I believe strongly that the competition will help the students improve on their public speaking abilities, build confidence and ultimately spur them on to aim higher in life.”   Simba launches 3Wheeler in Enugu, Asaba     ‘Being homeless in UK spurred my humanitarian side’     VAT war: how far can FG, states go?   Expressing delight at her win, an elated, Okorie remarked, “Honestly speaking, I am short of words. Let me begin by saying a huge thank you to 9mobile for providing us this wonderful opportunity and platform to express ourselves and inspire us to dream big. To my school management and teachers, thank you for reposing this level of confidence in me to do the school proud.” The panel of judges for the competition comprised of three notable professionals in their respective fields: Hussaina Ishaya Audu, a lawyer and an educational administrator, currently the principal of Greensprings Schools Lekki; Johnson Abbaly, Chief Executive, LightField House International, a talent profiling organisation and Temitope Adeyemi, Teachability Expert and Training Re-engineering and Acceleration Advocate. Describing the event as wonderful and one of the ways to groom students into future Chief Executive, Officers, one of the teachers of the Government Senior Model College, Owutu Ikorodu, Mr. Obafemi Peters also called on other multinationals to invest into the lives of students as the 9mobile is currently doing. Speaking with The Nation, Mr. Peters, whose student Bamigbola Enionuwafe came third in the competition pleaded with the organisation to make the competition an annual and national event. A visibly excited PR Lead 9mobile, Chineze Amanfo, said that the goal of the 9mobile FutureCEO Initiative is to stimulate the interest of young students of secondary age in business and leadership. Also speaking with our correspondent, Amanfo explained the event is in line with 9mobile’s CSR policy focus on education and firm belief in supporting and providing self-discovery and expressive platforms for youths to thrive. On whether the Initiative will become a yearly event and national one, she noted that it was still early to say as the company launched it in January this year.