The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) yesterday publicly presented Daar Communications PLC (owners of Africa Independent Television and Raypower Radio) as the exclusive ticket rights holder for this month’s FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 playoff battle between Nigeria and Ghana. At a press conference inside the NFF Secretariat in the Federal Capital, NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi said the Daar Communications bade for the right as part of its corporate social responsibility, and the NFF had accepted based on the Federation’s trust and confidence in the broadcast company. “Since inception of its operations, Daar Communications has consistently shown remarkable love and support for the growth and development of Nigeria football,” Sanusi said. “The ticketing rights awarded to Daar Communications PLC today is a reflection of our confidence in the organization to raise the profile of the game and fill the stadium to the capacity approved by FIFA with passionate fans who will cheer the Super Eagles to victory and on to Qatar 2022.” Responding, the Group Managing Director of Daar Communications, Mr Tony Anegbe Akiotu said the Super Eagles need all the support they can get for this big match, adding that move was part of the company’s efforts to re-ignite the passion of Nigerians in the National Team and Nigeria Football generally.   Women’s T20 tourney, litmus test for Nigeria, Obalola says     And Tiger wept! Woods breaks down after induction into…     Uysk: Joshua makes Wilder No1 choice in four-man shortlist   Nigeria take the pitch against Ghana as from 6pm on Tuesday, 29th March in what will be the reverse leg of a final round of qualification campaign for a ticket at the 2022 FIFA World Cup finals.  Both teams will in the process write another note in the two countries’ 71-year football rivalry, during which 58 matches would have been played before the day. The encounter will also be the first time in seven years and five months since the Eagles last played at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium. That was in October 2014, in a 3-1 win over Sudan in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match. Also present at the occasion were Mr Raymond Dokpesi Jnr (Chairman, Daar Communications); Mr Charity Kadiri (Director of Finance & Admin, NFF); Mrs Tosin Dokpesi (Managing Director, Daar Communications); Mr Ademola Olajire (Director of Communications, NFF); Mrs Pauline Ugbodaga (Executive Director News, Daar Communications); Barr. Okey Obi (Ag. Director Legal, NFF); Mr Marcel Anyalechi (Chief Internal Auditor, Daar Communications); Mr Alizor Chuks (Head Marketing, NFF); Mr Tony Uya (Executive Director Engineering, Daar Communications); Mr Tunde Orebiyi (Consultant Sports, Daar Communications) and; Mr Callistus Ebare (Head Sports, Daar Communications).