On social media ‘trolling’ has become a common trend as many celebrities locally and internationally have experienced it following one act or another which their trolls find questionable. As a matter of fact, it seemed to have gained more prominence over time, as a good number of celebrities have at some point had to deactivate their social media accounts or even delete it out rightly when they couldn’t cope with the trolls. A good example is reality TV star, Boma Akpofure, who has continued to encounter trolls following his romantic entanglement with his colleague, Tega while in the BBNaija house. The duo who were former housemates of the ‘Shine Ya Eye’ season 6 edition of the reality TV show made news after they had some steamy moments while in the BBNaija house. Their relationship was met with huge criticisms from viewers of the show. While some dragged Tega for being with a man other than her husband, others slammed Boma for having an affair with a married woman.   Don’t be embarrassed by hustles, by Yemi Alade     Singer BNXN laments rising prostitution     Asking men for fare embarrassing, says Queen   Although, Akpofure had apologized for everything that took place in the House which he termed mere show than reality, for peace sake, in order to enable him focus on his job since his time on the show ended yet, the trolls have showed no signs of slowing down. Read Also: Don’t be embarrassed by hustles, by Yemi Alade At this point, the New York-based model-turned-actor in a series of recent tweets lambasted his trolls. Boma took the pain to detail out the various descriptions of trolls who he noted are familiar faces. He wrote: “My People don’t be deceived, TROLLS are Jealous family members that didn’t make it in life, Exes that got dumped, Friend’s that you left behind. Girls that want you so bad and have refused to accept rejection, Insecure MEN WITH SMALL PEN*S. They are familiar faces, trust me lol. “Your mouth they sharp but you dey disguise with another person picture? Lol. Unblock me unblock me, but you no get face or identity? Whoever send una, tell them say una no plenty reach. Liver less trolls lol. “All this jobless trolls disguising as fans, get a job, poverty no they tire una? There’s no how a rich And busy person will have time for bullshit. Naija is hard we know, but don’t make yourself more useless. I said it with my full chest, y’all will depart POOR.”