President Muhammadu Buhari will commission the second Niger Bridge October, his Chief of Staff, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, has stated. Gambari, who visited the project in company of Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola and Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, on Tuesday, said the contract would be completed in April. He said no Southeast person would have course to accuse Buhari of not loving Ndigbo as the second Niger Bridge was one of the major projects of the present administration The former United Nations Permanent Representative said the former administration under the people’s Democratic Party (PDP) only committed N10 billion to the Second Niger Bridge According to him: “If someone spent N10 billion in a project that has taken up N400 billion, what do you call that? It’s nothing compare to what has been sunk here. “President Buhari loves Ndigbo and that is why he wants to make sure that all the projects in Southeast, including the second Niger Bridge are completed in record time.”   Tricycle operators pledge allegiance to MC Oluomo’s…     It’s possible to have female governor in Kaduna – El-Rufai     BREAKING: APC crisis deepens as Akpanudoedehe resigns   Fashola said he was satisfied with the quality of work done by Julius Berger, adding that what remained on the Bridge were minor things to be fixed. He said over 84 percent work had already been done between the East and West ends of the Bridge, adding the eight-lane road from Asaba ends in Delta State to Obosi in Anambra was close to completion. The Managing Director of Julius Berger company, Mr Lars Ritchter, said work would be completed by April 2nd. Fashola said: “Before now some people said there was no bridge but now we are walking on the bridge. “This is real now. Plus or minus, when we cross the Ts and dot the Is we will complete it as promised- 11 kilometres and 12 kilometers on both sides of the bridge”. Fashola also said in April, the high tension transmission line across the bridge would be relocated because they were too low on the bridge. Ngige triumphantly said that he had been proved right when he assured last year that the second Niger bridge was real.