THE Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has appointed Mr. Opeyemi Alaran as its Acting Director-General. The appointment took effect from March 1, 2022. Opeyemi is an Information Technology (IT), Economic Research and Trade expert with over a decade’s experience cutting across IT and Media sectors as well as Business Membership Organisations. Opeyemi, who earned BSc and MSc in Economics, from the University of Lagos, is the Head of Research, IT and Policy Development at NACCIMA. He is an Associate Chartered Accountant (Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria) and a Project Management Professional (Project Management Institute, United States. Opeyemi also represents NACCIMA on the National Trade Facilitation Committee (NTFC) of Nigeria in line with the implementation of the World  Trade Organisation (WTO) Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA). He is also the focal point for the implementation of ECOWAS/AfCFTA Non-Tariff Barriers (NTBs) Online Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation   Firm pickets Century Energy over debt     ‘Agropartnerships’ strategy not choking businesses’     New 25% freight rate may raise petrol price   Mechanism; as well as focal point on the Nigerian National Action Committee on the implementation of the AfCFTA. He is a certified trainer on the World Trade Organisation (WTO) Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) for the private sector. A statement signed by the Head, Brand Management & Corporate Communications, NACCIMA, Ms. Chinaza Ezeoke, described Opeyemi’s appointment as key, noting that it represented the Chamber’s commitment, as a leading member of the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria (OPSN), “to optimise our administrative structure and align it to continually serve our members and the Nigerian Business Community. The statement, which was made available to The Nation, said the appointment followed the exit of Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, the former Director-General, upon completion of his four-year tenure as DG in February 2022.