A  promise is a powerful thing even in the mouths of politicians not famous for keeping them. Nigerians enthusiastically embraced the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2015 to a large extent because of the promise of ‘change.’ After 16 years of overfamiliarity with the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) incompetence, corruption and power drunkenness, they were ready for a leap of faith – even if they weren’t sure how they would land. Indeed, one of the most memorable lines from that electioneering campaign was the phrase ‘anything but Jonathan.’ But much more profound was the ability of the opposition to zero in on the prevailing sentiment – a hunger for change. Change then was a simple but loaded word that meant different things to all manner of people. For some it implied their economic condition would be transformed for the better in short order. For others, it meant it would no longer be business as usual in politics and the public space; the PDP way was to be jettisoned for something much better. But early in the life of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, Nigerians struggled to come to terms with the shock of the new. For those who were used to PDP governments cobbling their teams together in weeks, it was a rude shock when it took the new helmsman almost six months to constitute his cabinet – nonchalantly justifying his tardiness at some point with the throwaway comment about ministers being ‘noisemakers.’ Almost seven years after the APC government took over, the jury is still out as to how much change it has delivered. A few days ago the party’s senator representing Kano Central Senatorial District, Ibrahim Shekarau, a man who has dipped his feet in both waters, declared that there was no difference between the two largest parties. Whatever motivated his remarks it is difficult to disagree given the regularity with which their members switch allegiance, and the ease of adaption once they land in their new defection home. It is actually naïve to expect that a party that had a healthy dose of PDP in its DNA would so easily purge itself of the ways of the old ruling party. After all, one of the legacy blocs of APC was a group of rebels rallying under the so-called nPDP banner. Today, the ruling party finds itself in a quandary simply because it’s not only failed to unlearn the ways of those it supplanted, but is clearly unenthusiastic about doing so. More than a year after Adams Oshiomhole was toppled in a judicial coup d’état, APC has been unable to install a substantive National Working Committee (NWC). No thanks to relentless intriguing, a caretaker committee that was to quickly organise a convention to elect new leaders, soon morphed into a permanent high command for the furtherance of the ambitions of its members. Amazingly and without any sense of irony, it leading lights worked against their reason for being – only capitulating in the face of imminent revolt by party stakeholders. Now, courtesy of the newly-minted Electoral Act it must hold a convention, elect a new national executive and conduct primaries to pick candidates for the next general elections within a narrow 90-day window. The opposition PDP which has its own issues has, at least, managed to enthrone a proper leadership under Dr. Iyorchia Ayu. APC’s inability to choose its leaders is certainly not an advertisement of competence. It is down to the different tendencies scheming for advantage. Everyone has their preferred candidate to succeed Buhari and believe they can only deliver him by first seizing control of the party’s chairmanship. Nothing wrong with that as long as you acknowledge the right of other groups to hold the same aspiration. Politics, after all, is a game of interests. Democracy, more specifically, allows for contestation. It recognises the right of people to have different views and present such to the electorate to make their choice. Strangely, we see a pattern emerging in APC that’s against free contest, ostensibly because that could generate rancour! But it won’t be a democracy if contestation between different factions and tendencies doesn’t produce heat. Somehow, Nigerian politicians especially of the APC persuasion, think they have invented a novel political contrivance called ‘consensus’ that would leave all aspirants chirping happily like birds, after one is picked and several others dumped, using the most opaque of parameters. In reality, people are more likely to give peace a chance when they are beaten fair and square in a transparent contest. They would accept their fate and move on, rather than continuing to moon about what could have been after being outmanoeuvred by some murky consensus arrangement.   Abba Kyari: Beyond one man’s personal tragedy     2023 presidency and Nigerian superstitions     2023: The president Nigeria needs   President Buhari declined to sign the amended Electoral Bill when it was first presented to him on the grounds that in mandating use of only the direct primary, the legislation denied parties freedom to consider and use other options. Today, the Electoral Act has three methods for selecting candidates – direct and indirect primaries as well as consensus. But those who once moaned about limited options don’t want to hear of any other option save the consensus mode which is the only way to achieve their ends. Unfortunately, under the new legislation this can only happen where all interested parties indicate in writing that they accept the so-called consensus pick. From what we see playing out in APC that’s not about to happen – whether with the chairmanship or race for the presidential ticket. Where there’s no consensus, the natural thing for democrats to do is allow aspirants compete in an open contest. We’ve been told that APC has a tradition of choosing its chairmen by agreement. It may be a convention but certainly not a law. In any event, the same party also has a history of picking its presidential ticket by ballot. In 2014 at Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos, Buhari, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Kano State Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso and former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha faced electors and the majority backed the incumbent. That’s part of APC tradition too. But perhaps the troubling thing about the power struggle within the ruling party is the overt attempt by governors and others who should know better, to transform Buhari into some sort of sole administrator, oracle or godfather. Those who have been most vocal in denouncing people they disdain as godfathers elsewhere are at the forefront of this project. Again, without any sense of irony, they are only too glad to shunt aside simple democratic processes for choosing leaders – leaving the job to the president who is not all-knowing, but a mere mortal with weaknesses, preferences and prejudices. Time and again we’ve heard governors go up to Aso Rock and emerge to spew the lame line: ‘Buhari will decide, Buhari will guide us, Buhari will show the light’ etc. The constitution doesn’t give the president power to pick a party chairman by fiat; it’s just a convention created by PDP and swallowed hook, line and sinker by APC. Now, it’s giving the ruling party heartburn and indigestion. Many would recall that infamous encounter several years ago when the independent-minded Audu Ogbeh found himself ousted as PDP national chairman in a plot which even the best Hollywood thriller writers couldn’t have come up with. That afternoon, then President Olusegun Obasanjo invited himself to Ogbeh’s home somewhere close to Aso Rock. He was treated to a hearty meal of pounded yam and vegetable soup. After polishing off his portion, he whipped out from beneath the folds of his agbada a letter of resignation which he forced Ogbeh to sign! The poor man would be swiftly replaced by Col. Ahmadu Ali, a retired soldier like Obasanjo and one clearly who knew how to take orders. Those who want the president to appoint the party chairman argue that it’s important he has someone he can work with. But is the Head of State better off with a party leader who can have a difference of opinion with him, or a toady who only does as he’s told? The latter option is the model that APC – the party of change – gladly wants to continue. It is quite embarrassing because many of these politicians who detest godfathers are actually making the ultimate one out of the president. Buhari has gone on record as saying he has no interest in who succeeds him. That suggests he’s more interested in making the institutions and processes for electing leaders work. No matter how flattering these efforts to turn him into some tin god may be, he can further firm up his legacy by reminding all the schemers and intriguers of that famous line from his inauguration: “I am for everybody and for nobody.” Let all go into the field and test their strength and may the best man win!