Was the immediate past governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano, trying to escape when he fell into the hands of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)? Some hours before EFCC officials arrested him at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, on March 17, on his way to the US, he had participated in the inauguration of his successor, Prof. Charles Soludo. EFCC spokesman Wilson Uwujaren explained: “Obiano was arrested for alleged misappropriation of public funds, including, N5bn Sure-P and N37bn security vote which was withdrawn in cash. Part of the funds was also allegedly diverted to finance political activities in the state.” It was an uncomplimentary exit after two four-year terms as governor, from 2014 to 2022. Though his party, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), remains in power with Soludo’s election, this does not necessarily glorify the ex-governor’s performance in office.  Indeed, Obiano’s arrest calls into question his governorship years. It is striking that his arrest happened on the same day he left power and consequently lost the constitutional immunity he had enjoyed as governor, which shielded him from prosecution while in office. There had been signs that he would be asked to account for his performance as governor after leaving office. Last year, the EFCC had placed him on its watch list, and had also asked the Nigeria Immigration Service to stop him from leaving the country, in a letter to the Comptroller-General of Immigration dated November 15, 2021. So the anti-corruption agency was waiting to pounce on him at the end of his tenure. Even then, his arrest was perhaps unexpectedly swift. His speedy arrest suggested that the agency may well have a strong case against him. It is unclear if his arrest will lead to a trial. Interestingly, the allegation of “security votes” fraud underscores the reality that it is still in vogue among people in power in the country today as an easy path to wealth acquired fraudulently. In a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, in January, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) highlighted a recent report by Transparency International (TI) indicating that “most of the funds appropriated as security votes are spent on political activities, mismanaged or simply stolen. It is estimated that security votes add up to over N241.2b every year.” The group urged Buhari to instruct the EFCC and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to “jointly track and monitor spending of security votes” by the 36 state governors. Paradoxically, security votes in Nigeria are usually not for security purposes. In 2020, for instance, a former governor of Abia State from 2007 to 2015, Senator Theodore Orji, told the EFCC how he spent N38.8b security votes in eight years for other purposes, showing that security votes do not mean what they should mean. The former governor was reported saying he received N370m monthly as a security vote in 2007, and N410m monthly from 2008 to 2015.   Mubarak Bala’s persecution     Abubakar’s stained hands     Budget and repeated rot   Orji, who is representing Abia Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly, “said he shared much of the N38b with members of the state House of Assembly, his security informants and traditional rulers.” He “claimed to have also given part of the money to military units, the police, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and security agencies as what he called statutory allocations.” In a breakdown of who got what, the former governor “said he gave successive members of the State House of Assembly N5. 760b, at N60m per month, in the eight years,” and “also claimed to have paid N75m monthly to security informants in 15 of the 17 local government areas of the state within the same period.” He was also reported saying the so-called informants pocketed about N7.200b from 2007 to 2015, and some of the security agencies received N2m per month. But he failed to provide a comprehensive list of all the beneficiaries of the largesse. It is noteworthy that a former governor of Kano State, Musa Kwankwaso, described security votes as “another way of stealing public funds.” An important implication of the allegations against Obiano is that he may need to explain his wealth. Notably, EFCC chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa has said that there were certain provisions in the EFCC establishment Act that gave the agency powers similar to those under the UK’s “Unexplained Wealth Order (UWO).” He said: “Section 7, subsection 1b of the Act says the ‘commission has the power to cause investigation to be conducted into the properties of any person that appears to the commission that the person’s lifestyle and the extent of the properties are not justified by his source of income.’ “This means without any complaint, if it comes to our knowledge that you have amassed so many properties that are not justified by your source of income, the EFCC can ask questions. That is what the simple definition of explanation regarding the Unexplained Wealth Order means.” Bawa explained how UWO works in the UK: “If you have this property, the UK will ask you – what is this property for? If you explain that this is how you earned it; so be it. If you do not explain, then they can further their investigation to determine how you acquired it.” Unexplained wealth can be inexplicable. The EFCC should use its power to demand explanations concerning unexplained wealth.  It is useful to have such power. It should be used effectively. Anambra’s new governor, Prof.  Soludo, has his work cut out, including demonstrating that governors need not be faced with the challenge of explaining their wealth after leaving office. Also, he should show that governors need not abuse security votes by fraudulently benefitting from them. Obiano’s troubles should be a warning to those in governorship positions across the country that the immunity they enjoy is not perpetual, and they can be asked to account for their performance after leaving office. After eight years as governor, Obiano, 66, now faces not only life out of power but also life after immunity.