Forum of All Progressives  Congress (APC) Chairmen have expressed dissatisfaction with the Federal High Court ruling which sacked Governor David Umahi and his Deputy, Kelechi Igwe from office for defecting to the party from the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). They stated this a statement signed by the Chairman of the forum, Ali Bukar Dalori. The chairmen argued that the court’s verdict had no constitutional justification. According to them, “there is no place the issue of cross carpeting from one political party to another was stated hence establishing something on nothing cannot exist”. “The constitution guarantees freedom of association, belonging to or joining of any lawful assembly such as political party as provided in section 40 of the constitution. “For now, there’s no provision in the constitution or any extant law that says that governor’s defection from one party to another is unlawful or unconstitutional. “Therefore, the constitution which is a legal tender should be invoked on this matter so that the just will not suffer unduly.” The APC chairmen further argued that once a candidate wins an election as in this situation at hand, the governor ceases to belong to a particular political party and becomes a leader to all the people occupying that geographical enclave. “This is why the entire members of that society and not just his political party will always hold that individual accountable in his actions and inactions in governance.   Nigerians count losses from electricity grid collapse     Petrol scarcity: NARTO urges members to resume full…     Import reduction: FG saves N5.3 trillion   They said: “That the constitution however stipulates the grounds under which a President, Vice President, Governor and Deputy Governor can vacate their seats. “The provisions are on the account of resignation, impeachment and/or death. It is however regrettably sad that none of the constitutional provisions suffices in this present case. “Does it mean that the court now has the power to make law and not to interpret the law as incorporated in the constitution? There is no lacuna concerning this issue of declaring the aforementioned seats vacant”, they said. Mr Halori who is the Borno State APC chairman further noted that the federal high court had earlier justified the defection of the Governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Bello Matawalle from the PDP to the APC describing it as an inalienable constitutional right of the governor. “Based on the foregoing, does it now imply that the same court is upturning it’s earlier ruling in view of the case at hand (Ebonyi State governor,  David Nweze Umahi and his deputy, Dr Kelechi Igwe)?,” the chairmen queried The forum while reiterating it’s unwavering confidence and respect for the Judiciary expressed hope that the appellate court will do the needful by reversing the judgement of the Federal High Court, Abuja in line with constitutional provisions and in the interest of Ebonyi people who first gave the verdict in 2019. “As it stands, both the law and morality would not canvass a distortion in the infrastructural trajectory and other sensitive catalyst of development, His Excellency, the Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Engr David Nweze Umahi, has through his leadership acumen, ingenuity and sagacity brought to the state. “An abortion of his Government will not only truncated the rapid development but it will also amount to a rape on democracy in Nigeria. “That the forum wishes to remind His Excellency that he is not alone at this moment of distraction as the Almighty God, the People and the Judiciary must surely vindicate him”, they added.