Security agents have arrested a middle-aged man for pickpocketting at the Eagle Square venue of the ongoing All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention in Abuja. The man, dressed in a brown flowing gown, was arrested while trying to pick the pocket of a delegate trying to gain access through a gate to the venue. The Nation reports that supporters of aspirants for various positions are giving security officials a difficult time as reporters and delegates are finding it difficult to gain access. PHOTOS: Nasarawa Gov Abdullahi Sule and Minister of Information Lai Mohammed addressing security officials over the chaos in gaining access into the Eagle Square, venue of the All Progressives Congress (APC) convention venue.    Six chairmanship aspirants have written a letter of withdrawal from the race at today’s national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress. A cover letter was also written jointly signed by all the aspirants. The Nation learnt that the letters were later handed over to the Secretary to the Federal Government, Mr. Boss Mustapha at about 2 am for onward transmission to President Muhammadu Buhari by Sen. George Akume and Mohammed Etsu. The aspirants are Sen. Tanko Al-Makura, Sen George Akume, Abudulaziz Yari, Sen. Mohammed Musa, Mohammed Saidu Etsu and Turaki Saliu Mustapha.      Details later… There are indications that some states will not be voting at today’s national convention of the All Progressives Congress holding in Abuja. The States include Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Taraba. The election of the state executive committees of the affected states are subject to litigation in the court, hence the party bar in the states. The Nation however gathered that statutory delegates from the affected states will be allowed to vote, while delegates that emerged from the congresses held in the affected states will be exempted from voting. Details later…. The National Chairman of the Caretaker and Convention Planning Committee and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni is said to be at a crucial meeting with state Chairmen and the Consensus candidate for the office of the National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. The meeting is holding at the Yobe governor’s lodge in the Asokoro area of the FCT. The agenda of the meeting is, however, not clear, but it is believed that they will likely discuss the future of the party after the convention. Other members of the Caretaker Committee are not attending the meeting.   APC convention: Six chairmanship aspirants resign, write SGF     Convention: Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Taraba delegates barred from…     Sen Musa withdraws from APC chairmanship race, backs Adamu   4508:00 7,584 delegates to vote their preferred candidates today.