The audited report and accounts of United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc have been released. What is working for the bank? That is the question that analysts have been answering in different ways. In this report, Deputy Group Business Editor Taofik Salako examines analysts’ reviews within the context of management’s outlook.  Most leading investment banking and research firms are placing United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc as a “top pick” and a recommended “buy” stock. The recommendations are based on analysts’ reviews of the latest audited report and accounts of the pan-African banking group, the current dividend payout and yield, the potential capital appreciation and the overall long-term outlook for the bank. With appreciable growths in earnings, assets and profitability, UBA had hit new thresholds of size and customer deposits in its latest audited report. The report, for the year ended December 31, 2021, highlighted continuing growths in key profit and balance sheet indicators. With double-digit growth, UBA’s total assets crossed the N8 trillion mark, the first time for the pan-African banking group. The diversity of its operations across key African markets appears not only to be increasingly a major boost for profitability but also a buffer against specific market headwinds, especially in its domestic base. Other African operations, excluding Nigeria, accounted for 63.2 per cent of the group’s profitability in 2021 compared with 55.4 per cent in 2020 while loans and advances as well as deposit in the segment also grew by 14.5 per cent and 27.3 per cent. Analysts’ reviews FSDH, a major investment banking group, led its latest “top picks” with UBA, with the bank ranking atop dividend yield table with 12 per cent dividend yield. FSDH’s analysis, which picked six stocks as “top picks”evaluated both fundamental operational results and trading pattern of the stocks. Key evaluation points included current and historical pricing trend, price-earnings ratio, current and average price-to-book value ratios and dividend. At 12 per cent, UBA’s dividend yield-the percentage of current dividend on the current share price and by implication, possible immediate returns, is significantly higher than coupons on Nigeria’s sovereign savings bonds. The two-year FGN Savings Bond, issued in February 2022 and due on February 07, 2024, carries a coupon of 7.220 per cent per annum while the three-year FGN Savings Bond due February 07, 2025 carries a coupon of 8.220 per cent per annum. Afrinvest rated UBA “buy”, the highest rating for stocks with strong potential. Analysts at Afrinvest stated that UBA has potential return of more than 34 per cent. Providing context for their rating, analysts at Afrinvest explained that “buy” implies that “the expected total return over the next 12 months is 25 per cent or more. Investors are advised to take positions at the prevailing market price as at the report date”. Afrinvest further explained its approach to fair value estimate- a major determinant of analysts’ view. “Our approach to establishing fair value takes into account a weighted average of price estimates derived from a blend of valuation methodologies including the Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) and its variants as well as other relative and comparable trading multiples valuation models. “However, we attach the most weight to DCF valuation methodology, particularly the Dividend Discount Model (DDM), Free Cash Flow (FCF) model and Residual Income Valuation/Model (RIV/RIM). The utilisation of comparable trading multiples is guided by the analysts’ understanding of the banks’ fundamentals, as well as key price drivers from the firm, industry and macroeconomic perspectives,” Afrinvest stated. After extensive fundamental analysis, analysts at Cordros Group described UBA’s 2021 performance as strong and sustainable. “UBA’s strong financial performance and the corresponding increase in payout to shareholders bode well for the bank, and we expect to see sentiments improve in the short to medium term, which may potentially drive price action. “We remain optimistic regarding the long-term outlook and expect financial performances to maintain the positive growth trajectory,” Cordros stated.  Core fundamentals  The audited results of UBA for the year ended December 31, 2021 showed appreciable growths across key financial metrics. Gross earnings rose to N660.2 billion in 2021, representing an increase of seven per cent on N616.8 billion recorded in 2020. Despite the huge challenging business and slow economic recovery in most of its countries of operations, UBA’s profit before tax rose by 20.3 per cent to N153.1 billion in 2021, compared with N127.3 billion in 2020. Profit after tax grew by 8.7 per cent to N118.7 billion in 2021 as against N109.2 billion recorded in the previous year.   Vitafoam Group launches first indigenous oil filters     ‘NGX does not determine share’s listing price’     Women have strategic roles to play in nation building, says…   Total assets rose by 11 per cent to an unprecedented N8.5 trillion in 2021, up from N7.7 trillion in 2020, thus marking the first time the bank’s assets will cross the N8 trillion mark. Similarly, net loans grew by 7.7 per cent to N2.8 trillion. Customer deposits rose by 12.2 per cent to N6.4 trillion in 2021 compared with N5.7 trillion in 2020, reflecting increased customer confidence, enhanced customer experience, successes from the ongoing business transformation programme and the deepening of its retail banking franchise. Further analysis showed that in 2021, the bank’s operating income rose by 10 per cent to N443 billion compared with N403 billion in the previous year, whereas operating expenses closed the period at N279 billion. Earnings per share increased to N3.39 in 2021 as against N3.10 in 2020. The board of directors of the bank has recommended a final dividend of 80 kobo per share, in addition to an interim dividend of 20 kobo earlier paid, bringing the total dividend payout to N1 per share. This represents a payout ratio of about 29.5 per cent, indicating that the bank is locking in more earnings to drive growth. Providing additional breakdown, Cordros noted that the bank’s core income growth and lower funding costs supported its strong performance. Analysts noted that the bank’s core business interest income recorded a double-digit growth of 10.8 per cent to NGN472.26 billion, propelled by all contributory lines. Most significantly, incomes from loans and advances to customers  rose by 11.9 per cent, loans and advances to banks grew by 117.7 per cent, investment securities increased by 4.3 per cent while income from cash with banks improved by 5.2 per cent. Also, interest expense declined by 6.4 per cent to N157.55 billion driven by the lower cost of borrowings. Interestingly, the bank recorded a marginal 0.4 per cent increase in funding costs for deposits, despite the 12.2 per cent growth in deposits owing to its improved CASA mix of 86.6 per cent in 2021 as against 81.8 per cent in 2020. The collective impact of higher income and lower expense led to a 22.1 per cent increase in net interest income to N316.71 billion. Likewise, impairment charges on loans and other financial assets declined by 52.4 per cent to pre-pandemic levels and supported profitability margins. Analysts noted that the faster increase in operating income compared to operating expenses led to improved operational efficiency, with cost-to-income ratio moderating to 64.6 per cent in 2021 as against 65.5 per cent in 2020 and five-year average of 65.1 per cent. Management outlook Group Managing Director, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Kennedy Uzoka, said the results showed that notwithstanding the tight and challenging operating environment, UBA has continued to deliver significant performance. He outlined that the quality of UBA’s portfolio as well as the strength of the bank’s credit risk management frameworks and policies remain the bedrock of the positive results that the bank has been recording over the years. According to him, the current performance highlights UBA’s relentless customer focus, and leverage on its key strategic levers of people, process and technology. He noted that 2021 could best be described as a year of global recovery; economies around the world began to witness early-stage recoveries, as supply chains recover from the devastating disruptions suffered in 2020. “Looking forward, I am particularly excited about our ongoing enterprise transformation programme which is designed to enhance the bank’s process agility, service delivery and customer experience. We are also making sizeable investments in cutting-edge technology and cyber security, to keep our innovative digital banking offerings above the curve, as we tool and re-tool our human resources to compete and win in a rapidly changing and evolving landscape. This will ensure the bank continues to achieve respectable top and bottom-line growth through the medium to long term,” Uzoka said. Group Chief Financial Official, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Ugo Nwaghodoh, said the bank has shown resilience by achieving sizeable growth and strengthened balance sheet despite the slow pace of economic recovery that characterised the year 2021.  He noted that through active and diligent assets and liabilities management, the bank was able to protect its net interest margin and achieved a downward moderation of Cost of Funds (CoF) by 70 basis points to 2.2 per cent from 2.9 per cent in the previous year. According to him, the bank’s capital adequacy ratio at 24.9 per cent was well above the required regulatory minimum and reflects a strong capacity for business growth. “The Group’s non-performing loan ratio improved further to 3.6 per cent from 4.7 per cent at the end of 2020. This testifies to the quality of UBA’s loan portfolio even as the bank remains relentless in its resolve to drive down the Cost-to-Income ratio, which stood at 63 per cent at the end of the year,” Nwaghodoh said. He added that the bank achieved further strides in growing its business and gaining market share across its pan-African operations, with the region accounting for 63.2 per cent of the group’s profitability, compared to 55.4 per cent in 2020; loans and advances as well as deposit in the region were also up 14.5 per cent and 27.3 per cent. “We recognise the changing competitive landscape and are proactively positioning to consistently deliver on our strategic objectives and commitment to shareholders,” Nwaghodoh said. With a stable board and management with core banking experience, increasingly strong fundamentals place UBA at an advantageous position to weather the headwinds and harness emerging opportunities. UBA is strategically important as a first tier pan-African bank with more than 25 million customers, 274,000 shareholders and 10,200 employees – 44 per cent females. The outlook must be reassuring to shareholders and other stakeholders.