SIR: The piece written with the above title by Jide Oluwajuyitan in The Nation, March 3, refers. It is strange that many people do not recognize that a country’s economy is directly tied to her government. In this respect, what counts most are the love and devotion those in power have for their people and country as these determine the type of service the operators render. That is why the economy of an autocratic nation may prosper while that of a democracy flounders. A country’s economy is the outcome of her governance – period. And where the system is such that anything goes, then it should not be surprising that the economy is nothing to write home about. Indeed, the miracle is that Nigeria still exists, considering the level of corruption and plundering that have plagued her all these years. So, there is no point blaming anyone because what we see today is the outcome of the system operated in Nigeria. Donald Trump did not create himself; the democracy operated in the United States produced him. And as long as the system in the US continues, there will be other Trumps.   Leader for a time like this     Why create special seats for women in parliament?     Dilemma of ASUU members   Many scholars actually predicted this, and Trump himself gave ample notice of his intentions. Yet he could not be stopped. Thus, even if we turn President Muhammadu Buhari into an angel, and multiply him a thousand fold, he will make no difference as long as the same system is operated. Perhaps he would have achieved more as a no-nonsense autocrat as the closing paragraph in the piece in reference implies. Unfortunately for him, his contract was to operate the same system. And that is why I agree that whoever thinks he can make a difference with this system should have his head examined. Now, it is time to start talking of how to find solutions. We all know what have not worked, and that is a starting point. Unfortunately, it is doubtful that we can agree on what we want. While some people want good governance, some others just want their hands on the pie. With such diverse ideas, it is unlikely that the current system will change soon. I doubt therefore that we have hit the bottom. Lagos.