The digital compulsory insurance being promoted by the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) and Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC) will generate over 50,000 new employment opportunities in the state, the Director-General, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, has said. Ilori, who spoke at the Stakeholders’ Conference on Lagos State Digital compulsory insurance, said Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that public buildings must be insured to reduce the liability on property owners and government. Director-General/CEO Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola, noted that  natural disasters, building collapse, inferno, and explosions have happened which led to injuries, permanent disability, loss of lives and property without any compensation to those affected or their loved ones, adding that a recent case is the gas explosion at OPIC Plaza in Ikeja. He said to protect Nigerians and their businesses, the Federal Government, through various Acts, made the seven Insurance Policies compulsory across the Federation.   NCRIB to govt: insure markets     Securex conference holds May 10     STI partners cancer foundation   He called on the stakeholders to support the initiative to achieve the objectives for which the Compulsory Insurance Act on Public Buildings was enacted, by sharing ideas and experiences on how they could  realise its full implementation in Lagos. He said: “Due to several factors, some of these Compulsory Insurances Laws have not been fully implemented. As such, when dangerous occurrences and disasters happen, the citizenry look up to the government for compensation. It is the determination of the  administration led by Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to curb this trend – the reason for this  important relevant stakeholders‘ engagement. “In focus is the Compulsory Insurance Act in respect of public buildings. As the economic capital of Nigeria and indeed the sixth largest economy in Africa, Lagos State has a good stock of public buildings such as schools, offices, hospitals, hotels, events centres, restaurants, cafes, lounges, bars, supermarkets, shopping malls, cinemas amongst others,” he said. Mojola noted that Section 65 of the Insurance Act 2003 stipulates that all public buildings shall be insured  to  reduce the liabilities on property owners/government.