A 12-year old girl identified simply as Igho, was on Saturday allegedly assaulted by her aunt for “stealing” her garri and fish at their shared family compound in Isiokolo, Ethiope East council area of Delta State. The aunt, identified as Mercy Oba, was said to have walked in on the girl in her room, as she picked the food items. Oba allegedly pounced on her. Igho’s cries were said to have attracted her blind mother who pleaded with Oba – her sister – to cease the beatings. It was alleged that Oba did not heed the plea, but took pepper and applied it on the girl’s genitals. It was further alleged that she also got a stick and pushed it into the girl’s vagina. A rights activist, Kelvin Ejumudo, was said to have got wind of the matter and led other colleagues to the scene to rescue the victim.   Plateau: Kidnappers kill brother of Gov Lalong’s aide,…     Ohanaeze attacks Wike over Obaseki, Umahi     We are ready for consensus candidate — Bukola Saraki   Narrating the incident to The Nation, Ejumudo said, “Mercy Oba is the sister to the blind woman. The blind woman’s daughter, Igho, went to her room and took garri and fish. When the auntie met her in the room and asked ‘why are you stealing my food’? Igho said they (herself and mother) were hungry. “She started beating the little girl. The blind mother managed to find her way down and pleaded for her to leave Igho, but she started to beat her too. “The next thing, she carried the little girl to her room, put pepper in her private part and drove a stick into her vagina. “People came and were holding her, but she threw their load outside, that they would no longer stay in the house. The next thing she said was she would kill them and nothing would happen. “I got the distress call that she’s an Igbe woman, so she feels that her juju will protect her. She felt untouchable. We swung into action and got her arrested. She was detained in our presence and medical care was given to the girl and her blind mother”. According to him, the doctor reported that the girl’s hymen had been broken because of the force the auntie used in driving the stick into her private part. Police spokesman, DSP Bright Edafe confirmed the incident on Sunday, adding that the matter would be charged to a court.