Some selected art works by renowned Nigerian artists will form the  core of collections for the maiden International Art Fair opening in Abuja today.  Venue is Amphi Theatre space, Cyprian Ekwensi  Centre for Arts and Culture, Area 10, Abuja.  The fair which will feature art works from private galleries and foreign embassies in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will remain open to the public till March 23.            . The event is a collaboration between National Gallery of Art (NGA) and the Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA). The galleries are expected to showcase outstanding art works that best portray their essence and standing in the Nigerian art space. Some of the galleries include Nike Art Gallery, The Matrix Galleria, Orisun Art Centre, Creative Art & Visual Imagery Centre (CAVIC), Bureau de Kreativity Gallery, House 33 and Female Artists Association of Nigeria (FEAAN) among others.   VC urges industrialists to commercialise innovations for…     Pedro inaugurates health centre     Foundation lifts 100 widows, aged, single parents   The International Art Fair is the culmination of a series of Art Fairs initiated by NGA to display art works from different parts of the country for the public to view, appreciate and ultimately buy. Art Fair Lagos (December 7, 2021-January 30, 2022) for featured the drawings and prints of master artists; Art Fair Jos (January 27-February 3, 2022), a collaboration with the University of Jos, showcased art works of students and lecturers of the Department of Fine & Applied Arts while Art Fair Enugu (Feb 17-24, 2022) in collaboration with Institute of Management & Technology (IMT), Enugu displayed the art works of four generations of graduates of the Art School. Host of the International Art Fair is the Information and Culture Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed while his FCT counterpart, Mallam Mohammed Musa Bello will serve as Special Guest of Honour. The Sakaruyi of Karu, HRH Emmanuel Kapwi is the Royal Father of the Day with Senate Committee Chairman on Culture & Tourism, Senator Rochas Okorocha as Chairman of the Occasion. Others are House of Representatives Chairman on Culture & Tourism, Hon. Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama (Co-Chairman); Director General, NGA, Chief Ebeten Willam Ivara (Host); SNA President,  Muhammad Sulaiman, ambassadors, Directors General of the parastatals under the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Directors in the Ministry, gallery owners, artists and the public.