The family of Delta philanthropist, the late Charles Olisa, has set up the Charles Olisa Charity Foundation in his honour. It was a carnival of sorts when the Olisas, led by the Chairman of Interswitch, Sir Kenneth Aphunezi Olisa, launched the foundation in Kwale, Delta State, at the weekend. The children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the late Olisa, who died in 1963 in London, said the Foundation’s objectives are to give life to the legacies of their patriarch and to help the needy. Sir Kenneth was named the pioneer Chairman. He was represented at the event by Dr. Charles Olisa, his nephew and Senior Special Assistant on Community Development to Delta State Governor. He said: “I am honoured to be the pioneer Chairman. The late Charles Olisa was a great philanthropist and a crusader for an egalitarian society and gender equality. Suffice to say that my father died a good man. “It is hereditary because I am also a crusader of social justice and egalitarian society.   30 schools for sports fiesta     Ansaru-ud-Deen holds induction for branch officers     Graft: Group urges council leader to clear his name   “I have devoted much of my life to the promotion of egalitarian society. In addition to the demands of my businesses, I have founded and chaired a small social mobility charity called Aleto Foundation and I chair a large charity, Shaw Trust. “A Foundation as we know is set up for humanitarian reasons. This Foundation, therefore, aims at addressing some social ills plaguing our society. “They include but are not limited to: education funding for indigent students; grants to market women to boost their trade; environmental sanitation and beautification; access to health care for low-income earners and skill acquisition for youths and persons.” President General of the umbrella body of Ndokwa nation, the Ndokwa Neku Union (NNU), General Mike Ndubuisi (Rtd) praised the Olisa family for the initiative. “I have listened to the vision and mission of the Charles Olisa Foundation as I’m convinced that it means well and is poised to better the lives of our Ndokwa people. “I have, therefore, requested that our apex socio-cultural body, the NNU, should partner with it. “Let me also use this opportunity to urge our Ndokwa people to support the Foundation and maximise its benefits,” General Ndubuisi said.