There comes a time in every man’s life when you have to sit down and ask yourself questions. You started out well in life but things are not working out as expected. Events are not unfolding as you expect and the chips are not falling well for you. If you are such a person, then this message is for you. You are at a point in life when you desire new beginnings and you crave a fresh start. No matter how far away you are from your dreams, you can start again. Here are things to consider: 1. CREATE VISION: Creating a vision is the beginning of your incredible journey towards new beginnings. Create your vision; have a mental picture of your destination even before you begin the journey. Determine the end you have in view before your plane takes off. You have to see it before you see it or else you will never see it, someone once said. 2. SET GOALS: It is highly important that you should set new goals if you are desirous of new beginnings. Setting your goal puts you on your toes; it keeps you walking and keeps you working because you know you have something you are working towards. Setting a goal for yourself helps to streamline your activities and you don’t dabble into things haphazardly; you know what it is you want and you know you must go after it.   Russia-Ukraine crisis: What it means for Africa     Row over shooting of UNIBEN student     Tackling cybercrime, ritual killings among students   3. GET TOXIC PEOPLE OUT OF YOUR LIFE: There are some people you need to get out of your life. You need to ease them out of your life because if you keep rolling with them, you will not get to your destination at all. If you mistakenly get there, you would have been bruised and battered already. You need to get these folks out of your life because they are energy drainers. They do you more harm than good. They talk down on any positive step you want to take. They don’t see anything good in you. They don’t believe in you and if you are not careful they will pollute you so much with their negativity that you will not believe in yourself. They are toxic people. They are naysayers. They are elite members of the discouragement club and you need to flush them out of your life if you want new beginnings so that you can make room for the next category of people. 4. GET POSITIVE PEOPLE INTO YOUR LIFE: You need to replace these toxic guys with positive people. These are those who see the good in you. You need to surround yourself with positive people. 5. MOVE INTO YOUR FUTURE: Having taken the four steps above, it’s time to move into your future. It’s time to step into NEW BEGINNINGS! The future is exciting! Adenuga is an author and an International Conference Speaker.