AN Air Peace charter flight scheduled yesterday to evacuate Nigerians fleeing Ukraine from Poland was postponed due to hitches. A Ministry of Foreign Affairs official, Bolaji Akinremi, said the flight was postponed due to a delay in preparing passengers’ documents for the check-in process. Air Peace also confirmed yesterday that it has deployed its aircraft to evacuate the Nigerians, according to its spokesman, Stanley Olisa. The aircraft, he said, departed Nigeria at 2:20am yesterday for Warsaw, Poland. The flight, which has now been scheduled for this morning, will be the first batch of Nigerians to be evacuated since the war broke out. The Federal Government engaged Air Peace and Max Air to evacuate over 2,000 of its nationals from Poland, Romania, Hungary and Slovakia. The Nigerians fled Ukraine, amid a Russian invasion, to the neigbouring countries, according to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama.   Fed Govt urges more French investment to tackle joblessness     Ukraine, Russia agree on ‘humanitarian corridors’ for…     Fed Govt denies imposition of sanction on Russia   The Federal Government on Wednesday said it approved $8.5 million for the evacuation. According to the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada, the countries where the pickup flights were scheduled include Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania. It was gathered yesterday that a delegation from the House of Representatives arrived in Romania to begin oversight and assist in the evacuation of Nigerians from Ukraine following Russia’s invasion of the Eastern European nation. A statement from the Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs to the Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Nkem Anyata-Lafia, said the group is led by the House Leader, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa. “The lawmakers, who departed the country yesterday after very close monitoring of the degenerating situation in the last few days through which they maintained close contacts with officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Nigerian Missions in Ukraine, Bucharest, Budapest, Warsaw, and other regional neighbouring countries to Ukraine, as well as the fleeing Nigerian nationals, were received on arrival by officials of the Nigerian Missions in the area,” the statement said. “The delegation was subsequently led to meet with Nigerian evacuees, who were already at the airport awaiting the first flight that would leave for Nigeria.” During their interaction with the Nigerians, who are mostly students, the delegation conveyed the House’s goodwill and expressed confidence that the conflict will end soon. Their arrival followed a resolution by the House during plenary last week with the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila mandating Ado-Doguwa and the Chairman, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Yusuf Buba Yakub, to visit Ukraine and ensure Nigerians, who want to return home are supported.