The Vice Chancellor of Ahman Pategi University (APU), Patigi, Kwara State, Prof. Mahfouz Adedimeji, has urged  new students to make academic excellence their watchword. He spoke at the maiden matriculation held last week at the Aliyu Ahman-Pategi Hall on campus. A total of 269 students matriculated. He said: “Today is your day and a definitive chapter in the book of your sojourn not only at Ahman Pategi University but also in life, it is important that you re-commit yourselves to the pursuit of excellence and embrace positivity in doing so.” Adedimeji urged the students to work tirelessly until they achieved their goals. His words: “Always do your best in all circumstances. It is by doing your best that you will be able to live a life of fulfillment that is free from self- ridicule, regret and negative energy. The maxim is that you do your best and leave the rest but don’t rest till you do your best.”   Foundation gives scholarship to students     Philanthropist donates wheelchair to student     Success is not transferable, Oyedepo tells Landmark freshers   The VC,who  also told the students to adhere strictly to school rules and regulations,urged them to be committed to their studies. “Remain guided by always ensuring that you do the right thing. For example, you cannot succeed without adhering to the rules and regulations and discharging your primary assignment in the university with utmost commitment,” he said. On  the achievements of the institution within a short time, Adedimeji said:”Though the university began just last year, it has recorded its few rings of success stories. Apart from starting academic work less than two months after receiving its provisional licence to operate, it emerged the first Nigerian university to host the national beach soccer league, which was broadcast on Super Sports cable channel late June last year. “The university also gave a good account of itself at the 9th edition of the All-Nigeria Universities Debating Championship and 2nd edition of All-Nigeria Universities Quiz Challenge hosted by the University of Ilorin between February 13 and 19, 2022. “APU is the only university established in the past six years to participate in the academic tournament.” Adedimeji said the university had also succeeded in networking with other institutions and organisations both within and outside the country. “Publications bearing the name of the university have appeared in international outlets,” he said.