The media and the populace have been awash with very positive reactions since last week when the former Deputy President of the Senate and one time Speaker of African Parliament, Senator Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, at a crowded world press conference in Enugu, marshaled his plans in a colourful 18-page documents for the transformation of Enugu State, come 2023, if he becomes the Governor of this ageless Coal City of the state. He took his time after exchanging pleasantries with the esteemed media practitioners and Peoples’ Democratic Party PDP big wigs present, to take his  audience through his mind’s eye of the larger plans awaiting the people of the State, should he get the ticket and run winning successfully the election to become the Governor of Enugu State. With rapt attention, and a pin drop silence in the hall, Senator Ekweremadu reeled out new innovative areas that touch the main fabric of the needs and societal ills that he would address urgently. In one fell swoop, he not only catalogued them, but dwelt extensively on how to achieve the optimum results. They run thus:- Industrialization, Road Infrastructure, Special Cities, Good Governance, Housing and Urban Renewal, Education, Youth Employment and Empowerment, Security, Health, Water, Energy Sufficiency, Tourism, Agriculture, to mention but a few. It is perhaps in the area of Water amongst others, that residents and visitors to Enugu heaved a major sigh of relief. Who indeed can crack this hydra headed lack of clean and potable water supply to Enugu, this has always been the recurring poser. It has remained a nightmare, with successive governments unable to provide the people with mere drinking water. This perennial water scarcity is the scourge of the people. Chief Odo Onah, in his sixties, living at Achara Layout in Enugu, said he hardly remembers when the taps in the coal city ever ran last. Poor inhabitants of the city within and the environs have continued to pay at huge costs, several water running tankers who daily milk their customers. Our relief only comes at the rainy season, says Chief Onah, when we resort to rote ways of fetching raining water dropping from our roofing corrugated zincs, with all the attendant health risks. The Senator said he and his team will tackle this water issue headlong, restore pipe borne water to ensure that water scarcity becomes a thing of the past, in addition to building Dams and rehabilitation of existing water sources pipelines. There is no gain saying that if this very daunting basic social amenity is provided by the Senator, he would have reduced to a minimal level, monthly expenditure of the average civil servant and workers generally, whose take home salaries are undoubtedly heavily depleted because of monies budgeted for just water both for domestic and otherwise. One area of innovative creative plan, worthy of mention, is the plan to build series of New Cities. Creating these New Cities are both hubs of economic growth and empowerment indirectly for the would-be users of these new cities. Senator Ekweremadu is eager to establish Special Cities, Sports City, Auto City, ICT City, Film/Media City, Agric Cities, one in each Senatorial Zone, a Health City and a Knowledge City.   Who is afraid of Tinubu?     2023: Why PDP cannot zone presidency to the South –…     Northern groups back Abiola’s daughter for APC national…   As a writer and one who is widely travelled all over the world, am confident that his plan would spring up formidable cities meant to challenge the best in the Igbo Renaissance and thrust to become a centre of learning and knowledge worldwide. The resilience, courage and entrepreneurial skills and qualities of the Igbo would be on the tested and be at the front burner, with most institutions that would emanate from these new cities become citadels of learning, with universal acceptability. On his Rural Infrastructure, the rickety roads are to give way for speedy bands of roads as prevalent in overseas countries. He would run a Super highway from Enugu City to Ebonyi border, Super highway from Enugu City to Abia border, Super highway from Enugu City to Benue border, and also another Super highway from Enugu City to Anambra border and what therefore could safely be adjudged as the ice on the cake, building of a Ring road to connect all Local Government areas in Enugu State. As a matter of fact, one cannot but agree with him more when he explained that any good road built, is an economic corridor and a pathway to new opportunities. The state Ministry of Works and its departments would be repositioned and empowered with the resources to ensure their effectiveness. Although resources might be scarce, but he is upbeat in the very reassuring stance that his team would have the social capital to attract local and foreign funding as well as the integrity to keep their words. Nothing would check rural migration like his well thought out plan on Industrialization.  He plans to establish two industries in each of the 17 Local Governments within a space of four years. There would also be one project per local government according to comparative advantages as the Senator aptly puts it. The Housing and Urban Renewal with affordable housing for all and also upgrade our rural communities to reverse the rural urban migration in order to decongest the cities. He will reposition the Educational Centre and run an inclusive Youth and Gender friendly government that would form the fulcrum of empowerment of young men and women economically and politically. To encourage the youth and women in government .Transform also the Civil Service, Judiciary and Parliament, making them technology driven. In so doing, his team would restore the hope of the people in the judiciary as the last hope of the common man and also create an atmosphere of respectability for the judiciary officers. More importantly for the average man in the street, is the Senator’s avowed commitment to run a government that sees all citizens as equals before the law, deliver on the manifesto and promises to the people and ensure that government revenues will be spent in the best interest of the people. We would consult periodically with our stakeholders, religious leaders, political leaders and the business community amongst others. Raising his palm upwards in a most committed accord with his beloved Enugu people, Senator Ekweremadu had this on marble to say “We would enthrone justice, equity and liberty to all citizens and residents of Enugu State. His message has indeed sunk well and one could safely say without any fear of contradiction, that  a New Dawn beckons the people of Enugu State . Dr. Ugwu writes from Enugu