THE Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation, Europe chapter (NIDO-E), has expressed concern over the risks Nigerians in Ukraine are exposed to while trying to cross the borders. It said unverified information on the recruitment of foreign mercenaries for the war has put such Nigerians at risk. Chairman, NIDO Europe Chapter, Dr. Bashir Obasekola, spoke at a forum in Moscow, Russia. The forum was organised by NIDO Russia Chapter with the theme: “Russia-Ukraine Situation: Impact on Nigerians in Russia/Europe and Bilateral Relations.” Obasekola said NIDO leveraged its network across Europe to provide support to many Nigerians fleeing Ukraine to ensure their safety. He, however, said some Nigerians were still trapped in Ukraine, noting that they needed moral and psychological support till relief gets to them. “We pray that none of our citizens will be caught in that crossfire of being mistaken for mercenary,” he said. Obasekola said it was surprising that some Nigerians went to the Ukraine Embassy in Nigeria in a bid to fight for Ukraine. He said this might expose Nigerians in Diaspora to the danger of being suspected as mercenaries at the borders. He lauded the Federal Government for evacuating about 2,000 Nigerians, noting that measures were being put in place to evacuate more from Ukraine.   Ukrainian varsity doctors pledge to support displaced…     Zelensky predicts ‘third World War’, if negotiations with…     Four U.S. personnel killed in military plane crash in Norway   Former Chairman, NIDO Russia Chapter, Dr. Rex Essenowo, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to expedite the inauguration of the Diasporan Committee Board to enable more participation that would enhance socio-economic growth. Chairman, NIDO Russia, Mr. Sampson Uwem-Edimo, said some Russian banks were seeking opportunities to partner with Nigerian banks to enhance the financial industry. Nigerian Ambassador to Russia, Prof. Abdullahi Yibaikwal, said the Russian Government had pledged to provide the necessary assistance to ensure the safety and well-being of Nigerian citizens in Russia. Also, the immediate past Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation Americas (NIDOA), Mrs. Patience Key, has called on the Federal Government to give more support to Nigerians evacuated from Ukraine. Key, who made the appeal in an interview yesterday, said government had made considerable effort in evacuating its citizens from Ukraine but that those evacuated needed support to continue their lives. No fewer than 1, 500 Nigerians have been evacuated so far from Ukraine and neighbouring countries, where war has been raging between Russia and Ukraine. According to Key, the government has put a fair effort on the evacuation of Nigerian citizens in Ukraine. “But that is not to say that the situation government is perfect. I am appealing to the Nigerian government to do more in addition to the effort put in so far. “My advice to the government is to double effort to evacuate every Nigerian from the country. Resources should be allocated to aid and fasten the evacuation processes. “Other plans and arrangements should also be made to support evacuated Nigerians to continue lives in their back home.’’