THE effect of the scarcity and high cost of petrol is still biting hard on motorists and residents in some parts of the country. In Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, the product is still being sold as high as N250 per liter at independent market stations. The story is even worse in other major cities of the state like Potiskum, Gashua, Nguru and Geidam, where the product, in some cases, goes for as high as N270 to N300 per litre. The effects of the scarcity of the product and its high cost have resulted in long queue of motorists at the Damaturu NNPC Mega Station, which has been selling the products for the last three days. The Nation’s investigation revealed that the queue on the first day stretched for more than three kilometers from the Mega Station down to Ben Kalio Housing Estate. Some of the residents told our correspondent that they spent more than four to five hours on the queue to get fuel at the official pump price. Sani Bello, a resident, said he left his office as early as 10am on Friday to get fuel but lamented that he would have to wait for another hour or more because the NNPC workers would be breaking for Friday prayers before resuming sales again. Bukar Madu, a commercial driver heading to Maiduguri, said he just purchased the product and the queue was moving smoothly.   AEDC cries out over vandalism in FCT substations     Plateau women health workers vow to pressure N/A on Gender…     NYSC: Corps members who fail to report for mobilisation risk…   Our correspondent who monitored the situation at the station saw a combined security of DSS, Civil Defense, the police and a few members of the Yobe State Petroleum Task Force controlling crowd and ensuring smooth sale of the product. An official of the task force informed that about three gulf drivers were arrested for what he called Recycle Buying. “We arrested three gulf drivers here at the station. They have constructed big tanks under their vehicles and they come to queue, buy and go out to empty the tanks and come back again. The idea is that they are involved in selling for black market in town at higher cost,” the official explained. An official of the NNPC who did not want to be quoted informed that the station had enough product to serve the residents for more than three days. He was however confused at the long queue after two days of consistent. “One expects that with the steady sales of the product in Damaturu, the queues should have gone down now but I am surprise it isn’t. I don’t know why but you journalists can find out,” the NNPC official said. The Nation’s investigation revealed that the lower price at the Mega Station had apparently dragged most motorists within the metropolis away from other stations, where independent marketers were selling at exorbitant prices. Meanwhile, the pump price of the product has been increased by N3.00. Officials of the NNPC had already adjusted their price as at the time our correspondent visited the station. They explained that a circular was issued yesterday to that effect but they were not aware until Friday afternoon.