There is no doubt that the unlawful detention of Mubarak Bala, based on alleged blasphemy, is a case of unconscionable persecution.  The 37-year-old president of the Humanist Association of Nigeria has been detained for about two years, since April 2020, without any formal charge. This oppression is happening under Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, and implicates him in actions that violate religious freedom. The police are also complicit in this abuse of power. Bala was arrested at his residence in Kaduna State and taken to Kano State after allegedly posting comments critical of Islam and religion on Facebook, which had attracted accusations of blasphemy and threats. A group of lawyers, in a petition to the police, accused him of posting things on Facebook that were “provocative and annoying to Muslims.” A lawyer fighting for his release was quoted as saying the police had detained him on “a holding charge” usually employed to cage detainees without presenting formal charges against them. After he had spent about eight months in detention, in December 2020 the High Court in Abuja ruled that his detention violated his rights to personal freedom, fair hearing, freedom of thought and expression. The judge declared his detention illegal and ordered his immediate release following a “fundamental rights” petition describing how he had been detained without charge for more than seven months, and denied access to lawyers for five months. The court awarded him N250, 000 in damages. President of Humanists International Andrew Copson described the court ruling as “a victory for the human rights of all citizens in Nigeria.” The authorities disregarded the court ruling, demonstrating contempt for the rule of law. The campaign for Bala’s release from unlawful detention has been ignored by the authorities, which suggests undemocratic governance. This case of abuse of power has attracted the attention of international observers.  Notably, a group of seven United Nations (UN) human rights experts issued a statement in April 2021, after Bala had been detained for a year, condemning the “flagrant violation” of his “fundamental human rights.”  They also drew attention to their efforts to get him released. They said: “His arbitrary detention has continued despite our appeals to the government in May and July last year…The government must take action to ensure that the responsible authorities respect the due process and enforce the judicial ruling.” It is noteworthy that Nobelist Wole Soyinka, a globally respected defender of fundamental freedoms, lent his voice to the campaign for Bala’s release. In a letter of solidarity marking his 100th day in detention, published by Humanists International, Soyinka said: “You are not alone; there is a whole community across the globe that stands beside you and will fight for you. We will not rest until you are free and safe.” The literature laureate added:  “You have lived. You have stood against the tide of religious imperialism. You have fought for all Humanity, to ensure a better, fairer, world for all. You have not sought to appease those that treasure scrolls. You have not bowed to pressure to revere their unseen deities.”   House of Reps and Real Estate Development Bill     An airline’s brush with an emir     Nigeria, where abundance equals lack   The crux of the matter is Bala’s self-declared atheism. According to the International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), which is also campaigning for his release, “The real reason for this outrageous and inhumane action is because Mubarak has renounced Islam and has openly declared himself to be an atheist.” A Kano State indigene from a Muslim family, he is not on the same page with his family members on religion.   His relations put him in a psychiatric hospital in 2014 after he renounced Islam and embraced atheism. He is a vocal atheist, and his rejection of religion is offensive to many people in the country’s Muslim-dominated northern region. The Facebook post that led to his arrest and detention reportedly read, “Fact is, you have no life after this one. You have been dead before, long before you were born, billions of years of death.”  This view opposes religious belief in an afterlife. Campaigners for Bala’s freedom regard him as a Freedom of Religion or Belief (FoRB) Victim. According to the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), “Advocates believe he may be charged with blasphemy under Section 210 of the Penal Code of Kano State, and/or with violating Section 26(1) (c) of the Cyber-crimes Act, which criminalizes insult of any persons due to their belonging to a group distinguished by their religion, among other characteristics. A blasphemy conviction under Kano’s Shari’a court could lead to a death sentence, and if found guilty of violating the Cybercrimes Act he could face a fine and up to five years in prison.” The allegation of blasphemy against the humanist illustrates the clash between Islamic law, also known as Sharia, and secular law; and shows why the supremacy of the country’s secular constitution should be emphasised. There are fundamental issues about the operation of Sharia in a multi-religious but secular country such as Nigeria where the Islamic system of justice operates in 12 Muslim-majority states in the northern part of the country alongside a secular justice system. Sharia has been controversial in the country since its introduction in 1999. There is no question that Bala’s arrest and detention violate some of his fundamental rights under the country’s constitution.  The fundamental human rights listed in the Nigerian constitution are: the Right to Life, the Right to Dignity of Human Person, the Right to Personal Liberty, the Right to Fair Hearing, the Right to Private and Family Life, the Right to Freedom of Thought, Conscience and Religion, the Right to Freedom of Expression and the Press, the Rights to Peaceful Assembly and Association, the Right to Freedom of Movement, the Right to Freedom from Discrimination, and the Right to Acquire and Own Immovable Property anywhere in Nigeria. Importantly, the constitution allows the restriction, suspension or limitation of the fundamental human rights of persons in Nigeria only where there is an order of court or a state of emergency or a democratic law that allows such suspension or restriction of fundamental human rights. Bala’s case is excluded. As he remains in unlawful detention, his wife, Amina, has described her “psychological and emotional trauma” as “unbearable.”  They have a toddler. He is suffering because he is an unbeliever and his position on religion conflicts with the religious beliefs of those in the majority and those in power. He is a victim of abuse of power based on religious intolerance. This is condemnable.