President Muhammadu Buhari has described the attack by terrorists on a train in Kaduna State as a matter of grave concern, instructing the military and other security agencies to immediately swing to action. Buhari specifically told the service chiefs and other heads of security outfits to immediately hunt them down the terrorists. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President also instructed the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to repair the bombed section of the rail track and resume operations along the Abuja-Kaduna rail corridor immediately. The President issued the instructions after being briefed by the service chiefs and other heads of security agencies, on the findings from the site of the attack. He told the security chiefs to ensure speedy conclusion of all the processes for the implementation of the integrated security surveillance and monitoring solution for the Abuja to Kaduna railway line and that this be extended to cover the Lagos-Ibadan railway line. President Buhari reiterated his earlier directive that the military should deal ruthlessly with terrorists. He asked them to be more decisive and not spare anyone unlawfully wielding the AK 47 weapon.   ‘How terrorists shattered head of nursing mother in train…     Police foil attack on Dangote refinery in Lagos     Educate Nigerians on why population growth must drop—NPC…   “No one should be allowed to hold the country to ransom,” said the President. Buhari strongly condemned the bombing of the passenger train, describing it as a “matter of grave concern.” According to the President: “Like most Nigerians, I am deeply pained by its occurrence, the second of its type, which has resulted in the death of a yet to be determined number of passengers and others who suffered injuries. “The attack on the train, a safe means of transport to many, is callous; and our thoughts are with the families of the deceased and prayers for the injured.” Those at the briefing meeting were Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, who led the service chiefs, including the Chief of Army Staff, Lt-General Faruk Yahaya; the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amao; as well as Major General Samuel Adebayo, the Chief of Defence Intelligence. Others at the briefing were the Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba, and the Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi.