PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari yesterday celebrated Nigerian women in celebration of the 2022 International Women’s Day (IWD). In a statement yesterday in Abuja, titled: International Women’s Day: President Buhari Salutes Womenfolk, by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President said women have made invaluable contributions in his administration. He expressed appreciation to the contributions of women as ministers, special advisers, senior special assistants, executive directors, executive secretaries and in many other capacities, noting that they were pulling their weights and making it impossible for anyone to downplay their importance. Also, wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has urged Nigerians to support processes that help women to gain power and economic success. Mrs. Buhari said through this, the interests and values of the female gender would be better represented in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that she spoke at the maiden edition of the Society of Petroleum Engineer’s (SPE) Women Leadership Lecture Series yesterday in Lagos. The lecture with the theme: Breaking the Bias – Accelerating Business and Economic Growth Through Inclusion, was organised to commemorate the 2022 International Women’s Day.   PDP chieftains to Obaseki: you haven’t earned leadership     U.S. celebrates women with $2.6b for gender equity, equality     Association to represent Bill on Diaspora voting   Mrs. Buhari was represented by Hajia Aisha Aminu, Senior Special Assistant to the president on Legal Matters, Office of the First Lady. She said unless women had access to empowerment opportunities that allowed them to gain education and join the workforce, many countries would not develop as well as they should. According to her, World Bank studies show that many women around the world are still prevented by law from working in certain jobs; and in many countries, men can legally forbid their wives from working. Mrs. Buhari said sadly, even in instances where women work, the gender pay gap meant they did not earn as much as men. She said: “In Nigeria, the case is not different; gender inequality is influenced by different cultures and beliefs. “In most parts of Nigeria, women are considered subordinates to their male counterparts and it is generally believed that women are best suited as home keepers. “This is evident even in our law making and policy formulation processes.”