Barring any last minute change, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold its national convention on Saturday. The aspirants for various positions in the National Working Committee (NWC), have been screened. The party adopted a zoning arrangement for the various positions. The party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) on June 25, 2020 sacked the Oshiomhole-led NWC and saddled the responsibility of running the party on Governor Mai Mala Buni-led 13-man Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The convention, which is a precursor to the conduct of primaries for candidates of the party, has a direct bearing on the fortunes of the party in the 2023 general election. 1. 169 persons in total obtained nomination forms to contest for various positions in the National Working Committee (NWC).   Buni reassures of hitch-free APC National Convention     Man pours hot soup on food vendor     Insecurity: Northern youths condemn call for Irabor’s…   2. The convention will be attended by about 4,000 delegates from the 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). 3. Seven aspirants in the chairmanship race submitted the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the cost of N20 million, and they have been screened. They include Saliu Mustapha, a former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressives Congress (CPC); George Akume, Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs; Sani Musa, Tanko Al Makura, Abdullahi Adamu, and former Governor Abudulaziz Yari of Zamfara State. 4. The party has barred political appointees from voting due to the issues arising from section 84(12) of the Electoral Act 2022. 5. President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his preference for a consensus arrangement and reportedly endorsed former Nasarawa Governor Senator Abdullahi Adamu. But some APC stakeholders rejected the endorsement of Adamu as National Chairman and Nnamani as Deputy National Chairman (South) over what they described as signals to return APC to the hands of the original PDP members. 6. The party has alerted members of the public that all routes to the Eagle Square, Abuja will be closed for its national convention on Saturday.