Gender equality, discrimination against women were the focus of the Association of Wives of Traditional Rulers (AWTR) as they join their counterparts across the world to celebrate this year’s International Women’s Day (IWD). They also affirmed the importance of leaving nothing to chance in supporting the girl child in becoming literate in society. Speaking during a press briefing to commemorate this year’s celebrations in Abuja, the President of AWTR, Hauwa Ibrahim, lamented the destruction that lack of education is causing in communities within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Ibrahim said: “While we appreciate stakeholders’ roles in the ongoing gender equality agitation, our appeal goes to all stakeholders to continuously advocate for more community reporting on gender-based violence and gender discrimination in our society, a move that will propel Nigeria to a better path of prosperity.   Mayoral status for FCT Minister: A dashed hope     Tears, anguish as Abuja demolishes illegal structures     When NICO adopts secondary school’s cultural club   “The month of March is a month for celebrating women globally. So, let’s take the necessary steps to remove all obstacles to gender equality and the advancement of women in the 17 chiefdoms,” she said. She continued: “The National Assembly’s rejection of bills seeking gender equality, once again, brought to the fore the need to consistently speak against the oppression our patriarchal society imposes on women as well as the urgent need to revamp and purge any form of bias based on gender.” Wife of Chief of Garki, Ambassador Hannatu Nga, stated: “Education is very important because before we brought our heads together in 17 chiefdoms to start this Association, we have been in pain. We didn’t know how to come out to express our feelings as mothers. This is one of the purposes of this association and also to get the support of the government because the government itself cannot reach the grassroots. So, we are like bridge-builders. About 80 per cent of us are educated.” The Secretary of the Association, Halima Mohammed, said: “We cannot progress as a country without education. Secondly, for the woman to be able to take care of her family she has to be educated. We also have to educate our girl children so that they can also contribute their own quota to national development. The men cannot do it alone we have to put our hands together so that we can move the country forward