Nigeria’s Ambassador to Romania, Sefia Nuhu, speaks on the quality of reception given to escaping Nigerian students and fellow African nationals WHAT have you been doing to get Nigerians in Ukraine to safety and resettled? Many of the Nigerians that crossed over to Romania got very good reception at the border of Romania. The Romanian authorities decided to facilitate easy movement of people from the endangered territory to safety. They also extended assistance in terms of provision, food water, even accommodation for 24 hours. Most of them that arrived from Bucharest, the Nigerian embassy had to take up responsibilities for them. Some of them have complained that there was no convergence point in Ukraine from where the people could gather and be evacuated. For us, mostly, our responsibility is within the Romanian territory and at the Romanian border. In fact, our staff were unable to cross over to any Ukrainian territory. So, most of the difficulties that those fleeing from Ukraine experienced, were within the Ukranian territory and borders. Again, part of the reason is the congestion at the borders because of the desperation to come in. I learnt that some Nigerians were trapped in Sumy, which has been attacked. Is there anything you can do to get these people out to safety? Like I told you earlier, my responsibility is strictly within Romania; so we would not have access to anyone outside Romania. We are also hoping there would be a ceasefire, so that it will be possible for them to get to safety and also cross over.   UKRAINE INVASION: Fears shift to Nigerian students in Russia     Nigeria Diaspora 4040 Initiative and other volunteers     ‘What plans does govt have to resettle returning students?’   What are the provisions you are making for those who have crossed over?  For all those that came over to Romania, we’ve been able to accommodate them, about 900 of them in Bucharest. The first flight to take them back to Nigeria will start tomorrow (Thursday). Are there any Nigerians who have indicated their unwillingness to return? We have some who have indicated their intention to stay in Romania or other parts of Europe. A large percentage of Nigerians in the Ukraine are students; some of them are in their second, third, even final year, and they wouldn’t want to lose out on the opportunity to complete their studies. Some have indicated intention not to return but I have not been able to sit with them to know their preferences. Hon. Abike Dabiri, in a broadcast, said some African countries have petitioned Nigeria to help evacuate their nationals, are you into that? We have been extending consular services to other Africans that come in from the border. In Romania, there aren’t a lot of African missions; so the Africans that come together in groups are usually taken in buses, and we put them in the same accommodation as our own nationals and give them food and other necessities. Notably, we have extended these services to Ghanaians, Cameroonians, even Egyptians. There are fears that the war may escalate and even get to Romania? Well, there is a lot that one cannot predict. Even the way this conflict started is not something easily predictable. It’s something that is based on a lot of factors and uncertainties. So I do believe that there is a lot that would unfold in the next coming week. But we are hoping that the fear does not become reality.