The Happiness Centre (HC), Africa’s holistic health and wellness center, has urged Nigerians to embrace alternative medicine  to achieve all-round well-being. This was the message from the Managing Director of HC, Mr Akshay Jain, during the  International Day of Happiness celebration in Lagos. According to him, breathing and meditation go a long way to ensuring the relaxation of the mind. At the event, he took guests through a breathing exercise to prove his point. He explained that stress affects the state of mind because “when you are angry, you breathe faster; and when you are happy, you breathe gently.” Anger, he said, is stress brought about by what happened in the past; while fear is stress brought about by what will happen in the future. “We believe that life should be lived as an expression of happiness; hence we try to offer solution to stress. Through the breathing and meditation exercise, the mind is relaxed,” he emphasised. Jain explained what HC stands for and how it synergises with the objectives of the International Day of Happiness. “The Happiness Centre is an arm of the International Non-Governmental Organisation, the Art of Living Foundation, fully equipped with modern and world-class infrastructure in a serene and calm environment. The Happiness Centre harnesses the power of alternate medicine, herbal remedies, yoga, breath-work and meditation, with the aim of achieving physical, emotional and mental balance for individuals. “It provides customised rejuvenating and therapeutic treatments by experienced Ayurveda practitioners and a team of well-trained panchakarma therapists, osteopaths, physiotherapists and Yoga experts, and it encourages a calm, focused, and blissful state of mind along with a healthy body, which will help an individual rest, rejuvenate and immerse in the holistic environment of health and wellness, as part of its mission to make the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal three (Good Health and Well-being) possible in Nigeria.” The Happiness Centre also inducted its first-ever Nigerian Happiness Ambassadors, as part of its activities to commemorate the International Day of Happiness. The event, which took place at the Lagos head office of the organisation, also presented an opportunity to showcase the centre’s health packages to all, including the dignitaries present.   1m children to benefit from free Pepsodent, oral education     World Water Day: Six side effects of not drinking enough…     Eleven cases of vaccine-derived poliovirus detected, says…   The Happiness Ambassadors inducted were: Wife of the Lagos State Governor Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; Mr. Atunyota Alleluya Akpobome, professionally known as Ali Baba, a Nigerian stand-up comedian; Lagos Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi; and an influential writer, author and theatre producer, Mr Joseph Edgar. He said they were chosen as ambassadors as a result of their remarkable impacts in their chosen careers, and how their efforts have contributed to the happiness and well-being of the people. “We, at the Happiness Centre, have decided to select some high-profile individuals as Happiness Ambassadors because of the smiles they have brought through the impacts they have recorded in their respective fields.They will be the frontline of happiness and represent our brand on days like this when we have to commemorate the International Happiness Day. “The Happiness Centre was inaugurated in Lagos, Nigeria in November 2021, and since then 90 percent of its customers have been Nigerians, which shows that the center is not just for the expatriates, but for all.” Corroborating his point, HC General Manager, Francisca Ukabiala, reiterated that the centre is timely for a city like Lagos. “We are saying that happiness is all around; it is in the energy that keeps the city moving and most importantly it is in the haven that we have created to ensure that people have greater bouts of positive energy once they walk in and out of our doors and experience bespoke wellness services.” On his part, the HC founder, Gurudev Sri Ravi Shankar, said the centre was founded to harness the power of alternative medicine. “The Happiness Centre realises that the everyday scramble and the never-ending pressures of balancing work, familial and other social demands, drains an individual and takes a heavy toll on his or her physical and mental health, hence the centre provides stress relief programme that helps an individual relax, rejuvenate and improve vitality through multiple practices,” he said. The event was headlined by  other dignitaries such as the Minister of Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Prof Pat Utomi, notable political economist; the Chairman, Lagos State Traditional Medicine Board, Prof Adebukunola Ositelu. As an expression of happiness and commendation, Mohammed has announced that his ministry will be partnering the Happiness Centre to host the World Cultural Day, as part of the 40th anniversary of the organisation’s existence. The Happiness Centre is an alternate medicine, herbal remedies, Yoga, breath-work and meditation centre with the aim of achieving physical, emotional and mental balance for individuals. It also plays host to a wide range of personal and group programmes, including Yoga, meditation, Ayurveda, nutrition packages and more; all of which are handled by certified experts who ensure world class standards.