Dr. Muda Yusuf, renowned economist, erstwhile Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), is the Chief Executive Officer, Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise [CPPE]. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf he offers useful suggestions on way out of the frequent collapse of the national grid. Excerpts: What is the implication of the national grid collapse on the economy? The implication is very grave for the economy, especially coming at a time the cost of diesel, aviation fuel, gas, and petrol is very high. This is about the worst time such a thing should be happening. It has shut up a lot of cost. The fall back option is very expensive. When cost goes up, it affects turnover, sales, profit margin, and the wellbeing of the people is also affected. It also drives inflation. In the last one to two years, Nigerians have been lamenting the high inflation rate. This is because once there’s inflation; cost of everything goes up astronomically. Both on the side of the citizens, businesses are badly affected; it has been very tough for small businesses and not many of them can survive this for too long. Having said that, what do you think can be done to address this power crisis?   National Grid Collapse: The intrigues, politics and…     Oluwo unveils new queen as they get married in Kano     How I prevented full blown physical combat between Bianca,…   Power is very strategic for the running of any economy. If you take power out of the equation in any economy, then there would be huge economic crisis. This is because power and energy is very crucial for economic survival of any nation. There is need for the government to address the power reform. There is need for government to promote off grid solution to address the power crisis. We need to have pockets of grid solutions in the system. The overdependence on national grid is not good for the system. The idea of sticking to the national grid has not been to our advantage, this is because once it collapses as its most often does, it affects the economy on almost all angles. There has been a blame game between Gencos, Transmission Company and Distribution Companies over debts owed by all parties. And this is affecting power supply… (Cuts in) Whatever Gencos, Transmission Company and Distribution Companies are saying is immaterial. Somebody must take control; the buck must stop somewhere and that is, Mr. President. It is not for us the citizens to be worrying about whatever Gencos, Transmission Company and Distribution Companies are saying. Power as I said earlier is very crucial to any economy. Therefore, Mr. President needs to take charge of the situation. Are you convinced that the measures you have stated can adequately address the intractable power crisis and return to normalcy? These are not quick fixes. The measures highlighted cannot be addressed within one or two days. It will take time. In the short term, government should sort out all the issues about gas supply, and pricing of electricity. They say there is no more subsidy on electricity. But, what is the basis of estimated billing when there is no light. Somebody has to take charge of the power sector and very quickly too. The discos are like a monopoly, there is no competition at all within them. They (DISCOs) are having a field day at the expense of customers. There is no effective consumer protection in the power sector. This must be addressed. These are some of the things they have to do quickly.