Actress, Chacha Eke has smothered her husband, Austin Faani with sweet words on his birthday. In a lengthy celebratory post via her Instagram, the mother-of-four recounted how her husband has contributed and harnessed her potentials over the years. She appreciated her husband for teaching her all she has come to know about life and most importantly for being the instrument used in emancipating her from satanic/occultic manipulations and damnation that held me down for years Sharing beautiful family birthday shoots, the film star wrote: “As I star in this divine drama called life, I know beyond a shadow of doubt that God is the executive producer of every good thing; and I am thankful to him for all that I have, all that I am, afterall, I am because God is. “God is love. He loves me so much he gifted me Austin Faani. Tino, you are a gift that keeps giving. You have given me so much in such a short time. “In our 13years of friendship, you’ve taught me resilience. In our 9years of marriage, you’ve taught me essence.   2Baba and I renewed marital vows – Annie Idibia     I look better than most Nigerian girls – Bobrisky     Benefits of having celebrity parents, by Priscilla Ojo   “My big break from Nollywood came from you taking a chance on me in your directorial debut. I craved badly for a challenging character in a lead role, you made that happen…and we weren’t even lovers then. It’s who you are to your friends in general. You make dreams come through. “I’m a sucker for intelligent conversations. Your uncommon wisdom was and still is the quality that keeps me glued to you. Tino, You are an enigmatic mystery. Your brilliance has enhanced my brilliance. “Thank You for painstakingly elevating my artistic skills. Thank you for teaching me how to edit my thoughts, edit my life, how to read patterns & connect dots in general. Thank you for being the reason I have extremely beautiful children. Thank you for the awakening. Thank you for being the trigger tool my “Chi” used to release me from satanic/occultic manipulations and damnation that held me down for years. “You bulletproof Titanium of a human being. You Indomitable spirit, warrior, saviour, armed with calm as super power. You were made for me. This is destiny. I thank my “Chi” our paths crossed. “As a multi-dimensional personality that I am, only an extraordinary human like you can put up with me. Me fire, You ice. “HAPPY BIRTHDAY MY HUSBAND. I love that it’s you I’m doing life with. Ps: I peeked into the future for you, it all worked out.”