It’s almost a month since President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops’ invasion of Ukraine after fighting the same country for the past eight years leading to Russia’s seizure of Crimea in 2014 and now the detachment of the Donbas  region of Eastern Ukraine made up of coal-bearing Donetsk and Luhansk regions which had been in rebellion for the past eight years sponsored by Russia on the grounds that Russian speakers were being persecuted in what president Putin called the emotive word “genocide” without a scintilla  of proof. Right from 1991 when the USSR dissolved into 15 “independent” states, nationalists in Russia, the dominant centre of power, had dreamed of somehow recreating the Russian empire which stretched from its European centre of Saint Petersburg to Vladivostok on the extreme Siberian east and down to the Caucasus, making the empire part-European and part-Asian with many nationalities, religious and racial group spread across 11 time zones. When Boris Yeltsin, the first president of the new Russia from 1991 to 1999 handpicked Vladimir Putin after eight years of his shambolic and drunken leadership, the world did not know what to expect of the diminutive former KGB operative. Putin came into office in 2000 determined to bring back the glory of Russia and to put it back to the status of super power which he felt his country belonged in spite of the denigration by the United States which began to openly say Russia was a medium power. By that time, the Russian navy was almost non-existent and the Russian economy was largely dependent on export of gas and crude petroleum to Western Europe like most countries in the Middle East and North Africa and including Nigeria. It was the case of a former super power despite its thousands of nuclear war heads reduced to watching the United States arrogating the role of international policemen and restructuring the international system according to its own rules and designs. This was manifested by the eastward expansion of the North Atlantic Organization (NATO) and the military intervention in places like the former Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria and threats of intervention in Venezuela and Iran without consideration of the interests of other powers like Russia. With the privilege of hindsight, the period after 2000 should have been used by the USA and its European allies to help Russia adjust to its reduced status without humiliation and help the country develop a consumer-based economy linked closely with the West and not taking the advantage of the weakness of Russia to expand its military alliance to the gates of Russia especially realizing the purpose of NATO was to stop the westward ingress of communism into Europe. NATO’s continued expansion into the frontiers of Russia gave the alliance an offensive rather than a defensive posture. The placement of intermediate missiles in some of the new member states like Poland, Rumania and Bulgaria upset the Russian government and tilted the balance of power in favour of NATO. This is the background of the Russia’s wicked attack on poor Ukraine, a small 41 million people country, justly struggling to be free and to be allowed to find an independent place in the comity of nations. The mistake Ukraine made was its decision to want to join NATO in order to preserve its independence which strictly on its own merit was a wise decision but in the context of being a culturally related country by history and traditions and sharing long borders with Russia, was a wrong decision especially when the United States began to have more than unusual interest in the independence of the country. The NATO members knew admitting Ukraine into its organization was a redline for Russia. This was why they denied the country’s admission into NATO. Ukraine should have sought neutral status like Austria, Finland and Sweden. This would have been acceptable to Russia and Ukraine in the fullness of time could have even become a member of the European Union perhaps with Russian acquiescence. In all the 22 years of Putin’s power in Russia including of course those years his sidekick, Dmitry Medvedev (2008-2012) served as president at Putin’s pleasure, Putin was determined to defend and possibly reincorporate what he called Russia “Near abroad” back to Russia motherland. This dangerous policy could possibly include dismemberment of countries like Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia in the Baltic and Kazakhstan in order to bring back into Russia, their Russian-speaking people. Putin had militarily intervened in Georgia in 2008 and supported Russian-speaking people in breakaway South Ossetia. Russia militarily supported Transnistria part of Moldova to breakaway from Moldova between 1990 and 1992 and Russian troops have remained within internationally recognized boundaries of Moldova and Georgia without respect for international law. This aggressive tendencies of Putin have also influenced the North  Atlantic Treaty Organization’s determination to challenge Putin and possibly stop him in Ukraine by arming Ukraine to resist the Russian aggression and to possibly weaken Russia through economic sanctions that it will not be able to continue its wars of aggression in the various former territories of the former USSR which he seems to be determined to put under Russia in a new reconfigured empire without respect for the wishes of their people as long as he satisfies the desire of the minority Russian-speaking people in those countries. His policies are reminiscent of the reasons of language and ethnicity that led Adolf Hitler into Poland, Austria, and Czechoslovakia during the crisis leading to the Second World War.   Nigeria: What a country!     Makinde and the cleaning of Ibadan     Pastor Adeboye @80   There are politicians in Europe who now see accommodation with Russia as “appeasement” with which Europe dealt with Hitler until his appetite for territories became insatiable. It is simply amazing how leaders of NATO and Russia used the imagery of the crisis in Europe in the 1930s to justify their current policies. Putin talks about denazification of Ukraine while the West sees him as almost a reincarnation of Adolf Hitler who must be stopped before he plunges the whole world into a Third World War, a war in the words of President J.F. Kennedy “the living will envy the dead” because the global atmosphere would have been so poisoned by radioactive fallout that those who didn’t die in war will wither away painfully gradually afterwards as victims of cancers and other withering diseases caused by radiation. What is the way out? My suggestion is that President Joe Biden should be prevailed upon to ask Ukraine to accept the status of an internationally-guaranteed neutral state and foreswear ever joining NATO. Russia should be prevailed upon to sign an international treaty guaranteeing Ukraine’s and the independence of the Baltic States. The sanctions imposed on Russia should be gradually lifted, subject to Russia’s good behaviour and respect for international law and norms of international relations based on peaceful and diplomatic negotiations and resolution of inter-state problems without resorting to violence. The global economy has become so intertwined that if a major country like Russia is delinked from it, it will have major repercussions globally. Secondly pushing nuclear-armed Russia into economic doldrums and its people into poverty will create instability and possible irrational behaviour by its leaders which will not augur for world peace. It is a cliché to say the world has become a global village. We cannot continue to think as if we were in the 19th century of politics of balance of power when in fact we are now in a century of balance of terror when careless mismanagement of crisis can possibly lead to thermonuclear war in which no one would survive and there will be no victors but all of the world’s people will be vanquished. It is not too late for the Russian war in Ukraine to be wound down and Russia and the West commit themselves to rebuilding the infrastructure and houses damaged during the war in a joint enterprise to bring aggressors and victims and their supporters together. All other lingering issues that could possibly lead to conflict should also be brought to the table while a solid Russo-NATO treaty of understanding should be signed. The way for world peace is really through trade and economic relations which as far back as the 18th century Adam Smith had suggested and which we saw  positively in the globalization of the last century which  Donald Trump and the neo-conservatives in the United States had done their damned best to undermine to the detriment of global peace and the promotion of “war parties” in the major countries of the world and prevention of “perpetual peace which is the highest political good according to Immanuel Kant (1724-1804).