Political parties go into conventions with clear objectives: to produce sellable candidates and project a united front going into elections. This is especially crucial for the opposition hoping to supplant incumbents. Last weekend, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) finally held its convention with leaders crowing in the aftermath about how united they were. Significantly, they defied doomsday predictions that looked like becoming reality days to the event, given the revolt of its governors against the Mai Mala Buni interim leadership. People may snigger at the shotgun-consensus that produced its new National Working Committee (NWC), but APC leaders would look on the bright side and say it was a case of the end justifying the means. Of course, a sterner test awaits when the party gathers again to pick the candidate who bears its banner at the 2023 presidential elections. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for months enjoyed taunting APC over its inability to hold a gathering to elect its leaders. It could afford to do so having held its own show at the end of October last year. That convention which produced the Iyorchia Ayu leadership wasn’t without its birth pains. For months there was open war between then chairman Uche Secondus and his erstwhile benefactor, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. Secondus was unceremoniously dumped and the process leading to his ouster is now the subject of litigation, the outcome of which might yet come to haunt PDP. Remove the disgruntlement of the former leader and you could say the party also emerged from its October 2021 convention projecting a cohesive front. But ousting a convenient fall guy may just be a tea party compared to managing the fissures opening up as the party prepares to choose its presidential candidate. Leaders of the two leading parties understand that unity is vital for victory. They keep hammering that message, conscious of the depth of division within their ranks over the process that will throw up their flagbearers. Things are more straightforward in APC where it is now clear that the candidate would come from one of the three Southern zones. The same cannot be said for PDP where a ferocious internal debate is raging over zoning – despite the fact that it has to make a decision against the backdrop of a Northerner having occupied the presidency for eight years. Aspirants like former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed and former Senate President Bukola Saraki, all of them Northerners, have offered interesting arguments as to why zoning shouldn’t be an issue. They say given the country’s grave challenges competence is more important than splitting hairs over where an aspirant comes from. They also make the case that even if zoning were to be the parameter, the last PDP candidate, Goodluck Jonathan, is a Southerner – meaning the ticket should automatically rotate northwards. But there’s just a little problem with this last point. The next election won’t be an intra-party affair. Candidates would be selling themselves to a national electorate that’s all too conscious that a Northerner just completed eight years in office. In a sign of deep trouble for the party, all its governors down South back the demand of the Southern Governors Forum that the two major parties pick their candidates from the region. So far no one has broken ranks despite the high profile declarations of Northern aspirants. Interestingly, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, who many assumed was posturing just to be compensated with a Vice Presidential nomination, has formally declared he’s running for the top job.   Tinubu has set standard in leadership, says Buhari     Terrorists bomb Abuja-Kaduna rail track, derail train     Wike, Anyim: South deserves PDP presidential ticket   Again, these things might be negotiating positions. But you sense there’s something going on in PDP that could defy the usual calculations. This has to do with how the electoral map was radically redefined by the outcomes of the 2015 and 2019 polls. In the North where the party used to count a majority of governorships, it now holds only Adamawa, Benue and Taraba – a measly three out of the region’s 19 states. Of its 13 state executives across the country, ten are from the South – making the region its fortress and strengthening their hands at the bargaining table. Of course, what is left unsaid when the likes of Tambuwal argue that PDP should be more concerned with regaining power than with zoning, is that with President Muhammadu Buhari out of the picture and the APC set to present a Southerner, a candidate from north of the River Niger would benefit from regional and ethnic solidarity. But this isn’t a given. Buhari as an electoral phenomenon is something that happens once in a generation. His charisma and connection with grassroots voters are things that none of the PDP aspirants who have shown interest can replicate. So, rather than dreaming that the Northern electorate would move in one direction come 2023, the likely outcome is a more even split based on the strength of the parties in different states and zones. Indeed, it would be overly optimistic for the opposition to think they would totally overhaul the lopsided electoral map in the region in one polling cycle. Their task has been made harder by the performance of the incumbent. Whatever may be his achievements in office thus far, there are many Northerners who would argue that his tenure hasn’t been heavenly for them. The spectre of insecurity rendered the largely agrarian economy prostrate for much of his time in office. So it would be tough to sell the notion that another Northerner is necessarily better for the region. Influential groups like the Northern Elders Forum (NEF) have made it clear that candidates seeking their backing solely on the basis of regional identity would be disappointed. But that’s unlikely to deter Northern aspirants who are clearly determined to run. The PDP leadership has also shown that is doesn’t have the stomach for a fight. So it won’t want to offend either side for fear that the polarisation would be so much that it would have lost the election even before the first vote is cast. The most likely outcome therefore would be a compromise that throws the contest open – appeasing the Northern wing but leaving its Southern strongholds disenchanted. Such a decision would clearly please the likes of Atiku. While the former VP would be hoping that his lifelong ambition to be president comes to pass 30 years after he first tried, his long cycle of trial and failure is now a turn off for some in the party. Indeed, many PDP members have come down with a bad case of Atiku fatigue. The worry for the opposition is that their numbers might not be enough to stop the old warhorse from picking the ticket again. As for the APC, it is in considerably better shape going into its nominating convention. You don’t need a soothsayer to predict the flagbearer would come from the Southwest. The logic is simple. The South-South is a PDP bastion. Even with the defection of Cross Rivers Governor, Ben Ayade, you get the sense the next presidential contest would be a toss-up in the state. The Southeast isn’t a serious contender for the ticket. David Umahi who has shown interest is unsure how much longer he would remain governor of Ebonyi State with the recent court judgment against him. But even if APC were to pick its candidate from here, the region will still vote PDP. There’s just something about APC that doesn’t agree with the Southeast. That leaves the ruling party having to reprise a formula that has worked for it in the last two electoral cycles. All it needs to win a third time in a row is to sweep its Southwest stronghold and garner a majority of votes cast in the North even if it doesn’t manage a landslide. This, for it, is still an attainable target despite the fact that it would be going into the elections to confront voters who are largely underwhelmed by its record on the three planks of security, economy and corruption. Ordinarily, these are the issues that should be engaging voters and national discourse as the polls draw nearer. Perhaps we are not having that discussion yet because the focus now is on winning the ticket. Hopefully, the hour would come to talk about the things that matter and the day would come when candidates and parties would be held accountable for promises made while seeking votes. However, I can safely predict that we are so far gone in our fixation with personalities and zoning such that key issues like economy and insecurity, prescriptions for addressing them or track record of candidates, would not determine who is elected president in 2023.