There seems to be no let up by all the interested parties including the Federal Government and state governments contesting the imposition and collection of the Value Added Tax (VAT) as Nigerians await the Supreme Court verdict on the VAT controversy, reports Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf Hitherto, the collection of the Value Added Tax (VAT) was the preserve of the federal government. But that is being challenged by wealthier states who say they receive a paltry amount of the revenues they raise. Some states argue that the federal collection of VAT is defined by structural inadequacies and unfair distribution among the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Wealthier states are leading a revolt against the current state of affairs, arguing that they should keep more of the cash raised in their own states. As to be expected, the houses of assembly of Lagos and Rivers states have passed bills to begin collecting VAT themselves in the hope of claiming more of what they believe is their due. In September, Lagos state House of Assembly speaker Mudashiru Obasa complained that the state could be contributing 55% of the VAT collected in the country but only received a “paltry sum” in return from the federal government. Thus, the controversy stirred by the Rivers State government over the collection of the VAT, with many other states joining the fray not only pitched the former against the federal government but also ignited a chain of reactions including the unraveling of the nation’s fiscal federalism order. Crux of the matter It may be recalled that the Court of Appeal in Abuja had stopped both Rivers and Lagos States from proceeding to collect VAT in their states, pending the determination of the appeal by FIRS. Subsequently, the Justice Tsammani-led panel made the order after it deferred the hearing of an application Lagos State filed to be joined as an interested party in the matter, till September 16 2021. Lagos State government had also protested against the issuance of an order for the maintenance of the status quo, insisting that such an order could not be binding on it, since it had yet to be joined as a party in the appeal by FIRS. Counteraction over VAT The Attorney-General of the Federation and the governments of Adamawa, Plateau and Kaduna States are set to join the Federal Inland Revenue Service in its appeal against the judgment of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt which empowered Rivers State to collect the Value Added Tax. Deconstructing the tax impasse Writing on the PwC tax blog, Taiwo Oyedele, fiscal policy partner and Africa tax leader at PwC West Africa, explains that there are seven top taxes in Nigeria. Three of the taxes are collected by state governments and local governments (personal income tax, property taxes, and stamp duties) while the remaining four (companies’ income tax, petroleum profits tax, VAT, import and excise duties) are collected by the federal government and shared with the states and local governments. The federal government through the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) collects VAT in each of the 36 states of the federation, remitting certain percentages to state and local governments every month. The distribution formula includes 15% to the federal government, 50% to state governments, and 35% to local governments. Oyedele says VAT has become the fastest-growing tax revenue in Nigeria displacing personal property tax (N1.52 trillion – $3.7bn) and company income tax (N1.41 trillion) in 2020 to claim the top spot at N1.53 trillion. Top contributing sectors were other manufacturing (10.07%), professional services and telecoms (10.6%), commercial and trading (5.06%), breweries, bottling and beverages (3.90%), and transport and haulage (2.84%). “Nigeria’s tax system is in a bad shape, which is set to get worse with the recent developments,” says Oyedele. Bamgboye Emmanuel, managing partner of Empyrean Professional Services, an accountancy and tax firm in Lagos, says that allowing states to collect VAT would cause chaos. “If the state governments start collecting VAT, the consumers will bear the final burden because the cost of goods will go up and the masses will suffer because there may be a constant increase of VAT, which will affect the masses ultimately.” Emmanuel and Oyedele both say that in order to ward off the threat of a wider states’ revolt, the federal government must be transparent in the distribution of VAT among the states. Lawyers fear Nigerians may suffer burden of VAT war Some lawyers have advised parties in the ongoing tussle over collection of Value Added Tax, warning that Nigerians may end up suffering for it. While saying some of the state governments seeking to be joined in the ongoing litigation over the matter, they noted that the case might be frustrated by the forthcoming general elections in 2023.   Buhari to APC leaders: learn from PDP’s fall from…     Drug war: 650 NDLEA officers graduate from Army School     Shun cultism, money rituals, emulate Lisabi, Abiodun charges…   In a monitored television magazine programme, a constitutional lawyer, Jiti Ogunye, noted that the ongoing VAT agitation, “which is now ripening to a potential, very robust legal tussle” among the states of the federation, started as a solo effort. The lawyer, however, stated that the salient issues must be recognised, especially fiscal federalism. Ogunye further said, “Before we start playing the court; the matter is before the court and the court would decide the matter, and I think that the earlier the court decided that the better for everybody so that this controversy can be out behind all of us. But if the parties do not want the court to so adjudicate and they feel that in the spirit of ADR (Alternative Dispute Resolution) that lawyers also advocate these days and the courts also sanction; that a part of arbitration or compromise and political discussion is that path to tread, I think that they should better do that, rather than labouring our over-congested court and compelling it by the force of the matter they are submitting before it, to then adjudicate one way or the other.” Also, human rights activist and Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, said Nigerians should demand accountability on the taxes already collected by the various governments. He said, “I think that for us as common people, our interest is not in who collects VAT or who retains VAT but what the government – federal or state – used the proceeds of the collection for. Do we see the impact? I’m afraid, no. What has Rivers State done with the VAT that it has collected in terms of its shares so far? What has Lagos State done? So, the debate about revenue collection should be taken to the level of its relevance and usefulness to the ordinary people of Nigeria; not this debate between the governments as to who collects and then, there is no accountability.” Experts seek quick resolution of VAT war Expectedly, economic pundits who have been monitoring the trend since the controversy stirred up are worried about the socioeconomic implications of the crisis on business and commerce. Speaking at the Nairametric’s 2022 Economic Outlook webinar recently, with the theme, “Your money, the economy and government policies,” experts stressed that the ongoing crisis will not bode well for the economy. Speaking at the event, Liborous Oshoma, Head Attorney at the Liborous Oshoma Chambers, said the lingering VAT war between the federal government and states was not good for the economy. Oshoma suggested that the concerned parties should sit down at the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee and find a resolution to the issue. Also speaking, Mr Olufemi Babem, Partner, Tax, Regulatory and People Services at KPMG, said the VAT war issue should be solved without further delay. Babem said the governors and president should sit down together and find a political solution to the issue. Speaking on the topic, ‘Economic impact of government’s tax revenue drive,’ he said that the 2022 budget deficit of N6.39 trillion needed to be funded, noting that the government would be aggressive in the revenue drive. He noted that the 2021 Finance Act had many amendments that would increase domestic revenue mobilisation, tax administration and legislative drafting, international taxation and financial sector reforms as well as tax equity, among others. Head, Fixed Income, Currencies and Treasury, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Adetoun Dosunmu, said inflation would be on the rise due to electioneering activities with increased money in circulation. Nigerians await Supreme Court verdict The Supreme Court has fixed May 6 for judgment in the suit filed by the Rivers State government challenging the decision of the Court of Appeal ordering it to maintain the status quo on the collection of Value Added Tax (VAT). The Rivers State government in its 10 grounds of appeal is also asking the apex court to order that the substantive appeal by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) marked CA/PH/282/2021, and all other processes therein, be heard and determined by a new panel of the Court of Appeal. It said the three-man panel of Justices of the Court of Appeal led by Justice Haruna Tsammani, had in the ruling they delivered, relied on the provisions of Section 6(6) of the 1999 Constitution and the inherent jurisdiction of the appellate court, to order all the parties to maintain status quo on the VAT dispute. Justice Olukayode Ariwoola who led a six-member panel of justices fixed the date after the counsel for all the parties adopted their briefs. The Rivers State government had asked the Supreme Court to set aside the decision of the Court of Appeal ordering it to maintain the status quo on the collection of Value Added Tax (VAT), pending the determination of an appeal that was lodged by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). It prayed the Supreme Court to allow the appeal, set aside the decision of the court of appeal on maintenance of the status quo, and further dismiss the oral application that was made by the FIRS. It also prayed the apex court to order that the appeal the FIRS filed against the High Court judgement that stripped it of the right to collect VAT in the state, be heard by a fresh panel.