Wema Bank Plc’s digital bank, ALAT by Wema, has announced the call-for-entries for the second leg of the 2022 edition of its Hackathon programme tagged #Hackaholics 3.0-Building the Future. Head of Innovation, Wema Bank Plc, Solomon Ayodele said entry submission for the second leg is ongoing and the application portal will be closed this Friday. The pitch event will hold at the AmphiTheatre, Babcock University, Remo, Ogun State. According to him, Babcock University is expected to host over 500 students and guests for this phase of the competition. He explained that the Hackaholics programme is targeted at young Nigerians who will devote their coding, product curation, and pitching skills towards providing solutions to rising issues across multiple sectors. The solutions are to focus broadly on the limitless possibilities in the future of technology, like NFTs, Web 3.0, Metaverse, Blockchain, AR, VR, AI, and IoT.   Flour Mills appoints Adeeko director     Focus on stocks with strong fundamentals, Futureview advises…     SEC staff protest poor governance   Applications for the first leg of the tech competition began on Saturday, February 5, 2022. This was followed closely by a pitch session on Tuesday, February 15 at the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) where 10 bright young minds battled it out for a chance at the ultimate prize. Ayodele said the programme aims to discover and nurture seed-stage startups to become the next unicorn out of Africa and serve as a pipeline for grooming hirable tech talents in key areas – solutions engineering, data science, product management and product design, among others. “The tech space is filled with innovative solutions that can solve critical challenges across target sectors that will create great value within the society. We want to encourage early-stage solution providers and be an integral part of the change. We are humbled to discover and support the next generation of tech giants who will use their creativity and talent to birth the future we all desire. “We truly believe our aspirations as an organization align with the ambitious desires of these young minds,” Ayodele said. He added that the next round of live pitches will begin on Tuesday, April 5, 2022, and end on Thursday, April 7, 2022, at Babcock University. Selected candidates will pitch their ground-breaking ideas to a panel of judges who will select the top contenders who will vie for N5 million in cash prizes at the grand finale in Lagos. Ayodele urged interested applicants to apply through the dedicated link or through Wema Bank’s website.