Today, Nigeria’s political landscape will quake from the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s political tremor. If the political acolytes of the great political tactician of the Fourth Republic have their way, Asiwaju’s 70th birthday celebration would be the pre-inauguration ball for the nation’s president come 2023. About this time last year, in a piece titled, ‘Asiwaju as Potentate’, I highlighted the trajectory of Asiwaju to political stardom, following the speculation that he might run for the office of president. But with Asiwaju declaring his interest to seek his party’s nomination to contest for the office of president in 2023, he has become a fair game for political pundits, hence this part two. No doubt, the hurdle to the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) would have been a walkover for Asiwaju, were politicians to be gentlemanly in their trade. After all, in 2015 President Muhammadu Buhari, relied substantially on the political sagaciousness of Asiwaju to win the party’s nomination and the presidency, and ordinarily as an act of reciprocity, he should be among those canvassing for Tinubu’s presidency. Indeed, prior to 2015, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had boasted that the party will rule Nigeria for 60 years. And before Asiwaju’s sagacious intervention, candidate Buhari, a retired military general had publicly surrendered his presidential ambition, because he felt it was unachievable. It took the political skills of Asiwaju to alter Buhari’s political destiny. While no doubt there were equally strong helpmates at that hour of need, history records Asiwaju as the champion of the political merger that resuscitated Buhari’s presidential ambition. So, if politicians are gentlemen, Asiwaju would be rewarded for his hard work at the last two general elections with untrammelled support from the president and his close associates to secure the party’s ticket. Indeed, in 2019, when many of the wayfarers who joined APC in 2015 and helped Buhari win the presidency left the party, for one reason or the other, Tinubu stood like the rock of Gibraltar, and helped the president to win a second term. But politicians are not gentlemen, and would not easily reciprocate kind gestures just for the sake of it. Perhaps, they have other determinants for their action, way beyond the contemplation of the ordinary people. So, regardless of Tinubu’s contributions to the success of President Buhari in 2015 and 2019, he cannot take the president’s reciprocal support for granted. Indeed, many of Tinubu’s detractors are already urging President Buhari to disappoint Asiwaju, peddling such prejudicial arguments that you cannot do a political deal with a person like President Buhari. Of course, this column does not suffer prejudices and biases and believes that President Buhari is a gentleman, and would give as much support as he received from Asiwaju towards the latter’s ambition. But, since the fact that Asiwaju helped Buhari to become president is not insurance for reciprocity, and that such support would guarantee success at the polls, it is germane to examine the critical factors that Nigeria urgently needs in a president, at this critical juncture, and the leave the public to judge to what extent Asiwaju fits the bill. The country needs above every other skill, a psychological healer, a sagacious political tactician who would be able to re-establish the broken socio-cultural bridges, which the present regime has perhaps inadvertently burnt in the past seven years, across the country. Clearly apart from the hooligans, who are engaged in criminal activities, in many parts of the country, there are many Nigerians who feel alienated by the policies of the present federal government which disproportionately favour the president’s ethnic stock.   Hope amidst hopelessness     Ekweremadu and Ebeano family     Enemies of Buhari   These aggrieved groups, which cuts across every other ethnic group, needs to be urgently reintegrated into the Nigerian project. This column believes that such psychological healing would affect many of the other challenges facing the country. One such direct impact would be the debilitating security challenge facing the country. Furthermore, the next president must be someone with a brilliant mind-set to segregate the immediate and remote causes of the insecurity plaguing the country. Nigeria needs such a brilliant mind, which will be able to isolate the economic, sociological, psychological, religious, and other factors fuelling the insecurity and offer immediate, medium and long term solutions to the problems. Of course, as part of the solutions, the country needs an economic wizard, a wealth creator and a monumental visionary leader who would lay the difficult but important economic foundation of a new Nigeria. The country badly needs a leader who would take a holistic look at the energy crisis facing the country, and offer solutions that would create work and wealth. Our country needs a modern day sociological behemoth, who understands that religion is a private affair of the practitioner, and as such would not drag the nation into the cesspool of religious corruption, as if it is the answer to the myriads of challenges facing the nation. A leader who would offer scientific or other empirical solutions to the challenges facing our country instead of using the name of God in vain, to explain the inadequacies of governance. Nigeria needs a leader who understands the social contract embedded in political governance. One who would not equate the surrender of the commonwealth to his care, as an opportunity to enrich himself or his lieutenants. One whose humanity has been tested, and as such will govern humanely, but also firmly when the need arises. A leader of leaders who will allow the percolation of ideas, and who has the capacity to assemble brilliant minds to mend our broken country. As Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu marks his 70th birthday, there is a multitude forsworn that he is the best candidate for the job. They will readily sight the cross pollination of his curriculum vitae. With a background in finance and management position in an international oil company, he is a tested technocratic. Having served as a senator, governor and political godfather, he is a political juggernaut. With footprints across the social and religious divide, he fits the sociological bill. For Asiwaju’s detractors, they claim that at 70 years Asiwaju cannot carry the burden of governing Nigeria. They claim that he is too steeped in prebendalism that has eaten the bone marrow of Nigeria. They claim his emergence will be unfair to the southeast, even as some of the protagonists support a northern candidate. One of his leading opponents has even forsworn to trek to Ghana if he wins the presidency. But despite the distractions, the Tinubu political train is gathering momentum, and the days ahead would surely be interesting. As an admirer of Asiwaju’s political sagacity, this column wishes the Jagaban Borgu a most memorable 70th birthday.