Some stakeholders in the education sector have set agenda for the incoming Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) Sonny Echono, on how to tackle the issues confronting the agency. FRANK IKPEFAN and DAMOLA KOLA-DARE report. • Poor facilities in tiers of education  • Poor teachers’ and lecturers’ morale  • Lack of conducive teaching, learning environment  • Inadequate capacity-building for teachers and lecturers • Inadequate research development, grants, funding • Need for equitable funding of projects across states • Completion of ongoing projects • Dichotomy between private, public institutions   TOMORROW, the curtain will be drawn on the tenure of Prof. Suleiman Bogoro as executive secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND, an agency many Nigerians have now come to refer to as the lifeline of tertiary education in the country. TETFUND is a scheme established by the Federal Government in 2011 to disburse, manage and monitor education tax to government-owned tertiary institutions in Nigeria. It is a product of the Education Tax Act of 1993. The Act repealed the Education Tax Act Cap. E4, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 and Education Tax Fund Act No. 17, 2003 and establishes the Tertiary Education Trust Fund. Before the establishment of the scheme in 2011, government-owned tertiary institutions were poorly funded. The scheme was designed to improve the management of funds disbursed to these institutions. The outgoing executive secretary, Prof. Bogoro, would hand over to a former Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, after he (Bogoro) completed his single tenure of five years. Stakeholders in the academia would remember Prof. Bogoro for gradually shifting the focus of TETFund from infrastructural development in the educational system to research and innovations. He was appointed in 2014 by the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan, but was removed in 2016  by President Muhammadu Buhari.  Bogoro was alleged to have misappropriated N200 billion released to the agency for special intervention projects to beneficiary institutions to fund the re-election of Dr. Jonathan in 2015. He was reinstated in February, 2019 by President Buhari. A  source in the ministry of education had explained that Prof. Bogoro was reinstated after being found innocent of the allegations against him. The source stated that the sum allegedly misappropriated under him was never released to the agency in the first place.   Bogoro and his drive for cutting-edge research, innovations   Miffed by the lack of cutting-edge researches carried out by tertiary institutions, he pushed for an increase in the National Research Fund. From a meagre N4 billion allocation to the NRF in eight years, he pushed for an increase. He moved it to N5 billion in 2019. In 2020, Bogoro succeeded in getting the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari; with an additional 50 per cent increase in allocation to the NRF, making it N7.5 billion for that year and N8.5 billion in 2021. “It used to be a kind of seed money. Seed money of N4 billion for eight years, but from the year 2019 to last year and this year, we increased it to N5 billion annually. Last year, we increased it from N5 billion to N7.5 billion and this year, it is N8.5 billion and we are hoping in 2022, it will move to N10 billion,” Bogoro had stated in one of his conferences. But the outgoing executive secretary’s stint was not about research alone. His drive also included increasing the numbers of PhD holders in the country. Under his watch, the agency funded scholars on PhD programmes in foreign universities. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in its 2020 Q4 report stated that about 74,000 are doctorate holders in Nigeria. Bogoro was committed to growing this figure. He also established centres of excellence in universities, polytechnics and colleges of education to drive innovations.   The new man stepping in   The incoming executive secretary, Echono, is not new to the workings of the agency. As a former permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, he was a member of the Governing Board of TETFund. So, he understands the workings of the agency. The new executive secretary, who is an architect, will be expected to bring his wealth of experience to the new job. A statement announcing his appointment said: “Described as an accomplished technocrat, Arc Echono brings to the job, diverse wealth of experience spanning infrastructure, business administration, procurement management, ICT and the education sectors. “Prior to his appointment, he had served as Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education and member, Board of Trustees of TETfund among other important national assignments.” According to the Registrar and Chief Executive of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Prof Josiah Ajiboye, Echono would bring his versatility and work ethic to the new job.   Adamawa PDP disowns former member Chibado     Our ASUU strike nightmare, by students     Russia-Ukraine: Studying in a time of war   “I worked with him for five years when he was permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education and I can tell you that he brings to the table experience he had garnered from various ministries in his 35 years in service. “He demonstrated a strong understanding of the workings of the education system. He is on top of the education system. Having presided over the education ministry as permanent secretary for five years, he has garnered experience to preside over any of the agencies under the Federal Ministry of Education. ‘’He is not a stranger to TETFund operations. He is coming with that experience that he has garnered from various sectors and also with the experience that he has been part and parcel of the programmes that have been going on in TETFund,” Ajiboye said.   Expectations from Echono   Some stakeholders in the education sector expect the new executive secretary to continue with the reforms already started by Prof. Bogoro while also initiating new ones. Vice-Chancellor of Niger Delta University, Prof. Samuel Edoumiekumo, said: “We expect him (Echono) to improve the system. What we need is improvement. He is coming with his new ideas and we expect that he will bring his wealth of experience to add to that of his predecessor – Prof. Bogoro, so that the agency can grow and universities and higher institutions can have a very cordial working relationship with him. “Echono was a member of the TETFund Board and so, he is not going into uncharted territory. He is going to inherit a five-year programme that TETFund is implementing. In our conversation with Prof Bogoro, we applauded the fact that he was focusing on the human element in our educational system.” The Secretary – General, Committee of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities (CvCNU), Prof. Yakubu Ochefu, urged the new executive secretary to lay greater emphasis on the development of Information Communication Technology in universities. He said: “Yes, TETFund has done a lot in providing infrastructure in our tertiary institutions. Prof Bogoro came and said we need to grow the numbers of PhDs we have, we need to do research and innovation. That was the new paradigm of TETFund. “We believe that Echono should continue on that paradigm but with greater emphasis on Information Communication Technology because we believe that 21 century higher education is ICT – driven. “The amount of money that TETFund is currently spending for ICT support to tertiary institutions is abysmal. We believe that Echono will come and see that and grow that technology base. “Many Nigerian universities don’t have a fibre backbone. Many Nigerian universities don’t have a campus wide network. The bandwidth that many Nigerian universities are enjoying is very small. Very few can afford STM 1, when at the minimum each university should be running on two STM. “Also, the capacity-building of the ICT staff in universities – the ICT directorates in the current technology that are driving the world of ICT we don’t have that type of support. We believe that with Echono coming in, he should look at that critical area because it is going to benefit the universities to drive their next agenda.” In his reaction, Deputy Vice Chancellor (Academics, Research, Innovation and Strategic Partnerships), Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), Prof. Damilola Olawuyi, SAN, said: “There are significant expectations that the new executive secretary will sustain some of the path-breaking innovations of his predecessor, especially in areas of creating a level-playing field for private universities to participate in TETFUND programmes. Nigeria remains the only country in the world that discriminates against private universities when it comes to financing innovations and research that can deliver urgently needed socio-economic development. “It is, therefore, imperative for the new leadership of TETFUND to work with all stakeholders across private and public spheres to find an equitable solution that dismantles such false and archaic dichotomy to research funding. This will require an urgent overhaul of TETFUND Act of 2011, so that privately-owned tertiary institutions in Nigeria can benefit from TETFUND research funding and programmes.” Also, Director, Centre for General Nigerian Studies, Lagos State University (LASU), Prof. Biodun Akinpelu, urged the incoming executive secretary to address the imbalance in the operations of the agency regarding building of structures in tertiary institutions in the country. He said: “TETFUND is the only hope of the Nigeria university system today. The politics of its operations is another issue. “In some universities in the North, all their structures are built by TETFUND. You’ll wonder if we are in the same country. The new man should move round with a view to correcting the imbalances.” On her part, a lecturer in the Department of Psychology, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Dr. Fisayo Adebimpe, said the incoming executive secretary should ensure increase in research grant and funds given to academic and non-academic staff, create enabling environment for research to thrive by creating additional research centres of excellence to be sited on various campuses of Nigerian universities. She said: “TETFUND should support and make fund disbursement available for academic manuscript/book publication development, academic/research journal publication development and academic staff training and development interventions. “He should also ensure the rehabilitation, restoration and consolidation of tertiary education in Nigeria for optimal delivery. “The body should give room for accountability and transparency in the management of funds for standard physical infrastructure for teaching and learning,  equipment, research and publications, staff training and development and revitalising the  education sector to meet  international best practices.” For Osideko Emmanuel, a lecturer in the Department of Mass Communication, Lagos State University of Science and Technology (LASUSTECH), the new Executive Secretary should ensure research funds are disbursed on merit and judiciously utilised. “He should ensure that research funds are disbursed on merit, free from bias, politics and discrimination. He should also make sure that the aim of disbursement is strictly for research, development and not for personal and selfish use,” he said.