The unity displayed by leaders and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the convention has put the party on a firmer footing for victory in next year’s election, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday. He gave the affirmation in congratulatory message to the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led 79-member National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. Adamu, a one-time Nasarawa State governor, became the chairman of the party after other contenders stepped down for him on the convention ground at the Eagle Square, Abuja on Saturday. The President who returned to the Convention Venue in the company of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Senate President Ahmed Lawan for the inauguration of the party executives, noted that the smooth conduct of the election raised the prospect of a mouth-watering APC victory next year. The President spoke through a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Mallam Garba Shehu. It reads: “The APC Convention hosted this weekend sets the scene for an APC victory in the presidential and general elections next year. It is a victory over naysayers who believed the party was divided but are now disappointed.   PDP gets knock over Emefiele     Tinubu and associates     Minister pays N2.9b promotion salary arrears   “We believe that it is equally a victory for the president who has ensured unity across all party positions; and it is a victory for the voters of Nigeria who can now be assured of a smooth succession to new leadership in 2023. “What the Convention made clear was how the media has been peddling fake news of division, when the hard reality of unity, cohesion, and indeed personal warmth between members of the party’s leaders – incoming and outgoing – was evident for all to see. “Of course, the blame for this mindset ought rightly to go to the opposition who in all these years had done the work to only divide the country, leading to all manner of separatist agitations. But this is not the wish, nor is it in the character of the citizens, as was clear for everyone to see at the Eagle Square. “When their fake news of disunity was undone by the facts, some in the opposition could not help themselves but take to the newspapers and the airwaves to find another way to shore up their reputations. That some of the APC officers were once in the opposition was the new line to take to the media, somehow suggesting that those who have left one party should not hold positions in another. Yet, do the scriptures not teach us of the virtue of sinners who repent and change their ways? “What the scriptures say less is of sinners who repent, change their tune, and then choose to re-sin in full public view by returning to their former ways. Given that most important leaders of the opposition PDP first left the party before they returned to it, we might expect the media to ensure criticism of them is damning and absolute. It is incredulous that anyone would consider them trustworthy or acceptable candidates for any public office. “The stage is now set for the APC primary elections later this year when the party’s new flag bearers will emerge. No doubt some will attempt to argue the impossible – that an APC primary election is a source of division while an opposition primary election is a source of consensus. But the good voters of Nigeria can see through such acrobatics and know the facts that, when the contests for 2023 come, APC offers a track record of success and leadership, while the opposition has only decades of failure and complicity in response.”