FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited (FMDQ Exchange) has admitted for listing on its platform, the Coleman Wires and Cables (Coleman Technical Industries Limited) N6.05 billion Series 3 and 4 Commercial Paper (CP) under its N20 billion CP issuance programme. The additional working capital, according to the Managing Director of Coleman, Mr. George Onafowokan, would enable the company to increase the capacity of its business. He said the significance of the new development to Coleman was the fact that it will give the company alternative funding from the debt capital market via Pension Fund Asset (PFA) managers, Asset Managers, and other fund managers. “The additional working capital available to us through CP will impact our capacity and efficiency that we can then build on as a company to increase the availability of our products across the country at a more affordable price,” Onafowokan said. In a statement, at the weekend, the Coleman boss emphasised that the Nigerian market as a whole would benefit from the company’s access to alternative funding at a better rate.   TrustBanc Holdings, Prima Corporation to raise N9.4b…     Dobi AgriCo expands businesses     Nestle declares N40b dividends   “The capital would translate to job creation because Coleman had embarked on the expansion of its capacity in the past year, and the company is expected to open three new factories in Sagamu, Ogun State,” he said, for instance. Onafowokan said while two of the factories will be for the production of marine cables, one will be for gap cables for transmission. There is also an optic fibre cables factory to be open at Arepo in the next quarter. “We expect over 500 direct jobs and over 20, 000 indirect jobs,” he said. The Coleman CEO, however, called for more support from the government to the cables industry to boost local local content. “We expect to see more support from the government to the industry and a better impact on local content as we see with the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). This should be replicated in other agencies of government that are in power and other industries,” he said. Onafowokan said he expects to see a lot of impacts from the ministries of Power, Works, and Infrastructure in enhancing the ability to deliver power projects at a cheaper cost to the country.