‘Wahala musician’ Portable has thrown many social media users into a frenzy with his recent tweet on the forthcoming Headies award. Organisers of ‘The Headies’ on Tuesday, announced the 15th edition of the award show that celebrates Nigerian music talents. The award show is scheduled to hold outside the country for the first time ever at the Cobb Energy Centre Atlanta, the United States on July 12. A Bentley Bentayga 2022 was announced as the prize for the ‘Next Rated’ award category. The organisers also announced new changes to the award show, including new categories and live streaming by major TV and streaming platforms, including CNN and BBCI. With all the new developments, the fast-rising singer lamented his number one benefactor, Olamide Baddo wasn’t treated fairly at the last award show as he barely received nominations let alone taking home an award. He reminded organisers’ of the award show to do better this time adding he is also deserving of an award this year. “The thing wey Headies do Olamide that year, we never still forget am. Make dem better do the right thing this year. I deserve one award for there”, the ‘Zazu crooner’ tweeted. His bold ‘warrant’ has thrown social media users of balance as many have continued to quiz him over the particular project from him that is worthy enough to earn him an award at ‘The Headies’. Others have simply made hilarious comments while they laughed to their heart’s content.   Erica grateful for unanswered ‘foolish’ prayer     BREAKING: Igboho begins negotiation with Beninese govt over…     PHOTOS: Heavy security as Tinubu visits Ekiti monarchs   @Chynko_T asked: “Which song you want to take collect the headies Award sef. …..” @hotcakejr tweeted: “deserve one award for there like say na beer parlour. Go check your freezer, na there your own dey.” @DonAuthority said: “Baba dey try calm down…ppl wey sing pass you never collect you don dey say you deserve one. If them no give you go steal am oo.” @Classyperky quizzed: “Wetin you don contribute for music industry?” @CedoNyior wrote: “Lol for what exactly?? No vocal range, no lyrics nothing. Just always shouting in auto-tune.” @Nelson_Marshl stated: “I won’t forgive Nigerians for making you a small star.” @Thareallife2 asked: “For which song exactly?” @Havok_Rules tweeted: “For one hit song, that gave Olamide back pain for how much he carried it on his back.” @MrDeemple said: “truth be told, I won’t dispute the fact that you probably have a grace backing you up to have gotten the fame and recognition, but musically I have not seen anything you have done to deserve any nomination, u still have a long way to go. Biza biza.” @Yem_Yem21 wrote: “Which song u deserve award for, Nah for Local Street carnival them fit play ur song and nah them go give u Award no be our own Headies.” @perfect_boo stated: “Rest wetin u done sing when u they fine award?” @adesoye_semiu asked: “Which award are you talking about? How are you gonna express yourself when you were given the award?”