SIR: On Sunday March 27, bandits attacked Kaduna Airport thereby preventing a Lagos-bound aircraft from take-off. Next day – that is Monday March 28, an Abuja-Kaduna bound train was bombed by terrorists who killed, abducted and injured several people. Today, in our beloved country Nigeria, the wheel of the nation is gradually grinding to a halt; there is no respite anywhere; it is total and comprehensive siege, mental and physical. Chinua Achebe seems to have had today’s Nigeria in mind when he chose “Things Fall Apart” as the title of his epic novel for indeed, things have fallen apart in Nigeria and the centre can no longer hold. The more things appear to change, the more it remains the same; even worse. This is because the entire system is completely overwhelmed. It seems we have gotten to our wits end; kidnappings, insurgency killings, banditry and now hijacking passengers and bombing of train being the latest. How low can we go as a nation? As we have no other country but Nigeria, now is the time to seek for divine intervention and salvation. In the life of an underdeveloped nation like Nigeria, with so many of her citizens experiencing job losses, hunger, 33.5 % unemployment rate, killings, banditry, kidnappings and insurgency, several attacks on infrastructure and life within 48 hours means a lot to a nation in distress. What are the motives? Trains function in other climes without violence being visited on them, unless they are at war. This is unfortunate, sad and unacceptable. This shows clearly that nothing has changed. Despite the political slogans of “Change” and “Next Level”, things have even taken a turn for the worse. Is this the change we asked for when school children are kidnapped, the roads are unsafe, farmers can no longer go to their farms, banditry has been taken to another level, and poverty and unemployment are at the highest level?   Putin’s mad war     ASUU strike: The heart of the matter     Another view on failed feminists’ bills   Nigeria is at the crossroads and the inhabitants of the once glorious nation are going through excruciating pain of unimaginable magnitude due to issues ranging from insecurity, corruption, poverty and poor leadership, among others. This is certainly not the best of time. Nigeria is bleeding and cannot breathe. Unfortunately, we as a people, and the masses at the receiving end of the ignoble acts of our political class have become not only senile but toothless bulldogs waiting for 2023 to come so we can receive bags of rice and “recycle” the same set of people that plunged us into this mess. The giant of Africa has become nothing but a sleeping giant. Men of good conscience should arise from their deep slumber and save the sleeping giant. This is a Clarion call and a call to duty.   <odusanyagold@gmail.com>