Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has told members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that are not happy with the recent change in the leadership of the party to leave. Akeredolu stated the path taken lately by the immediate past head of the CECPC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, and those he termed an indivisible few, was an unenviable trajectory undeserving of the APC. Akeredolu described it as a disdainful narrative. The Ondo Governor expressed confidence in the ability and capacity of Governor Sani Bello to take the APC through. Akeredolu said Sani Bello has the backing of the majority of the Governors and would see their full at the National Executive Committee meeting scheduled for March 17. He insisted that all the APC Governors were for the party except for those he tagged ‘few “Yahoo, Yahoo” Governors’ who were hand in glove with Buni to circumvent the will of the majority of our party (APC) members. According to him: “Progressive Governors in the true name, mostly all of us, are determined to see our Party through these patchy parts at all cost.   BREAKING: (APC crisis): Buni’s letter counters el-Rufai’s…     MC Oluomo, Lagos NURTW withdraw from national body     Judiciary attack: Umahi apologises as NBA President asks…   “None of the scanty numbers has the guts to carry out their imaginary threats as reported in sponsored stories. We dare them to leave the party. “Their short-lived antics in arm-twisting Governor Buni and probably, some pocket-filling elements within the corridors of power to supplant the President’s will through fake letters, endorsements as well as ‘Black Market’ injunction (procured since November 2021) are despicable. “Now that the clear motive aimed at frustrating our national convention has been botched, our dear party is on the track to greatness. “However, the insidious and appalling happenings within our party in the last few months, especially under the immediate-past leadership clearly posit a huge embarrassment. “Nevertheless, the courage and determination as well as shrewd sincerity of purpose demonstrated by most of the APC Governors remain a delight. “Significantly, the swift response and prompt action taken by Mr President have, in no small means, salvaged our great party from internal scavengers. We indeed survived a civilian coup largely inspired by mischief and incurable lust for power through artificial barricades.”