In what keen observers have described as a major boost for foreign direct investment, Nigeria clinched a production deal worth millions of dollars with the unveiling of 4th Street, the first-locally produced non-alcoholic wine under the Distel Africa brand. Distel Africa is originally a South African based company with over 20 product lines. Speaking at the official launch in Lagos, at the weekend, Steve Ighorimoto, Managing Director, Distel Wine & Spirit Nigeria Limited, said the development has far reaching implications for the economy both in the short and longer term. According to him, this is certainly a major feat for Nigeria because of its implications for job creation, both in terms of direct and indirect employment and capacity for socioeconomic development. “We are really excited that Nigeria was the first country to earn the opportunity to produce this fruit wine locally across Africa. The potential for job creation is really massive. What that means is that we are the ones leading the way for this new product offering in the Distel cohort of brands.”   Chivita unveils new marketing campaign     Investments in free trade zone worth $20bn, says Minister     ‘How technology can unlock modern retail in Nigeria’   Justifying the need for the new product offering, the Distel boss recalled that the outcome of a research and development effort informed the decision to launch out. “We did a lot of research and discovered that in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic the alcoholic brands across the world which hitherto netted over $10billion in terms of consumption were dwindling thus giving rise for the consumption of non-alcoholic drinks. This is why we decided to venture into this space,” he said. Speaking further, Ighorimoto said, “The 4th Street wine is specially crafted for our population, wellbeing, and for the benefit of our population. The company, incorporated in March 2018 began its local production in 2019 and ever since we have been moving from one product or the other. We have over 20 cohorts of brands that are doing very well in the market currently. The 4th Street non-alcoholic wine is not condensates but fresh fruits, including grapes, mostly sourced locally.” Expatiating, he said, “As part of our commitment to the Nigerian market, the company hid invested over $10million in the last three years and we’re not resting on our oars.” Echoing similar sentiments, Kushilla Thomas, Marketing Director, Distel Africa, said, “Nigeria is the first market to produce this locally across Africa. The choice of Nigeria was deliberate because of her vibrant youth population. 4th Street is a great brand. Nigeria has got the vibes and so we’re super excited to produce this wine here. Our payoff is ‘go forth and conquer,’ which is why we’re putting in a magical consumer programme to drive activities for the creation of awareness.” Also commenting on the product, Vireshree Naidoo, Marketing Lead, West Africa, Distel, said, “Our distribution model, retailers lots of activities within above and below the line respectively. We are hoping to take the product outside Nigeria anytime soon such as Mozambique, Kenya, and many others.”