Plans for the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are intact, Secretary of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said yesterday. He has also scheduled a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting for Thursday. Akpanudoedehe showed up briefly at the party Secretariat in Abuja yesterday and told reporters: “There is no trouble, no crisis in our party at all. I have released a statement which will be made available to you now.” The CECPC Chairman and Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni is also expected to resume today to bring an end to weeks of speculations that he may have been replaced. Buni, who was on a medical trip to the United Arab Emirates and a visit to London to confer with President Muhammadu Buhari, is expected at the party Secretariat to attend to some pre-convention activities. A senior aide told our correspondent: “He is expected back in the office tomorrow (today), to continue with the arrangements for the convention.” Buni has been away since February 28. Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello acted for him. Akpanudoedehe said in the statement: ”The governing party is crisis-free, strong and remains united in giving the country the transformative leadership and good governance which she promised them.” He stated that since the inception of the CECPC, the committee had steered APC’s affairs in line with the mandate given it by the NEC. The Secretary added: “On the 28th day of February 2022, the CECPC Chairman took a long-delayed trip abroad on health grounds, leaving behind written authorisation for other members of the CECPC to continue work in his absence, particularly the day to day management of the APC. “In his absence, sundry activities earlier scheduled for action appeared to develop fresh urgency to satisfy the timetable for the 2023 general elections released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), thus galvanising some within the CECPC to act in their best understanding of both the situation and the leadership dynamics in the committee/party. “All such actions were clearly identified at all times as happening in an acting or proxy capacity, and under the auspices of the substantive Chairman, His Excellency, Governor Mai Mala Buni, contrary to widespread speculations that the Chairman, Secretary or some other officials of the CECPC have been removed from office or otherwise replaced.”   I’ll lead APC to victory in 2023, says Adamu     Kogi govt faults Lukman over attack on Bello     Sule: Only God will decide between Al-Makura, Adamu   He said the CECPC was intact, adding: “Delivering a seamlessly successful national convention for the APC on March 26, 2022, is top on priority for the CECPC and we shall continue to execute such assignments as are legal pending the return of the chairman who is on his way back to the country and shall resume office on arrival with the full support of all members and other stakeholders.” The Secretary said the party had engaged a team of senior lawyers to address a purported court order halting the national convention. Akpanudoedehe urged the “judiciary to give the matter the needed and expedient attention in our bid to vacate the purported court order and allow for the conduct of a transparent and rancour-free National Convention deserving of our great party, APC.” The Nation gathered that the CECPC has approved the sale of nomination forms for all the National Working Committee positions. National Chairman aspirants will pay N20million for the form. Aspirants for the office of deputy national chairmanship will pay N10 million, while those aspiring for other positions will pay N5million. It was learnt that the sale of forms, which commenced on Monday, will close on Friday. The Chairman of the Protocol Sub-Committee of the national convention and Kano State Governor, Abdullah Ganduje, is confident that the exercise will be successful. He spoke at the opening of a training session for over 250 youths who will serve as protocol officers at the convention. He said the training was to ensure the safety and comfort of all delegates and dignitaries. Ganduje later inspected Eagle Square, the proposed venue of the convention along with members of his sub-committee.