The United States Department of State has announced fresh sanctions against 11 Russian military leaders. All property and interests in property of the individuals in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked. In addition, all transactions by U.S. persons or within the United States that involve any property or interests in property of designated or otherwise blocked persons are prohibited unless authorised by a general or specific licence. These sanctions include the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any blocked person and the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person. A statement by the Department said the sanctions were caused by their roles in Russia’s “premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack on Ukraine”. The statement added that the 11 individuals were being designated pursuant to E.O. 14024 Section 1(a)(i), as persons who operate or have operated in the defence and related materiel sector of the Russian Federation economy.   Fireboy DML eulogises Olamide on birthday     I once flew to London just for dinner – Toke Makinwa     Buhari is right, PDP was a colossal failure in governance:…   They are Russian Ministry of Defence Deputy Ministers of Defence Aleksey Krivoruchko, Timor Ivanov, Yunus-Bek Evkurov, Dmitry Bulgakov, Yuriy Sadovenko, Nikolay Pankov, Ruslan Tsalikov and Gennady Zhidko. Also sanctioned are Viktor Zolotov, a Russian General of the Army and Commander-in-Chief of Russia’s National Guard Troops, Dmitry Shigaev, a senior leader of the Russian Ministry of Defence who is the Director of the Russian Ministry of Defence’s Federal Service for Military Technical Cooperation and Alexander Mikheev, the Director General of Rosoboronexport, which is Russia’s state-controlled intermediary that carries out foreign trade with respect to military goods. “Mikheev has been involved in synchronising the supplies of weapons and special equipment using the Russian Ministry of Defense’s capabilities; has served as a member of an organising committee led by Russia’s Minister of Defence of a Russian Ministry of Defence-organised military-focused forum; and has served on a delegation led by Russia’s Minister of Defence. “These persons will be added to the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons and all property and interests in property of the individuals above that are in the United States or in the possession or control of U.S. persons are blocked and must be reported to the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). In addition, any entities that are owned, directly or indirectly, 50 percent or more by one or more blocked persons are also blocked. “All transactions by U.S. persons or within (or transiting) the United States that involve any property or interests in property of designated or otherwise blocked persons are prohibited unless authorised by a general or specific license issued by OFAC, or exempt. These prohibitions include the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services by, to, or for the benefit of any blocked person and the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods, or services from any such person,” the statement said, adding that: “Russia’s further invasion of Ukraine has resulted in widespread human suffering and casualties, including the deaths of innocent civilians, including children. Today, the Department of State is continuing to impose severe costs on Russian military leaders.”