Analyse why coups are back in fashion especially in French West Africa? Mali, Chad, Guinea, Sudan, Burkina Faso x 2. ECOWAS and the AU sanctions are causing serious in-country citizen resentment making ECOWAS/AU toothless bulldogs. Politicians, in and out of power, must accept part-responsibility and practice non-partisan, selfless and nationalistic, inclusive, people-oriented politics, and implement Social Development Goals making life ‘Citizen Friendly’ better and safer. We are all students and products of history but in spite of that huge resource and sometimes burden, we ignore the past, or omit relevant history, even if it is provided as we are often found to be ‘economical with the truth’. We act as if nothing before happened and everything today is because of our own efforts and no one else’s effort in the past. Politicians and heads of institutions often proceed uninformed of history, or ignore that history if it is provided, and even erase the history and previous successes of their predecessors and pretend that life begins on Day 1 of appointment to office. Even a partner in a marriage find that a dead previous spouse is often not mentioned again by the partner as if life before never happened. Just last week, Nigeria lost another gem, largely unknown to those struggling for empowerment of women. During a distinguished career in academia, in particular in the field of mathematics, Professor Grace Alele-Williams, who died at 89 scored many firsts. Many NGOs rush around as if they invented women’s rights and females in science without any knowledge of the efforts and achievements of pioneers like the late Professor Alele-Williams who expanded the teaching and learning of mathematics and several other subjects during a distinguished career in several parts of the university system becoming the first female vice chancellor after being the first female PhD. Her story is the stuff of serious Nollywood documentaries and films and she should be poster picture for Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) promotion programmes and projects to help get more women into science. She was instrumental to improving career paths and course content not only in her chosen field but other fields as well. She was also a wife and mother and grandmother. As it is, we await a National Assembly, NASS pronouncement on its look at the gender laws it failed to pass recently causing nationwide umbrage and near-revolt. The following is repeated for emphasis. The women are 49-51% of the population and must make their political presence felt. We can support this struggle. Every woman, qualified morally, seeking election in 2023 should get elected. The task is unchanged and remains to strategise to ‘MAKE THE FEMALE VOTE COUNT’ in 2023. First: ‘GET ALL WOMEN TO VOTE’ with campaigns targeting those who will be 18 by 2023 with ‘Girl GO Vote’ songs and T shirts etc. included in Nollywood scripts, Music etc. by entertainment stars aimed at GETTING THE PVC. Second: GET WOMEN TO VOTE FOR WOMEN’   Anambra; Court slumping; Political fine- lessons     2023-Vote women: Cut NASS Salaries & Perks 75%     ‘NASS-No: Election ‘VOTE-WOMEN-2023’ Yes’   Third: Get women TO VOTE FOR WOMEN ACROSS PARTY. Fourth: MAKE ANTI-WOMEN PARTIES AND PERSONS UNCOMFORTABLE by withdrawing female support and directing support towards parties and persons which field women. Fifth: GET YOUR PARTY TO ABOLISH ‘WOMEN’S WING’ UNLESS THERE IS ‘MEN’S WING’ IN THE PARTY Women: What cannot be won by legislation can be won by a ‘WOMAN-SLIDE ELECTION’. ‘WOMEN: WHAT CANNOT BE LEGISLATED CAN AND MUST BE ELECTED!!’ This victory can mature into a new NASS with more moderate Salaries and Perks and more humility and humanity. The president could be on Grade Level 21, VP on GL 20, Senators on GL  19, Reps on GL 18 etc. or some similar ladder.  The struggle continues. When legislation says ‘NO’, Election 2023 should say ‘YES’! We must show NASS That the voters know Best!!! The huge forced increase in the use of poor naira value and Russian-Ukrainian war related horrendously priced diesel and petrol due to failure of the national grid and a resultant overdependence on generators will have catastrophic effects on Nigeria’s global warming contribution and air pollution indices. Many businesses have had to shut down as the price of power has shot up by 300-400% with no similar or even compensatory increase in income from fixed salary customers and business owners who cannot take such a huge power bill blow. Nigerian business is choking on the high price of power and Nigerian citizens are choking on the fumes from the million + generator nationwide. Please note also that most of the government lighting projects are generator-based and not solar-based as should have been expected for any 2021/2022 African lighting project. Now that diesel is scarce and hyper-expensive, the flaw in most government plans to shun solaristion of roads as the renewable solution to nocturnal insecurity and lighting up the night has become apparent. Now that most of those generators have been forced to fall silent due to lack of funds, it is time to rethink methodology and to spend time and energy on providing the appropriate infrastructure for solar public lighting to take off. It is a great pity that the succeeding governments uniformly fail to carry on the legacy of solar lighting sewn by preceding governments. Many roads are host to old now-dead solar lighting requiring just a cleaning of the solar panel, a new battery or a new bulb. It is sad we would rather pretend the project never existed, but just discarded by new administrations seeking to give out new contracts. The era of maintenance and supervision should return from the 1960s.