A coalition of Northern Youths under the aegis of Nigeria Movement Forum (NMF) has condemned the call for sack of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor and Chief of Defence Intelligence, Major General Samuel Adebayo. The Northern Advocacy for Peace (NAP) had called for Irabor’s sack, alleging resurgence of bandits attacks on communities in the Northeast and North West regions of the country. But the Coalition, in a statement signed by the Secretary, Adamu Mukthar, dissociated itself from the call, insisting it was sponsored by “enemies of Nigeria”. It argued that the reign of the present Service Chiefs led by the General Irabor has made lot of deliberate efforts to ensure peace and stability in the country. According to the group, “the efforts of the Armed Forces under the CDS ensured that our brothers and sisters in the Northeast had a peaceful 2021 Christmas celebration unlike in the past. “We are also witness to the several numbers of insurgents and their families that have surrendered to our troops. It came as a result of intense military operations.   CITAD urges Pantami to implement community networks policy     Quick notable points about APC national convention     Navy promotes 12 SNCOs for gallantry, commitment to duty   “We also acknowledge the frequent change in leadership of the terrorist groups. Our military is pursuing and ensuring that as they refuse to lay down arms, they are subjected to the pains inflicted on innocent Nigerians”. The group counselled: “Rather than being used by enemies of Nigeria, the Northern Advocacy for Peace (NAP) should join the call by the CDS for peaceful coexistence among Nigerians and nations of the world which was made at the International Military Sports Council (CISM) Day Run – 2022 organized by Defence Headquarters. “Importantly, we NMF call on Nigeria youths to shun the antics of enemies of the country who don’t see anything good when their selfish interest is at stake. “By threatening to mobilize other civil society and pressure groups to protest to the National Assembly and the Presidential villa show NAP is being sponsored. “We are also aware that as we prepare for the 2023 General Elections, some politicians and disgruntled elements will engage youths for relevance. We must shun them in the interest of our country. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria has done more than enough in terms of human and material sacrifices fighting for stability. We must not distract them with selfish agenda”.