Blue Band has launched an exciting 21-day schools programme called the Blue band good breakfast programme to highlight the importance of having a daily nutritious breakfast for children and families. The programme is part of Blue Band’s mission to make a nutritious breakfast an everyday reality for 100 million school children across Africa and Asia by 2030. This first edition in Nigeria is being run in over 700 schools targeting 320,000 children in Lagos, Oyo and Ogun States with the support of the State Ministries of Education and the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). During the 21-day breakfast challenge, children in participating schools are given daily tasks to help them develop the habit of eating a nutritious breakfast daily. Speaking on the initiative, Upfield Managing Director West Africa, Moses Bamidele Amao, said: “The Good Breakfast programme is a unique initiative by Blue Band to encourage children and their families to make breakfast a daily habit. “We believe every child deserves the nutrition they need to grow healthily and happily. Having a nutritious breakfast gives children the essential nutrients and energy they need to grow, develop and reach their full potential at school and later in life.   LASUSTECH: Getting it right from the start     Firms woo female students for mentorship     Rectors seek new ministry to drive TVET   “Our mission is to reach 100 million school children and their families across Africa and Asia with this important message by 2030 through our Blue Band brand.” Speaking at one of the school activations, Titi Reju, Blue Band Brand Manager Nigeria, noted: “Breakfast is considered the most important meal of the day and research has shown that going to school without breakfast can cause children to feel tired, restless or irritable, affecting their ability to learn. “Blue Band’s tasty products in combination with bread, fruit, and tea with milk, gives children the start they need and forms the right foundation to fuel their growth”. In Lagos, Nigeria, the Head Teacher of Eng Reg School, Kofi K. Amponsah expressed satisfaction with the quality of engagement, information and education experienced during the Blue Band Breakfast challenge and encouraged children and their parents to continue applying the lessons learnt. “This is a great initiative for improving the well-being and development of our children. The awareness created on how skipping breakfast can cause nutrient deficiencies and subsequently result in unfavorable learning outcomes was very useful. “It will help us take the right steps towards encouraging a healthy daily breakfast habit among our pupils and even our own children at home,” he said.