Popular filmmaker, Miracle Nduka, is currently breaking new ground in his quest to be the best in his chosen profession. Nduka started his career as an actor before veering into film directing after realising his strength lies in the craft. Known for films like “Dinta (Hunter),” “Change”, “Christabel,” “3 Idiots”, “The contract” and “Lost in Love,” Nduka has positioned himself as a successful director, producer, cinematographer, and editor. The film director said his dream was to stand in front of the camera while growing up, but with time, he realised he has a stronger passion for directing films.   The Queen of Flow returns for Season 2     SiSobola promises to always put smiles on people’s faces     Season 3 of MTV Base Cypher premieres   “I started from amateur scriptwriting to acting. I imagined myself adorning the big screens, being in the forefront of things, but as time evolved, I began understanding myself better. I began to get in touch with my real self, then I understood that this passion in me wants to see a project come to life, a part of me that wants to see that a script is transformed from mere words to reality, becoming something that people can relate with,” said Nduka. “I flipped from acting to directing when I took up the role of directing my first film “Walk to Redemption” which was shot in Kaduna in 2014. That film was an eye-opener for me, it was challenging. Following the result of that project, I got to understand that acting was not really where my passion lies but a pathway to finding my calling. Acting became a hobby to me which gave me excitement but deep down I wanted more,” Nduka narrated. Asked if he’s fulfilled working behind the camera, Nduka responded in the affirmative, adding “Every stage in life comes with its challenges, particularly being a film director in this space called Nigeria.” Nduka is best known for directing “Change”, a jungle justice/social justice short film that went viral globally in 2017. He also produced and directed ‘Dinta (Hunter), a 2019 short film that featured on Amazon Prime video. The film was nominated in the Short Film category at the 10th edition of the Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF).