Actress Mercy Aigbe has opened up on her new marriage to popular Yoruba movie marketer and film-maker, Adeoti Kazim. After the many controversies that trailed the unveiling of her new boo, this is the first time Aigbe and Kazim speak about their marriage. The Nation reports Aigbe wedded Gentry in 2013 and divorced him in 2017. The union produced a son, Juwon. The 44-year-old actress and 49-year-old movie marketer in an interview with Media Room Hub, explained how their bond grew together from business relationship. Aigbe affirmed that her husband, who is also known as Adekaz, and her ex-husband, were never friends. Speaking on rumours that he snatched Aigbe, Kazim said: “It is not true, there is nothing like snatching. I’m a full grown adult. “I’m a Muslim and my religion permits me to marry more than one wife. Now, I’m married to two wives, and I’m glad. I have two beautiful women and I’m glad. “My family is in the US. I shuffle between US and Nigeria because my business is here in the country. I’m good together with my family though there were issues but everything is under control. Nothing has crashed.   2022 Headies: I deserve an award, says Portable ‘Zazu’     Erica grateful for unanswered ‘foolish’ prayer     Dating Kanye West best thing that happened to me –…   “I want to educate some people, there are lot of people out there fornicating. A lot of people are hypocrite, when you’re bold enough to the right thing. I think I’ve done what is right and I think I’ve done what is godly which I believe a lot of people will be making reference to me in the nearest future.” Aigbe also carpeted critics for coming up with different narratives especially those who said she married her Kazim for ‘money’. She said: “Please, I just want to tell Nigerians that I’m not the first person to be a second wife. It is my choice, and I’m happy with it. let everybody just leave me to enjoy my marriage. If you can be happy for me, be happy for me. If you cannot be happy, you can get busy.” Aigbe explained that after her last marriage, she had decided to focus on her career and kids but the appearance of her new husband (Kazim) changed her mindset. “He (Kazim) brought so much joy, peace and happiness to my life. I tell him all the time that he is a good man. So when he popped the question, I decided to give it a try that this is the last bus stop. I’m glad it is a decision I took. “He has been amazing, and supportive. I didn’t marry him because of his money. He gives me peace, and joy.” Speaking on how he met Aigbe, Kazim said: “She has always been a business partner. I’ve always seen something special in her. My first encounter with her was when she returned left over money after a movie production she handled. It wowed me, and I was impressed. So I decided to keep up with her, in terms of our business relationship. “When she had bad experience in her last marriage, I was advising her then not to leave her marriage. Then she asked me “if I were your sister, are you going to ask me to be in an abusive relationship?”, So I just left her a little because I was in the US.”