Eunisell Limited has kicked off the recruitment drive for its 2022 graduate trainee programme to harness talents and address work-readiness challenges in the workplace. The company said the programme is a two-year development framework designed to provide a solid foundation for smart graduates and enable them to transform into valuable professionals within the company system. It added the initiative, which seeks to hone skills and fine-tune abilities for talents, started in January for batch 2022 and about 20 successful candidates will undergo the programme. The Managing Director, Eunisell, Mr. Chika Ikenga, said: “As West Africa’s largest company in specialty chemicals and oil and gas solutions, our organisation seeks to expand its winning team with vibrant minds that are brimming with critical thinking and fresh ideas on how to do things differently for maximum productivity. “At Eunisell, there are opportunities for graduates in relevant disciplines with the right spirit and attitude to join the company’s graduate trainee program. We are looking for young dynamic graduates with good interpersonal skills, who have the potential for leadership and the ability to do well in a multi-disciplinary and culturally diverse workplace. “The experience will offer them business knowledge and training needed to become future leaders. They will gain invaluable business perspectives that open up countless opportunities for personal and professional growth and also develop grit and consciousness for exceptional delivery.   Getting sugar back on recovery path     Naira slides as forex reserves drop third time     Foreign investors’appetite for Nigerian equities rises…   ”The two-year intensive experience is customised to offer a solid foundation for smart graduates. It combines classroom and practical training to equip participants with the tools and knowledge required for career success. “ He assured me that an offer of full-time employment with Eunisell is guaranteed for candidates who successfully complete the programme. The Eunisell boss added that the programme will be in three stages: First is an online application, followed by psychometric tests for qualified candidates, then an Interview. According to him, Eunisell is a well-respected leader in the energy, oil and gas industry and a trusted name that has continued to bring world-class solutions to a wide range of businesses in a vibrant and challenging African environment. “With this program we are keen to open opportunities for talents to join the company and expose them to training that develops skills and competencies. We seek dynamic talents with great energy, passion and drive, who also exhibit a high level of respect and integrity,” he noted. Eunisell is Nigeria’s foremost specialty chemicals, fluids and energy productions solutions company which has operated for over 25 years in West Africa.