The Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan area of Lagos state was agog on Sunday as politics and sports shared a common ground in honour of the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and a 2023 presidential aspirant under the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Prominent personalities, dignitaries, associates, supporters trooped out in numbers to grace the novelty football match played in commemoration of Tinubu’s 70th birthday anniversary. The match was part of a series of activities lined up to mark the birthday anniversary of Tinubu. The energetic celebrant — Tinubu to the admiration and cheers from the crowd, kicked off the game around 4:30 pm in the company of Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat; Lagos Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa; Serving and past Reps members, Commissioners, Senators, and political associates.   CBN slashes interest on intervention loans to 5%     Police to officers: Don’t demand custom papers from drivers     Aunt pokes stick in girl’s genitals over garri, fish in…   Others include Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya (MC Oluomo), Lagos White Cap Chiefs, ALGON National President, Hon. Kolade Alabi, LG/LCDAs chairmen, support groups joined Tinubu to kick-off the game. The first match was between Team Asiwaju led by Obasa, consisting of Lagos Assembly members against House of Representatives members led by a member representing Ikeja Federal Constituency, Hon. James Faleke. The ex-Super Eagles players including former Eagles’ goalkeepers — Peter Rufai, Ike Shorunmu, Dosu Joseph, Austin JJ Okocha and Nwankwo Kanu, Taribo West, Uche Okechukwu, Obafemi Martins, Tijani Babangida, played against Ex-Lagos International. Others were Victor Ikpeba, Mutiu Adepoju, Julius Aghahowa, Victor Agali, Garba Lawal and Duke Udi. Two goals scored by former Super Eagles striker Agali, gave the Eagles team victory over Ex-Lagos International in the thrilling encounter. Political supporters at the match chanted several songs in support of Tinubu’s aspiration.