The African Movie Academy Awards, (AMAA)  has partnered with one of Nigeria’s leading pay-tv companies, StarTimes, to hold a unique film festival for short films. AMAA’s founder, Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, made the announcement in Lagos, saying, “I am happy to announce a new venture in the long-term partnership between AMAA and StarTimes. The two media and television companies have partnered to grow the Nigerian and African film industry through a film festival solely for short films.” On his part, StarTimes CEO, Alex Jian, said the collaboration with AMAA is very crucial and strategic with the growing demand for quality local content by Nigerian and African film practitioners. Jian further noted that StarTimes is glad to strengthen its partnership with AMAA to bring significant impact to the Nigerian and African film industry by ensuring the growth of filmmakers and getting value for their productions. Ms Anyiam-Osigwe further shed more light on the film festival saying, “Our partnership will see short films airing from Mondays to Fridays on StarTimes leading channels like ST Nollywood plus, ST Nollywood, and ST Yoruba between 4PM and 6PM amongst other offerings.   2022 AMVCA: Larry Gaaga, others battle for N1m prize, Best…     Chocolate City’s signee, Noon Dave debuts with Brunch     Michael O: singing for Obama has been a blessing   “This partnership is big to us because it enables us to grow the short film industry in Nigeria and across Africa. We are happy that StarTimes keyed into this journey with us to give opportunities to young and existing filmmakers.” Anyiam-Osigwe also noted that the festival will also include a competition of some of the best short films registered and winners will be rewarded with cash prizes of up to six thousand Dollars. “Already, we have begun a massive call for submission of entries from filmmakers, who specialise in or have short films. Entries can be submitted between March 20, 2022, and April 14, 2022. “The festival will commence on April 25, 2022, and run for a whole month till May 25, 2022. “All films will be shown on StarTimes channels for 90 days from the start of the festival.”