In Oluwabamise Ayanwole’s fate, we relive once again, the infernal crud of the Nigerian personae. The 22-year-old hitherto barely known, scuds to the shore of national consciousness on a chthonian scallop shell, at her untimely death. Ayanwole, a tailor, went missing on February 26, 2022, after she boarded an Oshodi-bound Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) with number 240257, from Chevron Bus Stop, Lekki, en route to her sister-in-law, who was allegedly in labour. She became suspicious when the BRT driver, Nice Andrew Omininikoron,  told her to sit at the back despite being the only one in the vehicle. Ayanwole called her friend, urging her to pray for her while sharing her vehicle’s details. Her friend reportedly advised her to disembark at Oworonsoki instead of continuing to Oshodi in that circumstance. That was the last anyone heard of her. On Monday, Ayanwole was found dead, about nine days after she was declared missing. The BRT driver, Omininikoron, was subsequently arrested by the police, who have launched a manhunt for his accomplices. There is no gainsaying Ayanwole suffered a gruesome end, like a sacrificial lamb on Nigeria’s horror slab. Her fate inspires sensational headlines; its juicy content for our pagan altarpiece. Ayanwole, child, sister, friend, tailor, human, is reduced as you read, to spurious hashtags, frantic platitudes, and artifice. Soon after her body was found at the morgue of the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, her distraught sister, Titilayo, insisted, despite police rebuttals, that Ayanwole’s private part was harvested, indicating that she could have been a victim of ritual killing. At least two of her pictures shared posthumously in news reports, show her face plastered with a cheery smile. Nothing hints at the grisliness that was meted to her in the end. In death, Ayanwole dominates our thoughts and our minds’ picture planes. She rises from insignificance in our national psyche to trumpeting petrifaction in posthumous acknowledgment. Ayanwole’s macabre slaying attains resonance in the wake of ritual killings perpetrated by teenage boys seeking stupendous and sudden wealth. Although the facts of her fate suggest that she was killed by adult assailants, it reinforces widespread fears about Nigeria’s insecurity. It reestablishes the ugly realities of our contemporary value system, including the get-rich-quick syndrome afflicting most Nigerians. The inordinate quest to acquire sudden wealth, at all costs, thrives by the belief that the spirit world is the true source of material wealth. Many Nigerians believe that no one could succeed in his or her career, without securing divine blessings, first and foremost, from spiritual beings. This mindset is fed by the notion that there are certain events in life that hard work or physical strength cannot achieve except one understands and possesses some spiritual powers, according to Dr. Suleman Lazarus, a sociologist with the London School of Economics, London, United Kingdom (UK). The situation is aggravated by a loss of faith in the country’s political and socioeconomic systems. There is currently no social welfare programme that offers health care assistance, non-discriminatory entrepreneurial loans, food stamps, and unemployment compensation, among others to eligible citizenry divides. The absence of such palliatives wreaked untold havoc on the citizenry at the outbreak of COVID-19, leading to increased crime, for instance. While government intervention efforts focused on the poor, the presumed middle-class segments have lost their jobs, suffered arbitrary salary cuts, and lack of access to welfare relief.   The farce this time     Politics of the incised edge     The mirror effect   At the backdrop of these challenges, the numbers of the unemployed sky-rockets. A 2019 World Bank report shows that Nigeria created about 450,000 new jobs in 2018, partially offsetting the loss of jobs in 2017. And while over five million Nigerians entered the labour market in 2018, the number of unemployed increased by 4.9 million in 2019. More radical estimates indicate that over 18 million youths were unemployed by the end of 2019. Many more have lost their livelihoods in the wake of COVID-19. Money ritual thus flourishes in Nigeria amid widespread poverty. By the end of 2013, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) report on Nigeria’s poverty index revealed that about 61.2% of Nigerians were living on less than $1 (dollar) a day. With such a large percentage of Nigerians living in poverty, money ritual has become an escape route for the lazy. The situation is aggravated by the frantic fostering and aggressive cues from mainstream and new media. The latter projects unbridled lust and the degenerate mind mired in a grave of delusions as the new norm, while celebrating participants in the spectacle as they come into sudden wealth-based via misconduct, as the new national heroes. Treasury looters, Yahoo Boys (cybercriminals), drug barons, and their beneficiaries among musicians, actors, cross-dressers, and questionable “social influencers” are remorselessly celebrated as ingenious, proactive, and street-smart by the media, religious groups, and other sociopolitical institutions. Our level of permissiveness epitomizes a very deep cry for help, like Hoyle’s misdirected mortals, we are learning from avoidable mistakes, not from example. Ayanwole’s murderers were clearly working for a fee. They were probably motivated by the bromide: “Don’t diss the hustle.” If prosperity gospel, reality television, and motivational delusions won’t make them instant celebrities, then crime and money ritual will, as reflected in the case of Ayanwole, the Bayelsa teen ritualists: Emomotimi,15 years, Perebi, 15 years, and Eke, 15 years. The trio reportedly hypnotised and tried to use one Comfort, 13, for a money ritual. They cut her finger and sprinkled her blood on a mirror for ritual purposes, before their arrest. Lest we forget the Ogun State quartet: Wariz Oladehinde, 17,  Abdul Gafar Lukman, 19, and Mustakeem Balogun, 20, and Soliu Majekodumi, 18, who were arrested in the early hours of Saturday, January 29, for allegedly killing beheading Majekodunmi’s girlfriend, Rofiat; they were arrested while burning her severed head in a clay pot in a money ritual. On interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and led policemen to retrieve her dismembered body in an uncompleted building. From Ayanwole’s adult assailants to the Bayelsa and Ogun teen ritualists, a social crisis manifests. Their murderous lust dampens belief in the humane spirit and establishes disillusionment with the hard-earned perks of learning and honest toil. A societal pandemic has begun to occur: lost souls comprising teenagers, adults, wandering the streets of Nigeria’s major cities, day and night, like loose molecules in an unstable social fluid have begun to ignite. Our cities have become covens of immense cruelty where adults and teenagers take indulge in desperate diabolism to become rich. The interplay of materialism, toxic gender politics, and the absence of exemplary parental figures has foisted upon us a generation of ill-nurtured children, boys, and men, in particular. It’s about time Nigeria declared a national emergency on insecurity; the outlawing of terrorism, armed banditry, kidnap for ransom, and ritual killings, must be attained bite by more decisive punishments. The processes of interrogation, prosecution, and sentencing of culprits must be expedited to guarantee justice. Banks and forex dealers are major accomplices too; the government must institute legal means of freezing the accounts of Yahoo Boys among other “wealthy” citizens without a defensible means of income and punish their bankers. Security cameras and streetlights must be installed across the city’s hot spots. The police must reactivate a helpline, where concerned citizenry could report fellow citizens suspected of criminal activity. These steps, among others, must be taken immediately before things degenerate completely; and before Nigerians resort to jungle justice. The imagery of mobs laying waste to the lives and property of perceived money ritualists is anarchy we must never relive.