Outrage has trailed the alleged gruesome murder of a 22-year-old female fashion designer whose whereabouts became unknown after she boarded a Lagos State Government-owned BRT bus. The Nation learnt Bamise’s body was recovered by the policemen attached to Ebute Ero Police Station and has been deposited at the mortuary within the axis. The Nation exclusively reported the narration of how Bamise went missing after boarding a BRT bus to Oshodi around 7 pm at the Chevron bus stop in Lagos. Bamise, the last born of the family, until her death, worked as a Fashion Designer at Chevron Estate, Ajah. According to Bamise’s sister, her friend advised she alight the vehicle at Oworonsoki and not follow through to Oshodi. But Bamise never made it to the Mainland as she was allegedly thrown off the bus at Ebute Ero with her private parts missing. Many took to social media to express shock, sadness and outrage at the gloomy news.   Gunmen kill two, injure others in Anambra filling station in…     Gov Sani Bello presides over APC CECPC meeting     Nigerians will not be used as mercenaries in Russia-Ukraine…   Some others who keenly followed the turn of events have called for justice, using the hashtag #JusticeForBamise. Here are some of the reactions: Nigerian comic content creator Debo Adebayo popularly known as Mr Macaroni said: “Bamise’s story is so heartbreaking. It is even more worrisome that we don’t know how many people have suffered the same fate as her. “For all we know, there could be more to suffer the same fate and that is because it is hard to get Justice in our society.” Activist Rinu Oduala said: “Bamise was my age mate. Now, she’s no more, because she entered a BRT, a government-owned bus in Lagos. I’m sorry, Bamise. The country failed you. LAMATA must pay for this. Everyone involved must pay. She could have been anyone! #JusticeForBamise” Another social media commentator said, Timilehin Kolade said: “Bamise was killed. Bamise died in her prime. The institution of the state killed her. If BRT is not safe then where can we find safety? May her gentle, innocent and significant soul rest in peace #JusticeforBamise” Another user, Lola Okunrin said: “BRT was supposed to fade Danfo and Okada away while reducing one chance, kidnapping and robbery. Saddening that the same BRT has been compromised. Those who killed Bamise must not go scot-free. LAMATA and LBSL must not go scot-free. #JustceForBamise”