The House of Representatives yesterday said mobile telecommunications giant, MTN Nigeria, has collected about N2.6 trillion as capital allowances from the Federal Government since it started operation in Nigeria. The House is, however, demanding evidence of the assets imported by the company that earned it the huge allowances from the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Chairman of the House Committee on Public Account, Oluwole Oke, who made this known, said the House was also demanding evidence from the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment that it carried out its responsibility by inspecting the assets before issuing the certificate of capital allowance. Oke, who spoke during the investigative hearing into the audit queries issued by the Office of Auditor-General of the Federation (oAuGF) on allegations of tax evasion, said the committee was investigating possible tax evasion by various agencies and companies. He however acknowledged the communication from MTN Chief Accounting Officer, which was delivered by a delegation led by MTN’s Head, Public Affairs, Mr. Anas Galadima. The letter read in part: “We refer to your letter on the above subject matter dated March 24, 2022 inviting us to furnish the House of Representatives Public Account Committee with additional documents on or before Tuesday, March 29, 2022 and appear before the Committee on Wednesday, March 30, 2022. “We are reviewing the content of the letter and require more time. In this regard, we therefore request for your kind consideration to revert to the committee on April, with our position.” Expressing concern over the misgivings trailing the investigative hearing on tax evasion, Oke assured MTN and others that the Committee had no intention to witch-hunt anybody. He said: “Let me state very clearly why we invited MTN. We invited MTN based on the infractions spotted by the office of the Auditor-General of the Federation on non-presentation, evaluation of certificates of acceptance of capital allowances. That is the query issued by the Auditor-General of the Federation.”   “If you are not a financial person, you may not know or understand the implications. I want to clear this so that there is no ambiguity over the presentation in any medium-media platform.   Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike     OPEC unable to make up for 7mb/d Russia sanction     Firm pushes for financial inclusion   “We are investigating tax evasion. We are investigating tax evasion; tax evasion is possible through abuse of fiscal regulations. The committee has not come to conclusion to say that MTN has evaded payment of taxes. “But what we are investigating is based on the query raised by the Auditor-General. When Federal Ministry of Industry came here with MTN, initially when we wrote MTN, there was argument whether they should appear or not, or whether they are being investigated or not. “But we can’t shave their head in their absence. The nexus between MTN and the Committee has to do with revenue; taxes which is a civic duty that every tax payer be it individual or corporate person should meet. “So, the Ministry of Industry came here, made submission. MTN also made submissions; they have claimed total capital allowances from inception to date up to N2.6 trillion. “So, the question we are asking Federal Ministry of Industry is to produce records, evidence that they inspected their (MTN) assets based on which they issued the certificates, which MTN has taken to FIRS to secure tax rebate. ‘It is expected of the Industry (Federal Ministry of Industry) to have inspected the assets before they issue the certificates. If the Ministry is in default, then we might be thinking of collusion between the beneficiary of the certificate and Federal Ministry of Industry which will amount to undermining Nigeria; which will amount to loss of revenue. But the Bible says: ‘Examine all things and hold on to the truth’. “And as I said earlier, when you first appeared, we are not witch-hunting any person. We speak to law, we speak to facts; we speak to issues. And that’s why I’m making this clarification. So the angle that concerns MTN is that we are trying to extract evidence from you to justify the certificates that you have been issued because you are the beneficiary and we asked if the assets were indeed inspected. “We also asked for proof, the dates because you can’t enter MTN premises without records. The assets claimed by MTN can be categorised into two: you have the local content and you have the foreign content. We have written the Nigeria Customs to give us records of the imports, the assets imported by MTN and proof of Duty payment because if they (MTN) don’t pay the Duty as expected, it also amount to loss of revenue to the Federation. “We also asked Industry (Federal Ministry of Industry) to show proof of the evidence of inspecting the assets of MTN. Now, they have written to ask for another date, they are not here. So they are to come here and show us, lay before this Parliament evidence, proof that they indeed inspected the assets of MTN before issuing the certificates to the tune of N2.6 trillion. “So that is the stage we are and MTN has written a letter that they should be given more time to compile their record. Fair hearing is a constitutional gift, right, so even though the date you are asking for, April 21st is far in our opinion, but honestly for justice, for equity, for fairness, we will accede to your request.”