IZUATA: My name is Izuata, a retired Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). I was paid a pitiable lump sum while another amount was left in my account. Yet, junior officers who went to PenCom’s office were paid higher than I. I am bedridden.That is why I am using this forum to appeal to the PenCom management to pay my accrued sum to enable me build a house for my children. PENCOM: Please be informed that your retirement benefits, which include your lumpsum and monthly pension, were computed based on your RSA balance as at February 2012. Please be informed that the RSA balance is for pension. BROWN: Good day, I am D.S.C. Ukeje. I have been going to Stanbic IBTC to get my 7.5 to 10 per cent increase, which was okayed by Mr. President,  for pensioners. Stanbic IBTC has refused to give us the money. We plead with PenCom to pressurise it to pay us. Even the Nigerian Custom Service (NSC), where we retired from in 2016 has forgotten us. Worse still, our rank mates who are still in service are well paid. If this money is not paid, we will take the law into our hands during a visit to the company. PENCOM: Please forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as well as other vital information to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. AJALA: Greetings to the Director-General of PenCom and staff of The Nation. My name is Ajala, a para-military officer. I retired in June 2009. My Pension Fund Administrator is Sigma Pension. My complaint is about the non-payment of the 2.5 per cent increase in pension approved by the Federal Governmnet and the arrears. TAYO: Good Day, my name is Tayo. My late mother had two RSA PIN numbers with two different pension managers with funds in each account. How do I go about processing her benefits? Kindly help. EKPE: My name is Ekpe. I retired from the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in 2015. My complaint is: On August 2021, I received a message from NPF Pensions that my 2.5 per cent shortfall on pensions approved for federal retirees by Mr. President was credited to my RSA account. Then I moved to my PFA (Premium) to confirm it. They said there was nothing like that in my account. They advised me to apply to NPF Pensions where I got the information to transfer the said amount to my PFA. This was done on October 20, last year and copied Premium Pensions and PenCom for neccessary action.   Recapitalisation: Over 90 per cent of firms may cross hurdle     CBN disburses over N3tr to revive economy     Combustible combination   To my dismay, I discovered that the money was received by them as far back as July, last year. Yet, up till this moment, I have not  heard from them concerning payment, even though a template was issued by PenCom. The most annoying thing is the  deduction of their administrative fee on receiving the money into their account and denied me payment. They forgot that this fee is deducted  monthly when the pension is paid. Kindly use your good offices to instruct Premium Pensions to refund this deduction no matter how small and pay retirees. Thank you. OTI: My complaint is against the IEI Anchor Pension Managers Limited. I am a former staff member of Skye Bank Plc, which service I left in December 2009. I applied for my accrued benefit of 25 per cent since November, last year. Up till now, no response from them. My letter of non-indebtedness was sent to them from my former employer since January 19, this year. I am in Calabar but their Calabar office manager refuses to pick my calls or talk to me. I have health challenges and I need the money to go for surgery. Please, use your good offices to order IEI Anchor Pension Managers Limited to pay my 25 per cent which I started processing since last year. LADIPO: Dear Omobola, I refer to  a report entitled: “Allow workers to use pension savings for home ownership”. It stated that we should beware of a selfish and destructive move to enact a law that will allow workers who have spent 15 years in service to access their pension accounts and use such to acquire houses. The Nation, March 14, Page 23 notes that the government is augmenting pension savings for aged/retired workers not to die in hunger and as paupers. Houses so acquired tie down pension savings and they can easily be sold or re-purchased. While such unfortunate pensioners had been lured. What is PenCom’s position about this? ANNONYMOUS: Last year, l applied for the payment of additional lumpsum of 2.5 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent increases okayed by the President for federal pensioners. Surprisingly, nothing has been done to that effect and my PFA, Premium Pension, is not treating us well. They send us messages that we should come and sign an empty template which they have not reflected with any addition. What is the importance of signing the template? I am a retired police officer. Is it a crime to be a police officer in this country? We suffered for this country so Premium Pension should pay us our arrears of 2.5 per cent and others. MRS. DANLADI: Greetings. I am a retiree of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, Lagos. My complaint is about those of us who retired in June, last year. When are we expected to be paid our lumpsum by our PFAs? THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, Ajala, Tayo, Ekpe, Oti, Ladipo and Mrs Danladi should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom.