Northern governors, the Senate and House of Representatives yesterday expressed shock over the attack by terrorists on a Kaduna-bound train. While the Senate called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a full-scale war on terrorists, the House summoned  Minister of Defence Bashir Magashi;  Chief of Defence Staff Lucky Irabor;  the National Security Adviser Babagana Monguno and the Service Chiefs. Also to appear before the lawmakers are Minister of  Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, his   Aviation counterpart, Hadi Sirika;   Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority(NCAA), Musa Nuhu and  Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria(FAAN)   Rabiu Yadudu. Managing Director, Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Mathew Pwajok; and General Manager, Nigerian Railway Corporation, Fidel Okhiria were also summoned by the House. The Northern Senators caucus in the Senate, the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) presidential aspirant, Peter Obi and an activist, Nelson Ekujumi, also condemned the attack and challenged the security agencies to put a stop the insecurity in the country. They condoled the families of those that lost their lives and wished the survivors a quick recovery.   *Senate to Buhari: Declare   war  on terrorists During its plenary yesterday, the  Senate said it was time for the President to declare a full scale on terrorists. It also asked the Army and Airforce to carry out a sustained bombardment of terrorist enclaves in a bid to flush them out and ensure peace and stability in the affected communities. Senator Uba Sani, who moved a motion to discuss the Monday incident,  noted that terrorists have stepped up attacks in some communities and public facilities in Kaduna State. Senator Gabriel Suswam said the attack on the train was a pointer to the failure of leadership in the country. “It is time enough for the appropriate authority to have taken decisive actions to address the security in our country. This is high time that we as a Senate meet with the leadership of this country to sit down and talk,” Suswam added. The Senate consequently asked the Army and Airforce to carry out a sustained bombardment of the terrorist enclaves in a bid to flush them out and ensure peace and stability in the affected communities.   *Gbajabiamila: My spirit is wounded In the House of Representatives, Speaker. Femi Gbajabiamila said that his spirit was wounded as a result of the attack. “My spirit is wounded by this tragic attack. And my heart goes out to the families who are now living through an experience that no one should ever endure,” he said in a statement by his Special Adviaer on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi. Gbajabiamila condoled the families of the dead and prayed for the quick recovery of the injured. Challenging the security agencies to rescue all the kidnapped passengers, the Speaker said the losses to insecurity in the last two decades must end.   *We are distressed, say Northern governors In  a statement  from Jos, the Plateau State capital, the  Northern governors, said they were  distressed  by  “the unfortunate attack on innocent commuters by terrorists who have demonstrated total disregard for human lives and compassion.” They commended the security agencies  for their “quick intervention which prevented further escalation of the incident.” The governors also  said they were working with the Federal Government and Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State to ensure that the   recent attacks especially on Kaduna communities were  dealt with decisively   8 dead, 41 injured, many still missing in train attack     VIDEO: Fans rampage after Super Eagles lose world cup ticket     Nigeria crash out of 2022 World Cup play-offs   The statement was issued by Makut   Macham,  spokesman for the  Northern Governors’ Forum Chairman,   Simon  Lalong. Senators from the North also expressed shock over the train attack and challenged the military to re-strategise in order to curtail the security situation in the country, especially Northwest. “It is devastating hearing about the outrageous attack which was brought to the fore, yet again, the nature of the problem we are dealing with,” they said in a statement by their Chairman,   Aliyu  Wamakko.   *Obi, activist react  A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  presidential  aspirant   Peter Obi, also described as “shocking “ the recent terror attacks on the Kaduna International Airport and train Obi, in a statement by his Media Office, in Abuja, condemned what he described as the worsening level of insecurity across the country, describing it as depressing and disheartening.   UN to terrorists: release hostages   United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has condemned the attack on an Abuja- Kaduna passenger train Guterres, in a statement yesterday, extended his heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims, wished a prompt recovery to the wounded, and called for the immediate release of those abducted. The secretary-general urged the Nigerian authorities to spare no effort in bringing those responsible for the crimes to justice in the country. He reaffirmed the solidarity and support of the UN  to the Federal Government and   Nigerian in their fight against terrorism, violent extremism  and organised crimes.. Guterres also flayed  the attack  on the Kaduna International Airport on Saturday. He  said that the terror attacks in Kaduna and in other parts of the country had become worrisome and should serve as a wake-up call to the government to beef up the country’s security architecture Also, Ekujumi described the attacks on the Kaduna-bound train and the  Kaduna International Airport as regrettable. He said: “As we painfully ruminate over the two incidents, one must sincerely appreciate and commend the security agenies for their timely response to both attacks. “As we ponder over these two attacks which are regrettable, one can only wish the security agencies have taken some lessons from the new modus operandi of the terrorists.”   *Attack is callous, unacceptable, say  NIPR The   Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) and PDP in Kaduna State flayed the bombing of the train as callous, unfortunate and unacceptable. NIPR and PDP in their separate statements said, no group should be allowed to continuously subject Nigerians to terror and get away with it. They however called on the security agencies to re-strategise and get on top of the situation rather than wait to react. NIPR, in the statement by its President, Mukhtar Sirajo, said, “The attack, which was followed by deaths injury to, and abduction of yet unspecified number of passengers is not only unfortunate and unacceptable but also a sad reminder of the descent into the abyss that security situation, especially in that part of the country, has fallen. “Nobody or group has the right to continuously subject people to this kind of reign of terror, dehumanising them and seemingly getting away with it.”. The  PDP said  in a statement by its Kaduna State Chairman, Felix Hyet,  that, “the speed at which bandits and terrorists are taking over communities, highways, and most recently, the airport and railway is unprecedented in the history of Kaduna State.”