England has reportedly joined the four-way race for Michael Olise’s international future with Nigeria and two others. The Crystal Palace wonderkid might be on his way to star for the Three Lions after reports emerged that England’s manager Gareth Southgate is very keen on the 20 year-old joining their national football setup. According to sources, the English FA recently held talks with the Chelsea academy product to see if he would commit his international future to England, instead of Nigeria, France and Algeria, where he has roots. Born in England to a Nigerian father and a French-Algerian mother, Olise is eligible to play for any of the four countries but it seems he is more likely to stay on with the French setup, having represented them at Under 18 level.   Women’s T20 tourney, litmus test for Nigeria, Obalola says     And Tiger wept! Woods breaks down after induction into…     Uysk: Joshua makes Wilder No1 choice in four-man shortlist   His last appearance for France Under 18s came three years ago and last March he was named by former Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr on the standby list for two Africa Cup of Nations qualifying matches, but did not join up with the squad. In just half a season at Palace since signing from Reading last summer, Olise has had a major impact — making 21 Premier League appearances and attracting interest from clubs all over Europe. But a source within the rank and file of the Super Eagles coaching has informed that Olise is not yet in the picture of the national team selectors until after the decisive Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off ties against the Black Stars of Ghana later this month. “ One thing first; and I think we are only looking at the World Cup qualification ticket first,” an official told NationSport on condition of anonymity.“ But has Olise himself show interest to play for Nigeria? “ If it’s meant to be, it will because once we qualify for the World Cup, it would be a big attraction for so many Nigerians including those in the Diaspora to play for super Eagles,” he added.