Nigerian businesses are taking up the challenge to grow their enterprises and contribute to the development of in-country capacities and capabilities, the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote, has said. Wabote made this known at the inauguration of TAG Energy Limited Valve Service Center in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. TAG Energy Limited is an integrated service company offering a comprehensive range of oilfield products and services in the Nigerian oil & gas industry. “TAG Energy has continued to streamline its services into three major areas namely, Flange Management Services, Valve Maintenance & Assembling, and Inspection, Repair and Maintenance (IRM) to provide much-needed support to its customer base, helping them to achieve optimal performance and maximise operational efficiency,” Wabote said. According to him, initiatives like this will continue to boost the goal of NCDMB achieving 70 per cent Nigerian content in the oil and gas industry. The NCDMB boss, who expressed satisfaction with the commissioning of facility, said Nigerian oil & gas service companies play very crucial roles in the provision of services for the sustenance and growth of the oil and gas industry. According to him, “We currently have about 8,500 service companies registered in the NCDMB NOGIC-JQS portal, offering diverse services including engineering, fabrication, procurement, drilling services, logistics, and exploration.   Egbin Power inducts 30 trainee engineers     As diesel cost soars     Fossil fuel, greener energy challenge   “Others are Seismic services, installation and commissioning, inspection and testing, project management, finance, and insurance, and many others as listed in the schedule of NOGICD Act (2010). “In the year 2021 alone, 1,299 oil and gas service providers registered on our NOGIC-JQS platform in a remarkable rebound from the COVID-19 pandemic downturn. “We are here today to celebrate the achievement of one of the resilient companies offering some of these services to the industry and is slowly and steadily making its mark in the provision of top-notch services to a diverse clientele in the oil and gas industry.” The CEO of TAG Energy Limited, Mr. Yemi Gbadamosi, said the launch of the new Valve Service Centre in Port Harcourt would serve as a training center for young Nigerians who suffer more of the negative impact of the exploration and production activities. His words: “Our investments in this modest facility is not only to provide premium services to our clients, but also to serve as a training center for young Nigerians especially those from our host communities who suffer more of the negative impact of the exploration and production activities. “This new facility will produce valves not only for the local markets, but also for exports, especially within the African continent. Our research has shown that demands will remain steady for a long time to come especially from countries such as Egypt, Uganda, Angola, Mozambique, and South Africa,” he explained.