Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has appealed directly to Russian soldiers to surrender in his latest video address. In a video posted early on Telegram early Tuesday, Zelensky told the invading forces to surrender and have a chance to live. He said: “On behalf of the Ukrainian people, we give you a chance, a chance to survive. According to the translation provided with the video, Zelenskyy said: “If you surrender to our forces, we will treat you as people are supposed to be treated, as people, decently. Somehow you weren’t treated in your army. And somehow your army doesn’t treat ours.” He added that his country’s fighters continue to resist the invasion and have inflicted significant damage on the Russian army. “You have it all figured out already. You won’t take anything from Ukraine. You will take lives. There’s a lot of you. But your life will also be taken. But why should you die? Why? I know you want to survive,” he said.   Syrian War: UN says children still bear deep scars after 11…     Ukraine: Kyiv Mayor to impose curfew as Russia steps up…     Ukraine: Residents protest in Russian-occupied cities   He added that the Russian forces will face a new trial for committing war crimes. “Responsibility for the Russian military’s war crimes is inevitable,” Zelenskyy warned. “Responsibility for a deliberate humanitarian disaster in Ukrainian cities is inevitable.” Zelenskyy also pleaded with ordinary Russians to continue to resist Russian President Vladimir Putin’s disinformation campaign. State media in Russia used the term “special military operation” instead of “war” to describe the fighting and falsely claim Ukraine is ruled by neo-Nazis, according to the BBC. Zelenskyy made a special mention of Marina Ovsyannikov, the TV editor who stormed the Channel One news set with a poster saying, “Stop the war. Don’t believe the propaganda. They lie to you,” in Russian. “Until your country has completely closed itself off from the whole world, turning into a very big North Korea, you have to fight. You must not lose your chance,” he said.