The represented female possibilities in a male-dominated world. On her way to becoming the first female vice-chancellor of a Nigerian university, she set striking records as the first Nigerian woman to earn a doctorate, and the first Nigerian female professor of mathematics education. “The excitement I felt on receiving the news had more to do with seeing it in terms of opening up the field for women than anything else,” she said of her historic appointment as vice-chancellor. “I saw it as an opportunity to show that women too could rise to the occasion. Also, I knew what the weight of the expectations of the women was. They were eager to see how things would go, and I was not going to let them down. “Mind you, those who appointed me felt I was qualified for it. So, it was not just a case of wanting to satisfy the yearnings of the womenfolk. It wasn’t that simplistic.” Prof. Grace Alele-Williams, who died on March 25, at the age of 89, left a legacy of distinction. Her accomplishments in academia are inspirational, and continue to inspire females in particular struggling to excel in a patriarchal world. With a degree in mathematics from the then University College Ibadan, in 1954, she taught the subject at Queen’s School, Ede,  in present-day Osun State, before earning a master’s degree from the University of Vermont, USA, in 1959. She received a doctorate from the University of Chicago, Illinois, USA, in 1963. Her dissertation was titled ‘Dynamics of education in the birth of a new nation: Case study of Nigeria.’ Born in Warri, in present-day Delta State, she understandably took female education seriously because she had benefitted from education herself.  She was particularly interested in enabling female African students to study science and technology courses. This showed that she was forward-looking.   Beyond Abba Kyari     Be a man     Not enough   After a stint at the University of Ibadan, she taught at the University of Lagos from 1965 to 1985.  In 1976, she became a professor of mathematics at the university, where she headed the institute of education for a decade. Under her, the institute notably introduced innovative non-degree programmes for the benefit of mature women working as elementary school teachers. As a mathematician, she was noted for her participation in the Entebbe Mathematics Project, from 1963 to 1975, involving Africans, Europeans and Americans, which produced mathematics texts that were good enough for use anywhere in the world. Her roles as chairman of the curriculum review committee, former Bendel State, 1973 to 1979, and chairman of the Lagos State curriculum review committee and Lagos State Examinations Board, 1979 to 1985, were testimonies to her worth as an educationist. When Alele-Williams became vice-chancellor of the University of Benin in 1985, it was a great opportunity to demonstrate her capability in higher education management.  She held the position until 1992. During her tenure, she, in her words, “dealt with” cultism at the university, which had become notorious for cult activities. She was an unlikely anti-cult fighter perhaps because she was a woman, but she showed that she had a tough side. She had a famous fight with a set of lecturers who eventually left the campus. It was a sore point not only in the university’s history but the story of Nigerian education. Her noteworthy services to education included membership of the governing council, UNESCO Institute of Education, consultant to UNESCO and Institute of International Education Planning, vice-president of the World Organisation for Early Childhood Education and later president of the Nigeria chapter, first president of the African Mathematical Union Commission on Women in Mathematics, and regional vice-president for Africa of the Third World Organisation for Women in Science. A recipient of the Nigerian national honour, Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON), in 1987, she was  a Fellow of the Mathematical Association of Nigeria and the Nigerian Academy of Education. The country’s ultimate tribute to her may well have been the Centenary Award in 2014.  She was among the 100 recipients of the award, “a special recognition of unique contributions of Nigerians to the socio-cultural, economic and political development of the country in the last 100 years.” It was a grand statement on her impact.