For the third consecutive year, Union Bank and its employees have celebrated their Employee Volunteer Day (EV Day) with  donations and projects aimed at improving the lives. EV Day is an employee-funded initiative that gives the bank and its employees the opportunity to give back to the community through various projects. The bank’s Chief Executive Officer, Emeka Okonkwo, said: “Union Bank is known for leading the charge for social impact. The theme for this EV Day tagged ‘It Starts with You’ is a necessary reminder of the role each of us must play as individuals in upholding and driving sustainable impact in the communities we serve. I am so inspired by Team Union and incredibly fortunate to work with colleagues that prioritises our vision of community development and corporate citizenship.” Also, the Chief Brand and Marketing Officer, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, added: “Employee Volunteer Day is an initiative that is very close to my heart. Since 2019, we have executed projects in 30 locations across the country impacting over 300,000 lives. I am grateful to every employee that has donated to the successful execution of these projects.”   Interswitch seeks biometric adoption to tackle e-fraud     Russia-Ukraine: Nigerian banks not under any major risk,…     Concerns over further increase in food prices   Three projects were inaugurated in the Southwest. Bolade Jegede, Regional Executive for Southwest, led Union Bank volunteers to the Island Maternity Hospital, Lagos to donate medical equipment to the Neonatal Unit. In the Southeast region, eight projects were implemented across various states. Rosemary David-Etim, Regional Executive of the region, led  over 100 employee volunteers to inaugurate the renovated toilet facility at Comprehensive Secondary School, Owerri, the Imo State capital. Nine projects were also inaugurated  in the North. The Regional Executive Fatai Baruwa, represented by Helen Okene, and other UBN Employee Volunteers carried out sanitation in Dei-Dei market, Abuja and donated waste bins to the traders. The workers donated N2 million to COPE for breast and prostate cancer screening for 200 underprivileged, food to orphanage homes, built boreholes, and traffic box to the traffic control unit of the Police Force and renovated schools. The EV Day was introduced by the staff members in 2019 when it targeted 15 locations across the country with over 1,200 employees participating with their family and friends.