Movie stars Toyin Abraham, Mercy Aigbe and several others have joined hands to seek financial assistance for their ailing colleague, Kemi Afolabi. Afolabi recently revealed she was diagnosed with an ‘incurable’ ailment, which has drained her financially, emotionally and physically. The actress, in an exclusive interview, said she has lupus, an incurable condition for which a doctor said she has five more years to live adding, she has lived one of the five years. Colleagues, fans and well-wishers have been offering prayers, words of encouragement and support to Afolabi since the disclosure. Former presidential aide Dr. Doyin Okupe in an open letter also gave hope to the ailing actress. Toyin Abraham shared a short video of Afolabi appreciating everyone for all their prayers, words of encouragement and all forms of support.   Ossai Osnanebi gifts wife 2022 Maserati on birthday     God punish me if I fail Nigerians- Yul Edochie     Marriage scares me, says Mr Macaroni   She wrote: “Please fam if you noticed I stop doing this a long time ago but this I have to do for my friend, sister and colleague @kemiafolabiadesipe. Please kindly support us by clicking the link in my bio for the go fund acct or you can use the Nigeria account below 0691762305 – GTB. AFOLABI OLUWAKEMI .A. She added: “Please click the link in my bio for the go fund account. Thank you so much and much love.” Mercy Aigbe, sharing the same video, wrote: “Hello everyone, we need your help, Kemi needs your help and support. She is my very good friend, sister and colleague @kemiafolabiadesipe. Please kindly support us by clicking the link in my bio for the go fund acct or you can use the Nigeria account below. “0691762305 – GTB. AFOLABI OLUWAKEMI .A. “Please click the link in my bio for the go fund account. Thank you so much and God bless you.” Other movie practitioners like Mide Martins, Afeez Owo, Yomi Fabiyi, Wumi Toriola, Bisola Badmus and Tayo Odueke aka Sikiratu Sindodo also shared the same video and caption as Mercy Aigbe’s.