Super Eagles’ interim technical adviser Augustine Eguavoen said it was not entire decision to list Ogenyi Onazi for the crucial Qatar 2022 World Cup Playoffs against Ghana later in the month. The Super Eagles list released last Friday for the double header with the Black Stars of Ghana, has been met with mixed reactions amid Onazi’s recall into the national team setup. The Al-Adalah FC midfielder was recalled to the Super Eagles, almost four years since his last call up, albeit on standby and the decision has generated comments, most of which are in criticism of the decision. Onazi, once a key man in the Super Eagles and an Africa Cup of Nations winner in 2013, has not featured for the national side since the 3-0 victory over the Seychelles at the Stade Linité in September 2018. He had since played in different countries including Denmark and Lithuania before moving to the Saudi Pro League 2.   Egypt vs. Senegal: Queiroz issues clarion call to Salah,…     WORLD CUP PLAYOFFS: Brentford celebrate Onyeka’s…     Super Eagles: Udeze, Siasia knock Eguavoen   But Eguavoen during a media parley on Sunday in Lagos, said he included the former Lazio star on standby to pacify some Nigeria football stakeholders who had been clamouring for the 29-year-old’s return but the final decision on who makes the final list rests solely on him (Eguavoen). “Onazi, good player. Whether he’s still good and can play at that level, we don’t know. But that’s why I said to pacify everybody, to ensure there’s harmony here, put him on the standby. While he’s on the standby, I have the final say.” Meanwhile, the player in the eye of the storm has claimed he wasn’t caught unawares with his Super Eagles call-up. The former Trabzonspor and Denizlispor midfielder said his invitation was due to his experience and the crucial nature of the fixture against Ghana. “It is not a surprise for me because I am still playing and I am ready to play anytime and when it comes to the national team, I’m always at the service of the nation – to always give my best for the country,” Onazi said.