The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Nigeria Office has lauded the Lagos State Government for sponsoring the professional training of over 800 accountants in its employment as International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) Certified Practitioners. It also honoured Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu; his Commissioner for Finance Dr. Rabiu Olowo; Accountant-General Dr Muritala Abiodun and others for their contributions to the development of professional accountancy. The honours were bestowed on the Governor and others at the ACCA Recognition Ceremony over the weekend at Alausa, Ikeja, Olowo, while responding to the event, noted that the investment in capacity development of the accountants was owing to the state government’s determination to standardise the state finance and accounting processes to meet the best global practices. According to the commissioner, the acknowledgment by ACCA attests to the state government’s continuous training, education and capacity-building for its workers. Reiterating the commitment of the state government to capacity training for employees, Olowo said the state is ahead of other states in the area of IPSAS compliance.   ‘We see Nigeria as a good place to invest’     AMCON recovers N1tr from debtors     CBN disburses over N3tr to revive economy   He maintained that the performance assessment of government relies mainly on an effective PFM. Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Jibola Ponnle, received Sanwo-Olu’s Special Recognition Award, which was presented by the Head of ACCA, Nigeria, Tom Isibor She thanked the leadership of ACCA for recognising what the state government is doing development of accounting and finance. According to her, the governor is committed to the capacity development of its workforce. Since the inception of the Sanwo-Olu administration, she said, the government is positively disposed to the various innovations introduced by the Ministry of Establishments Training and Pensions for the capacity development of the state public servants. Accountant-General and Permanent Secretary, State Treasury Office (STO) Dr. Abiodun Muritala noted that the state government had since embraced paperless transactions with significant improvement noticeable in the way and manner government finances are managed. He emphasised the need for Public Finance Management to evolve such that the state government can easily respond quickly, effectively, and transparently to emergencies and during crises in view of the experience garnered during the onset of COVID-19.