Brentford FC are delighted with the call up handed over to their midfielder, Frank Onyeka in the provisional Super Eagles list for the 2022 FIFA World Cup playoffs against the Black Stars of Ghana slated for March 25th and 29th in Accra and Abuja respectively. “Brentford midfield player Frank Onyeka has been named in a provisional Nigeria squad for two vital matches later this month. Nigeria play Ghana in a two-legged FIFA World Cup qualification Play-Off tie. They have named a provisional 30-man squad for the matches, which includes Frank,” Brentford FC wrote on their website. “The final stage of qualification for the World Cup for African nations take place this month. Ten teams have been drawn to play two-legged ties with five winners reaching the tournament, which will take place in Qatar at the end of the year. Nigeria will face Ghana in one of those ties. “The first leg of the tie will be played in Ghana on Friday 25 March. The second leg will take place on Tuesday 29 March, in Nigeria. The final squad for the tie will be announced by Nigeria later this month.   Egypt vs. Senegal: Queiroz issues clarion call to Salah,…     Super Eagles: Udeze, Siasia knock Eguavoen     Falcons’ Plumptre listed for PFA Fans award   “Frank has five caps for Nigeria. He earned this fifth in the Africa Cup of Nations at the start of the year. Nigeria were knocked out of the tournament, held in Cameroon and won by Senegal, in the Second Round stage by Tunisia. “Frank has earned four of his five caps since he joined Brentford last summer. When he played for Nigeria in October, Frank became the 50th Brentford player to have won a full international cap. “The midfielder has had regular involvement for The Bees in the Premier League this season and has been in every matchday squad either side of the tournament. He has 19 Premier League appearances, with 12 coming from the start. Frank has made 23 appearances in all competitions since joining from FC Midtjylland in the summer and contributed two assists.” Onyeka returned to Brentford team in the 59th minute of their last weekend 3-1 win at Norwich City after he sat on the bench since their 2-0 loss to Manchester City last month.