The joint effort by the Federal Competition Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) to rid the country of illegal digital loan companies is a welcome development. Sadly, while many Nigerians have fallen victim to the nefarious activities of these charlatans who use digital technology to operate with neither license nor borders, it is not too late to rein in the operators and save Nigerians who are already assailed by harsh economic conditions. Speaking to newsmen after a raid on the offices of some illegal digital loan companies, the FCCPC boss, Babatunde Irukera, said: “We found out that most of these companies operate from the same place. We also found out that many of them are actually operated by the same person. They are not Nigerian companies, they don’t have an address in Nigeria and they are not registered in Nigeria with the Corporate Affairs Commission and they do not have any licence to do their business” Mr Irukera noted that the agencies in partnership have been on the trail of these companies operating illegally since 2020. According to him, “This information started quite a while ago. Some time ago, when the country was on lockdown in 2020 due to the pandemic, we started seeing the rise in money lenders.” Of course, the laws of our country recognise the business of money lenders, but there are laws and regulations guiding their operations, unlike the companies described by the FCCPC boss. The list of companies accused of the alleged unethical practices include, GoCash, OKash, EasyCredit, Kashkash, Speedy Choice, Easy Moni, and Sokoloan. They all operate online, on Apple and Google Play Store, with physical offices in Lagos. According to the FCCPC boss, the list is not exhaustive of those engaged in the practice and he urges the public to be vigilant. In one of the media reports, there is also a claim that the officers who raided the companies received bribes and allowed the companies to return to their nefarious activities.   A dangerous precedent     WAEC at 70     Power paralysis   Apart from being allegedly illegal, the companies also engage in unethical practices. The commonest of their shenanigans is their recovery tactics. Those who have borrowed money from them usually have horrible tales to tell. One of their strong arm tactics is to harass and intimidate relations, friends or even strangers remotely connected to their defaulters. Even when their victims may not be aware of the loan given to the defaulters, they usually send very uncomplimentary messages about the defaulters to them, inundating them to pay the loans they gave to the defaulters. Apart from shredding the reputation of their customers in their effort to recover the outstanding loans, they make life miserable for third-parties who they claim to be guarantors of the outstanding loan facility. In many instances, those who are called to pay the loan are persons who are not even aware of the loan facility, how much more being guarantors of it. Since the companies are operating remotely, they freely engage in harassment, cyberbullying and other sundry abuses, without consequences. We hope the combined efforts of the Federal Government agencies would be sustained and expanded to rid the society of the illegal operators. Of course, having quick access to cash can be lifesaving, but it must be regulated. We also appreciate that severe economic challenges have contributed to the rise in the activities of these providers, and the resort to them by members of the society when in need. All said, since the services they provide are useful to the society, government should regulate their activities and ensure that they operate in accordance with the laws of the land.