The death of Dr. Megafu Nwando Chinelo, who boarded the attacked Kaduna-bound train with hundreds of passengers, has elicited flurry of reactions. Her death with some other identified victims sparked outrage especially on social media. The Nation learnt Chinelo died from the wounds she sustained in the deadly attack. One of Chinelo’s colleagues confirmed her death. In the now-viral image seen by The Nation, Chinelo was seen in the pool of her blood. According to her friends, she worked at St Gerald’s hospital in Kaduna and resigned in February because she was planning to relocate abroad. The University of Port Harcourt-trained Dental Surgeon had planned to relocate aboard on Friday. The Nation reports the Kaduna-bound train with an unspecified number of passengers was on Monday night attacked by terrorists. The train, which left Abuja around 6 pm, was attacked between Katari and Rijana.   Nigeria vs Ghana: Seven things to expect in Qatar 2022…     11 things you probably didn’t know about new Soun of…     Train Attack: Family members apprehensive over where-about…   Many passengers were injured. The gunmen were said to have blown up the rail track, forcing the 1000-capacity train to derail around Rijana, a village on the rail corridor in Kaduna. Chinelo in a terse tweet during the attack said: “I’m in the train. I have been shot please pray for me.” Her terse tweet generated mixed reactions. Many trolled her while some expressed emphathy hoping she would make it alive. Reacting, a colleague on Twitter @Stephadamu said: “Dr Chinelo was making an honest living, she was working at St Gerald’s hospital in Kaduna, she wanted more for herself and processed her papers to leave this hell-hole. She resigned last month to leave the country this Friday then this happened. Nigeria why??” Popular skitmaker maker, Mr Macaroni said: “Those same set of people that attacked the late Chinelo are the same set that attacked and trolled me when the police brutalized me. These are sycophants who are loyal only to their political gods. They care not for this country and have no conscience whatsoever left in them.” Another user, @the_beardedsina said: “Let it be known today that Dr Megafu Chinelo, a Medical Doctor in Nigeria was killed due to the failure of the government to adequately protect its citizens. We won’t forget. #RIPDRCHINELO” Samuel Otigba tweeted: “All Dr Chinelo asked for was a prayer in her final moments. She didn’t ask for money to be treated, she didn’t ask to be rescued, she didn’t criticise the government in their failing moment to protect her citizens, all she wanted was a miracle to live and Nigeria(ns) failed her.”