An ominous cloud hangs over the future of multitude of kid survivors of Boko Haram and other terrorist attacks in the northern parts of the country. Many years after they fled their various communities, a large percentage of the children have not returned to school while those who had not seen the four walls of the classroom are yet to start school. The high rate of mortality, hunger and starvation in their rank has forced many of them to become breadwinners who have to hustle to fend for their dependants, INNOCENT DURU reports. Mariam Fulani, a 13-year-old girl, savoured the joy of family life from birth as she got all the attention and affection she needed from her parents and siblings. Life was so smooth that she developed a desire to become a medical doctor at an early age. In this, she had the backing of her parents, especially her father, who promised to train her to any level of education she desired. But while she was still basking in the euphoria of her parents’ assurances, members of the deadly Boko Haram sect struck and wreaked unimaginable havoc. “They killed my parents, brother and sister and I am now an orphan,” she said. Mariam, who said they were indigenes of Katsina State residing in Borno State before the attacks, added that she witnessed the gruesome murder of her parents and siblings and that has left an indelible scar in her memory. After the horrendous experience, she joined other survivors to flee to Bauchi State in search of refuge. More than five years of living as an internally displaced person in Bauchi, Mariam’s dream of going to school remains a mirage. It has been more of a survival battle for her and her peers as they engage in street trading daily to survive. In spite of this, the desire to go back to school still reverberates in Mariam’s heart. “I am out of school but I wish to go back,” she said through an interpreter. “I sell akara for a living. I want to be a medical doctor if I have the opportunity of going to school.” According to the statistics released by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Nigeria has a total of 10.5 million children out of school with more than 300,000 children killed in the North-East.  UNICEF and European Union (EU) said last year that no fewer than 2,295 teachers had lost their lives while 1,400 schools were destroyed in North-East Nigeria since 2009 as a result of insurgency. For more than a decade, there has been no respite for pupils and the educational institutions in the region. The predicament of Mariam and thousands of other IDPs is worsened by the fact that they are living in the host communities and not in a camp where government officials see to the needs of the inmates. Abdusalam, a 14-year-old boy, was in primary two when his parents fled Borno State to settle in Bauchi following the activities of the insurgents. He hasn’t seen the four walls of a classroom thereafter as his parents lack the wherewithal to send him to school.  He has since resorted to running errands and acquiring skills in a mechanic workshop where he makes a paltry N200 to support the family. He said: “I was in Primary 2 when Boko Haram attacked our area. I am working at a mechanic workshop at the garage. I use whatever money I get from the workshop to buy food items that I take home for my parents to cook for us. “My father does not do anything for a living. My mother makes hair for people. I make between N200 and N300 every day.” In spite of the money he is making on a daily basis at the mechanic workshop, Abdusalam still feels unfulfilled. “I want to go to school to have more knowledge of what I am learning at the workshop. I have the feeling that, that would make me very fulfilled in life,” he said. Adijat adamu, a 15-year-old survivor of Boko Haram attacks who sells potage to survive, said her burning desire to return to school remains the reason she has refused to get married like many of her peers. “Some of my friends are married but I want to go to school. I was in Primary 3 when the insurgents attacked our place. I am from Gwoza Local Government Area,” she said. From selling potage, she said, “I make between N150 and N200 every day. I take the money home for my parents to provide food for us.” Zainab Abubakar, 14, has also had to shun the temptation to get married to keep her hope of going back to school alive. “I want to go to school and not to marry. Some of my friends are married but I don’t want to,” she said. Zainab said she was in Primary 1 when Boko Haram attacked their area in Gwoza. “We ran into the bush when they attacked our school. My parents are not doing anything for a living now. We really don’t get sufficient food to eat, and when there is hunger, there is bound to be sickness. We are often feeling weak.” ‘We don’t know what school looks like’ While the above respondents had the opportunity of having a taste of education, hordes of other children in the host communities in Bauchi have no idea what school looks like. Ten-year-old Mohammed Mohammed is one of them. He hasn’t gone to school all his life. He has only heard of it with his ears but does not know how it feels to be a student. “I came from Adamawa. I haven’t gone to school all my life, but I have a burning desire to go. My parents are here in Bauchi, doing menial jobs,” he said. Balkisu, an indigene of Borno State, has similar experience. “I am eight years old. I have never seen the four walls of a classroom, but I desire to go to school. “I sell masa (a local delicacy) for a living. I really feel unhappy seeing others going to school when I am busy hawking masa. I want to have a feel of what it takes to go to school.” Our children’s future is bleak – IDP leaders The leader of internally displaced persons in Bauchi, Buba Musa, and Gombe State Secretary of IDPs, Isa Maina, are worried about the future of their children. Musa said they have about 11,000 children displaced by the activities of insurgents in the state. He said: “Most of the children are not going to school. On the average, I can say that about 7,000 of the children are not going to school. They are engaged in petty trading. “Some of them sell groundnut or garri. The death rate is not so high here. The number of children that has died is not up to 100. “Hunger is a major challenge confronting us, especially the children. That is the most serious problem here. We don’t have food to eat. “Whatever the children get from their petty trading is what they sometimes use to eat. Where there is no sufficient food, malnutrition must be the order of the day. You really don’t need a soothsayer to tell you that.” Decrying the impact of climate change on IDPs who are farmers, the chairman said: “The farming season has also been very poor because we have acute drought here. Some of us have not got any harvest. We also have the challenge of accessing fertilizer, herbicide. “We have no problem with the host community. In fact, the Bauchi State Government has been magnanimous to us. But in spite of their assistance, life has not been easy for us. Getting water is a problem. To get food is a problem. We have nothing all these years. “We engage in menial jobs to survive. The future of our children would not be as smooth as we wished. It won’t be good.” Isa Maina, the Gombe IDPs State Secretary, said 85 per cent of the children in the state are not going to school. His words: “For some time now, nobody cares about us. There is hardly a week that we don’t go to court to sort out the problems of rent for some members because some of our members cannot pay their rent. “If somebody cannot afford to pay his rent, how can such a person be able to send his children to school? We also have widows and elderly people among us who have children.” Corroborating the Bauchi chairman, Maina said: “Some of the children who are not going to school are selling pure (sachet) water and groundnut among other things. “Some of the children are just idle at home. How can they speak English? They didn’t go to school.” Maina said they have about 2,500 children and only about 20 per cent of them are going to school. “The future of our children is more than being in darkness,” he said.   Mystery midnight fire wipes out family of seven     ‘Our miserable lives as refugees in highbrow Lagos…     BAYO OSIYEMI: Leaving journalism to work as Jakande’s Chief…   “There is acute malnutrition among our people, the children in particular. As a parent, if you don’t have something to do and you cannot provide for your family, hunger and malnutrition will automatically set in. “Some women go washing clothes for people or sweeping people’s compound and are paid N1,000 or N2,000 at the end of the month. What is that worth in this economy?  Malnutrition must certainly be happening in that circumstance.” Lamenting the mortality rate among the children, he said: “Last week, about two or three children died. They fell sick but their parents could not take them to the hospital and the next thing we heard was that ‘I lost my child yesterday or I lost my child the day before yesterday’. “Death among children here is almost a daily thing.  Some bereaved parents don’t want to inform us about the death of their children. “It is basically about malnutrition. If a child is suffering from malaria and proper care is not taken and a balanced diet is not taken, before you know it, the child will collapse and die.  All these are attached to mal-nutrition. “Years back, we had support from the medical centre and specialists. As an IDP, if you fell sick, you would go to the medical centre and they would treat you. ‘But in the last three to four years, there has been no such support. These are some of the challenges that we are facing.” Explaining the implications of insurgency and banditry on education in the north, Mallam Mustapha of FCCG, Kebbi, said: “The implication is that there would be more children that would be out of school. It means that the number of illiterates and people who have not had access to education will be on the increase. “Many parents would not want their children to go to school so that they would not become victims of banditry. Even the population of students in our higher institutions of learning is bound to drop. “We have universities and federal universities of technology. But if a situation like this persists, it is going to affect the population of those seeking admission into those higher institutions. “At the same time, you will see a lot of youth corps members redeploying because nobody wants to stay in an insecure environment.” Budgetary allocations rise as out of school children increase A run through the statistics of the country’s budget shows that allocations for security have continued to rise over the years even as the spate of insurgency and attendant problem of children dropping out of school increases. The United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) earlier in the year said Nigeria had the highest rate of out of school children in the world. UNICEF and the European Union (EU) last year said no fewer than 2,295 teachers had lost their lives while 1,400 schools were destroyed in the North-East since 2009 as a result of insurgency. The UN body said Nigeria has a total of 10.5 million children out of school. The UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, disclosed this in a statement while commemorating the International Day of Education. “The Nigerian government has committed to increasing funding for education, which is a very important step – far too many Nigerian children today are not in the classroom – and for those who are, far too many are not getting solid education that can translate into good prospects for their futures. “10.5 million children are out of school in Nigeria, which is the highest rate in the world. The figure indicates that one-third of Nigerian children are not in school and one in five out-of-school children in the world is a Nigerian. “It is estimated that 35 per cent of Nigerian children who attend primary school do not go on to attend secondary school. Half of all Nigerian children did not attend secondary school in 2021. “As we celebrate the International Day of Education today amid concerns in much of the world about the impact of COVID-19 on education, we must take a close look at what is happening to our children in Nigeria, and the opportunities they are missing out on when they lack education. “We need to look towards communities – leaders, parents, teachers and caregivers – and together, find the best strategies to ensure that all children enroll into school, have access to continuous learning and ensure they emerge with quality skills that equip them for a prosperous future.” Hawkins stated that there was a need to ensure that girls have access to learning to enable them to receive an education that would begin to address issues of gender inequality. “All girls have much to offer to find solutions to Nigeria’s challenges – and we have to nurture their creativity and innovation,” he added. He continued: “We also need to ensure that children are safe when they are in school – no child should be afraid to enter a classroom – afraid their school might be attacked or that they will be kidnapped. And no parent should fear sending their children to school. “In 2021, there were 25 attacks on schools, 1,440 children were abducted, and 16 children killed. In March 2021, no fewer than 618 schools were closed in six northern states (Sokoto, Zamfara, Kano, Katsina, Niger, and Yobe) over the fear of attack and abduction of pupils and members of staff. The closure of schools in these states significantly contributed to learning losses for over two months.” A breakdown of budgetary allocations to combating insurgency in the country shows that more money is being committed annually. In 2016, allocation to security gulped N1.06 trillion and moved up to N1.14 trillion in 2017. In 2018, the allocation jumped to N1.35 trillion and rose in 2019 to N 1.76 trillion. In 2020, allocation to the sector was put at N1.78 trillion. Put together, the total allocation within the five years under consideration totaled N7.1 trillion. Between 2011 and 2015, budgetary allocations to the sector by the Goodluck Jonathan administration stood at N4.62 trillion. The allocation to security in 2011 was N920 billion and N924 billion in 2012. In 2013 and 2014, N923 billion each was allocated to security while the sum rose to N934 billion in 2015 to bring the total to N4.62 trillion. Out of school children may later become criminals A lecturer at the Umaru Musa Yaradua  Univeristy, Katsina, Dr Bla Abdullahi Husaini, is worried that the neglect of the kids by the society could spell doom in future. He said: “They are out of school now. Their parents have been killed,  and the community is not doing anything for their survival. They are left alone.  In years to come, these out of school children will have no sympathy on any growing economy that is coming because  they were not assisted when they  assisted when they were growing up. There was no sympathy, empathy  by the host community when they needed it. So, they will now turn  to be another class of criminals. “It is only when you grow up in a family setting that somebody will tell you that what you are doing is not good.  You will have somebody to knock your head when you are wrong and somebody to also guide you but these categories of out of school children don’t have anybody to do all that. Tell me in the near future how they will be sympathetic to the community that they find themselves.  There is no way. It is only education that is giving people focus, direction, orientation and organization.” Sharing his experience with some of the children, Dr Husaini, a specialist in International Relations, Defence and Security, said:  “I was able to interview some of these out of school children. When they saw a motorcycle, the brand called Boxer, they ran into the host community and started screaming ‘ they are coming, they are coming’.  They ran in and shut the door. That is the level of psycho-social trauma these people are going through. “There should be a provision for education in emergency. The aim of that is to cater for those that were chased away by calamites and other man made calamities.  They are running away from their original homes  to a host community that is relatively peaceful than their own.   It is now the responsibilities of the state authorities where they are or where they left to cater for their basic needs. “ Again we are in a situation where the host communities don’t have the shock absorber to absorb them and give them what they need. It now puts the host communities in a dilemma.” He noted that there is a direct relationship between the rising cases of out of school children and budgetary allocations for fighting insecurity in the country.  “The budgetary allocation we are having in fighting insurgency and other insecurity in the country is not being monitored.  It is not being fully given to those who deserve it.  It is not  being fully applied.   The federal government is spending N1billion on security every day.  Per month, the federal government is spending  N30billion on security.   There are other people that are invisible, those visible and actors that are benefitting from it  and that is why it is not going  to end. “Believe you me, what is happening in the country in the next 10 to 20 years, it will not end because it is a very lucrative venture.” Efforts to speak with the Federal Ministry of Education to know what  is being done about the predicament of the kids were not successful. The spokesman, Ben Goong  didn’t answer calls to his mobile line. He was also yet to respond to a text message sent to him as at the time of filing this report. Boko Haram started in Maiduguri in 2001 and that is about 21 years ago. Has insurgency ended? Those people that are  destroying  the   Northeast are here in the Northwest to destroy.  The government should apply the method they applied in the Northeast to the situation in the Northwest.