Tension has heightened in Anambra State following the attack of another burial ceremony by gunmen three weeks after the Ebenebe massacre in Awka North. Over 20 people were killed during the attack at Ebenebe. The recent incident, The Nation gathered, took place on Friday at Ndingbu and Utuh both in Nnewi South Local Government Area of the state. The hoodlums burnt vigilante office and their vehicle and abducted one person. The State Police Spokesman, Ikenga Tochukwu confirmed the incidents, but it was not clear if there were casualties. The current burial incident was the second in Anambra State, following the Ebenebe massacre about three weeks ago, where, over 20 persons lost their lives and many others injured The Nation gathered that the gunmen’s target were vigilance group operatives at the event who were contacted to provide security at the burial venue. It was learnt that the gunmen on that fateful day proceeded to Utuh, where the vigilante office was razed, while one of them was kidnapped.   Residents prevent troops from arresting gun-runner in…     Strike: Body of vice-chancellors urges FG to honour…     Ukraine: 301 Nigerian evacuees arrive from Hungary   However, the Police spokesperson, said the Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, had ordered manhunt on the armed men who allegedly attacked vigilante operatives at a burial in Ndingbu village, Nnewi. He said the order by the CP, was for the security operatives to go against the gunmen. Those in the manhunt for the hoodlums included, Police Mobile Force, Counter Terrorist Unit, special forces and others, who he claimed, were already in the area. He confirmed that normalcy had been restored, while operations were still on going as at the time of filing this report Tochukwu said, “Although no notification was given to the Police about the planned burial, but information reveals that the vigilante groups were invited. “Further details received showed that the miscreants arrived the ceremony and started shooting sporadically in an attempt to disarm the vigilante operatives. “In another development, the hoodlums also attacked, Utuh vigilante office, abducted one of the staff  and set the vigilante operations vehicle on fire.” He assured that the Police and other security operatives were firm in providing security services in the state. He urged residents of the areas to help the Police with information that would aid the ongoing operations.