A stalwart of the All Progressive Congress (APC) and former Lagos Governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is billed to deliver the 25th convocation lecture of the Lagos State University (LASU) Ojo on Tuesday, March 22, 2022. The lecture titled: “Global trends: Nigeria’s rightful place in the world”, will be chaired by Katsina Governor Aminu Masari. This was made known on Wednesday by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello during the pre-convocation press briefing on campus. Olatunji-Bello, who stated that 112 students bagged First Class, which is the highest in the history of the institution, explained 7,232 students would be graduating with 4,994 in the bachelor’s degree level, 1,792 are at the postgraduate level and 451 for diploma. The VC said the institution will confer honorary doctorate degrees on some eminent Nigerians, including Kano Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje and Borno Governor Babagana Zulum. Others are Chairman Ikeja Hotel Plc, Mr. Goodie Ibru; Chairman Nigeria in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa and erstwhile Chairman First Bank, Mrs Ibukunoluwa Awosika.   BREAKING: APC Senate Caucus to Tinubu: we are with you     Nigerians can still apply for student, work, family visas…     Nnamdi Kanu remains our liberator – IPOB   Also, former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Peter Okebukola, will be conferred with Emeritus Professorship. A convocation play, Morountodun, written by Prof. Femi Osofisan, will be performed at the Ojo campus. The VC noted that the best graduating student, Olowu Benjamin Damilare of the Department of Mechanical Engineering set a new record with his Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.97. She also said students who made First Class will be offered automatic employment as Graduate Assistants. Olatunji-Bello added that the university has introduced a result verification feature which enables individuals and companies to verify a LASU certificate anywhere in the world. “We are the first university in Nigeria to do this,” she said. The VC reiterated her commitment to making the institution the best in West Africa.