The present epileptic power supply, fuel scarcity and heatwave in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, appear to be taking a toll on residents. For many of the residents, the heat may be nearing unbearable levels as they could not sleep at night. The country has, in the past weeks, experienced one of its fiercest fuel scarcity caused by the importation of adulterated petrol. The situation has left many fuel pumps dry, with only a few filling stations running below capacity as the government tries to restore unified fuel distribution. The situation bites even harder where electricity supply has been epileptic and residents are no longer able to afford to power their generators due to fuel scarcity, which has brought about long queues and exorbitant price of petrol in the black market. The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) had explained that the persistent poor power supply was due to the low generation currently experienced nationwide. Earlier in February, AEDC had, in a message to customers, explained that the interruption was due to poor supply from the national grid. “Dear Customer, please note that the interruptions of electricity supply you are currently experiencing is due to the instability of supply from the National Grid due to low Generation.” It was gathered that despite the unpredictability, daily load allocation to Abuja hovered around 400 megawatts in the first week of March, a figure not much different from daily allocations transmitted to the territory in January and February. Though parts of Abuja have experienced light rains in the past few days, the relief is only momentary as the temperature changes almost immediately. A cross section of FCT residents, who spoke with our correspondents, expressed displeasure over what they described as ‘hell on earth.’ According to them, the scarcity of fuel and the epileptic power supply have changed the situation of living, especially as the heat period is at its peak. Some residents across the city who also spoke with our correspondents say sleeping at night has become awful due to the intolerable weather condition. A resident in Kuje, John Olowolayemo, said: “Things are getting worse every day in this country. I think there is conspiracy somewhere. If not, how could one explain this ‘double-edged sword.’ No fuel, no light, and the weather is hot. I don’t sleep well at night because of the hot weather. “Yesterday, I went to an NNPC filling station. The petrol attendant refused to sell to us in gallons and so I couldn’t power my generator and my children could not sleep due to the heat. It is not funny at all.” Another resident, Precious Chukwu, said the power supply in her area has been epileptic in the past two weeks. “We don’t have light in the Low-cost housing estate in Kuje. It is not easy for us. Besides the heat, prices of all perishable commodities have gone up due to scarcity of fuel. You suffer struggling to get your daily bread. After the day’s hustling, you come home; yet no light (electricity) for you to have a good night rest.” Also, Musa Ibrahim, a resident of Lokogoma, said the heat is unbearable with lack of electricity to add to it. His words: “It would have been easy if I could leave my windows or door open but the thought of that is terrifying as our area is not secured. Thieves are always disturbing us. The last incident was when a lady in my area left her door open. She slept off and by morning her phones and other valuables were gone.” According to the 2022 Season Climate Prediction, rainfall is expected to commence between April and May in the central states, and eventually from June or July in the northern states. On temperature across the country, the agency predicted daytime and night-time temperatures for the months of January to April, from which the country is projected to expect warmer January, cooler days in February over the North but warmer nights over the South.   Abuja’s reigning lords of the filth     Grazing reserve development: FCTA to partner Islamic Bank     Wives of traditional rulers lament lack of education in…   It further predicted warmer days over the North and cooler nights around the South for the month of March; while April is forecasted to experience warmer daytime temperatures and cooler than long-term average night-time temperatures. Prediction on the hot season also comes with an advisory for malaria and meningitis vigilance. While this is going on, generator business has been booming as a result of power outrage. Sellers are now smiling to the bank. Speaking with Abuja Review on the effect and medical advice, Dr. Laz Eze, a public health specialist said: “The high temperature in Abuja is not new. At this time of the year, we usually experience very high temperatures; not only in Abuja but also in some other parts of Nigeria. Within Abuja, you have a higher temperature within the Gwagwalada axis going towards Lokoja. Some might say it is climate change or just part of the weather condition. Perhaps, climate change is playing out or other environmental factors. “The human body needs water. When the temperature is hot, the body loses water in various ways: through sweating, talking through the breath. Drinking water often this season is actually good for our health. When you don’t do that, a number of things may happen. You may see that you are not passing urine as often as you should. This is not good for the system because the body filters a number of toxic substances out of the body through the urine. “Another common thing that could happen over a long period of time when you are consistently not taking water to hydrate your system is what we call kidney stones. The kidney can form stones from dehydration and concentrated urine. These stones can grow bigger and cause a health emergency. In order to avoid that, you need to drink enough water. Also watch to make sure that your urine is clear. If it is yellow or too reddish, it suggests that you need to take more water. “This hot temperature can also cause heat exhaustion. That is why you notice that you easily get tired when you trek under the sun. Heat cramps and choke can also happen. For some persons who already have some underlying health conditions, it may actually get worse. “You need as much as three litres of water or more depending on the individual. If you are staying inside an air conditioner, you may not need as much water as somebody who is working under the sun. Some people may take as much as five litres in a day depending on the work they do “People should also take their bath as much as possible, as part of skin care. During hot periods, bacteria on the skin could be increased through sweating. It can also cause body odour. Having your bath at least twice a day can help. Planting trees on a long term basis is important. Abuja did that very well.” Dr Ugwu Chukwudi, a nutritionist and head of Department of Nutrition and Dietetics at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Jabi, said: “There are disease conditions that emanate as a result of heat such as meningitis. Residents need to make sure that their windows and doors are opened while sleeping. Also very important is that they must eat properly so that even if there is a problem with diseases like meningitis, the immune system can fight it. “The way we construct our estates here is nothing to write home about; we don’t even have trees around that will help in the production of oxygen for people. We must learn the lesson not to build in every space we have in an estate. We need to create spaces for plants to have an airy environment. If you notice any heat related diseases like meningitis, you have to rush to the hospital for proper treatment and not manage it at home. “We have to take cognizance of your environment. As much as you are advised to open your windows, you can still make nets so that rodents like snakes will not enter and create another issue for you. You know we are lacking electricity in Nigeria; so putting on your air conditioner or fans may not be possible. There is even fuel unavailability this period, while the ones available are exorbitant. If you cannot afford it, you make do with the manual hand fans. Once again, eating healthy is very important. You must at the same time reduce the consumption of alcohol and soft drinks. Drink enough water and juices from natural fruits.”