A tech media platform, Document Women, said it is seeking to expand its operation into other parts of Africa having done well in the country over the last one year. Its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Kiki Mordi, who reflected on the company’s first year anniversary and the seed funding raised, said: “We want to celebrate this milestone to mark the passage of time and recognise how our purpose has shaped our brand. We look forward to the future and what it holds. I say this as a company’s CEO dedicated to documenting women; I long for a world where we no longer treat women’s stories as a niche, where documenting women becomes an integral part of mainstream storytelling.” She said Document Women has surpassed 50 per cent of its investment goals and that the capital raised will help it expand across Africa. Document Women is a platform that strives to immortalise women’s impact on society by creating engaging feminist content representing women’s struggles, experiences and accomplishments. It celebrated its one anniversary with a photo exhibition and a documentary screening on International Women’s Day at the British Deputy High Commissioner’s Residence in Lagos. Since inception, Document Women has been known to amplify women’s voices and inspire wide-reaching conversations on women’s issues using a gendered lens. In addition, they are growing a community of curious minds by fostering open discussions about politics, business and economy, culture, history, health (and more) that affect women.   Angst over proposed NITDA Bill 2021     Computer Village relocation: Traders count losses     TikTok updates guidelines for safety   Document Women began its operations in response to the exclusionary nature of mainstream media and since then, is gradually and uniquely transforming the way women are represented in media and the society at large. In its first year, “Document Women” published over 300 articles, produced a podcast series and a short film directed by Emmy nominee founder Kiki Mordi. The media outlet received a Freedom Awards for Allyship, in recognition of its work in documenting intersectional and inclusive women rights issues, from The Initiative for Equal Rights (TIERs Nigeria). On March 8, 2022, Document Women celebrated its first-year anniversary with a photo exhibition and documentary series themed “Women Giants”, with photography led by Kudirat Ikharo and Sarah Etta’s debut as a creative director. This photo campaign and documentary featured girls from the Dream Catchers Academy for Girls, a free boarding educational and performing arts academy for orphaned or underserved girls and spotlighted thirty women giants, highlighting their contributions to sports, science, literature, arts and more. Women featured in this shoot include; Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Maria Ressa, Ladi Kwali, Maya Angelou and Chioma Ajunwa, to mention a few and a portion of the funds raised from auctioning the art works will be donated to the Dream Catchers Academy to ensure that at-risk girls continue to get empowered through education and dance. At the reception held at the British Deputy High Commissioner’s Residence, Document Women also announced its rebrand by showcasing its new logo, typography, and brand colours on all digital and print assets.