Residents of Gubio town near Maiduguri, Borno State, have shed light on the abduction of Dr. Geidam Bulama, Principal Medical Director of Gubio General Hospital. Dr Bulama, said to be the only doctor covering the entire Gubio local government area, was abducted by Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists from his residence near a military formation. A resident said the assailants returned about 30 minutes after abducting the doctor and set houses on fire. “It is very unfortunate that the security situation in Gubio town is deteriorating these days, as we have started witnessing Boko Haram invasion without confrontation,” the resident said.   Gas tanker explodes in Lagos     Court clears lawyer of forgery charge     Police arraign man for alleged attempt to kill father,…   “Unlike before where the former Caretaker Chairman of Gubio, Hon Modu Gubio used to allocates resources to the security apparatus and provision of operational vehicles to our Civilian Joint Task Force, CJTF/hunters/Vigilantes in complementing efforts of the military and other security agencies in the council, the present administration under the Chairman, Bukar Sulum Zowo is not doing anything in these regards; the neglect aggravated the recent attacks.” The council chairman Zowo debunked the allegations. “I want to debunk that no Boko Haram member set a house ablaze in Gubio. It was a fire incident which is a natural disaster that took place a day before the abduction. “I want to also debunk claims in some quarters that my administration is not doing enough for the welfare and logistical needs of local hunters/vigilantes who have been complementing efforts of troops in the fight against Boko Haram in Gubio.” “The council under my leadership has repaired three operational vehicles which were handed over to our local hunters/vigilantes, we have also procured communication gadgets and distributed them to these groups of hunters and men of the Civilian Joint Task Force for easy communication and intelligence gathering,” he said.