The U.S. Consulate General in Lagos, in partnership with Ascend Studios Foundation, has opened the 2022 application for the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE) – a U.S. Government initiative set up to empower female entrepreneurs all over the world. Exactly 200 participants will be selected from the 17 southern states for the 2022 cohort. To support the comprehensive rehabilitation and reintegration of returned migrants, 50 female returnees will also take part in the programme. Ascend Studios Foundation’s CEO, Dr Inya Lawal, appreciated the U.S. Consulate in Nigeria for the initiative. She said: “This is another great opportunity for women to participate in the economic and leadership space and we encourage many female entrepreneurs to apply for the program.   Institute seeks financial inclusion for youths, women     Association condemns attack on activist     Senator Abiru greets lawmaker at 50   “This programme is a game-changer for business owners. We have seen exponential growth in the businesses of our alumnae, and we look forward to welcoming successful applicant this year.” She said the application link – http://bit.ly/AWENIGERIA2022 – for interested female entrepreneurs to apply is now open and will close on April 7. The programme, Lawal pointed out, offers complete business training through intensive and well-curated sessions facilitated by seasoned industry experts and business leaders on one part and access to the DreamBuilder platform – a blended business training course developed for women through a partnership between Arizona State University’s Thunderbird School of Global Management and global copper mining company Freeport-McMoRan, on the other. Graduates will have the opportunity of becoming automatic members of the U.S. government exchange alumni community, which grants them access to an extensive network of top and similar business-minded professionals all over the country.   The organisers noted that women’s participation in the economy drives better global businesses, resilient values, economic growth and sustainable development. The AWE initiative is an enormous platform for female entrepreneurs in Nigeria to access classroom-like theoretical and practical insights, expand their networks, and build sustainable businesses.