Actress Tonto Dikeh has asked those uncomfortable with her displeasure with God over the death of her stepmom to unfollow her on social media. Dikeh has been devastated since she lost her stepmom. On February 10, she told friends and colleagues not to bother sending her consolation messages or money over the incident. She requested to be allowed to privately mourn while requesting for prayers. She said she won’t stop questioning God for allowing her stepmom to die, saying those bothered by her stance should feel free to unfollow her. She posted on Instagram: “God doesn’t need anyone to defend Him. Hateful words for disappointing words wouldn’t stop me from saying or feeling more. I am too STUBBORN,” she wrote. “Let God himself do the defense through his touch while if you care too much just “pray cause am not along in this stage (check on your parents/loved ones). “We have so many broken men and women today make up our society because they have been thought to hide these feelings oo because God is supreme.   Davido laments high cost of clearing Lamborghini     Nollywood has so many untold stories, says Obazele     KWAM 1 holds Sikiru Ayinde Barrister’s colloquium today   “Bullshit! My bible says He’s my father, my friend…I am not ashamed to be WEAK FOR I KNOW I WOULD NOT BE HERE FOR TOO LONG!!” Dikeh added: “It’s time to press the unfollow button if this is too painful to watch!! If you are committed to misunderstanding me you can also please check out.” She had earlier queried God and the existence of heaven, saying: “It is ok to lose your trust and love for God! It is ok to question God!! It is ok to stop believing you know why? Cause God never created us in his image, nor likeness. At least not literally. “The only one who is not allowed to give up is the God himself. He created us with the power of choice. “Whatever rocks your boat do it, I have seen more unbelievers enjoy earth more than my Christian brethren.. What’s the guarantee that HEAVEN IS REAL? (WOKE UP WITH SOME DANGEROUS THOUGHTS). “I guess at the end of the day. WE ALL GET TO THIS POINT, BUT WHAT I KNOW ISN’T OK IS STAYING HERE FOR TOO LONG!! IT’S CALLED A PERSONAL RACE and Not PERFECTION.”