A national chairmanship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, yesterday promised to lead the party victory in next year’s general elections if elected. He met the APC caucus in the House of Representatives to solicit the members’ support. Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, said the former Nasarawa State Governor has the tough task of rebuilding the party if elected. Adamu said having gone round the country to reconcile aggrieved party members, he had firsthand knowledge of the problems facing the party. He said such knowledge stands him out as the best man for the job. Noting that he had been involved in many elections since the second republic, Adamu said he never lost any. He said if he becomes the party chairman, he would work to ensure that the APC becomes the dominant party in the country. On why he declared late, he said reconciling members was a huge responsibility and he was not going to leave it uncompleted. He said having completed the job, he was invited by persons “I respect so much” to contest.   Kogi govt faults Lukman over attack on Bello     Sule: Only God will decide between Al-Makura, Adamu     Mustapha obtains nomination form for APC national chairman   “I am probably the last aspirant to declare an intention to contest for the chairmanship of our great party. I am last deliberately and not by accident,” he said. He added: “I was privileged to lead the national reconciliation committee of our great party and there was a kind of coincidence in time. “While people were busy declaring and presenting themselves for the chairmanship, I was busy trying to reconcile conflicts within and amongst our leaders and members across the country. “So, I did not see myself coming even after submitting the committee’s report until I got the invitation from people I respect very highly; people that are stakeholders in this party. “They believe that I am a good material for this office. I did my consultations and decided in finality to join the race.” Wase said there were problems in the party, and that Adamu has an onerous task ahead of him if elected. “I believe (that) you have the capacity; I believe you are going to solve all the problems; I believe you will deliver us at the next level. That I believe,” he said. Leader of the caucus, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, said other aspirants for the position of National Chairman had also approached him for a meeting with the caucus, but that Adamu was the first to meet with them. He described Adamu as a bridge-builder, an elder statesman and a good ambassador of the institution of the parliament, adding that he has all it takes to lead the party to greater heights.