This column recently advised President Muhammadu Buhari to watch out for his close aides whose actions bring disrepute to his regime especially in its dying days. In furtherance of that advice, this column urges the president to watch the antics of the chairman of his party’s Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Mai Mala Buni, and his cohorts, whose short-sightedness almost landed the party into a state of hopelessness. While the legitimacy of Governor Buni holding another executive position in contravention of section 183 of the 1999 constitution should worry the party leaders, it appears that Buni and company were working to foist a debacle on the party at the last minute. Recall that a minority judgment of the Supreme Court in Jegede vs Akeredolu held that the Buni-led CECPC is illegitimate, though the majority upheld the election of Akeredolu on the ground that relevant parties were not joined in the suit. It should therefore worry President Buhari that despite being considered a contraption by a judgment of the apex court, the Buni-led CECPC continues to engage in shenanigans. But for the disagreement within Buni’s duplicitous camp, the political marauders had connived to hide an interim injunction by Justice Bello Kawu, of Abuja High Court restraining the party from organising the party convention. I hope the party has asked Buni to explain why he concealed the pending suit from the party. That anti-party activity by Governor Buni shows his utter contempt for the integrity of President Buhari, who put him in that position, and should not be swept under the carpet. When this column warned President Buhari to be wary of enemies within, some observers thought it was an exaggeration. But the fact that Buni and company could be playing ping-pong with the life of the party despite the president’s directive, shows beyond doubt that Buni is one such closet enemy. If the president is okay with hibernating with enemies in his closet, and there are still party influencers outside the coterie of president and CECPC hawks, such leaders must put on their telescope to scrutinise every action of the Buni-led CECPC towards the convention. To show that Buni is not repentant, he has flooded the most significant committees of the upcoming convention with his colleagues who care more about securing the party’s primary ticket for their second term, than organising a fair democratic contest amongst the party members. For the sake of history, it will be a shame if after working hard to cobble a party to win the presidential election in 2015, the president and his inner caucus cause the party to disintegrate, after his second term. Such fears is not far-fetched, for if the upcoming convention is manipulated in the same manner that Buni had deployed Buhari’s support to make mincemeat of internal party democracy since he was foisted on the party, then the party may well be on its way to the morgue. As should now be obvious to the president, even some members of his inner caucus are beginning to resist the dubious agenda of those who deceive him. So now that President Buhari has returned to the country, he should put Buni on the hot burner to allow a free and fair convention. The president should publicly declare his neutrality in the contest for party chairmanship position, and provide the enabling environment for a free and fair election. If the president wanted a consensus candidate, he should have done that earlier than now.   Ekweremadu and Ebeano family     Enemies of Buhari     Prize of Putin’s folly   So, instead of spending his energy promoting a candidate, the president should concentrate on returning normalcy to the electricity and energy sectors of the nation’s economy. It is a shame that the same time that the nation has been in darkness because of the breakdown of the nation’s power grid, is the same time that scarcity of fuel for cars, machines and airplanes have become the new normal. Concern for such debilitating factors that could return the nation’s economy to another recession should be the priority of the president, instead of campaigning for a chairmanship candidate being surreptitiously foisted on him by dubious members of his inner circle. If the president wants to know the truth about the economic impacts of his polices, he should ask for the price of rice, few weeks after the show of rice pyramids in Abuja. As I have maintained, the worst enemies of the president are those operating within, and he has many of them. Gloriously, in that state of hopelessness buffeting the nation’s economic and political space, Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo, was inaugurated as governor of Anambra State. If the morning shows the day, then as promoted by this column, there is something refreshing coming from the eastern horizon. In a clear departure from the debauchery of political transitions that is common in our clime, Soludo chose a sane transition programme. He chose not to waste the scarce resources of the state, and has promised to rely on goods manufactured in the state for his private and official use. To walk his talk, he unveiled his official car, an SUV manufactured by Innoson Motor Company. He adorned his Akwete cloth, and entertained his guest with a fraction of the huge budget, earmarked for the occasion. A mere N20 million, instead of a humongous N600 million, originally budgeted. He went to work on the day of inauguration, and probably spent the promised eight hours, which is a day’s work. He spoke passionately to his people, urging them to partner with him for a new Anambra. He called ndi Anambra to return home, for the work of reformation. He called stealing by its name, and banned state authorized stealing in the motor parks. He invited the aggrieved members of the state, who have taken up arms to fight their cause to have a rethink, and come forward for dialogue. He raised the hope of ndi Anambra, the southeast and Nigerians. But he also noted that the challenges are many, particularly the structural challenge posed by a peculiar unitary-federalism, we practice. As this column noted when Soludo survived the armed attack at his home country during the campaign, ndi Anambra are a lucky lot, that he survived the attack. They are even luckier he won the election, and is now their governor. They should support him, for the good of their state and ala Igbo. There is no doubt that governance in Nigeria would gain a heft from the fecund mind of Chuwkuma Soludo. The Soludo Solution, predicted by this columnist, with his friend Emeka Agbayi, nearly 15 years ago, has berthed in Anambra. If Nigeria is lucky, Soludo could become a beacon of hope in the midst of hopelessness, pervading the national landscape.