The Lagos Police Command has confirmed the death of 22-year-old fashion designer, Oluwabamise Ayanwole, who went missing after she boarded a Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) service on February 26. Oluwabamise boarded the state-owned transport service at Chevron Bus Stop, Lekki, enroute Oshodi around 7pm but never got to her destination. Her disappearance raised concerns especially as her friend made public their communication when Bamise entered the bus and expressed fears over the conduct of the driver. When the news of her disappearance became public, the police immediately arrested the guarantors of the BRT driver who has since been at large. It was gathered that detectives had gone to the last known address of the suspect said to be from Ekiti State but were told that he moved out about a year ago. But the whereabouts of Bamise was finally unravelled by residents around Ebute Ero in Lagos Island, who disclosed she was tossed out of a BRT bus half naked with her private parts missing. According to a Twitter user, Akinwunmi King, Bamise’s brother was at Ebute Ero Police Station where he was shown a picture of the body and he confirmed it was his sister’s. He also shared screenshot of messages he received, which indicated that Bamise’s private parts were harvested inside the BRT bus before she was tossed out. The sender claimed her body was seen in their area, Ebute Ero, Lagos Island, near the Oba Palace, adding that some witnesses saw when she was thrown off the bus naked.   BREAKING: Police arrest Lagos BRT driver     #JusticeForBamise: Outrage over alleged murder of lady in…     Gunmen kill two, injure others in Anambra filling station in…   “They saw the bus drove away and a jeep follow the bus, according to people she was shouting for help before she gave up. People around report(ed) the case to Ebute Ero Police station,” the message said. In his further update, King wrote: “Bamise’s brother was at Ebute Ero Police Station this morning to confirm and when he was shown the picture of the body, he affirmed that it was his sister’s. He’s on his way to the mortuary to identify the body. “The driver is nowhere to be found. The police went to the address he gave, the occupants of the house said he left the house about a year ago.” Confirming news of her death, police spokesman, CSP Adekunle Ajisebutu, said her body was found on Carter Bridge by Ogogoro Community, Lagos Island. “The corpse has been deposited at the morgue of the Mainland Hospital, Yaba, for autopsy. “The bereaved family has been contacted and family members have identified the corpse as that of Oluwabamise Ayanwole, the lady earlier declared missing. “The Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, is saddened by this incident and, therefore, expresses, on behalf of the management, officers and men of the command, his heartfelt condolence to the bereaved family. “Notwithstanding the death of Oluwabamise, the detectives handling the case would not rest on their oars until her killers are found. “We, therefore, assure the concerned public and the bereaved family that we are closing on the culprits and we are sure that soon the suspects would be arrested and made to face justice for this murderous act. “While soliciting the cooperation of all and sundry, we once again appeal to anyone with additional information that could help the police in arresting the suspects to kindly oblige us. Such information, we assure, will be treated with utmost confidentiality. “The command is ever determined and committed to protection of lives and properties of residents in the state; and has strengthened its security apparatus to prevent a recurrence of this ugly, disturbing incident.”