“FOR too long have the good people of this country been taken for a ride by some political leaders who shamelessly propound the false doctrine that politics is a power game. As far as I am concerned politics is the art of selfless service to our fellowmen.” —Chief Obafemi Awolowo, “Light over Nigeria”, Voice of Wisdom, 1981 pp. 89-92. Realists would like us to acknowledge the allure of immoral politics even if we are inclined to reject its consequences. For them, the urge to cheat is human; selfishness is a disease of the flesh with a ferocious grip on the spirit. They insist that greed is wired into the human DNA. And with passion, they contend that the quest for power and the willingness to use it for personal glorification is not unnatural to the human psyche. What are we to make of the realists’ reading of the political realm? Are they telling us to live with it or just find our ways around it? Does it follow from their position that moral uprightness is impossible in politics even if desirable? If ‘ought’ implies ‘can’, and if there cannot possibly be moral politics, it would follow that it is illogical to require political moral uprightness. You can’t ask people to do what is impossible for them to do. But moral uprightness is a requirement of politics because politics is a moral practice. Its presupposition is that the benefits and burden of social life can and must be distributed according to the demands of justice and fairness. This presupposition at once eliminates from consideration the assumption of realists about selfishness and greed as the defining mark of humanity and the driving force of politics. Here then is the dilemma. If politics requires moral uprightness and especially attention to justice and fairness and the suppression of selfish greed, but humans are, as the realist supposes, incapable of respecting justice and fairness in their dealings with one another, then humans are incapable of practicing politics. Is politics then for angels? I think we can agree that realists have a radically uninspiring understanding of human nature. Closely related to political realism is psychological egoism. The latter rules out the possibility of a morally sound action that is not motivated by self-interest. While realism doesn’t rule out such action, it considers it as politically naive and prone to failure. As Morgenthau puts it “political action and doing evil are inevitably linked” and it is incompatible for an action at the same time to conform to the rules of the political art (I.e. achieve political success) and to conform to the rules of ethics.” The foregoing would make sense if the premise of its position is valid. That premise that “the essence and aim of politics is power over man” and that to this extent, “it degrades man to a means for other men” is at variance with what we refer to above as the aim of politics: the distribution of the benefits and burden of social life in accordance with justice and fairness. Of course, if the aim of politics is the distribution of benefits and burden of social life in accordance with justice and fairness, individuals who are assigned to this task may fall short in various ways. They may choose not to follow justice and fairness. They may choose self-interest over the common good. But that choice on their part does not make their action right. An acknowledgement of this possible disconnect between principle and conduct is missing in the position of the realists. Thankfully, there is good news. While there are egoists who go into politics for the pursuit of power to dominate others and to promote their own selfish interests, there are also politicians who are exemplars of moral politics. These are decent human beings who see humanity as their theater of operation and human beings as subjects of interests which ought to be promoted in the spirit of the common humanity that we share. They don’t mind sacrificing their own interest for the common interests of their fellow citizens. They see their good in the good of others. All they care for is to make life more abundant for their fellow human beings. In our own clime and time, despite the attraction of power politics, despite the odds against “political success” for the do-gooder, one political leader stands out for his moral uprightness. No, he’s not a saint. No human is. But Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s approach to politics, and the legacy he left behind, is refreshingly different from that of those political leaders who he refers to in my opening quote above, that is, those who see politics as a “power game”.   The hunter, the hunted, the haunted     Requiem for Delta’s moribund AT&P firm     Remove your mountains through fasting   To see politics as “an art of selfless service to our fellowmen” requires a certain mindset with the requisite determination. The mindset is one of empathy and compassion. It sees others, even though biologically unrelated, as sharing a common humanity with oneself. It sees their suffering as one’s own suffering and thus unacceptable. It sees whatever detracts from their humanity as diminishing one’s own claim to humanity. It is a mindset that sees oneself as the keeper and promoter of others’ wellbeing because their wellbeing is as important as one’s own wellbeing. It sees the children of others, though poor, as no less important than one’s own. This is the mindset of a morally conscious individual. That was the mindset that Awolowo brought into politics. It is why his memory is eternally blessed. In my 2007 series on this page on “Progressives and the soul of the West”, I zeroed in on the value-imbued background to Chief Awolowo’s politics recalling how: “In 1947, in a lecture to the Assyrian Union of Teachers in Ibadan, Chief Awolowo addressed the contribution of education to the attainment of national freedom. Defining freedom as a “state of being free to do whatever you like, in whatever way you choose, and at whatever time you elect, Chief Awolowo observed that “no one can claim to be truly free who is ignorant. An ignorant person is a victim to be exploited and cheated at every turn by his more enlightened and unscrupulous fellow men.” Is it not clear that the fear expressed in this statement has been realized in the present politics of deceit and exploitation of the ignorant and poverty-ridden masses? “Chief Awolowo’s incursion into politics was motivated by a passion to make a contribution to the development of the educated person, who is able to contribute to national freedom. He prepared himself well for the task, first by giving himself a good education and assembling a company of educated and committed patriots. That free education became a cornerstone of the progressive agenda of the Action Group was therefore not a surprise. “Chief Awolowo urged the youth to shun the crazy attraction of wealth for selfish reasons because “any wealth accumulated on a selfish basis, at the expense of others, or at the expense of the State in defiance of social justice helps to create a disorganized society in which everybody will eat everybody and no one person can be safe.” Not heeding this moral lesson is the effect of what we are witnessing today. A personification of self-discipline and courage, Awolowo was a rare breed of a truth-telling politician, never making a promise that he did not fulfil. There is no better political success than not losing your soul in the quest for or exercise of power. Awolowo stood tall in this regard. I end this piece as I did the first part of that series: “As the undisputed leader of progressives, Chief Awolowo not only stood with the poor and the weak in defence of their interests, he made the promotion of those interests his raison d’etre as a politician and statesman. This is why his name will remain indelible in the hearts and minds of the people. This cannot be said of his rivals, dead or living.” Happy posthumous birthday to a leader of leaders! On this high note, I am off on vacation for a few weeks. I’ll see you soon.