Stakeholders, who met in Aba, the industrial capital of Southeast, have set the tone for positioning the country as a global hub for technology innovation. DANIEL ESSIET writes. HOW to strengthen the vision for an inclusive entrepreneurial Nigeria topped the discussions during the launch of the Nigerian hardware ecosystem map at Clintonel Innovation Centre (CIC), Aba. Stakeholders wanted focus on technology-enabled development and aligned investments in key sectors such as start-ups, and manufacturing, as a mean to the capabilities of innovators to provide a fillip to sectors. The stakeholders include AfriLabs, Innovation Support Network (ISN), Africa Makerspace Network, Hardware Nigeria Community (HNC), UNDP Accelerator Lap Nigeria, Abia Tech Community, Start Up South, Institute of Software Practitioners of Nigeria (ISPON), Southsouth and Southeast Angel Network (SSEAN). Among the speakers were the  President, ISPON Chinenye Mba-Uzoukwu; Board member, AfriLabs, Daniel Chinagozi;  Board member, ISN, Fayo Williams;  Principal Solutions Architect, Hinge, Emmanuel Odunlade; founder, Shared Insights, Nkemdirim Ogbuaku; Director, SSEAN,Uche Aniche; Design Director, Arcepa,Ugo Okafor; Executive Secretary, ISN,Nneka Ukay and founder, Clintonel Innovation Centre and Hardware Nigeria Community,Tochukwu Chukwueke. Williams wanted attention to developing the hardware sector, if the nation must experience meaningful development, job creation and poverty reduction. She noted that the mapping was going to provide a huge impetus that was likely to spur innovation. According to her, the startup ecosystem has gained momentum with its efforts in maximising its potential in fostering the entrepreneurship ecosystem. She said there were startups focused on innovations in various sectors and on product development from to solve problems. Mba-Uzoukwu noted that there aspiring entrepreneurs and young innovators at the forefront of several efforts, including provision of support services, and contribution to national business responses.   Firm for 16 African markets     Foundation empowers 10     Grooming cassava stem entrepreneurs   According to her, the mapping would help to provide information on the solutions that the startup ecosystem has to offer. Other speakers wanted the government to focus on digital skilling to encourage continual skilling avenues, sustainability and employability through online training, programmes, and industry collaborations, as well as the establishment of skilling e-labs for simulated learning settings. These, they believe, would be positive moves toward making Nigeria a talent powerhouse. According to them, there was the need to pay attention to developing the hardware sector, if the nation must experience meaningful development, job creation and poverty reduction. The map collates data, understand the ecosystem, showcase players in the ecosystem, enhance collaboration, advertise hardware-related businesses, and facilitate the growth of the hardware ecosystem. It would be recalled that last year at a forum Chukwueke, noted the importance of technology in focus areas such as infrastructure, inclusive development, and skilling. He added that the map was implemented by the centre with the goal of strengthening the entrepreneurial ecosystem. According to him, fostering an environment that encourages entrepreneurship should be a core focus of economic development. He explained that the map would guide entrepreneurs and investors to find opportunities for creating value that have not been exploited. Chukwueke said CIC is a solar powered hardware startup incubator which provides training, mentoring and equipment for youths to create engineering innovations, build indigenous products and start up technology businesses.