Community residents, vigilantes and security personnel have teamed up to push out bandits from Bangi town in Mariga council of Niger State. There was a similar pushback in Gwagwalada area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). In the Niger incident, an unspecified number of terrorists were killed and others forced to flee, it was said. The terrorists invaded Bangi community barely 48 hours after the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Nasko in Magama Local Government Area, Umar Dakingari was killed by terrorists. The fierce battle between the terrorists and the combined team of the security task force, vigilantes and residents was said to have lasted for more than three hours, leading to the death of several of the terrorists. The Nation also learnt that one policeman died during the gun battle while several others sustained injuries. About 50 motorcycles belonging to the terrorists were recovered.   Old Boys to Church: Stop encroaching on school land     Police, NYSC members clash in Ibadan     Why Borno Medical Director was abducted, by residents   Niger state Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello commended the security operatives, the vigilantes and the residents for foiling the attack and killing several terrorists. In Abuja, the security team rescued one Sani Dauje, who was abducted by a kidnap syndicate in Dobi Kwalita area of Gwagwalada. According to a statement yesterday by the FCT spokesperson Josephine Adeh, prior to the rescue, the officers of the command, upon learning of the gathering of the assailants, engaged them in a gun duel. She said the officers, who were aided by military personnel of 176 battalion and the local vigilante, repelled the kidnappers and arrested one 18-year-old suspect, Usman Babangida. The statement added that the suspect is currently at the State Criminal Investigation Department as Monitoring continues in the area to apprehend fleeing members of the criminal syndicate. Adeh said: “The Commissioner of Police, FCT Police Command, CP Babaji Sunday, while attributing the recorded success to the rendition of timely, precise and accurate information, enjoins the good people of the Territory not to relent in supporting the police in the above regard, as he registers once again, the command’s unflinching commitment to the fight against crime and criminality in the Territory. “The Command, therefore, enjoins the residents to maximize the availability of the following numbers for the rendition of information: 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653 and 08028940883. This is to sustain a relatively peaceful FCT for all and sundry”.