The Aguiyi Ironsi Cantonment was a cynosure of sporting excellence, as Paris Africana International School, led by Director, Engr. Gbenga Nowoola hosted its 3rd  Annual Inter-house Sports, with Ex-Super Eagles Stars thrilled with top-notch sporting performances. Ex-Super Eagles stars threw support for a system through which sports men were unearthed decades ago. President, Nigerian Players’ Union, Tijanni Babangida, 1996 Olympic Gold Medalist, Emmanuel Babayaro, and NFF Technical Officer, Garba Lawal were at the ground to light up the torch and provide mentorship for the young and aspiring sports starlets of the institution. The Minister of Sports, Hon. Sunday Dare, reiterated that the ministry will not stop working round the clock to ensure Nigeria returns to the era it produced international athletes for the country from a robust school sports system.   Uysk-rematch : Swede Wallin may  face Joshua     Black Stars coach asked to ditch  unfit Muntari     NFF mourns as  Justice Christopher dies at 41   In his remarks delivered by his  media aide, Kola Daniel, he said: “sports stars like Daniel Amokachi, Emmanuel Babayaro and so on were unearthed through a functional school sports system and my principal, Hon. Sunday Dare is committed to returning our schools to its invaluable place in sports stars development.” Ex-Super Eagles goalie Babayaro : “I was  thrilled with the atmosphere as soon as I got in. I love the investment Paris Africana international School has made in sports and this will be the beginning of greatness for the talents in the school. We will always provide mentorship and support to these kids, so they grow to be better than we were.” Reacting thereafter, the Director of the School, Engr. Nowoola expressed delight with the willingness of the ex-internationals to provide mentorship and support to the young aspiring starlets in the school. He said that the school will keep providing a platform for the students to hone their skills until they get to professional level. Paris Africana international Schools, Abuja is one of the leading institutions in the country with its robust model for combining sound education and sports training.