Finance and economic experts have expressed optimism on the economic outlook of the country in spite of uncertainties moderating the performance of the economy. Experts, who spoke at the fourth Coronation Merchant Bank’s interactive session series said the  economic outlook is positive, although there are uncertainties that need to be addressed. The theme of the virtual event is: “Nigeria’s economic landscape – a blend of optimism and uncertainty”. Speakers included Dr. Biodun Adedipe, founder/Chief Consultant, Adedipe Associates; Dr. Andrew Nevin, Advisory Partner and Chief Economist, PwC Nigeria; Chinwe Egwim, Chief Economist, Coronation Merchant Bank and Prof. Joseph Nnanna, Chief Economist, Development Bank of Nigeria. Giving his economic prediction for the year, Nevin expressed optimism noting that Nigeria has a bigger economy and more economic activities than being thought. “The official number from National Bureau of Statistics is about N20 trillion in the fourth quarter which understates the economy perhaps as much as 25 per cent. We also have a smaller population than estimated, so we are actually richer than we think,” Nevin said. Delivering her macroeconomic presentation, Egwim said on the back of specific factors, there could be upward pressure on prices.   Access Bank finalises transition to holdco     Learn Africa’s board approves merger, new capital raising     FMDQ Exchange admits Coleman’s N6b commercial paper   “Overall, consumption patterns are relatively better and are almost mirroring pre-pandemic levels. However, we must note that consumer pockets are still steadily being rebuilt,” Egwim said. Speaking further on the economic landscape ,  Adedipe noted the pattern in the last 10 years of non-oil sectors accounting for between 77 per cent and 82 per cent in terms of contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP), while the oil sector has repeatedly accounted for less than 10 per cent. “It is obvious that what drives the economy is the non-oil sector and that is where we will have to pay a lot of attention. Looking at this in the context of where we are, I see an economy that will grow very strongly, and I expect growth to be sustained this year,” Adedipe said. Nnanna added that Nigeria needs to restructure its economy by moving from the factors of production within and across different sectors towards high productivity so that diversification can be achieved through encouraging private investments, foreign investments and improving infrastructure, among others. Managing Director, Coronation Merchant Bank, Banjo Adegbohungbe, outlined that there were some factors, both positive and negative that are expected to influence the macroeconomic landscape in the year. “The lessons learnt on resilience as Nigeria embarked on a recovery path in 2021 will be critical in shaping the business and macroeconomic environment this year,” Adegbohungbe said. He assured that the bank will continue to hold sessions on topical issues relevant to the markets and the economy.