The Olubadan-In-Council rose from its maiden meeting with a decision to review honorary chieftaincy titles conferred on individuals in the last few years. The meeting was the first after Oba Lekan Balogun was enthroned as the new Olubadan on Friday. The council said honourary chieftaincy titles would be reviewed to determine whether they were rightly or wrongly conferred on people. The review, they said, would take place after the annual Ramadan fast. The Otun Balogun of Ibadan land, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola, disclosed this after the meeting at the Alarere residence of the new Olubadan. Oba Balogun presided over the meeting with High Chief Owolabi Olakulehin, who is the Balogun of Ibadanland by his side. High Chief Ajibola said the Council rejoiced with Oba Balogun on his successful coronation for which he said the meeting reviewed and applauded Governor Seyi Makinde as well as the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters for playing their roles commendably.   Alleged drug deal: Charges against Abba Kyari, others…     Strike: We’ve met all ASUU’s demands, FG insists     Alleged defamation: Court revokes ex-commissioner’s bail,…   The high chief also revealed the council’s plan to immediately fill the existing vacancies occasioned by the elevation of Dr. Balogun from Otun to Olubadan, which means the ascension of Sen. Rashidi Ladoja, the current Osi Olubadan to Otun Olubadan. Also, High Chiefs Eddy Oyewole, Abiodun Kola-Daisi, Hamidu Ajibade who hold the positions of Ashipa Olubadan, Ekerin Olubadan and Ekarun Olubadan respectively would become Osi Olubadan, Ashipa Olubadan and Ekerin Olubadan in that order. Ajibola however noted that the promotion exercise could not be held without the consent of Makinde. He explained the consent was already being processed while other lesser promotions down the line to Jagun, which need no Governor’s consent would begin on Friday all things being equal. “Appointment of Mogajis and Baales would follow after the completion of all the promotion exercises which would end with the Iyalode line,” Otun Balogun added. Aside from High Chief Ladoja (Osi Olubadan), High Chief Olubunmi Dada Isioye (Ekerin Balogun) and High Chief Theresa Oladuntan Oyekanmi (Iyalode of Ibadanland), all other members of the Olubadan-in-Council attended the meeting.