The Police in Anambra has arrested six persons, including a native doctor and two women, for allegedly involving in parading a widow naked in public. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the woman was accused of causing the death of her husband through her alleged infidelity. Commissioner of Police in Anambra, Mr Echeng Echeng, who paraded the suspects at the command’s headquarters in Awka on Wednesday, said that they were identified in a viral video. NAN reports that in the video, a woman (name withheld) was made to sit by her late husband’s corpse and was later paraded naked on the street of Aguleri in Anambra East Local Government Area. Echeng, however, said that investigation had revealed that the deceased was sick and had sought healing at a traditional healing home where he eventually died. The police commissioner, who said that investigations were still ongoing, added that all those involved in the dastardly act would be apprehended and charged to court. “The command’s operatives have arrested six additional suspects, including a native doctor who was identified during the study of the video by police operatives. “The native doctor confessed to engaging the deceased in some spiritual cleansing and administering some herbs on him before he died. “It was the native doctor who allegedly told the family of the deceased that the cause of his death was as a result of the wife’s infidelity. “We also want to use the opportunity to advise members of the public to stop sharing the video. This will help to protect the dignity of the woman.   Lawyer’s absence stalls Sowore’s arraignment on cybercrime…     I’ve no hand over insecurity in Katsina, says SSG     Sack: Umahi withdraws stay of execution motion   “The woman has been rescued, taken to hospital and reunited with her family safely. She is in good condition,” he said. Similarly, Echeng said that the command had arrested some cultists, who allegedly killed two police personnel during an attack on the chairman of the tricycle owners association on Dec. 14, 2021. He said that two AK 47 rifles, among other weapons, were recovered in the process. The police commissioner listed some of the weapons and other items recovered in recent crack operations as: two AK47, three pump actions guns, three locally-made beretta pistols and one locally-made chief recover pistol. Others were: nine AK-47 magazines, two battle axes, assorted ammunition for the firearms and a Mercedes Benz V-Booth car, with registration number: LAGOS HC 661 AAA which the gang used in their operation. “The leader of the gang was killed, while the other gang member was arrested,” he said. Echeng described jungle justice as an act of barbarism, urging those with information that could lead to the arrest of culprits to divulge them for arrest and prosecution. He said that some persons, suspected of trafficking in Tramadol and other prohibited drugs were also arrested in a Toyota Hiace bus coming from Ebonyi. The police commissioner said that the case had been transferred to National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). (NAN)