For Mr Wale Aguda, who said he had two children studying in at the National Memorial Medical University, Vinnitsia, Ukraine, his biggest headache was how the children would not lose the years they had put in at medical school. He spoke on this and more in this interview. HOW have you managed since news of the invasion broke? I have two children in National Memorial Medical University in Vinnitisia, Ukraine; the two of them are in Romania as we speak, having crossed through the Syrec border. Majorly, the challenges that Nigerian students encountered was that there was no arrangement to take them from any point within Ukraine to the border, so they had to make arrangements on their own. There was a time they make bookings with the train and it was cancelled; and then they were given different booking. But I didn’t want them to be separated because they are just 18 and 19. Ultimately, it was through the help of their Ghanaian friend that they eventually got a vehicle that took them out of Ukraine Fortunately the Nigerian government is ready to commence evacuation of Nigerians    UKRAINE INVASION: Fears shift to Nigerian students in Russia     We’re giving Nigerians good reception – Nuhu     Nigeria Diaspora 4040 Initiative and other volunteers   It is not about evacuating them back to Nigeria; what do they have in plan for them, to ensure that they don’t lose the years they have put in. What is in stock for them when they get back to Nigeria or should they stay in Romania and look for other options? Two years of a six-year programme is a lot if you have to repeat. Would you be willing to have them reintegrated into a Nigerian university? If that is what is available, we won’t mind. But the issue is that we don’t even know what is going to happen? The other day, I heard the Foreign Affairs Minister saying, if you could have money to send your child abroad, you should be able to pay their way back. That, to me, is very unfortunate. The moment the war broke out, how did you feel as a parent, knowing that your children were out there? My brother, I have not had the smallest sleep since that Wednesday. I had to monitor every inch of their movement through Google. Thanks to Mr Sanusi, he sent location map to me and I was monitoring them for more than 36 hours. If there was a break in transmission, it was as if the worst had happened. Thrice on that Thursday, they had to go to underground bunkers to hide when there were bomb attacks.