The National Salaries Incomes and Wages Commission (NSIWC) has directed all government agencies, including the National Assembly and the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) and the organised private Sector (OPS), which have not started the implementation of the National Minimum Wage, to start doing so immediately. It said sanctions would be applied to defaulters, in accordance with the law. The commission reminded government agencies that the implementation of the Minimim Wage Act started on April 18, 2019, when President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Bill into law. But The Nation gathered that unless the 2022 budget of the National Assembly is reviewed, it may not be able to pay the minimum wage arrears to its workers, as it currently has no budgetary provision to do so. NASC’s workers and those of the National Assembly have been protesting the non-payment of the minimum wage arrears and consequential adjustment, alleging that the management claimed they were not entitled to the arrears. A letter from the commission, dated February 21, 2022, was copied to the Chief of Staff to the President; Deputy Chief of Staff to the President; Ministers and Ministers of State; Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and the Head of Civil Service of the Federation. It was also copied to the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Chairmen of all Federal Commissions; Federal Permanent Secretaries; Clerk of the National Assembly; Secretary to the National Judicial Council (NJC); Secretary to the Federal Judicial Service Commission, among many others.   EFCC chair: nothing political about Obiano’s arrest     Court sacks 20 Cross River lawmakers over defection     UTME, DE registration ends Saturday, says JAMB   The letter, titled: Implementation of the National Minimum Wage of N30,000 -Reminder, signed by the commission’s Chairman Ekpo U. O. Nta, reads: “The National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission hereby reiterates that all employers of labour are expected to implement, with effect from April 18, 2019, the National Minimum Wage (NMW) of N30,000 per month, subject to the provisions of Section 4 of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. “Accordingly, any Federal Government agency that is yet to implement the National Minimum Wage and the consequential adjustments arising therefrom in line with NSIWC circulars that were issued on November 14, 2019, should clear with the commission, if they have problems with the implementation. “Agencies that were not mentioned in the circulars but were required to clear with the commission before implementation, that have already implemented theirs without requisite approvals from the commission, should submit details of implementation for verification/ratification. “State/local governments and private sector organisations are at liberty to consult the commission for guidance as they may deem fit.” “The commission will monitor implementation and compliance, in line with the provisions of Section 2 of the National Minimum Wage (Amendment) Act 2019. Thereafter, sanctions, as provided in sections 13, 14 and 15, will apply where necessary. “Please, bring the contents of this circular to the notice of your Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), and stakeholders. All enquiries arising from this circular should be directed to the commission.” Also, the National Assembly management may need to seek a review of its 2022 budget to accommodate the payment of the minimum wage arrears, which it said was not captured in the budget.