Murder suspect, Chidinma Ojukwu, was recently crowned ‘Miss Cell 2022’ at the Kirikiri Correctional Centre (KCC). Her new crown is hardly the issue, but that the KCC authority deemed it worthy and wise to celebrate her crowning across popular media. That was a judgmental mishap no doubt. Its sheer disregard for fairness and humane ethics. The prison authority’s dubious antic is an affront to justice – given that the new prison queen is on trial for the murder of Super TV boss, Usifo Ataga. Public reaction to the travesty flirts with chagrin and emotion cultism. The latter trumps the former, of course, in the Nigerian arena of emotional theatrics. Sophistry is exploited and extolled to unimaginable levels. The murder suspect’s handlers cum apologists employ the same tired cliches, the same choreographed gimmicks, like the endless counts to two – by the referee in staged wrestling matches – that never seem to get to three, without the pinned wrestler leaping up from the mat to continue the fight. Picture Chidinma as the wrestler, on top, pinning down a prostate Ataga, and the Kirikiri Correctional Centre (KCC) as the referee. Only that, this time around, Ataga won’t leap from the mat to continue the fight. He was tied, tortured and stabbed to death multiple times, according to the deceased’s family, and Chidinma’s initial confession. The emergence of Chidinma, a murder suspect, as Kirikiri’s beauty queen was in dubious attempt to curry public empathy and influence her court trial; the pantomime was poorly orchestrated. The National Spokesperson, Nigeria Correctional Service, Francis Enobore, justified it as part of the services of the correctional facility to ensure that inmates are in ‘sound and good spirit.’ Such a cockamamie excuse is unbecoming of Enobore and the prison service that he represents. If the intent was to fulfill the prison service’s claim to being a correctional centre, then it has failed woefully. By engaging in Chidinma’s PR jaunt, it re-established the KCC as a grotesque resort, where humane ethics are stifled and savagery is celebrated. The pageant manifested as a morbid ritual; public incineration of morals and elevation of Chidinma’s unsavoury pirouette to empathy, or sentencing that resounds as a feeble pat on her wrist. She’d seek complete acquittal perhaps if the trial stacks in her favour. The lurid, detailed justification of her image-laundering theatrics by the prison authority is abominable. Expectedly, it drove Nigerians to momentary frenzy; the resultant battles in the physical and social arena give debators on either side of the divide, a temporary, heady release from their mundane lives. Thus, for a moment, one of the most viral stories in social space, was that of ethical ruin, recklessness, and perversion of Kirikiri prison, a ‘correctional’ facility, to a  heartless, thoughtless regressive facility. The prison management by its action, opened itself to sensational interpretations; it could be averred, for instance, that the Kirikiri prison authority acting with cohorts, sought to sneakily suppress the import of the allegations against Chidinma – a murder suspect who is on trial. They do not care that before her curious recant, Chidinma had previously confessed to murdering Ataga, stating that she strangled him before stabbing him to death. Speaking to journalists, she said she was able to murder Ataga because he became weak after taking three wraps of Rohypnol while she took one wrap.   Before dystopia     The farce this time     Politics of the incised edge   In another interview with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), she admitted to tying him up while he was weak before stabbing him to death. Affecting contrition, Chidinma said in her initial confession: “I regret killing Mr. Ataga. I don’t know what my future holds but I don’t want to die. Please, I don’t want to die because of this case. I have not killed before. “I totally regret everything I did and I am sorry. Mr. Ataga’s family, I am deeply sorry for what I did. If I had my life back, I wouldn’t do anything like that. I am deeply sorry and I hope you forgive me…I am also begging his family to forgive me, especially his children. Ah! God, what have I done?” exclaimed, the murder suspect, burying her face in her palms. Chidinma has since recanted. In a subsequent video, she said she knows nothing about Ataga’s death. “I didn’t injure anybody. I don’t know who must have come into the apartment, and did that… I don’t know who that person is. I don’t know what happened. I did not kill him,” she said. She betrayed better comportment and a conscious attempt to be likable. The murder suspect’s handlers seek to dissolve the iron frame of emotive scorn and remould it into empathy. Working with prison conspirators, they sought to erase notions about Chidinma as a femme fatale, and amend her into some Faerie Queene. So doing, they seek a feminizing and biased deconstruction of justice. They’d seduce justice’s blind, puritan bequest with obscene empathy. Rather than counsel caution and contrition to the accused, they pen innocence and emotional purity into her narrative. They lace it with subtle eroticism too. Hence, Chidinma’s spruced, sensual makeover at the prison pageant. And what better period to prosecute such a frantic agenda than the week of International Women’s Day. It’s curious how vested groups seek to pass her off as a likeable,, innocent figure. To the feminist avenger, she is the vulnerable “little girl” of 21, who found herself at the mercy Ataga and was “forced to protect herself” by “tying him up” and “stabbing him multiple times” to death. So vulnerable was she that she made away with the deceased’s bank card, and withdrew money from his account to pay “fees” and “start up a business.” Heck! She was a poor, “little girl” of 21, fighting back against evil patriarchy. To the disgruntled wife, Chidinma is the unassuming, “innocent girl,” gentle as a dove, and defenseless as a lute before the touches of the wind. Not a few women are quick to her defense irrespective of “the facts.” It’d be really nice to see if they would be so combative and ireful in Chidinma’s defense if the victim were their beloved son, father, uncle, nephew. I’d love to see Chidinma’s sponsored and passionate groupies hold fast in her defense if a similar tragedy befell their loved ones. If it were Andrew Nice Omininikoron, the BRT bus driver arrested over the alleged abduction and murder of 22-year-old fashion designer, Bamise Ayanwole, who got crowned in a beauty pageant, would Chidinma’s apologists be so understanding? Chidinma is a murder suspect, whose rendition of Ataga’s murder, from her repentant confession to her spurious recant, peals like a hair-raising fright story. Nonetheless, the Nigerian prison authority is working so hard to pass the murder suspect off as an epitome of beauty and morality. Thus it seized the celebration of the International Women’s Day to parade her as a chaste jewel, a diamond rediscovered in prison dirt. It doesn’t matter that she had admitted to killing Ataga before her spurious recant at the intervention of her lawyers and coaches, it doesn’t matter how grisly the image of her cat-walking in the prison pageant would seem to Ataga’s bereaved family, the Nigerian prison service would rather we believe that it was simply doing its job, marketing a murder suspect – who is currently on trial – as a fashionista, and a redeemed, angelic, beauty queen.