The atmosphere of peace and tranquility that returned to Imo State recently was shattered on Saturday, when gunmen razed the country home of   the President General (PG) of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof George Obiozor,  and Umuguma Police Headquarters in Oru East and  Owerri West local government areas respectively. Eyewitnesses said two police constabularies on duty were killed during the attack  on the police headquarters but the police spokesperson  in the state, Michael Abattam, a CSP, told The Nation that  no casualty was recorded. “The attack is true but there was no casualty and no police man was killed as at the time we received the report,” he said. The attack on the police headquarters was said to have started at about 4.45am with  heavy bombardment that resulted in loss of properties worth millions of naira. While people were busy lamenting the despicable attack, more than 10 hoodlums in a convoy, according to eyewitnesses, struck at the  Awo- Omanma home of Obiozor. “They were spotted throwing explosives at the  magnificent building,” an eyewitness said. The eyewitness said the PG was not at home when the attackers executed the dastardly act. The attackers were said to have stopped at the gate, throwing dynamites which ignited part of the building into the compound . Some residents told our correspondent that properties worth millions of naira were engulfed by the fire. One of the residents said ” the country home of Prof George Obiozor was burnt last night. The CCTV cameras captured the attack. Thank God Prof was not at home when they came.” When The Nation called his mobile line, Obiozor did not answer. National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze, Alex Ogbonnia, promised to get back to our correspondent when contacted but was yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. But one of the leaders of Igbo socio-cultural group who pleaded anonymity confirmed the incident. He called on the police to fish out those who carried out the arson. Police spokesperson in the state, CSP Michael Abattam, also confirmed the incident, saying that part of the house was destroyed. “Some bad boys went to the place to set the house ablaze. Nobody has been identified yet, but we are investigating it,” he said. People  who witnessed the attack on the police headquarters said there was massive exchange of fire that sent residents of the area scampering for safety. Our correspondent learnt that on arrival, the gunmen who came with guns and explosives immediately opened fire at the divisional headquarters after blocking the roads leading in and out of the station including the one close to the LGA council headquarters. No fewer than 12 vehicles parked at the police station and the roof of the station were burnt by the explosives used in attacking the station. An  eye witness said that the sounds of the weapons the attackers came with frightened them as they ran into bushes out of fear of being hit by stray bullets. A resident of the area, who craved anonymity, said the hoodlums were callous. “On arrival, they blocked the roads, threw their dynamites into the police station and opened fire. They now laid ambush to attack officers who ran out of the station for safety. “Unfortunately, two police constabularies by name Ifeanyi and Iyke were killed. Ifeanyi was from Umunkwo in Umuguma community here. He was a final year student at Imo State University in Owerri. I knew him. It is just one year now he was recruited. He was trying to scale the fence when they used machete to cut him. He was sliced. The young man died on the spot. This is very unfortunate. “The second victim, Iyke was from Avu community. They shot him at one of his legs as he fled. He was later found dead at a water stand where he possibly went to drink water. This is very unfortunate.” Our correspondent gathered that it took the efforts of fire fighters from Owerri to quench the inferno. Another eyewitness said ” fire fighters just quenched the fire now. The entire place is in a state of fear and confusion as we didn’t sleep last night. The sound of the guns and bombs were too frightening. The invasion was deadly.” The attack came few hours the Assistant Inspector General of police in charge of zone 9- Umuahia,  Isaac Akinmoyede, left the state after a one- day working visit. Uzodinma, Ngige, others condemn attacks Imo State governor, Sen Hope Uzodinma, Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, and other prominent Igbo leader have condemned the attacks. The Imo State government in in a statement  personally signed by Governor Uzodinma regretted that desperate politicians who believe in violence were yet to sheath their swords in spite of repeated appeal to that effect. Uzodimma described the attack on the country home of Prof Obiozor as cowardly and height of desperation. He vowed that the government was already working in concert with security agencies to identify and punish the perpetrators. He bemoaned the incessant resort to violence in settling political differences by some politicians in the state, and warned that the government would no longer condone such banditry. According to him, “the time of those who unleash this kind of mayhem in the state is over. We shall hunt them down to face the full weight of the law.” Uzodinma wondered why the bandits should attack the home of a man who is not a politician but a statesman working for the good of the entire Igbo race. He said it was shameful that both the sponsors and perpetrators of the violence deployed their malicious attack on an innocent man. While commiserating with Prof Obiozor on the burning of his home,he assured Imo people that government will continue to do all within its Constitutional power to protect lives and property in the state. Meanwhile, most prominent personalities in the Imo state kept mum over the bombing of  Obiozor’s country home. Many  of them did not respond to  calls while some  who answered said they wanted to watch the unfolding event before commenting on the issue. However, the President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in the state, Ambassador Azunna Akpelu condemned the arson saying that Prof. Obiozor has not made any inflammatory statement to warrant the burning of his house. “As it is now everything about about the incident is still sketchy. I don’t know why this could happened to him when he has not made any inflammatory statement against anybody that could warrant burning of his house. What I  know that about the Igbos is that they are lovers of their brothers, the Igbos are not violence, they are peace makers. Whatever ha that has caused that is what we have to find out and at an appropriate time I will now speak on that.” Elder statesman, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu said he would speak on the incident later but said Prof. Obiozor did not deserve what has happened to him. Also, a former House of Representatives member, Dr. Chris Asoluka said the President General “is a gentleman who does not deserve such treatment at his retirement age.”   Port Harcourt Fire: Mayor vows to demolish shanties, illegal…     Akeredolu welcomes Soludo to Southern Governors’ Forum     2023: INEC picks holes in new Electoral Act   He called for concerted effort in tackling of insecurity in the state before it gets out of hand. “The incident is a bit disheartening and we ask ourselves where do we go from here. Obiozor doesn’t deserve it , he is a nice person.” Ngige  described  the  burning of  the Ohanaeze President’s house by gunmen as inhuman, disrespectful. He says the people who did such a thing have no respect for Igbo elders, adding that it was the same reason that led to the death of former Minister of Finance, Dr Chu Okongwu Speaking with The Nation on Saturday, the former Anambra State governor, said he aligned himself with what the new Anambra State governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo said in his maiden address that there was need for dialogue. Ngige, maintained that he was of the belief that those performing such despicable acts in Igboland were not members of Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB. He said the group had been infiltrated by armed robbers, kidnappers and other hoodlums, adding that for anyone to burn the building of Prof George Obiozor, that they were no longer human beings. “Ndigbo have lost their economy for a long time. I believe that IPOB and Eastern Security Network ESN, had been hijacked by criminal elements. “The former Minister of Finance, Dr Chu Okongwu died few weeks after they burnt his house in Nnewi and the same people have the temerity to burn down octogenarian like Prof Obiozor’s house. “That action is condemnable, it’s inhuman and senseless. Anybody who listened to the address presented by Prof Soludo knows that it’s the way to go and we are not going to keep quiet , we will continue talking ” the minister said He said those who did such dastardly act had no respect for elder statesmen like Obiozor and Ndigbo. Also condemning the incidents, the Alaigbo Development Foundation (ADF) yesterday warned that Igboland would no longer tolerate the continued insurgency and destruction of property in the region by hoodlums. The ADF which was reacting to the attacks on the country home of the president general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor and Umuguma police station all in Imo State, said the insurgency should end immediately. Spokesman of the group, Abia Onyike described the attacks as condemnable and regrettable. He blamed the Southeast governors for not doing anything about it, regretting that the Ebubeagu security outfit  was used to attack political opponents instead of using it to protect the people. Onyike said, “This thing should end by now. But nobody knows when it will end. “It’s very unfortunate that these things are still going on. It’s very condemnable and regrettable that the hoodlums and unknown gunmen are taking the centre stage in the Southeast. “It’s unfortunate that the Southeast Governors Forum is not doing anything about it. “The so-called Ebubeagu security outfit they set up, instead of using it to protect the people, they are using it to pursue, harass and attach their political opponents. “But when it comes to providing genuine security, they are nowhere to be found. It’s extremely unfortunate that the entire Southeast is very porous. “The governors should tell Igbo people what they are doing with the Ebubeagu security outfit. “The police and other security agents must rise up and arrest the situation. They must look for the culprits and bring them to book. This one is something that we can no longer tolerate. It is becoming too much”. The youth  wing of Ohanézè Ndígbo in a statement described the incident as an attack on the entire Igbo nation. Spokesperson of Ohanézè Youth, Maxi Chika Adiele in a statement said those who carried out the attack as shameless. He said:”Those who carried out they attack are shameless. They are trying to change the narrative. Igbo people are industrious, innovative, peacefully and hard working.We are not known for violence. “This is desecration of everything that binds us together. That attack is not just an attack on Chief Obiozor, it is an attack on the entire Igbo nation and whosoever that is involved, the God of Justice will bring them to book. “We in Ohanézè we are progressive and whatever thing that will bring lasting peace to Igboland is what we are in for.  I think they law enforcement agents will take action but we in Ohanézè youth will continue to support our Elders and every known conventional ways to bring peace. After all we are peace loving people. We will go ahead with our peace moves, it is a duty for every one of us, this is just a temporary setback”, he said. Former Minister of State for Health, Fide Nwankwo described the incident as shocking. He, however, called on security agencies to keep an open mind while trying to unravel those responsible for the attack. Mr Nwakwo, a PDP governorship hopeful, said the attack should serve as a wake up call to all southeast Leaders irrespective of political affiliations to close ranks and find a lasting solution to the security challenges bedeviling the region. He said:”The attack should spur southeast Leaders to find lasting solution to security challenges that has creeped into Igbo land. Let us close ranks and save guard our place. “This is very worrisome. It is not as if there is any internal war going on between the states in Igboland neither are we fighting over any economic issues, so it or really difficult to understand why this is happening”, he added . Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, last night, described the attack by unknown gunmen on the Awomanma, Imo State home of President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor, as despicable and horrendous. Senator Abaribe in a statement by his Media Adviser, Uchenna Awom in Abuja on Saturday, said the unwarranted attack on the foremost scholar and Nigerian patriot depicts a dangerous slide to a state of anarchy that must be arrested immediately. The attack and others before it he said, have left a sour taste in the mouth of a hapless people haunted daily by fear of the unknown. The Minority Leader therefore urged the security agencies to carry out an indepth investigation on the incident and apprehend the perpetrators. “The attack said to have come on the heels of another attack on a Police Station in Umuguma, Owerri same day, calls for concern and deep introspection by Ndigbo and all men of good will. “We cannot continue this way and it stands condemned in the strongest terms,” Senator Abaribe said. Senator Abaribe however consoled Professor Obiozor and the Ohaneze Ndigbo family.