NowNow Digital Systems Limited, a financial technology organisation, said it has made considerable progress to promote electronic payments, train talent and achieved the goal of financial inclusion. NOWNOW is a Fintech platform that allows users to send and receive money, purchase airtime and pay bills with ease. Speaking in Lagos, a Director of the company, Lekan Akinjide said the strides accomplished by the company will support the economy and uphold the innovative spirit and flexible technology that will deepen the connection with the nation’s stable financial environment and sustainable economy, creating infinite possibilities together. He noted that NOWNOW has always worked relentlessly to create for its consumers a dynamic ecosystem of experiences within and beyond mobility. He said the company is on a mission to create new possibilities by making technology available to masses in Nigeria.   Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike     OPEC unable to make up for 7mb/d Russia sanction     Access Bank eyes top five position in Africa   The Chief Strategy and Investment Officer, Matt Francis said the organisation is determined to play a role in improving populations’ access to banking. He reiterated that the company’s blueprint for development includes the mandate to facilitate access to financial services as a key strategy to combat poverty and helping Nigerians realize there is an untapped opportunity in promoting the financial inclusion of underprivileged populations. According to him, the company has all the right ingredients to innovate sustainable solutions to complex challenges. With over 50,000 customers, he noted that the company’s goal is to develop long-term relationships that are mutually beneficial, working in conjunction with local banks and lenders to promote economic success for small business owners and other Nigerians.   He said the platform supports thousands of transactions monthly and can easily scale to hundreds of millions as the market grows, without compromising performance. He said the platform offers a bigger array of financial services including insurance, and it has seen a good business opportunity within a growing market sector.