The Lagos State government has reaffirmed its commitment to opening more economic opportunities for residents in the Lekki-Epe axis. The Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Mrs. Lola Akande, stated this during the presentation of startup equipment and supplies for the inauguration of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Area Command at the Lekki Free Zone. She said an efficient traffic management system supports investors’ businesses and builds better confidence in the economy. She said the government planned to reduce man hours wasted on road to aid efficient and effective business operations at the optimal level. “We shall not rest on our oars in safeguarding the interests of business operators in this community and in the state.  We shall continue to create an enabling environment and provide platforms for business expansion. Our government will continue to promote critical investments in human and infrastructural development in line with Mr. Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu’s T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda and Sustainable Development Goals,” Akande said.   PoS supports financial inclusion, say bank officials     Report lists barriers to consumer trust in financial…     CRC Credit Bureau gets GCOO   She said the project would impact the lives and businesses of the entire Lekki Free Zone host communities encompassing Ibeju-Lekki, Eleko, Akodo Coastal road communities significantly. She lauded Lekki Free Zone Development Company Limited, Dangote Refineries, Lekki Deep Seaport and Northwest Quadrant Development Company Limited for their contributions to the realisation of the initiative driven by Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited by the Lagos State Government. She said that equipment such as patrol vehicles, trucks, boots and other traffic control gadgets were presented to the new LASTMA Area Command in demonstration of the State Government’s proactivity and commitment to stemming current and future rise in traffic in communities within Ibeju-Lekki, Eleko and Akodo areas. “Without equivocation, the influx of global businesses and investments such as the Dangote Refinery, Alaro City and the Lekki Deep Sea Port Into the Lekki Free Zone axis has given rise to heavy traffic logjams within the corridor with indications of a future rise in volume of vehicular and human traffic.” “Hence, it became imperative upon our proactive and responsive Government to proffer solutions towards easing mobility, safety and general well-being of the people and businesses”. Also speaking, Executive Director, Lekki Worldwide Investment Limited, Yemi Olusanya, said the project aligns with the state government’s plan to open up the environment to investment. She said the current move will help provide traffic management for investors to impact lives and businesses significantly.