Ghana yesterday drew 1-1 with Nigeria to qualify for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar on the away goals rule after both rivals played out a scoreless draw in Kumasi Friday night. The Black Stars of Ghana thus advanced to their fourth World Cup after they also featured at the 2006, 2010 and 2014 tournaments. Arsenal star Thomas Partey opened scoring after 10 minutes when he fired a low shot from outside the box under a diving goalkeeper Francis Uzoho. That stunned the 60,000-strong MKO Abiola National Stadium in Abuja. However, the home team drew level in the 22nd minute, when VAR ruled that Ademola Lookman was upended inside the box by Denis Odoi and skipper William Ekong put away the penalty. VAR again came to play in the 34th minute, when Victor Osimhen’s effort was chalked off for offside. The TV replay showed the Napoli striker was clearly ahead of the last Ghanaian defender Alexander Djiku.   Belgian footballer Damme dies after battle with cancer     WTT Star Contender: Aruna keeps winning streak in Doha     Osimhen wins second Serie A Player of the month   In the 59th minute, Osimhen’s improvised overhead kick from inside the box missed the Ghana goal not by much. Coach Augustine Eguavoen made attacking changes by bringing on Odion Ighalo and Ahmed Musa as Nigeria went for broke late in this encounter. Osimhen tried a spectacular kick in the 83rd minute as chances were few and far between for both teams in the second half. It was too little too late for the three-time African champions as they failed to break the deadlock till the final whistle. Meanwhile, Senegal became the second African team to progress after Ghana after a dramatic 3-1 penalty shootout win against Egypt. The Sadio Mane –led Teranga Lions cancelled Egypt 1-0 first leg and both sides failed to find the back of the net again even after 120 minutes of an intense game. In the ensuing penalty shoot-out, Sadio Mane was the hero as he did during the 2021 AFCON final between the two sides as he fired the decisive winning penalty to send Senegal through to Qatar 2022 with a 3-1 win.