US boxer Jake Paul has offered to sponsor a boxing match worth $60million for Kanye West and Pete Davidson to settle their differences. The duo has been ‘at each other’s throats following the crash of West and Kim Kardashian’s marriage. After ‘The Kardashians’ star filed for divorce from her estranged husband Kanye West six years after marriage, she moved on with Saturday Night Live comedian, Pete, making headlines everywhere. Kim and Pete started dating in October 2021 shortly after the mother of four appeared on ‘Saturday Night Live’ (SNL). Just a few weeks after Kim appeared on the show, she and Pete celebrated Halloween together by going on a date to an amusement park where they were spotted holding hands on a rollercoaster. They first went public with their relationship in November where they were pictured on a string of romantic dates. The 28-year-old comedian was also spotted with what appeared to be a pretty big love bite on his neck later that month…   Portable bags N50m Obi Cubana’s endorsement deal     Moves to get Kanye West out of Coachella lineup hit 26,000…     I’ve attempted suicide thrice – Beatrice   Pete went on to call Kim his ‘girlfriend’ in a recent interview which really got fans excited. As Kanye continues to make his divorce from Kim acrimonious, Pete has reportedly promised he’s ‘not going anywhere and has assured her he’ll stand by her no matter what. As the rift between West and Davidson continues to elicit concern in some quarters, Paul has now said he’s “sick of the back and forth” between the pair on social media. The 25-year-old boxer stated that their continued feud could have a negative effect on Kim and Kanye’s children. He also called on both parties to consider taking to the ring to put an end to their feud. “I’m kinda sick of them going back and forth on social media and I think it’s affecting their kid’s life, like Kanye and Kim’s kids. They’re gonna be the ones that take the most trauma from this”, he said. The boxer said he has already gotten partners willing to make the fight a reality if West and Davidson eventually take up the challenge.