A total of 12 students bagged First Class as the First Technical University, Ibadan(TECH-U) is set to hold its first-ever convocation ceremony on Saturday, March 5, 2022. This was made known on Thursday at the institution’s pre-convocation briefing on its campus in Ibadan. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ayobami Salami, noted that 63 students were set to be the first set of graduates in the institution. “We are graduating 63 in all. These comprise 10 students in Computer Science, 20 on Industrial Chemistry,22 in Microbiology,8 in Software Engineering and 3 in Physics. Of the 63, 12 have First Class while 24 have Second Class Upper,” he said. The VC stated that the university which began operations with two buildings now has 16 additional ones through internally generated revenue (IGR). Salami said apart from adding two new faculties to the existing ones, the university now offers new courses such as Mechatronics, Cyber Security and Forensic Science. He added that no other tertiary institution offers Forensic Science currently.   UBEC seeks ways to sustain Federal Teachers Scheme     AUN, IITA to fight hunger, malnutrition in Northeast     Firm launches N500 daily remedial school   He also said the institution enjoyed uninterrupted academic sessions at the height of the coronavirus pandemic, which prompted the production of ventilators and usable face masks. Speaking on activities lined up for its maiden convocation, the VC noted that the convocation play entitled: ‘Love’s Unlike Laden’ written by Prof. Femi Osofisan will be staged on March 4. The convocation lecture entitled:” A skilled and knowledgeable workforce: key to sustainable development in Nigeria”, will be delivered by former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission, Prof. Julius Okojie. The VC, who noted that some of the students in the university secured employment during their industrial training, explained that the institution ranks 7th among State Universities and 27th in the country. He said the Chancellor Dr Tunde Afolabi would be conferred with the Doctor of Science(D.Sc) of Petroleum Engineering, Honoris causa. Others to be given honorary doctoral degrees include, Chief Adebayo Akande, Chief Amal People, Prof. Toyin Falola and Mr Segun Agbaje. He also conducted journalists’ rounds to check state-of-the-art facilities in various faculties and departments.