IT is remarkable that what looked like a successful palace coup last week to oust the All Progressives Congress (APC) caretaker chairman, Mai Mala Buni, has collapsed spectacularly. Indeed the party dominated the headlines almost completely last week. Niger State governor Abubakar Sani-Bello, citing the approbation of President Muhammadu Buhari, took control of the party, swore in elected state chairman over which Mr Buni had shuffled his feet endlessly, rejigged the sub-committees to superintend the convention, reaffirmed and issued the party’s zoning formula for party offices, and recommitted the party to the March 26 date for the national convention. It was a few days of purposefulness the like of which the party had not known or even seen for more than a year under the vacillating and scheming Mr Buni, Yobe State governor. The APC boasts 23 governors, some 19, or at least well more than a dozen, of whom supported and craved Mr Sani-Bello’s dynamism, according to some estimates. Kaduna State governor Nasir el-Rufai, a principal and unapologetic participant in the putsch, was dramatic on television when he applauded the move against Mr Buni, insisting that the president had signed off on the takeover. He alluded to subterranean plots by the Buni crowd to rubbish the party and entangle it in dangerous adventures certain to thwart its purpose and electoral chances in 2023. He accused Mr Buni and his supporters of political subterfuges involving procuring illicit court injunctions against the party’s March 26 national convention. That date, he complained bitterly, had been rendered doubtful by the plots and schemes of the party’s caretaker committee at the behest of Mr Buni and the caretaker committee secretary, James Akpanudoedehe. Mallam el-Rufai was not the only one who visibly stuck out his neck in the putsch. Ondo State governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who is not known for equivocation, was unsparing in likening the Buni leadership of the caretaker committee to a group of men obtaining by false pretence. His supporting governors were yahoo-yahoo politicians who had hijacked the party and were leading it into perdition, he wailed. Even the Niger State governor himself quibbled profusely when reporters asked him to clarify his position as the new leader of the party. All he knew, he claimed without any substantiation, was that the president was in the know regarding the changes. He was loth to describe his position as acting chairman. That seemed obviously infra dig. He preferred to be seen as the new man in charge, though he struggled to couch his status in the right terminologies. Were Mr Buni’s opponents right in ‘usurping’ authority? Yes, absolutely. The caretaker chairman had given more than enough indication that he was uninterested in holding the convention. Last February, the first assigned date for the convention which the president assented, came and went, with the chairman taking no step whatsoever in conducting the party fiesta, preferring that by acts of omission the party and the president would be faced with a fait accompli or, worse, probably declare a force majeure. They didn’t. But pretending not to know what Mr Buni was up to, they again tamely fixed another date, March 26, for the fiesta. Even that too was embroiled in Mr Buni’s relentless shenanigans, prompting the putsch by the party cognoscenti. The putschists recognised too late that for strictly private reasons, a part of which was Mr Buni’s presidential ambition, the caretaker chairman was averse to any convention. He preferred to superintend the party’s primaries and possibly hold the convention simultaneously. How he intended to walk that tightrope is impossible to fathom. But needs must when the devil drives. He had obtained the trust of the president, and he sees exploiting it for private goals as anything but a betrayal. The Nigerian media deserve credit in covering the APC putsch. They not only continued to hedge their bets in reporting the goings-on in the party, they kept casting wary eyes at what was happening in the Buni camp. The caretaker chairman’s man Friday, Mr Akpanudoedehe, they keenly observed, had embarked on a political merry-go-round when Mr Sani-Bello took the reins of the party. Something was afoot; something did not quite sit right. And when the Justice minister, Abubakar Malami – who continues to see himself as the party’s omniscient legal adviser in the face of the anonymity of the party’s official legal adviser – offered a view in tandem with the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the media smelt a rat. There was need for caution, both the Justice minister and SGF chorused. Consternated, some newspapers began reporting with even more caution, wondering whether, contrary to what the Niger and Kaduna States governors said, the often indecisive President Buhari was actually in the know of the coup against Mr Buni. But there is no question the president knew everything going on in his party. The problem was that, as usual, he could not make up his mind whom to side. After one crazy week of jousting, Mr Buni has seemed to reclaim his precarious office. Mallam el-Rufai, Mr Sani-Bello, Mr Akeredolu, and their coterie of supporters, including the silent 16 other governors, now have eggs on their faces. As one of the caretaker committee officials whispered last week, the 19 anti-Buni governors – if indeed they were so many – will have their ranks depleted in the days ahead. There are seven governors clearly siding with Mr Buni; but that number will swell as the caretaker chairman consolidates his tremulous grip over the party all over again. Where does that leave the anti-Buni forces? In the doldrums? They would be feckless to remain incognito or demoralised. They have a superior cause; they must stay true to that cause. There is of course the suggestion that the anti-Buni forces are themselves nursing their own private agenda, including running for the presidency, but the damage being done by Mr Buni and his cohorts is so immense that he deserves not only to be opposed, but to be kicked out. The anti-Buni forces have signaled their intention to litigate Mr Buni’s unedifying leadership. They stand on shaky ground. Surely they can’t have forgotten how their coup failed in the first instance because the Independent National Electoral Commission threw a spanner in the works by refusing to recognise the changes wrought by Mallam el-Rufai and company and exemplified by Mr Sani-Bello. With the ubiquitous Mr Malami hovering in legal corners everywhere, interloping and offering gratuitous legal opinions as his whims and personal undertakings and interests demand, the anti-Buni forces will always come to grief if they try the legal perspective. Their best bet is to regroup their foot soldiers, including the shy governors they had numbered among their ranks, and launch another fierce onslaught. They had hoped the president would side with them and stick to their cause when they launched their first preemptive strike. How could they misjudge the president so badly? Whatever they do next, the president must rank least among their jokers. What is not in dispute in all the drama enveloping the APC is that Mr Buni and a few others have taken the party for a ride. They simply ignore the party’s larger and wider interests and objectives, and have embarked on cold, calculating manoeuvres using party organs and goodwill to plot unusual and shortsighted goals. Like Ali Modu Sheriff when he acted as national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2016, Mr Buni desires to run for the presidency either as the candidate or running mate. It is not only immoral, it is also a slap in the face of the president himself. If the president is unable to decipher Mr Buni’s secret intentions, it may have to do with the version of events Mr Malami and others close to the president are giving him. Mr Buni’s machinations are an open secret. For the president to pretend not to see or understand the plots indicates that rather than offer the party and country the leadership they deserve, he is also in on the covert game, probably bought over by the plotters’ chicaneries to restrict the presidency and subordinate it to undisclosed interests.   Jonathan, Emefiele and 2023     At last, APC exhales     Aregbesola’s incredible outburst   If the anti-Buni forces chicken out quickly, the caretaker chairman may begin to consolidate his noxious grip over the party and take solace in the private objectives he and his supporters have insinuated into the party policy framework and objectives. The forces against Mr Buni should not give up. The fate of the party is now more uncertain than ever. Had the president been neutral, and had he possessed a vision of the kind of party he would like to bequeath the country, he would have long ensured Mr Buni’s exit. The caretaker chairman is not altruistic; he is compromised, tainted, ambitious and egocentric. The PDP smartly deposed Mr Modu Sheriff as their acting national chairman in May 2016 when he developed ambition. The onslaught against him was led by a group of eminent party leaders who could read the signs of the times. The APC clearly has many men and leaders smart and sensible enough to deal with the Buni aberration. If they do not stand up to be counted now, they will rue the day they allowed their cowardice to undermine the party and bring it to grief. They have two options to choose from. Either they work on the president, despite his constant vacillation and despite the notoriety of the few powerful men who have his ear, or they use political tools to mobilise like-minded men to fight within the party to overthrow the discredited regime blighting their party. The first outcome is not guaranteed, but the president may pull a surprise; while the second seems more realistic but difficult. Either way, the putschists have their work cut out for them. Without the decisiveness Mr Sani-Bello brought to bear on the party in the past few days, Mr Buni will probably make a hash of the convention. Indeed, it is hard to see him organising the fiesta without hitches and all the encumbrances and booby traps he had himself spun. The anti-Buni forces struck for the first time last week, but their blow was not fatal. Mr Buni is not a capable administrator and his mind is a seething cauldron of plots and schemes; he will present them another opportunity. This time, they should be more lethal. The alternative is to watch the party disintegrate, as it sadly seemed fated to do when it imposed an uninspiring rule on the country in 2015 and accentuated the decay in 2020 by brusquely sacking their vibrant but flawed former chairman.      Speaking at a symposium to mark his 85th birthday, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo made a number of strident political statements, chief among which was his memorable liner that should EFCC and ICPC function well, many presidential aspirants would be in jail. Since leaving office, he has cultivated the habit of making inflammatory and self-indicting statements, without any hint that he is troubled by the paradoxes that accompany his remarks. Quoting him substantially, Chief Obasanjo said: “Since 1999, we have changed from one political party or another we have manoeuvred and manipulated to the point that election results are no longer reflections of the will of the people. And we seem to be progressively going back rather than going forward politically, economically and socially. We have activities without requisite actions and personnel to move us forward. If we continue in the same pattern of recycling, sweet-word campaigning, manoeuvring without the substance of integrity, honesty, patriotism, commitment, outreach, courage, understanding of what makes a nation and what makes for development, we will soon have to say goodbye to Nigeria as a nation.” Then this scathing part: “I cast a cursory look at some of the people running around and those for whom people are running around. If EFCC and ICPC had done their jobs properly, supported adequately by the judiciary, most of them would be in jail. Any person who has no integrity in small things cannot have integrity in big things. Fixing Nigeria must begin on the principles of nation building, not necessarily on emotions, sentiments, euphoria, ignorance, incompetence, ethnicity, nepotism, bigotry, sectionalism, regionalism, religion or class.” The trouble with Chief Obasanjo’s perspectives is not that his remarks are often mendacious, but that he sanctimoniously seems to always exclude himself from his indictments. Others are flawed; he is blameless. Others are thieves; he is squeaky clean. Others should be in jail for what they have done, whether proven or not; he should walk free despite his frequent subversion of public service rules and ethics. The offensiveness of his claims and self-righteousness, not to say his many untruths, is truly numbing. Is it worth anyone taking the trouble of reminding him what he did in office? No one is sure anymore. Because if you did, he remains as impervious as ever to whatever of his failings is waved under his nose. He raised funds for his retirement, even blackmailing corporate organisations and state governments for that purpose; he became famously anti-democratic going by the way he dethroned PDP chairmen and presidential aspirants, to the point of even scheming the illegal impeachment of a few governors; and despite his remonstrations, he openly schemed for a third term. The gravamen of all the counts and indictments against him – and there are scores of examples of how he abused and subverted the constitution – is that he abhors integrity. And yet he demands from others integrity in small and big things. It is a national paradox worthy of further studies or dissertations by enterprising graduate students to explain how despite bursting on the national scene as Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters, during the Murtala Mohammed military regime in 1975 with no special gifts or exceptional behavior, he has continued till today to attract attention and regard. Many people still confer with him, political aspirants visit him for a blessing of some sort, and even corporate organisations and book launchers entreat him to grace their activities. Till he translates, it seems he will continue to be a cynosure of attention, perhaps diminished as he mummifies into his late 80s and possibly 90s. But there would be no question just what damage he had occasioned to the body politic, first as a military head of state, and later as elected president. No man in Nigeria had been so gifted with the opportunity to write his name in gold, and no man had been so adept at frittering away and trivialising his chances by choosing lead pencil to do the writing.