With Nigeria among countries with the highest burden of tuberculosis in the world, experts say that creating more awareness about the preventable and treatable disease, mobilisation of more funding for its management and infusing more effectiveness into resource utilisation hold the master key towards eradicating TB, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF Last week, it was time to celebrate the World’s Tuberculosis Day. Like other countries, Nigeria was not missing in action on a day set aside each year to raise public awareness and deepen understanding about one of the world’s deadliest infectious killers. Of a fact, tuberculosis holds a distinctive status in the comity of highly infectious diseases: almost completely preventable and largely treatable. Yet, in Nigeria and other parts of the world, the disease continues to mow down people in frightening numbers. At  an event in Lagos to mark the day, experts raised the alarm over rising death and morbidity from TB. Every day, statistics cited by experts showed that approximately 30,000 people fall ill while over 4,100 lose their lives to this preventable and curable disease. According to the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr Olusegun Ogboye, TB remains the leading cause of death among people with HIV and a major contributor to microbial resistance. Ogboye made the call at a media engagement parley organised by the Lagos State Ministry of Health, State TB, Leprosy and Buruli Ulcer Control Programme and the Institute of Human Virology Nigeria, in conjunction with Journalists Against AIDS (JAAIDS) Nigeria. The event was marked with the theme: Invest to End TB. Save lives–  all aimed at building public awareness about TB and its devastating health, social and economic impact on people around the world and on efforts at eliminating the disease. “Currently, Nigeria is ranked seventh among the  20 TB high-burdened countries in the world with Lagos State having the highest TB burden in Nigeria. With a population of over 23 million people and a projected 3.2% annual growth rate, the incidence rate of TB in Lagos State is 219 per 100,000 population. Prevalence rate is 330 per 100,000 population while the annual expected notification rate is  about 50,000 TB cases. “This government is determined, now more than ever, to change this initiative, thus it has become pertinent to increase general awareness, ensure effective service delivery, including diagnosis, treatment, and care by improving access to TB diagnosis and treatment services.  These are also to ‘Achieving Universal Coverage’ and ‘Ensuring equitable access. “As part of improvement, the Lagos State Ministry of Health through the support of Global fund have DOTS Centres, Community care workers, 18 X-ray machines, Gene Xpert sites in all the 20  local government  areas of the state and have launched three  mobile X-ray vans to increase active case search in the state thereby increasing case finding, diagnosis and free treatment of diagnosed cases and is accessible to all,” Ogboye said. Also, the Nigerian Thoracic Society (NTS) insisted that raising public awareness about the effects of TB in the country will aid efforts towards tackling the epidemic. In a statement, the NTS Secretary General, Dr Abiona Odeyemi, reiterated that tuberculosis has been noted as the world’s deadliest infectious killer. The body said the theme is a call on governments and stakeholders to invest finance, hard work, determination and energy in order to achieve the common goal, which is to save lives, stressing that the theme is a message and a plea to the Nigerian government and world leaders to ramp up investment in TB control in order to save lives. The increase in cases of TB should gear the government to give the disease the attention it deserves, Odeyemi said. “TB remains the world’s deadliest infectious killer. Each year, about 162,000 people lose their lives to TB in Nigeria and close to 430,000 people fall ill with this preventable and curable disease in the country. Global efforts to combat TB have saved millions of lives in Nigeria and globally since the year 2000. “While the Nigerian Thoracic Society appreciates the spirited efforts being made by government to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on Nigerians, we also would like to remind the authorities that TB is still the number one infectious killer disease made worse by the advent and rise in the incidence and prevalence of multidrug resistant TB across the world and as such it should continue to receive all the needed attention and the top priority it deserves,” he said.   MeCure partners Quickraiz to deliver affordable cancer care     ‘Fed Govt committed to birth control’     418m people lack access to safe drinking water in Africa,…   But the World TB Day was not restricted to Lagos. In Abuja, Nigeria’s seat of power, the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, said Nigeria reported no fewer than 207,000 cases of tuberculosis in 2021, with 12,977 cases affecting children. Sadly, only 28 out of the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory had treatment centres for the management of drug-resistant tuberculosis, he said. According to the World Health Organisation, the disease remains one of the top 10 causes of deaths worldwide. Speaking at an event organised by the Federal Ministry of Health to mark the day, Ehanire stated the strategies that had been put in place by the Federal Government to eliminate the disease. He stated, “Our efforts in the area of TB/HIV collaboration have yielded good results, with the annual proportion of TB patients tested for HIV consistently over 94 per cent in the last six years. Similarly, the proportion of TB patients co-infected with HIV has dropped from 18 per cent in 2014 to six per cent in 2021. This is consistent with the report of the 2018 National HIV/AIDS Impact Indicator Survey. “Our annual TB notification has steadily increased from 100,433 in 2016 to more than 207,000 TB cases in 2021, the highest ever notification and a 45 per cent increase from the 2020 notification. A key challenge to our control effort has been low notification of child TB cases, mainly due to capacity gaps among healthcare workers in diagnosing TB in childhood. Although we notified our highest number of child TB cases of 12,977 in 2021, the child TB proportion amongst the overall TB notification for the same year was six per cent – far lower than the WHO benchmark of 12 per cent. This implies a high proportion of missing child TB cases in Nigeria. “Our DR-TB response has equally not yielded the desired results. Barely 2,975 of the estimated 21,000 DR-TB cases were notified in 2021. Another disturbing trend is the low enrolment rate of diagnosed DR-TB patients on treatment. Only 2,197 (74 per cent) of diagnosed DR-TB patients were enrolled for treatment in 2021. This is not encouraging as it is a far cry from our target of 100 per cent enrolment for diagnosed DR-TB patients. These untreated DR-TB patients constitute a time bomb as they continuously spread DR-TB in our communities,” he warned. COVID-19 reversed gains of 66 million people saved from TB While marking the World TB day, the World Health Organisation (WHO) lamented that COVID-19 has reversed the gains of 66 million people saved since 2000 from TB. It also said that an extra US$ 1.1 billion is urgently needed for research and development annually to tame TB, adding that global spending on TB diagnostics, treatments and prevention in 2020 dropped to less than half of the global target of US$ 13 billion annually by 2022. Statistics from WHO showed that TB remains one of the world’s deadliest infectious killers and each day, over 4, 100 people lose their lives to TB while close to 30 000 people fall ill with the preventable and curable disease. According to the WHO Global Report 2020, TB kills 18 Nigerians every hour. The global health giant said Nigeria ranks first in Africa and sixth globally among the 30 high TB burden countries for TB, with worrying caution that for the first time in over a decade, TB deaths increased in 2020. “Urgent investments are needed to develop and expand access to the most innovative services and tools to prevent, detect and treat TB that could save millions of lives each year, narrow inequities and avert huge economic losses. These investments offer huge returns for countries and donors, in averted health care costs and increased productivity,” said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of WHO. The WHO DG explained that investments in TB programmes have demonstrated benefits not just for people with TB, but for health systems and pandemic preparedness. “Building on lessons learnt from COVID-19 research, there is a need to catalyse investment and action to accelerate the development of new tools, especially new TB vaccines. “COVID-19 has had a further negative and disproportionate impact on children and adolescents with TB or at risk, with increased TB transmission in the household, lower care-seeking and access to health services. WHO is sounding the alarm on World TB Day for countries to urgently restore access to TB services, disrupted due to COVID-19 pandemic for all people with TB, especially children and adolescents.”