The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has reinforced its resolve to battle drug abuse in Nigeria with the graduation of 650 officers of its Strike Force from the Nigerian Army School of Infantry (NASI) Jaji, Kaduna State after weeks of rigorous specialised training. The Strike Force is one of NDLEA’s tactical creations of 2021 to add strength and purpose to its drug supply reduction effort by providing cover for officers and men of NDLEA who have to work in dangerous terrain while carrying out their duties. Speaking at the ceremony yesterday, Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) said the specialised training will enhance the competence of the operatives in the special role they are playing for the Agency in the war against illicit drugs. “It is important that I should remind you that as the Agency scales its operation against illicit drugs trafficking, your service will become increasingly essential to the successful attainment of our organisational goals. The special nature of your training requires that you serve as force multiplier to the conventional NDLEA staff in the field. “I have no doubt that you will measure up to the demand of the job because generations of military and paramilitary personnel have passed through this course and have distinguished themselves on the field. Moreso, the progress report I received, including on-the-spot assessment, confirmed that the objective of the course has been achieved. Therefore as you graduate today, I urge you not to rest on your oars as your competence will be tested from time to time by challenges that will recur in your career as anti-narcotic operatives,” he said.   Nigeria needs to train more doctors, stop brain drain…     Shun cultism, money rituals, emulate Lisabi, Abiodun charges…     Osun 2022: PDP members protest, reject candidate for deputy…   Gen. Marwa who was represented by his Special Adviser, Col. Yakubu Bako (Retd) urged them to shun any enticement that is in conflict with the ethos of their profession as anti-narcotic operatives. He said the merit of having the Strike Force was evident in the month of February when on two occasions the Agency was able to successfully carry out raids, seizure and destruction of a significant amount of psychotropic substances in territories, which in the past were hostile and almost out of bounds for narcotic officers. “Anything that would compromise your discipline and dedication to duty should be avoided. As an anti-narcotic officer, you bear a huge obligation to remain incorruptible in the face of any temptation that might be sprung on you by drug traffickers and barons”, he added. While 600 Strike Force operatives participated in special warfare training, the 50 others had all arms drills training.