Third Force” is fast becoming the prime soap of Nigeria’s election circuit — and The National Movement (TNM) would appear the latest proof. On vital election eves, sundry dreamers grab the garb of emergency messiahs come to down the major partisan order — like some hi-tech supersonic bomber. It’s empty bombast that nevertheless fires up the naive.  Enter, the perennial “Third Force”! On 1 February 2018, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, glitz and dash, announced he had enrolled in his Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM).  That self-massaging spin reeked with sweet platitudes, all too familiar with Obasanjo’s public persona. After public letters to de-market the Muhammadu Buhari order, the Owu chief came zeroing on his last-ditch pre-election racket.  Many a starry-eyed bawled “third force”! But the Owu chief would later hand the African Democratic Congress (ADC) the CNM franchise.  Still, neither CNM nor ADC — both Obasanjo’s Hobson’s choices — drew much traction in popular response. So, Hobson (and choice) vanished — until the next election season: to preach fresh preachments, yet little difference. The racket is alive and well — and Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso’s TMN appears its latest reincarnation! However, not only Obasanjo’s CNM postured as 2019 “third force”.  The Nigerian Intervention Movement (NIM), which Olisa Agbakoba, SAN, led, also jostled for it.  So did Chief Olu Falae’s Social Democratic Party (SDP). Somewhat, “third force” comes with evocative names: CNM; NIM. From SDP came the added ring of grand resurrection: the platform that delivered Abiola’s stunning June 12 mandate seeking radical vote insurrection to save Nigeria! How sweet!  How quaint!  How brave! So, if Alhaji Kwankwaso’s TNM comes charging with chest-thumping bravura of national redemption, it has some pseudo-history driving it! Still, TNM comes with sundry side drama.  Enter again, the political Titan for all seasons, our irrepressible Ebora Owu! CNM dawned in 2018.  Its softening fire, like a brutal battling army’s, was the artillery of thunderous letters, calling the extant order horrible names, to wild media roar. With the current TNM soap, Baba has become the patron saint of youths and their political dreams.  In 1999, Gen. Obasanjo became elected president at 62.  In 2007, he completed his second term at 70.  Yet, Jagunlabi — as the Yoruba would joke — craved a third, though illegal term! Had he got that third term, how would the youths’ political dreams, which he now champions, stand today?  But perhaps post-power, Baba’s Saul turned to Paul, after a blinding flash, between Ota and the Abeokuta Hill top! Of course, there’s nothing to any age campaign.  Yahaya Bello, Kogi governor, is the youngest of the current brood.  What value has his youth added to his rule? But tweak that: so a smart, young Bola Tinubu, who ran rings round President Obasanjo, despite his imperial pretensions, becomes dumb just because he has added a few years — during which he even engineered the fall of Obasanjo’s PDP from central power?  Or a young, indifferent Bello would turn sudden genius at old age? Please!  The age campaign is empty beyond ultra-cheap mischief! Still, TNM boasts own exclusive, if bathetic, side soap: which high drama could have trumped Solomon Dalung’s Oscar, at TNM’s formal presentation in Abuja?   News or fib?     IPOB: home to roost?     Futility — and stupidity — of military rule   Dalung, lawyer and President Buhari’s first-term Sports and Youth Development minister, craved a heart-felt apology! “We must sincerely apologize,” Dalung, Biblical ash, sack cloth and all, rued on behalf of his ruling APC, “because we never promised Nigerians that they would be buying rice at N35, 000 at this time instead of the N7, 000 we met.”  Eeyah! But flip that verbal theatrics and you’ll see searing emotions slam at hurting pockets. Assuming the base claims are earnest — and not soapbox hyperbole — what was the real cost of that N7, 000 bag of rice, beyond its alluring pocket-friendliness? For starters, it was imported rice: the cash Nigerian farmers should gross for honest sweat, parcelled to foreign farmers.  If reckless imports feed foreign labour, how does Nigeria attain a thriving local economy and achieve food security? If a boom in local rice leads to higher rice milling, would the price not eventually crash, aside from tackling head-on the twin-plague of youth joblessness and mass penury? Of course, Dalung’s take is all belly economics.   Somehow,  the glorious tribunes of belly economics wail loudest over hunger in the land!  That irony is lost on them! Dalung also talked the talk on insecurity: “I will appear before God on the day of judgment and one question would be, Solomon Dalung, and you went and mobilized Nigerians and when they are killing people, bandits raping women and children, what did you say?” Legitimate, if dire, query!  Still, what is leadership?  Just sweet lamentation?  Or thinking hard to push rigorous alternatives?  If sweet lament is all Dalung and his TNM crowd can crow, what difference would they make? But that is the point: opportunistic droning, the hallmark of cheap politics, soars because of media failure. Notorious fact: Muhammadu Buhari’s Nigeria is no el-dorado.  Things are hard!  But even at that, in seven slugging years, Nigeria rose from nowhere to become Africa’s No. 1 cultivator of rice. Within the same period — with two crippling recessions: one, by past reckless looting; the other, by COVID-19 — Nigeria also became the world’s No. 1 producer of yam tubers.  Grow what you eat, eat what you grow! Meanwhile, from Goodluck Jonathan’s all-round near-paralysis (though swimming in more cash), critical infrastructure are sprouting — rail, airports and game-changing roads and bridges, many of them permanent vote-scammers of the PDP era. Yet, Nigeria grosses much less in oil earnings; thus needing loans to do these critical investments — loans that the poverty wailing orchestra nevertheless demonize, resorting to cheap scarecrows. Yes, there are areas the administration has not done well.  Power is one, with DisCos that supply bulk darkness fleecing their customers with premium bills. Security is another.  Boko Haram has been curtailed.  But insecurity has snowballed into banditry and kidnapping.  That offers fresh challenges. A more diligent media should clinically have tracked it all; and using 2015 as base, presented definitive thresholds: of progress, retrogress, or stagnation. But how can it do that after making easy peace with free-wheeling gloom and doom? At every critical electoral juncture, what the lazy media projects is total hopelessness.  Hopelessness begets hustler-saviours mouthing cheap bluff, never superior thinking.  That breeds election-season platitudes. That is the harsh reality of TNM.  Enough of this pantomime of fake saviours!