After initial denials that any such plan was in the offing, the management of the Nigerian Police finally swung into a last-ditch effort to douse the angst of the rank and file over the tardiness in paying their enhanced salary package. Last week, the zonal hierarchy of the police went on charm offensive to dissuade their officers from embarking on a planned strike. In the Southeast, Isaac Akinmoyede, the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in-charge of Zone 9, visited police formations in the zone with a call on the policemen not to embark on strike and to remain committed to their duties. He told the men in one of the stops that the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Baba, has since ordered the computation of the new salary structure and its immediate payment. His southwest counterpart, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) Johnson Kokumo has also been on a similar frantic shuttle. Saying the government was ready to provide all the requirements needed for them to carry out their duties professionally, he appealed to the men under his zone to shelve their planned strike. None of the tours ended without reminders about the applicable service rules and dire consequences of what was dubbed a potential ‘mutinous act’ should it take place. It’s been three months since the government announced the new enhanced pay for the police rank and file. Three months, given the typical tardiness associated with the bureaucracy, would seem a relatively short period to implement the proposed review. Moreover, much as some might want to argue that the review has been long overdue, it certainly didn’t come about as a result of any in-house clamour within the police itself but rather, as one of the ‘dividends’ of the #EndSARS protests of October 2020. That the government is at least seen to be pushing to give practical effect to one of the topmost demands of the protesters – an improvement in the working conditions of the men of the Nigerian Police – would seem not only deserving of commendation but equally of the benefit of the doubt. The resort to the desperate measure of a strike would in the circumstance, smack of a dangerous overkill.   Town to gown     Two exams, too poor     Online money lenders   We do not by this suggest that the restiveness is entirely without justification. Having been serially betrayed, not only by the government but also their bosses at the police hierarchy in the past, the personnel apparently know better than put their trust in public statements made by them. Perhaps more than other classes of operatives in the Nigerian system, they know that reviews such as the latest one, after the fanfare of their announcement, can either come to nothing in the end, or at best an interminable wait as corrupt officials devise ingenious ways to deny them the fruits of their toil. In an environment where the government tends to act deaf and dumb, perhaps such agitations are inevitable. We recall that in 2002, police officers actually embarked on strike on similar bread and butter issues of conditions of service – an action that led to the sack of the then Inspector-General, Musiliu Smith, and other top police management team. The underlying element, both then and now, is the lack of trust by the men and women in the leadership of their organisation, and by extension, the government. Now that the IGP has given his assurances that the review will be treated expeditiously, we call for utmost restraint on the part of the police rank and file, particularly as the country is on the edge in matters of security. Nigerians, surely, will hold the IGP to his word. But more than the assurances on his part, we expect conscious efforts on the part of the police management to rebuild trust between them and their personnel. A sure way to do this is for them to show greater transparency in the utilisation of funds and materiel entrusted to them. We must state however that the planned enhanced welfare, to truly make sense, must be holistic. It must address the dehumanising conditions of the police barracks, the extremely inhospitable environment of work, and the hopelessly inadequate logistics that have been the lot of the police establishment. All of the aforementioned continue to leave citizens in wonder as to how any serious business of policing can be undertaken in such environments.