The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a suspected drug kingpin heading a syndicate at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. NDLEA spokesman Femi Babafemi said in a statement yesterday that Yunana Fidelis allegedly operated with six members of his gang. He said the Lagos airport drug syndicate was behind the recent smuggling of 1, 584,000 tablets of Tramadol, adding that the drugs were seized on Tuesday by NDLEA operatives in collaboration with Aviation Security (AVSEC) and Customs service personnel at the airport. Babafemi said the seizure included 17 cartons of 250mg Tramadol branded as “Tamra” weighing 669.70kg and five cartons of 225mg Tramadol under the brand name “Royal” with a gross weight of 217.15kg. The statement reads, “The psychotropic substance, which was imported into the country from Pakistan was smuggled through the airport tarmac using one of the vehicles of the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) and was intercepted at the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Personnel Yard.   Bandits kill 23, abduct others in Kaduna villages     16 drown fleeing terror attack in Niger     OAU student: ‘Adedoyin, six workers have case to…   “Two suspects: Ofijeh John Mowa, a SAHCO driver and Nyam Gazu Alex who is a security guard with the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) were initially arrested in connection with the seizure. “Further investigations by NDLEA operatives however led to the arrest of five other persons involved in the crime including the ringleader, Yunana Fidelis, who fled Lagos to Kaduna the moment their lid was blown open. Others include: Adesanwo Temitope; Owoseni Taiwo Temidayo; Fasoranti Shola and Bamigbade Jonathan. “Yunana Fidelis who is also a staff of NACHO had escaped and fled to Kaduna after depositing N19, 800,000 cash with a BDC operator to be paid later into his bank account. “After tracking him for days in Kaduna, on Friday 25th Fidelis relocated to Abuja where he was eventually arrested by NDLEA operatives at 7pm on Sunday 27th March while he was trying to collect N1,000, 000 cash from an undercover agent who posed as a BDC operator. In addition to recovering the cash Fidelis deposited with the BDC operator in Lagos, the Agency had also placed a post no debit order on his identified bank accounts.”