The Olubadan of Ibadan Oba Lekan Balogun has promised to meet with holders of Ibadan chieftaincy titles periodically to continue to harness their potentials for the development of Ibadan land. Balogun made the promise while receiving former Chief of Army Staff Lt. Gen. Yusuf Buratai (rtd), who is the Akinrogun of Ibadanland and the current Nigerian Ambassador to Benin Republic in his Alarere, Ibadan palace at the weekend. The ambassador visited to congratulate the new monarch. The monarch, who spoke through his younger brother, Sen. Kola Balogun, added that such meetings will afford the title holders to justify their installation as Ibadan chiefs. Balogun said the meeting would hold once or twice a year with the title holders who reside in different locations around the world.   Dust storm hits Kano     President Buhari celebrates WAEC at 70     Airtel unveils self-care portal for businessowners   The Olubadan, who described his guest as a dedicated and loyal Army general, said his appointment as an Ibadan Chief was not a mistake and prayed that his shadow would not grow less. Ambassador Buratai had earlier described the new Olubadan as a person whose name and personality preceded his enthronement as Olubadan owing to his philantrophic gestures, detribalised posture, politics and activism. The former COAS said the enthronement of Dr. Balogun as the new Olubadan “is a well deserved one for he has always been a man of honour with good poise and carriage that befits royalty. It is a divine call for you, Kabiyesi, and you will always be divinely guided as you direct the affairs of Ibadan people, among whom I’m one as one of your chiefs.” Congratulating Ibadan indigenes and residents for having Balogun as their monarch, Buratai said all the attributes mentioned earlier would come into play during the reign of the new king. Accompanied by Brig.Gen.S.K. Usman (rtd), and Lt.Gen. Lamidi Adeosun, among others, he promised to remain a loyal chief to the monarch and Ibadanland by answering to his duties as the Aare Akinrogun of the ancient metropolis anytime the need arises.