As the Super Eagles clash with Black Stars of Ghana in the second leg of the play off for Qatar 2022 ticket, here are seven things to expect: 1: The presence of 60,000 spectators at the Moshood Abiola Stadium with vociferous support holds the key to Nigeria’s triumph over their West African arch rivals. The joint efforts of NFF and Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to fill the stadium by offering free tickets and buses to fans may be the joker for the Super Eagles to seal their spot at Qatar 2: With the likely absence of Samuel Chukwueze and Innocent Bonke due to injuries from last Friday’s goalless draw in Kumasi, this may give chance to Frank Onyeka to man the midfield. Onyeka impressed even as a second half substitute in Kumasi and it would be nice to see him replicate those eye-catching moves in Abuja today. 3: Though President Muhammad Buhari has been touted to grace the match to inspire the Eagles, he may be represented by Vice President Yemi Osibajo whose office oversees sports. Of course, there would be retinue of other government officials expected at this important game.   11 things you probably didn’t know about new Soun of…     No Barca plan to re-sign Messi – Laporta     2022 WCQ: Brentford wish Onyeka good luck ahead Nigeria vs…   4: As Eagles search for goals today, the possible partnership of Victor Osimhen and Odion Ighalo may surface to lead the attacking lineup of Eagles. Will the Super Eagles coaching crew be tempted to unleash both strikers against Ghana following their goal scoring feats at their respective clubs. 5: Will Eagles open the newly renovated Moshood Abiola Stadium with an important win against Ghanaians today as two ex-internationals Austin Eguavoen and Atto Addo of Ghana go up against each other in the battle of former superstars? 6: Nigeria needs an outright win to edge Ghana as any score draw will spell doom for the coach Austin Eguavoen- led Super Eagles. 7: They say figure seven is magical hence Nigeria stands a good chance to qualify for her seventh FIFA World Cup finals. The Super Eagles have qualified for every edition of the World Cup bar Germany 2006 since their debut at USA 1994 Finals. The Super Eagles were also at France ’98, Korea/ Japan 2002; South Africa 2010; Brazil 2014 and Russia 2018.