The export of raw materials and import of expensive finished products is not sustainable for the Nigerian economy, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart and presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said yesterday. He said compared to a country like South Korea, which had a per capita income of roughly $800 in 1950 like Nigeria, the latter has faced a lack of sustained economic growth and social instability. Tinubu delivered the 25th convocation lecture of the Lagos State University (LASU). Its theme is Global Trends: The rightful place of Nigeria in the world. The former Lagos governor said though Nigeria still struggles through the economic mud, the world has been changing rapidly. “We now bear witness to an expanding digital economy and virtual worlds, from the smartphone to the smart cities around the world and from houses of concrete to those fashioned of code,” he said. Tinubu, represented by Lagos State Deputy Governor, Obafemi Hamzat, said until the economy is brought to a sound footing, the benefits of the digital economy would elude most citizens. He said was imperative for young graduates to find their place in the present world of cryptocurrencies, non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and metaverses. “Do not yield to the erroneous mindset that says the virtual world is the dominant one… because without the tangible goods of the productive economy, the virtual realm is but an elaborate game,” he told them. Tinubu said there was nothing wrong with Nigeria embracing the innovations of the virtual world. But the country, he added, must retool its traditional economy to benefit from the digital economy. He said: “That a lucky few may strike it rich in the sphere of the digital economy does not make it the critical path to national prosperity. “Only when numbers generated in the virtual sphere become attached to tangibles or services do those numbers have true meaning.” He was of the view that South Korea moved far ahead because the Nigerian economy remained “unjustly designed to export raw materials and import increasingly expensive finished products”. He said the country, as a result, relies on the export of crude oil for over 90 per cent of its foreign exchange needs and 80 per cent for revenue. However, owing to the dwindling revenue from the country’s natural resource exports, Tinubu said the country no longer has sufficient funds to finance the importation of manufactured goods. This, he added, is partly also because the prices of such imported manufactured goods have been rising steadily. He said Nigeria’s potential has been spoken of for too long and that it is time such potential was realised. His words: “We have boasted of enormous potential for decades, consoling our discomfort by saying that the potential will be realised tomorrow. “But something disappointing seems to happen when tomorrow becomes today. Years and decades have passed, yet greatness remains elusive…” For Nigeria to take its rightful place in the world, Tinubu said there was a need to address the problems of youth unemployment, agriculture, real estate, education and the economy, as well as infrastructure. On youth urban unemployment, he said: “Government must support strategically important industries that will employ large numbers of young people and unleash the productive capacity and boundless energy within that population.” He added that government backing of manufacturing and industry will open the door wider to youth-owned start-up businesses within the digital sphere that will serve to support extant firms and industries. On agriculture, he said the country must increase food production while lowering consumer prices.   Reps: Section 84 (12) remains part of Electoral Act     Tinubu to meet ex-APC Reps     Buhari hosts APC founding fathers   In this regard, he said: “Commodity exchange boards need to be reinstated to assure minimum farm incomes. “Reforms are needed to give farmers more access to credit by loosening mortgage requirements and allowing greater leeway to execute forward contracts on what they grow. “To combat food spoilage, we need to improve the rural road network and find refrigeration systems for use by farmers and merchants in major local markets. “In areas affected by extreme weather, water catchment systems and small-scale irrigation projects must take hold to mitigate the consequences of drought and floods, while also assuring water for year-agriculture.” Tinubu also noted that the country can further unlock economic potentials in urban areas by making it easier to convey and mortgage real estate to lower the costs and time associated with the acquisition and sale of land, and thereby ensure that land is better allocated to the most productive uses.       On education, he said: “We must better link formal education with the skills and expertise our business community seeks in the coming years.” To stimulate growth in the economy, he said there was a need to bring organised business together with the educational sector so that schools can develop curricula that meet the needs of business, while still providing the broad education required to create civic-minded citizens. The APC chieftain said the country needed a massive national infrastructure plan. He added: “No national economy can grow beyond the capacity of its infrastructure to service that economy. Portable water should be readily available in our cities. “Electrical power is the fulcrum of our development. We must enact the reforms necessary to power businesses and homes at affordable prices. Firms in the sector must work as much for the public good as for private gain.” LASU Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, who described Tinubu as a visionary leader, noted that the lecture was instructive and came at a critical time with the effects of COVID-19 on the economy still visible worldwide. She announced a N1 billion donation by the former governor towards building a leadership centre in LASU. The vice-chancellor said the centre would be named the Bola Ahmed Tinubu Leadership Centre to honour the donor. Honorary doctorate degrees were conferred on some eminent Nigerians, including Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and his Borno State counterpart, Prof. Babagana Zulum. Other recipients of the honorary degree award are the chairman of Ikeja Hotel Plc, Mr Goodie Ibru; chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa; and former chairman of First Bank, Mrs Ibukunoluwa Awosika. Former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Peter Okebukola, was conferred with Emeritus Professor of LASU. Dignitaries at the event include Borno State Deputy Governor Umar Usman Kadafur, who represented Governor Zulum; Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire; Lagos State Commissioner for Environment, Mr Tunji Bello; his Education counterpart, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo. Others are the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso; Special Adviser on Education to Lagos State Governor, Tokunbo Wahab; Acting Vice-Chancellor Lagos State University of Education, Prof. Bidemi Bilkis Lafiaji-Okuneye; royal fathers, among others.   Ganduje: education key Ganduje said education remained one of the top priorities of his administration. He explained that his administration’s practice of giving the sector the highest sectoral budgetary allocation was in recognition of global acceptance of education as a veritable tool for the effective development of any nation and humanity in general. The governor, in a statement by Kano Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, added that with the introduction of free and compulsory basic and secondary education policy, the state is witnessing the highest enrollment figures in history, which makes the sector capital intensive. “From the time we came in 2015 to date, we have recruited 650 academic staff and 1,200 non-academic staff for the State University of Science and Technology, Wudil. “Also, the institution then had only one professor but can now boast of 78 full-pledged professors in various fields of study,” the governor said.