Super Eagles captain to  the 2021  Africa Cup of Nations  in Cameroon, Williams Troost-Ekong  has  received a clean of health  from Watford’s medical team  following  a ‘minor groin problem’. The 28-year-old defender has not  featured  for the Hornets since returning from the AFCON   with words rife that  the former Udinese defender might miss the upcoming  crucial Qatar 2022 World Cup play-off ties against Ghana later this month due to a spate of injuries  including muscle strain. But his EPL side announced  yesterday  ahead of  today’s away  fixture to Wolves  that  the Nigeria international is now  back-and-running  in training. “Elsewhere William Troost-Ekong makes his return to full training today (yesterday) following a minor groin problem, but tomorrow’s Molineux encounter is likely to come too soon for the Nigeria captain,” the club posted on their website.   FIBA recognises Kida as NBBF president     Iheanacho tipped to replace injured Vardy     World’s oldest tennis player won’t quit war-torn Ukraine   Troost-Ekong  back in training  is undoubtedly a good news to the Super Eagles’ coaching crew  ahead of the  all-important   World Cup double header  respectively fixed for Cape Coast  Stadium on March  25  and Moshood Abiola Stadium  in Abuja on March 29. Incidentally, Troost-Ekong  late last month exclusively told Nation Sport  that  Nigerians   would  see ‘ a very hungry Super Eagles’  for the decider against the Black Stars, adding  the team  would overcome its lethargy  Second Round  AFCON loss to Tunisia  to earn a ticket to Qatar 2022. “I know the boys (Super Eagles) will be fired up and we are going to be a very hungry team and give our best so that we can make Nigeria proud again after the disappointment of the AFCON,” he posited. “Nigerians are going to see a very, very hungry team against Ghana in March. A team that is ready to give everything in order to see our country at the next World Cup in Qatar.” “Following the disappointment at the AFCON in Cameroon, we would as a matter of fact, be using that as a motivation to qualify for the World Cup; and that is what I can say for now as per the play-off against Ghana,“ he added.