Ahead of the 2023 general elections, a pro-All Progressives Congress (APC) group, Bridge Builders Initiative for Green Nigeria ( BBIGN) has given Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi a 21-day ultimatum to declare for the presidency. It said it will be forced to ask Amaechi to declare after the ultimatum. The group also pledged to raise N2 billion to finance his electioneering campaign. Addressing newsmen after a solidarity match (Think Amaechi 2023) to persuade the Minister at the National Secretariat of APC in Abuja, the National President of BBIGN, Dr. Emmanuel Orgwu, said the group will reward any person who convinces Amaechi to declare to run for the 2023 Presidency. Orgwu maintained that Nigerians are becoming impatient over Amaechi’s delay, insisting that “whether he (Amaechi) is interested or not, Nigerians want him. “It is based on the qualities which Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has that we, Nigerians are calling on the Ubima born leader and politician to declare his interest to run for the 2023 Presidency to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. “We Nigerians have saved N2bn to give to Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for his electioneering activities once he declares his interest to contest for the 2023 Presidency. So, Mr. Minister, money is not going to be a problem or cause any hindrance. “Therefore, we are giving you a twenty-one-day ultimatum to declare, otherwise, we shall force you to do so.   Challenges before APC Chairman Adamu     ‘Ekiti election may be disastrous for APC’     Nine areas I will develop as Akwa Ibom governor, by Luke   “As Nigerians, we have both legal and moral rights to choose our King, and we have chosen Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. “Considering the character and integrity of Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Nigerians believe that he is the only one capable of succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari. “His capacity, commitment to good governance, the welfare of the people, critical thinking on programme and policy implementation, approaches on issues that enhance growth and development, and sacrifices for the party, put him in number one position for the highest job in Nigeria. “Nigerians also believe that the only person who can sustain and continue building on the foundations laid by the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi.” Expressing support for the new NWC, Orgwu said: “We believe in our great party, APC and her leaders. We appeal to the new leadership to do everything possible to ensure that APC retains power come 2023. “As a Pro APC group, we are doing our best. We have recruited over ten million Nigerians into the party, APC, and have registered over six million members with INEC. “We must do everything possible as a support group to hold and mobilize more grassroots to ensure APC wins elections come 2023.”