Nigerian exporters in the non-oil sector have been urged to look into the niche markets to benefit from abundant opportunities in the United States, United Kingdom and the entire European Union niche markets. The Executive Director of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Dr. Ezra Yakusak, made this call at Ibadan during a workshop for non-oil exporters tagged: “Positioning Nigerian products in certified niche markets in the USA, UK and EU.” Speaking through an official of the NEPC, Mr. Bello Akoyi, Yakusak said Nigerian non-oil exporters have so much to gain participating in niche markets than trying to swim in the larger ocean of the export market. Objective of the workshop organised by the NEPC includes getting exporters and prospective exporters sensitised on niche markets in their export businesses, educating participants on the various benefits of adopting district features at satisfying specific needs of target markets and sensitising prospective exporters on the activities of the Council and how they can access the services to boost their exports. According to Yakusak, the NEPC is mindful of various challenges Nigerian exporters are faced with and ever ready to assist according to the aims of the organisation. “These objectives were conceived because the Council is mindful of the various challenges exporters are faced with in having access to quality markets such as the United Kingdom, the United States and the European Union,” he said. In her opening remark, Trade Promotion Advisor, NEPC, Ibadan Export Assistance Office, Mrs. Bolanle Emmanuel, said there are many non-oil exportable products for specific niche markets which could earn foreign exchange for the country. “There are lots of Nigerian exportable non-oil products and services with great potentials for export into specific niche markets,” she said, adding that if such products are well processed and packaged to meet international market standards and specification, they would benefit the exporters, the destination country and Nigeria. “There are different markets for different products and people. This is as a result of different religious and cultural practices, gender, age, background and discipline. “For instance, pork and its products and some other items are forbidden in countries like the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, so such things cannot be exported there because of religious and cultural values,” she said. She also mentioned that a niche market is a small market segment of a larger market with its particular needs which are different from the needs in the larger market.   Blast at Nembe field cut oil export by 25,000 bpd, says Eni     ‘Households yet to recover from COVID-19…     CBN’s loan scheme for NPower beneficiaries makes debut   “The European Union countries, the United Kingdom and the United States have specific import requirements for different products,” she said, enjoining Nigerian exporters to seek knowledge in this export segment; learning to gain more knowledge in niche market, comply with the rules and gain access to the markets. According to the TPA, Ibadan Export Assistance Office, niche markets include markets for food, eco-friendly products, home, office equipment, health fitness, beauty products, to mention a few. The NEPC is positioning Nigerian MSME businesses to facilitate access to the markets in order to prevent product rejection/ban, facilitate expansion of businesses and capture a share of the international markets. Chief Executive Officer of the Institute of Export Operations and Management, Mr. Ofon Udofia, took participants on how to benefit from the robust niche market available in the UK, EU and the USA. He also listed the hottest non-oil exports from Nigeria. Udofia said: “There are numerous niches inside the market for certified agricultural commodities. “Over time, certification has become an almost indispensable marketing tool for many agricultural and manufactured products. “The label required in principle by many western retail chains for imported fruits and vegetables is a good example.” He added: “These are products that are sold directly to the end-consumer, and as such certification in fact ensures market access. This is so because labeling proves to the end-user that producers subscribe to good agricultural and management practices, protect the environment, practice safe pesticide use, and engage in resource protection generally. Thus, the product is accepted as both safe and environmentally friendly. The facilitator pointed out the most lucrative products from Nigeria are: textiles, garments and cosmetics among others. “Hottest Products to import from Nigeria for 2022 according to UK-based ABTS Logistic Firm, are: Locally Made Weaves (worth over $6 billion a year), Textiles and Garments (which generated £32 billion in 2021), Ginger, Honey, Spices, Garlic and Nuts ($358 million to Asia and EU in 2021), Cosmetics and Soaps, Palm Kernel Oil, Cocoa,” he enumerated.