We are well into the political season with the two major political parties done with their national conventions, and getting prepared to conduct primaries to select candidates for next year’s general elections. While the contest for the presidency has the nation transfixed, an equally intriguing battle is shaping in most states as ambitious politicians jostle for the bulk of the nation’s governorship seats. In most cases, incumbents are finishing their second term leaving the contest open for aspirants without the advantage of incumbency. In a couple of cases like the off cycle Osun govership polls, Governor Gboyega Oyetola, is aiming for reelection after conveniently winning his party’s ticket. In this first instalment, we take a look at what is shaping to be a fierce contest in states like Delta, Taraba, Ebonyi, Ogun, Kaduna and Plateau. All of these have incumbents who have served out their constitutional term limits – save for Ogun where Governor Dapo Abiodun would be looking to see off challenges from the camp of his predecessor and political rival, Ibikunle Amosun. Common to the contest in each of these states are issues like zoning.  All crucial is the role to be played by incumbents who who determined to install the successors through overt or covert means. Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan and Abdulgafar Alabelewe report on the state of the race for Government Houses across the country, looking at the personalities and factors that would determine the outcomes.   The All Progressives Congress (APC), a major opposition political party in Delta State has declared war against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead the 2023 general elections in the country. Since the turn of the new year, the party’s stalwarts and chieftains have been urging the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to be prepared to quit Government House in 2023. The APC in the state has undergone some reorganizing and repositioning since the 2019 general election. Deputy Senate, President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, recently boasted that the APC in Delta State would dislodge Governor Ifeanyi’s PDP in the 2023 governorship election. “Whether PDP like it or not, APC will still win the presidency come 2023, no matter how struggle PDP will put in. For Delta, the people of Delta state will decide their governor and other representatives in 2023. It is not for one man or a certain pressure group to decide,” Omo-Agege said. His views have been severally reechoed by other APC leaders in the state including Engineer Omoni Sobotie, the APC state chairman and Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, among others. But the ruling party says the opposition party is not in a position to defeat the PDP come 2023. The governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa on Wednesday said PDP in the state had never been stronger, cohesive and more united than now. “As individuals or groups, we must shun anything that will undermine the new spirit in the PDP. If we do this, I can say without any fear of contradiction that the PDP is poised to reign supreme from 2023,’ he said. Okowa dismissed claims that the ruling party is threatened by the opposition APC. Observers of the politics of the state however say the 2023 governorship election in the state will be a tough one between the two leading parties. According to pundits, while the APC has gained a lot of confidence since 2019, the PDP, though still very much on ground across the state, will have to deal with a lot of internal issues that has to do with how its governorship candidate should emerge if it desires to win the next elections in the state. “PDP must put its house in order to remain in government because the APC is stronger than it was before now,” a source said.   Zoning One issue that will play a major role in the next governorship election in Delta state is zoning. Already, across political divides, political elites in the state are divided into two groups of pro zoning proponents and anti-zoning crusaders, according to pundits. The first group consists of those who feel Delta Central senatorial district should automatically produce the next governor of the state in line with a rotation arrangement that have seen all the three senatorial district in the state having a shot at the position since 1999. But the other group, made up of those who argue that there is not zoning arrangement in existence in the state as gubernatorial contests in the state had always had people from all the three districts in the race. There is also the argument that whatever arrangement produced governors in the past, has nothing to do with senatorial districts but ethnicity. The argument has been raging for months, especially within the ruling PDP. For the APC, it appears the party is poised to allow Delta Central pick its ticket. Delta state is made up of the Anioma, Urhobo, Isoko, Ijaw and Itsekiri predominantly. But like all other states in the country, these groupings have been re-grouped into three senatorial districts as follows; Delta Central with eight local government areas (Urhobo), Delta South with eight local government areas (Isoko, Ijaw and Itsekiri) and Delta North with nine local government areas (Anioma, Ndokwa, Ika). The state, in all, has 25 local government areas. The PDP which has governed Delta state since the return to democracy in 1999 has produced three governors in all. From 1999 to 2007, Delta Central produced Chief James Onanefe Ibori as the governor of the state with Chief Benjamin Elue from Delta North as his deputy. They were succeeded between 2007 and 2015 by Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan from Delta South with Prof. Amos Utuama from Delta Central as the deputy governor. In 2015, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa from Delta North has been in the saddle with Barrister Kingsley Otuaro from Delta South as the deputy governor. This is what the pro-zoning agitators are presenting as argument. However, the anti-zoning groups are quick to tell those who care to listen that Ibori emerged as governor largely because his Urhobo kinsmen got the support of the Anioma people in their quest to produce the governor after the capital of Delta state was controversially moved from Warri to Asaba. To them, the emergence of Uduaghan as governor is also being linked to the support given the Itsekiri clan by their Urhobo cousins in 2007 on the prompting of Ibori while Anioma was supported in 2015 as a compensation for supporting the Urhobos in 1999. Leading the pro-zoning divide is the Delta Central 2023 (DC-23), while the Ijaw Agenda for 2023 (DIA-G23) has been the major proponent of the ‘no zoning’ agenda. There have been insinuations that DIA-G23 is a campaign group for Senator James Manager, an Ijaw gubernatorial aspirant. He currently represents Delta South senatorial district at the National Assembly. Last week, several Ijaw groups announced that they will vote against the PDP if the party fails to give an Ijaw man from Delta South its guber ticket in 2023. But some prominent leaders of the party insist that the governorship position having gone round the three senatorial districts, in the interest of equity, justice, peace and good brotherliness, should go back to Delta Central senatorial district, where it began in 1999. While the APC is not experiencing much agitation, the PDP is currently very troubled by the zoning agitation. Indications to this effect emerged at the party’s last caucus meeting at Government House, Asaba, where caucus members from Delta Central and Ijaw in Delta South senatorial districts engaged in severe shouting matches when the state chairman, Chief Kingsley Esiso, introduced the matter of zoning.   The contenders Expectedly, a number of governorship aspirants from Delta Central are currently jostling for the tickets of their respective political parties. A couple of aspirants from Delta North have also shown interest in the race. Between the ruling PDP and the opposition APC, there are about ten serious aspirants in the race.   Omo-Agege Senator Ovie Omo-Agege is the Deputy Senate President of the Senate, and the Obarisi of Urhobo land. He is the de-facto leader of the APC in Delta State and a governorship aspirant on the platform of the party. With the successful takeover of the APC in the state by his allies following the party’s congresses last year, observers of the politics of the state say Omo Agege is as good as the APC governorship candidate in waiting.   Power grid collapse: No respite three weeks after     One killed as scores of bandits shutdown Kaduna airport     2023: I’m not running for president, says Amaechi   Pundits also posit that with the current political permutations in the state, especially with the agitations over zoning and allegations of imposition rocking the PDP, Omo-Agege stands a very good chance to deliver an upset in 2023. A seasoned politician with strong grassroots appeal and structures across the state, the Deputy Senate President is seen by many as capable of winning the 2023 governorship election on the platform of the APC.   Edevbie Former Delta State Commissioner for Finance and immediate past Chief of Staff, Olorogun David Edevbie, who is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the PDP, is another aspirant from Delta Central. He is not a newcomer to the race having contested the governorship ticket of the PDP in 2014. He recently resigned from Okowa’s cabinet to pursue his 2023 gubernatorial ambition. He served as the Principal Secretary to late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. Touted as the preferred candidate of the Ibori political group, his chances of clinching the PDP gubernatorial ticket remain very bright not minding speculations that Governor Okowa may have other plans. Described as one of the hardest working aspirants in the race, The Nation gathered that he enjoys the support of majority of Urhobo political elites as far as the governorship race is concerned.   Gbagi Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, a criminologist, entrepreneur and lawyer is another PDP chieftain strongly in the race for the party’s guber ticket. A former Minister of State for Education, Gbagi was seen as the man to beat in the race for the PDP ticket until he got enmeshed in a protracted police case that saw him being declared wanted last year over alleged assault. In spite of that drawback, his associates believe he still stands a very good chance of clinching the PDP ticket. But his alleged lack of support from both the camps of former governor Ibori and Governor Okowa is regarded as a huge challenge on his road to the ticket. But some pundit say Gbagi may benefit from the ongoing disagreement should the situation get to a stage where a consensus candidate from Delta North is required. “For now, he is more like the candidate for nobody and at the same time for everybody,” a party leader said.   Oborevwori Now addressed as the ‘New Sheriff in town’ in political circles since he joined the gubernatorial race, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori is the incumbent Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly as a representative of the Okpe State Constituency under the PDP. He joined the contest for the PDP ticket last month and today, he is being touted as the possible aspirant that will get the nod of Okowa in the long run. Although the governor has not indicated any interest in the Speaker, the rumour has refused to go away. Should he win the confidence of the governor, Oborevwori may cost home to victory in the primary election, but many observers are uncertain about his chances in the general elections. “Except the governor’s clout and structure help him, he will find the general election a herculean task, being without known political structure anywhere in the state outside his constituency. But   Manager Senator James Manager represents Delta South senatorial district in the Nigerian Senate. He became a Senator in 2003. He is the leading Ijaw governorship aspirant in the race currently. His aspiration is believed to be the interest of the GIA-G23 group currently opposing the zoning arrangement and pushing for a governor of Ijaw extraction. Manager stands a good chance in the race for the PDP ticket given his wide political network as a fifth term senator in the state. His greatest weakness, according to analysts, remain his inability to get the backing of the Ibori political family. Rumoured to be enjoying the support of Governor Okowa at a point, insiders claim the governor is not convinced about the Senator’s aspiration. But the unrelenting determination of Manager’s kinsmen from the Ijaw ethnic group is a factor the politician is banking on to press home his aspiration.   Michael Chief (Amb) Uba A. Michael, an aspirant on the platform of the opposition APC is another Urhobo contender. The politician who recently described the position of a Delta Central lobby group, DC-23, on candidates for next year’s governorship election as being a far cry from the realities on ground, is insisting that he is the best candidate Delta Central can throw into the race. He vowed never to step down from the governorship contest. Observers of the politics of the state are however of the opinion that there is no way Michael will pick the APC governorship ticket ahead of Senator Omo-Agege. “If truly he intends to see the race to the very end and contest the general election, we may see him decamping to pick the ticket of another party soon. With the APC leadership and structure firmly in the hands of Omo Agege’s allies, it is left to be seen how Michael will actualize his dream,’ a source said.   Otuaro Deputy Governor and governorship aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro, is another contender of Ijaw extraction. In spite of claims by him that Governor Okowa has endorsed his ambition, the aspiration of Otuaro is not flying high. Even in his native Ijawland, analysts continue to place him behind Senator Manager in the race for the PDP ticket. He has severally been rumoured to have stepped out of the contest. This, and insinuations that Ijaw leaders have plan to ask him to leave the race for Manager continue to make his quest for the number one position a hard task. Not a few chieftain of his party doubt his ability to win the general election for the ruling party. But Otuaro is quick to tell whoever cares to listen that he is the best man for the job after Okowa.