Chief Executive Officer of RED For Africa, Adebola Williams has advocated increased investment opportunities for women to support sustainable economic development. Speaking at a dinner in Lagos, to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day, he said there was the need to teach women how to invest. The event with the theme:  ’An evening with African power girls’, was attended by top women leaders in banking, politics, entertainment, business and entrepreneurship. Deputy Secretary-General, United Nations, Amina Mohammed, said it is only with women and girls at the centre of our efforts that we have the best chance to succeed in addressing our global challenges; from the climate emergency to gender-based violence, political divisions and to a sustainable recovery from this global pandemic.   Youth empowerment vital to growth, says Stanbic IBTC     Paxful: Bitcoin increases business for investors     ‘Anambra’s monthly IGR hits N2.4b’   She said the Social Development Goals (SDGs) reflect the commitment by member states in the region over the past 40 years. Re-emphasising how gender parity is essential to create a sustainable future, the Non-Executive Director, Adrian Group, Kenya, said, Lerato Molebatsi, said: “Achieving all-round, sustained development in society requires achieving parity in every stratum of every organisation – be it in government or private. Women and men both have invaluable contributions to make that bear the unique imprints coloured by gender characteristics and tendencies. Without these imprints, society is bound to be lopsided.” Mohammed added that the celebration aimed at  celebrating the contributions of women and girls  to nation building. Also at the event were Chairman, Access Bank Plc, Ajoritsedere Awosika;  Deputy Managing Director, Falcon Corporation Limited, Audrey Joe-Ezigbo; Director Corporate Affairs & Sustainable Business, Unilever, West Africa, Soromidayo George; Executive Director at Coronation Merchant Bank, Funke Feyisitan Ladimeji, among others.