Eye doctors have been warning us since last Sunday (March 6, 2022) that more people are suffering from glaucoma. They will be doing so  until March 12 under a World Health Organisation (WHO) programme. Their goal is to let us know that glaucoma is an eye disease which can cause blindness if it is not detected early and diligently attended to. This column is my widow’s mite contribution to their efforts. According to a survey of the Nigeria National Blindness And Visual  Impairment: “… 1.1-1.4 million adults in Nigeria have glaucoma, most of whom are not aware that they have the disease. One in every 20 Nigerians aged 40 years and above have glaucoma, and one in five being blind.” I have had glaucoma for 27 years with visual ups and downs since I was 45 in 1995. Aged about nine or 10, I watched my father’s mother in the village struggle with her vision. Now, about 60 years after, I cannot recall if her vision problem was caused by glaucoma. But I remember that, back in the city, my father never failed every month to include one or two bottles of marmite in her provision chest. Marmite is a brewer’s yeast nutritional product  rich in the B-complex vitamins and promoted as good for healthy vision. I do not recall when my father began to have night vision challenges. But I knew in 1974 that he disliked night driving. One day, I was alarmed when he could not easily pick his way around the house. He told me he had seen an eye doctor who diagnosed immature cataract of the eye lens which could not be surgically treated until it had matured. All through my university days, his condition worried me. I spent a great deal of time at the Nnamdi Azikwe library of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, researching glaucoma and cataracts in encyclopedias. My father made one mistake many health challenged persons make: they hardly research their condition or seek a second or third medical opinion. It was when I took him to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital(LUTH) Guinness eye centre and we met professor Bukunola Adefule-Oshitelu that we knew what was happening …cataract was in both eyes, had overmatured and become compounded with advanced glaucoma. Several of the surgeons thought the eyes were better left alone. But Prof. Adefule-Oshitelu decided to take the bull by the horn. From the way her colleagues wrote off surgery, the success she made of it may be attributed to not her alone. Prof Oshitelu said afterwards that she would have followed normal procedure, and she may not have been successful, but for an idea which struck her on the eve of the operation and made her adopt a different procedure. A few weeks later, my father surprised my step mother when, from the balcony of their first floor apartment, he asked her to suspend the house chores she was attending to downstairs till the following day, because “the day has gone”. “How do you know”? she asked. “Because it is 6.45,” he replied. She was speechless when she checked the time. The recovery of his vision was slow. In those days, the knowledge of eye antioxidants was poor. Opthalmologists did not appear to know of them or did not believe in them and, so, did not prescribe them. Cod liver oil, with its small doses of vitamin A, was about the only visible vision food supplement in the market. Our parents gave it to us when we were babies, and we, too, gave it to our babies. Everyone tended to forget about it when we grew older, used the eyes more, and stressed them more, without looking after them. Additionally, we hardly protected the eyes against the harsh  African sunshine, the blue spectrum of which may cause cataracts and glaucoma, whereas Europeans with little or no sunshine in their countries always wore protective eye glasses. Happily, just before the COVID-19 pandemic, quantum energy eye glasses arrived in Nigeria. They block dangerous sun rays and energise the eyes.    My horizon about nutritional supplements, especially for the eyes widened about 1994 when Gen Sanni Abacha, now of blessed memory, shut The Guardian newspaper for one year. I was the director of publications and editor-in-chief. The closure meant an income shortfall from a salary shortfall. My wife was a university lecturer and had not been paid for months because  Gen  Sanni Abacha could not stand university teachers being on strike, embarrassing his government and earning their pay at the same time. With children to look after and keep in school, I opened my first health food store at Illupeju Model Market on Town Planning Way, Lagos. This turned out to be a case of one door closing and another opening and of Gen. Abacha’s brutality being a blessing in disguise. Jobelyn was our first product line. One by one, several stockists gave us food supplements on credit. Two of them were Lutein Eyes and Visual Eyes. I did not realise that I, too, would soon need them!. I had no need for reading glasses until I was 45. Work slow down in the Abacha closure year may have toned down my work rhythm and weakened my eyes. I was returning home on Saturday evening from a speech I went to give somewhere in Lagos when, suddenly, the windshield was covered with rainbow colours. I knew that was a sign of glaucoma. Fluid had built behind the lens of the eyes and, like a looking glass smeared with water, it couldn’t faithfully transmite light to the light- sensitive  retina which would take the visual images to the brain for interpretation. The following day, what looked like  harmattan haze fogged my vision. I went to Prof Adefule – Oshitelu. She asked if I was on any pharmaceutical medication. I had been on NSAIDs (Non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) for brewing rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and, when they didn’t bring down my shoulder pains, on corticosteroids, their stronger cousins. This smacked of genetic heredity. But the drugs could have hastened  glaucoma onset. I went on Visual Eyes and Lutein Eyes in rotation as an addition to pharmaceutical beta blockers and other drugs such as Diamox. I hated the pharmaceuticals. Beta blocker eye drop crashed my regular 110 /70 blood pressure to about 80/55. Once or twice , I fainted. Once, I was writing my column and the pen fell. As  I tried to pick it up, the muscles of my chest pulled, and I was out. Next, I was pulling out the gills of a fish head in the kitchen. I was hungry and wished to quickly fix a meal. I came around only to find my son lifting me up on my feet. I learned to bring my blood pressure up before I made water or emptied my bowels. My doctor was understanding, sympathetic, took me off those drugs and replaced them with Adefuleson (Bitter kola eye drops). Just about then, I studied Lutein eyes and visual eyes.The contents were similar. My interest in them were Lutein and Zezanthin, two carotenoid antioxidants which protect the eyes against oxidative damage from the blue spectrum of the sun. As they were commercially extracted from Marigold flower, I planted this flower in my garden, consuming it as salad in food or as tea.  So, my symptoms became so clear that I clearly saw the white roads markings at night and even ventured, stupidly maybe to look, straight on, the full head lamps of big trucks, for assurance that I was doing well with visual eyes and Lutein eyes. Stupidly, too, I did not kick the bottle. I was not a hard drinker. Just one or two bottles with friends. But I noticed that the first glass almost simultaneously impacted a sharp “warning” pain in the right and 20/20 vision eye.I would soon try Maxi  Vision. Opthalmologists in Nigeria had begun to prescribe Maxi Vision. From then on, many eye food supplements began to pour into the market. Some people said Spectra Green improved their vision. Others praised Spectra Red, a warehouse of many berries. Asthazanthin joined lutein and Zezanthin, being their family member. Later, some supplements paraded as many as 24 nutrients which the eyes are said to require on a daily basis. Some of these are vitamin A, vitamin B-complex, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, selenium, zinc, manganese, alpha lipoic acid, N-Acetyl cysteine (NAC), magnesium, Gingko biloba, Co enzyme Q10 or Ubiquinol and rutin. When these nutrients are comprehensive in one formula, their dosages are often low. I do not mind them, though, because I do highlight some of them as singlet food supplements. For example, I never fail on 400mg of magnesium everyday and about 3,000mg of buffered (Alkaline) vitamin C. Two times Nobel Prize winner Dr Linus Pauling proved that high dosages of vitamin C lower eyes Pressure. Magnesium may make beta blocker drugs unecessary. Beta blockers block  excess calcium infiltration of eye muscles  which  open drainage channel.Calcification hardens them. Calcium turns up in excess amounts because of magnesium deficiency. Calcium and magnesium are antagonists. Calcium combines with magnesium in about ratio 2:1. At ratio 6:2, two units of Calcium will become free to cause riots. My first choice of multiple-nutrients antioxidants was eye max plus with about 24 nutrients for the eyes. The dosages were small. But they provided cellular nutrition which I could upgrade with singlet antioxidants such as zinc or alpha lipoic acid, as the need may arise. 27 years on  Over 27 years, I heard and learned many things about glaucoma from professional and unconventional sources. I cannot address them all here so, I will mention only a few. Many eye specialists believe glaucoma is unconquerable. I have followed the lead of a glaucoma challenged former Nigerian diplomat in South Africa to the Japanese embassy in Abuja for a link to Nobel Prize winner professor Shinya Yamanaka. He won the Nobel prize for teaching the world how to turn mature stem cells to baby stem cells and using them to regenerate damaged organs. Prof Yamanaka has now gone beyond this to using natural substances in patches placed over the eyes, and is reported , through this effort, to have helped about half a million of his country -men and women with ailing vision to regain healthy vision. I guess there is an element of colour therapy in his work which is linked to sixth chakra energy medicine. Professor Yamanaka is so busy that he is unable to honour all country invitations. I sought to reach him through the Japanese embassy in Nigeria on behalf of Nigerians who may benefit from his work. The embassy has not been able to get him to make a Nigerian commitment. Blood, oxygen  starvation The eye is a small, yet complex organ which consumes large amounts of blood. But, in many eyes,  blood vessels which supply fresh, oxygenated blood or take used blood away have become so congested or blocked or leaky that the eye does not receive enough fresh blood  and oxygen, while evacuation delays depress and poison tissue. Rutin and bioflavonoids may firm up weak or leaking vessels while Cayenne, Vitamin E and Grape Seed Extract may decogest and improve circulation.   2022 outlook: What’s new on the shelves? Shineway     2022 Valentine: Love secrets of our daughters     2022 Outlook: New Age, Live Pure, Aim Global   Emotional blockages Sorrowful people are said to bottle up a lot of pressure. Some doctors would rather have grieving persons cry their hearts out. I have tried to test this suggestion on every case of glaucoma I encounter but cannot  as yet say yes or no. My father’s mother was widowed early in life. My father, her beloved child, defied her appeals to grow up in the village. He went to Zaria. Was my grandma depressed? Between 1979 and 1982, I experienced emotional turmoil over a failed childhood relationship. I lost appetite and suffered insomnia. But work and a strivings for higher aims blocked the way to grief. Did I bottle any stress? Liver and Kidneys Many Nigerian eye doctors dislike conversations that subnormal liver and kidneys may have hands in glaucoma. Yet, this is an area doctors in Asia do not ignore. Chinese acupuncture and acupressure believe these organs and the eyes sit on the same energy meridians or “lanes”. If these meridians are blocked, etheric or , if you like, spiritual energy from the overself cannot efficiently and effectively flow to maintain them. Thus, the freeing of these blockages and holistic care of the liver, kidneys and the eyes, is the approach to glaucoma therapies in these countries. Paradoxically, our doctors believe that some pregnancies do impact the kidneys and bladder well enough to cause blurry vision which clears on its own soon after child birth. Pressure paradox Several challenged persons believe they have glaucoma only because their intra occular Pressure (IOP) is high. Thus, people who have normal and low IOP  believe they are safe. How wrong they are. There must, then, be other disposing factors. An abundance of free radicals and insufficiency of antioxidants is one of those possibilities. Besides, the eyes are not only organs which collect light waves and pass visual messages to the brain for reconstruction into intelligible interpretation of the images. They are also organs for gathering and directing light energy into the pineal gland and the hypothalamus, both in the brain, partly for hormone making and balancing . GisellaI Reiners explained in Germany decades ago that this was why children who excessively watch television grew abnormally and were like hot house plants…like broiler chickens. Disturbances in the pineal gland and in the hypothalamus may, therefore, impact vision. Some eye clinics abroad nowadays add colour therapies to their regimen. This is why I still have a great deal of respect for marigold. It is said to be a sun plant. The sun is about light and colours! Karma I do not discountenance spiritual effects in material life. In the 1970s, I met a woman in Lagos whose cause of blindness was glaucoma. She believed she was one of the priestesses of the sun God in ancient Egypt. Non believers in this god were forced to  look directly at the sun until their eyes weakened and developed problems or went blind. Re-incarnation may afford such sun God disciples the opportunity to experience blindness in another earth life to pay off their karmaic debt. When I heard this, I thought of the various executions carried out on the orders of Yoruba monarchs before colonisation modernised the judicial process. The executioner plunged a sword into the eyes of the condemned person until the deadly metal appeared at the back of the head . What gory deaths they were! In a universe where there is  a Ruler, order and justice, will such persons get away with such brutal killings? Re-incarnation and karma may enable us to understand some cases of  glaucoma and such other diseases as rewards for earlier misdeeds. Colour therapy Colour therapy is tied to the knowledge of the Seven Chakras. Dimness of the chakra colours is believed to cause diseases in the organs they govern. The first chakra which governs the lower limbs and the pelvis  profits from Red. The second governs organs from below the navel to the pelvic girdle and profits from Orange. The third, from above the navel to underneath the breast bone profits from Yellow.  Green, for the fourth, awakens the heart, lungs and the immune system. Blue, for the thyroid gland (fifth) normalises metabolism. Indigo works well for the Third Eye (sixth), and the eyes. Indigo eye lenses are scarce in Nigeria. So are clothing and paper filters to make indigo solarised water for drinking or for use as eye drops. Balanced metabolism is crucial for vision. Hypothyroidism or low thyroid is believed to cause many diseases. Some Eye doctors use Iodode formulas, dangerous as they are, to stimulate metabolism in sluggish eyes. Six years ago... I was roused from deep sleep on the sitting couch in the dead of the night by gun shots too near for comfort. I hit the right eye ball hard against the sharp edge of wall tiles, as I made for safety upstairs. And that threw upon me another challenge to normalise IOP without beta blockers and to save the nerves. One day last year, one IOP read 48, the other 37. I returned home from the doctor to, over three days, use bitter kola eye drops almost 10 times a day… Within two weeks, the pressure fell to near normal. Gratitude If you wonder how I write this column when Iam unable to follow my writing on paper, I will say it all has to do with the Abiding Grace of the Most High and the helping love of such persons around me as Seun Kusa, Udeme Edet James, Better Effiong Happiness, who will be 15 on March 23 and Joy John who has just left us for nursing school.