President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday described the newly inaugurated terminal at the Lagos International Airport as a critical transport infrastructure that will birth a new dawn in air travel. Describing the project as the harvest of good partnership between Nigeria and China, Buhari said it would facilitate seamless operations for passengers who are accessing the international corridor for business and other facilities, saying Nigeria will continue to leverage global partnership to enhance its transportation infrastructure as part of its road map to develop the aviation  industry. Riding on the wings of other air transport facilities embarked upon by the administration, Buhari said the completion and inauguration of the new international airport terminal will fast track the push for the concession of airports the government has put on the burner. Buhari praised the Ministry of Aviation and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for their doggedness in driving the project to fruition, assuring that the administration would continue its involvement in scaling up initiatives that would drive the development of the air transport industry. “This event is an eloquent testimony to the strong commitment of our administration to the development of world-class infrastructure across all  sectors of the economy, he said,  adding: “Bearing in mind the importance of airport infrastructure as a catalyst for economic growth, Foreign Direct Investment and development globally, this administration decided to prioritise the completion and delivery of five brand new international terminals, which were at 11 per cent  completion level when we came into power in 2015. “This aligns perfectly with our Aviation Roadmap, which was developed in 2016. “We have also complemented these robust initiatives with specific fiscal policies to drive aviation infrastructure renaissance. “This improvement will increase airport operations and management services to about 14 million passengers per annum, with the attendant positive multiplier effects, by creating about 3,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities for our youths, increased inflow of Foreign Direct Investments and exponential growth in the Gross Domestic Product.” He said as the approved aviation roadmap is being implemented, “we begin to experience an unprecedented growth of the sector, putting pressure on the infrastructure and making business inefficient.   If nothing is done, the growth will be stunted and all the opportunities lost, saying the government is responding through further investments and partnerships in the sector to tend to this challenge. Buhari said  the Minister of Aviation has been directed to fast track the airport concession programme, as well the completion of the Abuja second runway.   NGMC signs $50m contract to deliver gas to NDPHC     E-commerce easing market experience for informal retailers     Lagos records 276 building collapse   Also, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning has been directed to source special funding for the project, while the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, was directed to conclude the titling of the approved 12,000 hectares of land to accommodate the runway and other developmental projects Let me express my deepest appreciation to our partners on this project, the Government and People of the Republic of China, through the China Export-Import Bank and CCECC Nigeria Limited, for their commitment and support towards the completion of this infrastructure. With the delivery of this project, a new era of safety, security, and comfort has been ushered into the Nigerian aviation industry, and I am persuaded that it will get better with the passage of time, Buhari said.” The event , which witnessed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) , between FAAN and the Lagos State Government will see the construction of a nine kilometre road linking the Lagos Airport with Shasha and Alimosho axis of the state. Also speaking, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu described the new terminal as a project that would change the  face of the country as an international gateway. Besides serving as an international corridor, Sanwo – Olu  the project as a catalyst for economic growth would create more partnerships between Nigeria and China in the drive for seamless air travel. In his speech, Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika described the new terminal as testament of the government’s seriousness about the aviation sector. He said the aviation sector remains the only way the African Union 2063 agenda could be achieved. He disclosed that the government was working on plans for air rail connectivity between the international and domestic terminals to reduce travel time. On the challenges faced by domestic carriers, Sirika appealed to the president to direct the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to import jet fuel in good quantity for their operations.