Singer Chuddy K has claimed a certain record label boss stopped his songs from playing on national radios. According to him, the record label boss who he described as a ‘snake’ paid many radio stations to ensure his songs weren’t aired simply because they claimed he sounded like one of his artistes. The “Slow Slow” hit maker in an interview with Hip TV also disclosed he considered suicide at the time but God’s grace preserved him. Although, he withheld the name of the said record label boss, Chuddy K noted he is a well known figure in the industry. He began :“My brother, it is true; I won’t lie o! Trust me, if not that the grace of God is upon me, at that time, depression would have killed my enemy. “Because, a lot of people are snakes in this industry. Even 9ice had said it. Okay basically, they said I sounded like somebody in the industry and maybe if I had come out before the person, they would say the person sounded like me. “But at the time, when my first single came out ‘Slow Slow’, it was a threat to someone’s record label. And the person was paying many radio stations to stop my songs. “A lot of OAPs told me. I don’t want to mention names because ‘e go cause wahala.’ I don’t need all those so they don’t say I’m clout-chasing. But trust me mehn, it happened!   My happiness is all that matters, says Oxlade     Two kids of ex-girlfriend not mine, says OAP Fada Kane     R. Kelly thrills inmate’s daughter via phone call in…   “To the point that I release ‘Gaga Crazy’, the person went to release….if I tell you how many…in one day because of ‘Gaga Crazy’. But the grace of God has always been with me. “These kinds of things get artistes frustrated and the next thing, they are going through depression and take their own life. “If not for the grace of God, I would have….but it’s not like taking my own life is an option. It’s just the grace of God that I’m standing upon. The 37-year-old singer also claimed same record label boss stopped shows from coming his way while he wondered how the ‘accused’ expected him to take of his responsibilities. He added: “The same person did a lot of things. Even shows I was supposed to get paid for, the person made sure I wasn’t getting shows. “How do I take care of my family? How do I take care of paying bills and everything? If you stop things that put food on the table for me? “If I mention the person, you all know the person. I don’t even need to call his name but today, is the person number one in the industry? No! Announcing his impending return to music scene, Chuddy K said: “Tables do turn and I know it’s my time again. And he’ll be shocked, trust me. And the person is not even with the artiste right now. “Why do you have to …..your fellow human being? Because you think you are God or because your song is number one at the moment. “You think you’ll stay forever on top. No! It’s not done that way. Trust me, that thing really affected my starting and they didn’t even let me be after my …..”