Scores of bandits on Saturday afternoon took over the runway of the Kaduna International Airport, killing a security officer attached to the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). The deceased NAMA security official was identified as Shehu Na’Allah. The attack, as gathered by our correspondent, forced the authorities to temporarily shut down activities at the airport, while the military battled with the gunmen. The Nation also gathered that the bandits had prevented a Lagos bound flight from taking off around 12:30pm. A source at the airport told our correspondent that the bandits had vowed to shut down the airport. According to the source, “the bandits’ attack started around 12:00am today (Saturday). They started attacking the airport around midnight. The bandits were alleging that the military personnel took away their cattle. “The military were able to repel them that midnight and we thought that was all. In fact, our staff resumed work this morning as usual. They worked around the runway till around 12:00noon. “Then, shortly after that, some NAMA staff went to check some of their equipment. Then, these people (bandits) reappeared and started shooting. The NAMA engineers scampered for safety, they could not even go and enter the vehicle that took them to the site. It was in the process that their security man was shot in the head. “The security man was rushed to the hospital and was confirmed dead. “As I am talking to you now, the military are still battling those guys, and they are proving difficult to be repelled. Now, they have shut down the airport,” the source said. It was however gathered that many of the staff have already fled the airport, while more military personnel have been deployed to the scene on clearance operation with an Armoured Personnel Carrier.   2023: I’m not running for president, says Amaechi     APC affirms Adamu as Chairman, Omisore National Secretary     Ensure most popular candidates emerge, de-emphasise money…   Meanwhile the Kaduna State Government and NAMA have confirmed the attack on the airport, Manager of the Airport, Mrs Amina Salami, said that the bandits invaded the airport through the perimeter fence from a nearby forest at about 1pm on Saturday afternoon, and started shooting sporadically to scare the workers. “It was in the course of the shooting that the security guard patrolling around the runway was killed, ” she said. She added that the sound of gunshot attracted the attention of armed security operatives who arrived at the scene, and were able to repel the bandits from gaining access into the main airport complex. Corroborating Salami’s statement, the Kaduna government said the bandits were later repelled and operations resumed at the airport with scheduled flights departing after the incident. The state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan said in a statement titled; ‘Troops repel bandits at Kaduna Airport’ said: “Security forces have reported that an attack by armed bandits was repelled in the vicinity of the Kaduna International Airport. “Troops stationed within and around the airport responded and repelled the attackers. “However, the bandits unfortunately shot and killed a staff member stationed at the perimeter fence who raised alarm on sighting them. “Airport operations resumed with scheduled flights departing after the incident. “Security forces are conducting operations in the airport general area. Further updates will be communicated to the public. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i commended the security forces for their prompt response to the attack, and for repelling the attackers. He expressed sadness at the report of the casualty, and sent condolences to the family of the victim, while offering prayers for the repose of his soul,” Aruwan said. When contacted, the Kaduna State Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Muhammad Jalige, promised to get across to the DPO in charge of the area and get back to our correspondent. He was yet to do so before press time.