Members of the Barewa Old Boys’ Association (BOBA) have pleaded with public-spirited individuals to donate towards improving facilities in Barewa College, Zaria in Kaduna State. The Secretary-General of the association, Haroun Audu made the plea in Abuja during a chat with reporters on the need for Nigerians to invest in their various alma maters, in other to improve the state of education in the country. Audu said it realised the need to pay attention to what is happening in its alma mater and have since made a lot of contributions towards improving the lives of students of the school. He said that at a point, the association discovered that some teachers posted to the school lacked competence, which, in turn, affected the output of students in external examinations. He said to resolve the issue, the association took permission from the state government and enrolled all the school’s teachers in the National Teachers’ Institute (NTI) and paid millions of naira to ensure that they were retained for a year-and-a-half. BOBA said it began its fundraising drive when it realised that the college would be turning 100 about six years ago.   NEDC, Adamawa stakeholders discuss development master plan     Bauchi recorded 5,652 TB cases in one year     Protest in Abuja over persistent kidnapping   He said: “Education has suffered a lot in this country and we notice this in the type of graduates that we are producing. “As members of an old boys’ association, we find that we need to pay attention to what is happening to our alma mater. So, we have decided to orchestrate it and this started about seven years ago. Barewa Old Boys’ Association knew the college was going to turn 100 in 2021. So, we started a series of activities six years ago. Lectures, dinners, fundraisers are things that we have always done but we decided to do it in a more coordinated manner so we can create awareness for the need for our members to come together and begin to pay back because there is no single Barewa old boy that will tell you that the college did not impact him one way or the other. “Five former Presidents in this country attended Barewa College, not to talk of governors, ministers, and CBN governors. So, every old boy has the feeling of being associated with the school. This was why we orchestrated the 100th anniversary in such a manner that every member should be interested to complement the state government’s efforts to ensure that the school has better facilities.