Government College Ibadan is sitting comfortably on the second spot at the Lagos’ Club Cricket Committee League after running out their Ughelli Old Boys’ counterpart at the Tafawa Balewa Square Cricket Oval. While seeking their third straight win, the GCU team chose to bat at toss, a decision that haunted them as their opponents whirled them to a difficult 106/4 in the T20 series. A quick second inning run out of the GCI opening batter Joshua Ayannaike, was the set-up that incoming Ademola Onikoyi needed. He stuck with his captain, Tunde Ayinde, to build a partnership of 55 before he himself lost his wicket. A quick loss of two wickets had the boys from Ibadan on the ropes but the reliable Isaac Okpe walked in to see the game over the line with his captain. The 6-wicket victory lifted Ibadan Old boys above their title contenders. The other game was the game between the two clubs fighting to exit the low end of the table.   Klitschko brothers ‘ready to die’ fighting for Ukraine     Cricket revival in Kaduna excites Onoja     Ibadan bubbles for South West U-19 Cricket tourney   A defeat for FGC Warri would mean a step closer to Division 2 in the relegation dance. A win for Ibeju Lekki 1 would mean a restoration of their status at the top. With their respective motivations, the two teams went at each other and when Ibeju started batting after winning the toss, the intention was unmistakable. A solid 91-run opening partnership laid the sturdy foundation on which the rest of the team built. 179 for the loss of only 4 men was what the Seasiders set their opponents to chase. And chase they tried but the sheer steepness of the target must have played into the minds of the batters from Warri. They never actually got going, losing wickets and not scoring enough as their innings wore on. They managed not to surrender all their wickets but they fell 105 runs short of the total. This victory for Ibeju Lekki 1 takes them back above GCI into the first position and this defeat for FGC Warri sees them still stuck on 6 points after just one win all season.