The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) got to power from nowhere. It was a mishmash of groups that hurriedly came together late in 2014 to battle then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Presidency. President Muhammadu Buhari was the party’s candidate and he was trying his luck for the plum job for the fourth time. He was lucky this time around. He and his party came to power, giving people high hopes; hopes of turning things around in a country that was bleeding and still is, contrary to the expectations that under them, there would be a change for good. The party mouthed change, the mantra under which it sold itself to the people, promising to turn the economy around, strengthen security and provide jobs. It has not delivered on all counts. What did Buhari really bring to the table than his much-touted 12 million votes from the North, where he is revered for being an upright man (Mai Gaskiya). It is good to be upright, but it is better to have the capacity for the job. Buhari’s adventure in power shall be a topic for another day. Today, the focus is on his (mis)handling of the vehicle (APC) that he rode to power. APC is in tatters. It has become a rudderless ship, tossing up and down the sea. Something needs to be done fast before it sinks and takes everybody down with it. It is still a long way, though, to the 2023 election where the party’s fate will be decided by the electorate that saw in it seven years ago the nation’s hope for the future. The jury is out and its verdict is that APC has failed the nation. It will be hard not to agree with that. For the umpteenth time, the party’s leadership has been tampered with in a manner unexpected of an association, which once prided itself as the promoter of the rule of law. The APC now follows the rule of man; the dictates of the President who determines who gets what. It all started with the removal of Adams Oshiomhole as APC chair in what now seems to be ages ago. Since that June 2020 misadventure, the party has been running from pillar to post. Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni benefited from the ensuing succession crisis. Buhari ordered him to take over in acting capacity and also made him chairman of the caretaker extraordinary convention planning committee. Over 18 months after he took over the party after abandoning his duty post in Damaturu, the Yobe State capital, Buni has not got his act together. Rather than knit APC together, he keeps widening the gulf among members of the party. His fellow governors who thought they could ride on his back to get their way have parted ways with him as he keeps shifting the date of the  convention where the party’s national executive committee will either emerge or be elected, as the case may be. The March 26 convention, if it holds, will also determine who gets the party’s presidential ticket.   General who?     Super cop, super bust     Royalty-cum-rascality   Buni’s inordinate ambition to be the running mate to a candidate to be chosen in a convention which will be scripted by him and his footsoldiers has done him in. He has been removed by presidential fiat and replaced with Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello. But one man whose presidential aspiration cannot be ignored appears to have become the fresh source of  worry of many in the leadership cadre of the party. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, like others, worked assiduously for the emergence of APC as a party and its victory at the polls in 2015. He spent time, energy and resources to get the party into power. When he did all these, the party apparatchiks saw him as a trusted ally that one can go to war with. But when he indicated interest in the 2023 Presidency,  many of his friends within the party started grumbling. Who does he think he is? Why does he want to be president? What do we owe him? He should go and sit down. They said all these and more. Rather than face the bigger challenge of party crisis, Tinubu and his presidential ambition became the issue. The party had been hit by crisis ever before Tinubu declared his ambition. For APC to move forward, it must accept its shortcomings. For one, it is not being run as a party. For a party in power, that is not good enough. The party should not cede its power to its elected office holders. If it believes in the principle of supremacy of party, it should not allow its governors and even the President to call the shots within the party. Once, this happens, it sends the wrong signal. These people can and should have a voice in the party but their word must not be law, as it is presently the case at state and national levels. As president in the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN)-led administration between 1979 and 1983, Shehu Shagari never dictated who became party chairman or not. The affairs of state are too enormous for any president to leave for party politics. The Presidency is not a tea party; it is a time-consuming job that requires the attention of the President 24 hours of the day. The earlier President Buhari realises this, the better. It is not too late for him to allow APC to rediscover itself in his remaining 15 months in office. APC is at war with itself on all fronts. How the party got to this pass remains a puzzle. One thing is clear though. It was not ready for the power it wrested from PDP in 2015. Power,  it seemed, was delivered to it on a platter. This is what happens when one is not prepared for something. What ordinarily should be its gain is turning to its loss right before its eyes. On Tuesday, a Federal High Court in Abuja sacked Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi, who defected to it from PDP. This is a matter it should address with one voice and fast too, otherwise the same fate may befall it in Cross River and Zamfara. It is now the lot of Bello to save the party from itself. Will he chart the right course for APC? He has little time to deliver on this charge.