NATO has activated its “chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence elements” amid fears Russia could launch a biological strike in Ukraine. Following an emergency summit of the military alliance, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels the decision comes as the allies move to equip Ukraine with its own biological defences. “Our top military commander … has activated NATO’s chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence elements,” he said. “And allies are deploying additional chemical and biological and nuclear defences to reinforce our existing and new battlegroups, so we are taking measures both to support Ukraine and also to defend ourselves.” This came as the United States yesterday  slammed sanctions on more Russian leaders, Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said. Blinken, in a statement, said more leaders have been sanctioned because President Vladimir Putin’s war was inflicting horror and widespread suffering on the people of Ukraine. Those on the new list are the 328 members of the Russian State Duma. This is in addition to the 12 members designated on March 11. The U.S. accused them of supporting the Kremlin’s violations of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, including through treaties recognising the self-proclaimed independence of Donetsk People’s Republic (DNR) and Luhansk People’s Republic (LNR).   Jonathan urges leaders to sustain democracy in West Africa     America mourns Madeleine Albright     Court restrains Fed Govt from evicting AU from Lagos…   At the same time, Washington will increase its humanitarian assistance by welcoming 100,000 Ukrainian refugees and providing an additional $1 billion in food, medicine, water and other supplies. Blinken said: “At the same time, in Russia, the State Duma continues to use its legislative power to target domestic dissenters and political opponents, disrupt the free flow of information, and restrict the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the citizens of Russia. “The United States today is designating 328 members of the Russian State Duma, in addition to the 12 members designated on March 11.  These members supported the Kremlin’s violations of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, including through treaties recognizing the self-proclaimed independence of Russian-proxy controlled areas of eastern Ukraine, the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic (DNR) and Luhansk People’s Republic (LNR).” “The United States is also designating the Russian State Duma in its entirety, as well as Herman Gref, the head of Sberbank and a close ally of Putin.  Today’s actions are taken pursuant to Executive Order 14024, which authorises sanctions against Russia for its harmful foreign activities.  These actions complement the ongoing efforts of our allies and partners to hold to account enablers of this unconscionable war of choice against Ukraine and its people.” America is also targeting multiple Russian elites to include their properties and family members.  This includes 17 members of the board of PJSC Sovcombank, a designated entity.  They join the growing list of individuals associated with blocked Russian financial institutions. “Additionally, OOO Volga Group is being re-designated for having operated in the financial services sector of the Russian Federation economy.  As a result, Gennady Nikolayevich Timchenko, the owner of OOO Volga Group, will also be re-designated along with OOO Transoil, which Timchenko owns.  Timchenko’s wife, Elena Petrovna Timchenko, and daughter, Natalya Browning, will now also be designated along with Ksenia Gennadevna Frank, a board member of OOO Transoil and her spouse Gleb Sergeevich Frank,” he said. The United States, the statement said, is taking action to impose additional severe costs on Russia’s defence establishment. NATO leaders are willing to send more powerful weapons to Ukraine after a plea from the country’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, for tanks, rockets and air-defence systems at the Brussels summit.