It is anomalous for anyone to think that he could be assisted or supported above the realm of knowledge or influence of the helper. The philosophical dictum of ex nihilio nihil fit which was first argued by Parmenides pontificates that, nothing comes from nothing. The latitude of assistance of a man is within the precincts of his area of influence and within the nucleus of his power and jurisdiction. The sphere of assistance from a local government Councillor or Chairman, Governor of a state or President of a nation for instance, is within the purview of his government. It is imperative to note that the comprehensive life satisfaction cannot be given by any human being, not even President Joe Biden of the United States of America, as globally powerful as he is today. The pervasive Satisfaction is from God alone. There was a hymn composed by Stuart Townend Keith Getty in 2002. A hymn which encapsulated the entire ministry of Jesus – his life, death, resurrection and their implication for us. The title of the hymn is IN CHRIST ALONE and it reads that: In Christ alone, my hope is found, He is my light, my strength, my song. This cornerstone, this solid ground. Firm through the fiercest drought and storm. What heights of love, what depths of peace. When fears are stilled, when strivings cease. My comforter, my all in all. Here in the love of Christ I stand. No guilt in life, no fear in death. This is the power of Christ in me. From life’s first cry to final breath, Jesus commands my destiny. No power of hell, no scheme of man. Can ever pluck me from His hand. Till He returns or calls me home. Here in the power of Christ I’ll stand. Satisfaction in Christ alone means that if you put your absolute trust in any human being for eternal satisfaction of physical, marital, spiritual, medical needs etc, you are in for a life shocker – human beings are limited in time, they are restricted in knowledge, they are contained in power and of course bounded in capacity (Jeremiah 17:5-6). The Samaritan woman, from the passage of our text, was occupationally unsatisfied until she encountered Jesus Christ. In John 4:28-30, it was reported that, the woman left her water pot, and went her way into the city, and said to the men,  “Come, see a man, who told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ? Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.”   Reps accuse NNPC of shielding subsidiaries     National Assembly transmits 44 Constitution Review Bills to…     2023: Why Tinubu, Osinbajo are inseparable, by Jibrin   Prior to the woman’s encounter with the author of Divine satisfaction, she was engaged in the water-pot profession which didn’t give her any satisfaction until the day she met Jesus Christ. That day, she identified her call, she dropped the water pot, went to the city and became a great Evangelist. Dear brothers and sisters, permit me to inform you that there is an assignment which God had committed to your hands that would pilot you to your total satisfaction. There is a project, an assignment and a call that God had assigned for you to make an impact in this world, and not be a liability to the society. God didn’t create anyone as a nuisance for the society. The issue of life is that your stardom is hid in your place of call and assignment. Your stardom is hid in your race, place of call or assignment. When you discover your race, His grace shall speak for you and your rising shall be visible to all and sundry. Beloved, you are only a star where you are sent and nothing but a nuisance where you are not sent – your satisfaction will only come when you discover and tow the path of your call or assignment. There is therefore need for you to be very deliberate with God today and ask Him to help you identify your area and place of commission. Jesus is the only person who has the capacity to satisfy you with an all-encompassing, lifelong, eternal and enduring satisfaction, and not any man, not anything and not any government. You need to cry to God that: God, what do I need to do that will give me an inflow of satisfaction which no person or government can take from me. Lord, what do I need to do that nothing else would matter to me again but Christ and Him crucified (1 Cor. 2:2).  Lord, what do I need to do that will take me to that junction of my life where I can declare like Paul that “For me to live is Christ and to die is gain” (Philip. 1:21). Beloved, please be assured that God will “…surely guide you continually, and satisfy your soul in drought, and make fat your bones: and you shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not”. (Isaiah 58:11). What you need to do is to come to Jesus Christ today. Ask Him to come into your life. Make a firm commitment that the things you used to do that are unrighteous in His sight, you don’t want to do them again. Be determined to be His follower. Make up your mind to walk in His ways and do whatever He asked you to do. You must chose your friends wisely and be very deliberate about His business of evangelism and soul winning. Seek the matter of His kingdom and his righteousness first and other things shall follow you (Matt. 6:33). During this season of Lent, I am confident that God will intervene and shall transit you to your right place of divine assignment in the name of Jesus Christ.