The present form of the trio of Victor Osimhen, Sadiq Umar, and Taiwo Awoniyi has thrilled the chief coach of the Super Eagles Emmanuel Amuneke ahead of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup Play-off against Ghana’s Black Stars later this month. Speaking during a radio programme in Lagos yesterday, Amuneke said: “it is very impressive that all our players are doing well in all their clubs. Their form will really help us to know their strengths and weaknesses. Osimhen, Umar, and Awoniyi scored for their respective clubs and Terem Moffil is also doing well in the French league. “This will really help us to look at the players from a holistic point of view in terms of their strengths and weaknesses. As a nation we are blessed to have good players all over the world and this is a good development and we will see how we can start accommodating our players that are doing well in their various clubs and make the best use of them.” He, however, pleaded with Nigerians to give Maduka Okoye more chance while they should put away the mistakes he committed at AFCON behind them. AFCON has gone let us focus on the World Cup qualifiers for now and forget what happened in Cameroon. We just need to look at the mistakes and see how we can correct them. Ahead of the first leg against Ghana March 25, Amuneke is confident the Super Eagles have the qualities to edge the West African rivals in the race towards Qatar 2022 World Cup.    Usyk: Joshua gets three new offers for heavyweight rematch     Osimhen likens to Jordan after brace against Verona     Lobi Stars 1-2 Abia United: Dombraye sacked as Lobi named…    “We are confident we can qualify and let us do our work quietly to prepare ourselves by ensuring that the players are ready for the match,” he counselled. “We must be ready for the Ghana game because any match involving the two countries is always very tough. “But we will do our best and by God’s grace, we will qualify, ” he noted as he refrained from discussing the controversial squad list and working contract. = “ As for the contract, we are still discussing it and I hope very soon, it will happen ,” he said. “ There are some certain things not meant for public consumption as far as the Super Eagles list is concerned but our focus now is on the preparation for the team. “ The most important thing for us it to qualify for the World Cup, “ he added.