The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday vowed to go tough on those enforcing its suspended Monday sit-at-home in the Southeast. Despite calling it off, hoodlums who claim to be IPOB members have been violently enforcing the directive. On January 17, hoodlums destroyed vehicles and flogged traders in Enugu State. On the same day in Anambra State, hoodlums enforcing the exercise attacked some passengers en route Asaba from Owerri in the Idemili area. Most major markets have continued to be shut on Mondays, disrupting trading, which is the region’s economic mainstay. IPOB first announced the sit-at-home to protest the detention of its leader Nnamdi Kanu, but later said it would be observed on the days of his court appearance. Still, the Southeast is always paralysed on Mondays, with economic activities suspended. Many of the region’s leaders have bemoaned the impact of the weekly lockdown on the region’s economy. IPOB had earlier vowed to track down the enforcers, but with little result. Yesterday, the group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, threatened to release its security outfit, the Eastern Security Network (ESN), to go after those involved in enforcing the cancelled order. It insisted that those killing innocent people in the name of enforcing Monday sit-at-home were not its members. IPOB claimed it could not be destroying the same people it was trying to liberate. It accused those it termed unscrupulous politicians of recruiting cultists and criminals to attack innocent citizens of the zone. IPOB, however, did not name any politician as the sponsor of the attacks, nor did it provide any evidence to back the claim. The Nation could also not independently verify IPOB’s claim. The statement reads in part: “The global movement and family of IPOB under the command and leadership of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu wishes to state that nobody has the monopoly of attack. “We realise that some unscrupulous politicians and elements are recruiting cultists and criminals to attack our innocent citizens in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home in Biafraland, especially the ones in Enugu State and other states in Biafraland. “Currently these criminals are mobilising to attack innocent citizens in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order which IPOB had suspended a long time ago. “We are informing those enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order to retrace their steps or be ready to contend the IPOB under Mazi Nnamdi Kanu who initiated Monday sit-at-home order but stopped it for obvious reasons. “We have said it before that IPOB will release its security outfit to chase those involved in enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home. “We can’t fold our hands and watch base fellows unleash mayhem on innocent Biafrans on Mondays under the guise of enforcing non-existent sit-at-home order. Enough is enough! “Those killing innocent people in the name of enforcing sit-at-home order on Mondays are not IPOB members. “IPOB cannot be part of the destruction of the same people we are labouring the emancipate.   Accept my leadership or quit, Obaseki tells Edo PDP leaders     Buhari commiserates with Keyamo on father’s death     Customs yet to halt VIN valuation system   “We don’t waste lives, we protect lives. Evil politicians in Biafraland are the ones creating tension because of their selfish political interests. “Enugu State is the capital and headquarters of Igbo land and need to be peaceful and conducive for living. “Enugu has been a peaceful home for all Ndigbo as well as strangers and will continue to be so. “The intention of the criminals behind this barbarity is to implicate ESN and IPOB members who are only championing the restoration of Biafra nation. “Their mission is to demonise Biafra agitators and possibly truncate the agitation but they came too late because the world is already aware that we are a non-violent movement. “We are aware that some unscrupulous elements and groups sponsored criminals in Abia State particularly in Aba to continue pasting false information that Monday sit-at-home order still exists while they knew that IPOB who initiated it has suspended it a long time ago. “For record purposes, those involved in this barbarity against our people on Mondays should stop or be ready for the consequences. “We are warning masterminds of these atrocities to stop or brace up for tough times because IPOB is ready to confront them. “They must allow people to do their businesses without molestations on Mondays because Mondays are one of the days God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama ordained for living and we must achieve that goal without fear. “There is no more sit-at-home in Biafra land except on the days our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is to make t appearance, and such days will be duly publicised. “Any other thing to the contrary has nothing to do with IPOB, and must be disregarded.” Kanu was re-arraigned on January 19 before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja. He pleaded not guilty to a 15-count terrorism charge filed against him by the Federal Government. He filed a preliminary objection to the charge, praying the court to strike out or quash them. On the same day, an Umuahia High Court in Abia State awarded N1billion damages to Kanu in a judgment on his fundamental rights suit. Kanu was accused of making a broadcast “with intent to intimidate the population”, in which he “threatened that people will die, the whole world will standstill”. He was also accused of issuing “a deadly threat” that anyone who flouted his sit-at-home order should write his/her Will, which resulted in a lockdown of the Southeast. Kanu also professed himself to be a member and leader of IPOB, a proscribed organisation in Nigeria, contrary to and punishable under Section 16 of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act, 2013. He was said to have incited members of the public “to hunt and kill Nigerian security personnel and their families”. The Federal Government said Kanu directed IPOB members “to manufacture bombs” and to “destroy public facilities”. He also allegedly threatened the public not to come out on May 31, 2021, and directed them “to destroy public transport system in Lagos, resulting in major economic loss to the government”. The prosecution said he “imported into Nigeria and kept in Ubullisiuzor in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State…a radio transmitter known as Tram SOL concealed in a container of used household items which you declared as used household items”. The alleged offence, the prosecution said, is punishable under Section 1(2)(b) of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act. 2013. Kanu pleaded not guilty. The Army had accused IPOB of deceit in its claim to have cancelled the Monday sit-at-home.