The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing says it constructed internal road networks in 46 federal tertiary institutions across the country in 2021. The Minister of Work, Babatunde Fashola, made this known on Wednesday in Abeokuta at the handover of the Federal Government intervention of internal roads at Aro Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Abeokuta. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the 1.3km internal road was rehabilitated by the federal ministry of works and housing on behalf of the Federal Government. Represented by Umar Bakare, the Federal Controller of Works in Ogun, Fashola said another 17 roads were ready to be handed over, while attending to 30 other roads in various institutions across the country. He noted that the infrastructure gap which was being bridged by a gradual process of repairs, renewal and construction on major highways was also being replicated in schools and federal institutions. “It is undebatable that quality of health care delivery will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the environment and those who doubt it should simply listen to some of the feedback from staff in the hospitals where this type of intervention has taken place. “The students are expressing renewed enthusiasm with regards to attending classes because some defective roads have been restored to good condition.   Sack: Umahi withdraws stay of execution motion     Tinubu for LASU convocation lecture     Nigerians can still apply for student, work, family visas…   “This is consistent with our progressive ideal of improving the human condition and that process continues here today as we hand over this one in Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Aro, Abeokuta as a critical intervention to support education,” he said. Fashola submitted that no fewer than 50 persons were employed and in the process, contributing to the job creation initiatives of the government. He expressed the hope that the hospital management would ensure proper usage of the asset while shielding it from being abused. In his remarks, the Provost of the Hospital, Dr Paul Agboola, thanked the Federal Government through the ministry for the intervention. He noted that since the establishment of the hospital decades ago, “this is the first time in recent years where internal road network rehabilitation will be carried out by the ministry of works”. He added that the act had put smiles on the faces of the staff, students and patients at the institution. Agboola said that the institution eagerly expects the commencement of the second phase of the 5km road initially requested from the ministry. “Like Oliver Twist, we ask for more. We await the second phase of the project as we asked for 5km, out of which 1.35km has been done. We’re believing God that the remaining 3.65km will be done,” he added. (NAN)