Ebenebe community is widely reputed as the food basket of Awka North Local Government Area of Anambra State. Surrounded by other communities like Ugbene, Amansea, Ugbenu and Awba–Ofemmili, the area has suffered untold neglect from the state government in terms of infrastructural development since inception, rendering it virtually inaccessible to visitors and locals. The sleepy community is known for its quiet life style with farming as the major preoccupation of the inhabitants. But last week, its serenity was defiled with the gruesome murder of no fewer than 20 of its inhabitants at the hands of some gunmen who invaded the area in commando style. It was during the burial of one of its sons, 34-year-old Ozo Joseph Chukwuka, a native of Umuogbuefi village. The young man was said to have been killed by some gunmen on December 30, 2021 in controversial circumstances. Some even alleged that he was killed by a rival cult group because he was a member of one of the cult groups in the state. The Nation, however, gathered that Chukwuka, who lived in Onitsha, was loading sands in a tipper at the head bridge in Onitsha and was not associated with cult activities until his death. During the ugly incident that occurred last weekend, no fewer than 20 persons were said to have died at the burial arena while many others were seriously wounded and had to be rushed to different hospitals. The Nation further gathered that the assailants, who stormed the arena in a Toyota Camry car, were all masked while the killer of majority of the victims was a woman. Apart from the number that died instantly during the mayhem, four of the 12 injured victims that were taken to the hospital in Awka later died, bringing the death toll to 24 Shocked by the ugly incident, the community is planning to organise a prayer session in the area against the perpetrators of the heinous act. The Nation gathered that spiritualists in the area are not left out as they are said to have concluded arrangements to take the battle to the brains behind the killings in their own way. Speaking with The Nation, a former councillor in Ebenebe, Hon. Oba Okonkwo, who described the incident as crime against humanity, said the late Ozo Chukwuka was a fine footballer who captain of his village and was doing his sand loading business in Onitsha. According to him, “on the day he was killed in December, he was somewhere around our area drinking when he received a call that he was needed somewhere. “We thought the call was probably from some people he had done business with as he started his motorcycle and left. The next thing we heard was that he had been shot and killed. “So, when a date was fixed for his burial, we started hearing rumours that he should not be given proper burial. We asked why but we couldn’t get answers from anywhere. “On that day (Saturday), when his corpse had been brought from mortuary and placed on the table for the burial service to commence, a vehicle drove in from nowhere and the masked people started shooting, and people scampered into safety. They brought down Ozo’s corpse and killed 16 persons on the spot. Twelve others who were injured were taken to the hospital. One of them was the Chairman of that village. Unfortunately, he died in the hospital three days ago,” Okonkwo said. He said, amid sobs, that majority of the people who died were youths from the area, adding that they were going to hold a meeting to see the way forward. He noted that such a thing had never happened in their area before now, adding that the late Chukwuka was a tough man but was not known to be a member of any cult   ​VIDEO: Inside the camp of stranded Nigerian students in…     Ademola Olaniran: My journey from medical student to…     ​​VIDEO: Please get us out of here, stranded Nigerian…   When contacted, the President General of Ebenebe Town Union (ETU), Hon. Paul Nnatuanya, said the entire community had been mourning over the incident. He described the rumours against Chukwuka as unfounded, adding that if he was in any cult group, it was known to the people in his community. Nnatuanya likened Chukwuka’s killing to that of the late Nweke Ogbodo from Enugu State, who was the state chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) many years ago. He lamented that the killing was not resisted from anywhere because there was no security presence in five of the communities. The communities, according to him, are Amansea, Ebenebe, Ugbenu, Ugbene and Awba –Ofemmili. Nnatuanya further said the five communities make seven political wards out of the 326 in the entire Anambra State. He added that both the federal and state governments should find a way to establish security posts in the area. Nnatuanya said: “We are going to hold a prayer session in the community because our land has been desecrated. “Very soon, we’re going to hold another meeting to deliberate on further actions to be taken. I was in the palace when the news of the massacre came to me “I never knew the late Ozo Joseph Chukwuka as a cult person. I foresaw these things about two years ago. That is why we are crying for the construction of a police station by the government. “We want the governments at all levels to look into the security situation in our place to avoid future occurrences. “Ebenebe does not want to witness such barbaric, gruesome and unwarranted invasion, attack and wanton killing of innocent, hapless and defenceless mourners again in our life time.” The Anambra State Police command, told The Nation that some arrests had been made over the killing in Ebenebe last weekend. Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, who confirmed this to the reporter, said they would not give the figure in order not to truncate what they were doing. He said further investigation was continuing on what played out in the state, adding that the command was making progress. Nnatuanya said: “The security of Anambra State has remained a sour taste in recent times. Communities, including Ebenebe, have remained at the receiving end of the daredevils and unknown gunmen. “It is therefore imperative that efforts are united towards strengthening our community security watch. “Our meeting with the monarch led to the constitution of a committee that will oversee the hospital processes and the community’s security. “The committee is led by Hon. James Ilonwa as chairman and Comrade JohnBosco Anaracha as secretary.”