Record executive, Ubi Franklin has dared Timaya following his threat to beat him up a second time. The dancehall singer, who referred to Ubi as Davido’s son’s nanny, warned him to stay focused on his new job to avoid being receiving the same beating as he did he in January. “Ubi Franklin u remember the beating I gave u in January last year? Don’t let me beat u again it, and pls I like your new JOB as Ifeanyi’s NANI and pls don’t mess it up. DAvido is a good guy he can make ur life. Pls, focus on ur new JOB. Thank”, Timaya tweeted. Reacting to the threat, the founder of Made Men Music Group in a series of tweets revealed the reason Timaya’s outburst. The father of four also claimed he dealt with Timaya accordingly and he eventually came to beg the next day after the incident. Franklin tweeted: “Timaya is so petty. You are angry cos I told how wrong it was to knock a woman down and leave here to her fate. You come to talk trash here today? I am not a person that will see wrong and keep quiet. You were wrong to have knocked that’s a woman down and left her there. Period.   Mercy Aigbe mourns Kaduna train attack victims, urges…     Actress Laide Bakare flaunts new mansion     Singer T-Classic slams fan for ‘struggling…   “I made sure he got his, I wasn’t satisfied cos they were too many Big Boys/men who knew he attacked me unprovoked cos he was drunk and I did mine to fill gaps. I am not a violent person, but I will defend myself. “I know because y’all see Timaya act gangster you feel say him fit beat me. No Wahala, I go find that CCTV footage From my oga house see how he knelt down to beg. He called me the next day to apologize cos he was high and attacked me unprovoked, self-defense came to play. Ubi Franklin also retweeted the press statement issued by Timaya’s team which he had tweeted on March 4 after the singer was arrested by the police in Lagos over an alleged hit-and-run in the Lekki area of the state. The tweet’s caption at the time read: “Dear Timaya, as a senior man in the Nigerian Entertainment Industry, the first thing you would have done when you were accused was to apologize as you have just done and then call the victim’s family. Your live video the other day showed you cared less about the situation. Thank U.” Sharing the same tweet today, Ubi Franklin wrote: “This is the tweet. You are not above the law, you knocked a woman down and expect that I Celebrate you? Never.”