The  Group Managing Director, Twins Faja, Oluwole Awoniyi, has said the COVID-19 pandemic enabled the company to move physical sales to online sales. Speaking during the unveiling of Odunlade Adekola, a Nigerian actor, as the Ambassador for the Twins Faja Group of Companies, Awoniyi said the pandemic caused a lot of  businesses to close up and re-strategise their operations. “The challenges encountered majorly were the restrictions on general movement which affected our delivery and sales rate. The solution adopted to solve this problem was to move physical sales to online sales. This has helped to solve the problem dramatically and it has improved our efficiency and effectiveness,” he said. He said the company faces challenges related to economic instability and online trust.   ‘$20b Africa-Russia trade at risk over crisis’     CRC Credit Bureau subsidiary gets MD     FDIs to rise as West Africa Automative Show returns   “Government’s decisions change from time to time and these always affect the prices of products. These also affect our customers’ perspective and trust online. We always try to update our customers when price changes to increase the trust they have in our brands,” he said.   Awoniyi said the new Ambassador will  help in promoting the company’ brands, boost online presence, connecting with its audience physically and online among other benefits.   The new Ambassador, Odunlade lauded the company’s efforts and pledged his commitment to ensuring the company’s continued growth. He stated that “he would always work in the best interests of the organization.”   Twin Faja Group of Companies was established in the early 1990s under the Companies Allied Matters Act 1990 by the Chairman and CEO Chief and Chief Mrs. Taiye Fajana.   They specialize in the sale of high-quality building materials as well as the delivery of prompt and excellent service. Twins Faja is a construction, building, and civil engineering firm that has had tremendous success in executing projects in both the public and private sectors in Nigeria. Because of the experience and professional skills of management and staff, the Twin Faja Group of Companies has grown and expanded since its inception in the 1990s