Suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari and four other officers facing trial over alleged cocaine deal have been detained in Kuje prison custody. Prison authorities said there would be no special treatment for any of them, The Nation learnt yesterday. But the authorities assured the nation that they are safe in their custody. Justice Emeka Nwike of the Federal High Court in Abuja, on Monday, ruled that Kyari and the others standing trial before him be taken to Kuje Custodial Centre. The judge said the National Drug Laws Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) had placed sufficient materials before the court to warrant the refusal of bail for Kyari and his co-defendants. Kyari and six others facing drug trafficking charges have been kept in NDLEA facilities since their arrest. Other former members of the Police IRT Unit denied bail by the court are: Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sunday Ubia, Inspector Simon Agirgba, Inspector John Nuhu and James Bawa.   Uncertainty as NIN-SIM verification deadline ends today     2023 polls: Appeal Court President urges INEC to sanction…     UTME/DE to hold May 6 in 645 CBT centres   The Kuje Prison authorities dismissed insinuations that the suspended police officers could be harmed in the facility. The authorities said Kyari and the others would be kept in awaiting trials’ cells, assuring that the facilities would remain under the close watch of different security agencies assigned to protect them. Spokesman of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS), Mr. Humphrey Chukwuendo, confirmed that Kyari and others facing trials in the drug deal have been admitted to the Kuje facility. The spokesman said the authorities do not treat anyone specially, adding that 15 awaiting trial inmates, including Abba Kyari and his men, were admitted from various courts on that day. He said: “The case is a normal procedure for us. He (Kyari) is being kept where awaiting trial persons are; with his co-defendants as well. We are surprised that someone said he is not safe. How could someone say the facility is not safe? Is it in his house that the inmates would be safe? “The facility is a safe. We have all the security apparatus here: the army is there, the police, the Department of State Services (DSS) and our men. “So, if anyone is saying the facility is not safe, is it from internal incursion or external invasion? We are here as professionals and we will do our jobs to the best of our ability.”