The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Kwara Command, has appointed Malam Garba Madami, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, as an ambassador against drug abuse. Mr Peter Onche Odaudu, the state NDLEA Commander, announced this at a brief decoration of the REC in his office in Ilorin on Thursday. Odaudi explained that Madami was chosen because of his proven record of achievements. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that President Muhammadu Buhari launched the War Against Drug Abuse (WADA) on June 26, 2021. WADA ambassador Is conferred on people of substance, people who have integrity and people who are drug-free. “The goal is to identify people of repute that have integrity and must be drug-free. “I am sure that I have found in the REC all of these qualities. “Don’t forget he conducted the 2019 general elections here which was arguably considered the freest, the fairest and most credible, and the best elections so far. So those are the qualities I saw in him. “The idea behind WADA is that the fight against drug abuse must be all societies’ approach; every member of the society must play a role in the fight against the menace of drugs. “NDLEA cannot do it alone, but with the help of members of the society, we can fight the ravaging drug trafficking to a standstill or to a near standstill,” Odaudu said.   2023 presidency: Don’t contest against Tinubu, cleric urges…     U.S. sanctions more Russian leaders     Four years after, court acquits woman accused of cutting off…   The commander told the REC that his mandate as WADA ambassador was that he must carry the message of WADA to all the nooks and crannies of the state. “Without any iota of doubt, I find the REC worthy. In whatever capacity, you must help the NDLEA in the fight against the menace,” he added. Responding, Madami expressed his appreciation to the NDLEA commander for finding him worthy to be appointed as WADA ambassador. The REC promised to deploy all resources at his disposal in the fight against the menace of drug abuse. He described drug abuse as one of the problems affecting the growth of youths of the country. According to the REC, many youths in the country want to get rich quickly and they had turned to drug trafficking to get money. “During elections, politicians recruit youths that are taking drugs to foment trouble. “INEC was able to record the success in 2019 because we identified the youths using drugs and kept them away during the elections,” he said. Madami appealed to NDLEA to work with the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) for effective coordination of the fight against drug abuse. He also advised the agency to take the drug fight to higher institutions to sensitise the youths against drug abuse. Besides, Madami promised to sponsor programmes and films on the menace of drug abuse. (NAN) (www.nannews.ng)