The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has extended its warning strike by two months. This means undergraduates would have been home for three months when by ending of May. As the world evolves, acquiring digital skills becomes vital. Digital skills are any skills related to being computer literate. Industries have digitalised their operations and processes. By implication, employers require specialised skills. Examples of digital skills students can acquire include: digital design, data analytics, programming and web development, social media among others. Technology has made learning easy. You don’t have to take lectures in the four walls of a classroom before you become certified in a course. There are so many online courses students can take which may eventually complement their discipline in school or extra knowledge.   Top seven most decorated wrestlers     Six Nigerian entertainers with medical degrees     What to know about Kemi Afolabi’s ‘incurable’…   Examples of platforms that award certificate at the end of your programme are: Udemy, Coursera, edX among others Graduating with good grades only doesn’t guarantee your preferred job. Work experience also adds value to the degree. Hence, internship has become crucial mode to make recent graduates stand out. During this ASUU period, it’s advisable to garner that work experience by interning to get hands-on knowledge in your career field as employers now rely on resume that emphasise on relevant work experience. There are so much to benefit while volunteering. Aside the experience one gathers while doing the task, it also strengthens relationship and networking among fellow volunteers. Volunteering as a social worker is simple way of contributing ones quota to the development of the community. Students who are loners with adverse effect on their mental health can consider opting for volunteering jobs. Most evident benefits of reading every day is learning. Although, learning is an unending process but this is an opportunity to open those books that one couldn’t read because school busy schedule. Read as wide as possible, be it your discipline related or not, the goal is to ensure that that time is well spent.