A ghastly lone motor accident in Kurosha village in Bauchi State has claimed the lives of 3 persons, while 16 others were injured. Confirming the accident on Saturday, a report by the Bauchi State Sector Command of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) at the Ganjuwa Station office stated that it involved a Toyota Hiace commercial bus belonging to the fleet of Jigawa Sunrise. The report further stated that it occurred at Kurosha village, 8mins, 1km away from Gadar Maiwa in Ningi LGA of Bauchi State along the Bauchi – Kano highway at about 1813hrs on Friday and was reported at 1820hrs while operatives arrived at the scene for rescue operation at 1828hrs. According to the FRSC, the cause of the accident was speed limit violation (SPV) and loss of control (LOC) by the driver. It added that a total of 20 passengers, including 18 male adults, 1 female adult, and 1 female child were involved, out of which 16, comprising 15 male adults and 1 female adult were injured at various degrees. The victims were said to have been evacuated to Ningi General Hospital for treatment while the corpses were deposited at the Morgue.   2023: Only SGS has notified APC of intent to contest Katsina…     NASC confiscates vegetable seeds for non compliance in…     Sani-Bello visits IDPs in Gwada, warns bandits   In Sokoto, an industrial fire at BUA cement factory has resulted in the death of three persons, while three others were injured. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that other equipment and valuables were also destroyed in the inferno. An interim situation information indicated that the inferno was suspected to have been caused by an uploading fuel tanker. A source confided in NAN that a worker was repairing a stationed tank when the explosion ignited. The source said three persons died and three others sustained injuries. When contacted, the Fire Prevention Officer of Sokoto State Fire Service, Mr Nuhu Lawal, confirmed the incident, saying that they mobilised teams, as well as moved fire fighting equipment to the location.