Many who fumed at the decision of the performing governor of Akwa-Ibom, His Excellency, Governor Udom for the early announcement of his preferred successor, Pastor Uno Emo Success did not know that success without a worthy successor is a successful failure. A leader like Governor Emmanuel, who built massive infrastructure among other great initiatives should indeed be mindful of who will take over from him for the continuity and sustainability of the growth trajectory.  The victory of the Commanding officer at war front largely depends on his lieutenants. The dedication, commitment and loyalty of men who sit with you in council matters a great deal. On this score, the governor recently recruited five distinguished citizens of the Akwa-Ibom State into the winning team. Five commissioners will be dropped for the new five to shine. The pedigree and the outstanding antecedence of the commissioners-in-waiting are not in doubt. These are men who shall come aboard the Udom Emmanuel administration with vast wealth of experience in administration, business and politics. Visionary leaders who are building legacies that will transcend generations know that the end of a thing is more glorious than the beginning. In a statement issued by the commissioner of Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, titled ‘Excerpt of the State Executive council meeting’ held on Thursday, it was gathered that the decision to drop the five commissioners was a collective decision. “The meeting commenced at midday with the Governor, presiding as Chairman-in-Council. In attendance at the meeting were, Secretary to the State Government, Head of the Civil Service, Honourable Commissioners and Special Advisers. “The Chairman-in-Council announced that the executive Council will be reshuffled and that five Commissioners will be eased out. “Consequently, names have been forwarded to the House of Assembly for screening and clearance”, Ememobong said. Governor Emmanuel started on a remarkable note, he proved bookmakers who ruled him out as a non-starter wrong. They based their erroneous assumptions on the corporate background of the governor. Emmanuel was a successful bank Executive who rose to the pinnacle of his career with shining laurels. What they failed to realise is the high-wire boardroom politicking also goes on behind the veneer of corporate trappings. Emmanuel survived the corporate sharks and their intrigues. So, Udom Emmanuel possesses both  human relations and consensus building that are both required to succeed in the corporate and public office. That administrative capacity and political sagacity reflected in the way he is managing various contending interests and tendencies in the state. The legacies to protect are many. In Education, Road Infrastructure, Human Capital Development, Aviation and other social services initiated by the governor need to be committed into competent hands. Today, Ibom Air is the pride of Nigeria’s aviation. Udom made Akwa-Ibom the only sub-national entity to operate and sustain an airline. Many who scorned visionary Emmanuel when he conceived and started the implementation of the project were shocked when the airline started recording remarkable achievements with huge commendation from commuters.   Over 9.7m pupils risk not returning to school, says UNICEF     Obiano regains freedom, passport seized     Malami shuns hearing of suit challenging his power to amend…   The Ibom air  piloted with three aircrafts and reported to have airlifted over 50,000 passengers within 100 days of operations. The airline recently added a new Bombardier CRJ 900 aircraft to its fleet, the aircaft is fitted with High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters which protects humans from 99 percent airborne microbes and other contaminants in the cabin. Last year, Ibom Air, Akwa-Ibom State  indigenous Airline placed an order for ten (10) A220 aircraft with Airbus, at the ongoing Dubai Air show, taking place at the purpose built DWC event arena in Dubai. The visioner, Governor Udom Emmanuel witnessed the signing of the agreement  by the Chief Executive Officer of Ibom Air, Mr Mfon Udom and Chief Commercial Officer of Airbus, Mr Christian Scherer. The Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Uko Udom, SAN, and the Chairman of Ibom Air, Mr Imoabasi Jacob who led the Ibom Air team were present to look at the grey areas in the contractual documents through the legal lens. The all-new A220 is purpose built for efficiency, targeting the 100-150 seat market. It burns 20% lower fuel per seat compared to previous generation aircraft and flies to a range of up to 3,400 nm (6,297 km), offering performance similar to larger, single-aisle aircraft. The A220s combination of a superior cabin product and low operating costs are a perfect fit for the airline’s network growth strategy and will help Ibom Air offer its customers an unrivaled value proposition. The business-focus leadership of Udom Emmanuel administration which created a friendly tax policies and viable business environment for Foreign Direct Investment, FDI to flow in  has further strengthened the Manufacturing, Agriculture and Agro-Processing base of the state. Jubilee Syringe Manufacturing Company, operating from Akwa-Ibom is reputed to be the leader in production of Syringe, a medical consumable in high demand. Other industries thriving within the Onna Industrial Layout include; the Lions Plywood factory, Kings Flour and electric digital solutions manufacturing factory. In addition, two fertiliser blending plants are up and running in the state including three medium-scale rice mills.  The Ibom Golden Rice Mill, owned by a local government cooperative society competes with another rice mill, Adricon Rice Mill in Ini local government area.  Udom Emmanuel has revolutionised agro-processing in Akwa-Ibom State. Education  as a major vehicle of human emancipation, the government of Governor Udom Emmanuel has prioritised education in the state. He is also preparing the youths of Akwa-Ibom State for the opportunities in the global knowledge economy. The State Government set out to boost the state’s Oracle IT skills pool by training more than 1000 youths via the Oracle University Workforce Development Program (WDP). The administration also hired over 4,800 teachers to improve the learning experience of pupils in public schools and reduce the Teacher-to-Pupils ratio. To encourage more pupils to advance education, the Emmanuel administration  picks the bills for West African Senior School Certificate Examination(WASSCE) and National Board  for Technical Education, (NBTE) gulping a whopping N600 million annually. Over 100 blocks of classrooms both in public primary and secondary schools while improving ancillary infrastructure such as internal roads, laboratories, lecture theatres, libraries in state-owned tertiary institutions including state-owned College of Education, Afaha Nsit; Akwa Ibom State University, Ikot Akpaden; Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic, Ikot Osurua; College of Health Technology, Etinan; and the College of Arts and Science, Nung Ukim. Above achievements and more are the reasons the governor head-hunted the new commissioners for sustainability of his legacies.