The Abuja Division of the Federal Court has restated Odefa Obasi Odefa as Ebonyi Deputy Speaker. The Court also restored the seats of Odefa and two other lawmakers Ngọzi Eziụlọ (Afikpo North East) and Oliver Osi (Ivo). The Court order followed a motion ex parte dated 24th February, 2022 and filled by the trio as plaintiffs against the declaration of their seats vacant and removal of Odefa as Deputy Speaker by the Assembly last month. It further barred the Assembly, Speaker and the Clerk from carrying out any action that will affect the membership of the three lawmakers. The Assembly last month declared the seats of Odefa and the two other lawmakers vacant.   Many feared dead in Port Harcourt accident     Strike: ASUU demands action as Fed Govt sets timeline for…     Nigerians lament fuel scarcity, erratic power supply,…   The Assembly claimed Odefa wrote a letter of resignation from membership of the House, an allegation Odefa denied. The Assembly also elected Ogbonnaya Ịkọrọ as the new deputy Speaker. The House said it declared the seats of the two other Lawmakers vacant for their alleged resignation from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and defecting to the APC. The Court presided by Justice I. E. Ekwo, ordered all parties in the matter to maintain the status quo that hitherto existed before the House took the controversial decisions against the trio last month. The Judge said: “An Interim Order of this Honourable Court restraining the defendants, especially the 5th to 8th defendants, ether by themselves, their servants, assigns or privies or otherwise howsoever from taking any other or further steps as it relates to the entire circumstances of this matter and or from disturbing the plaintiffs’ membership of Ebonyi State House of Assembly, pending the hearing and final determination of the motion on notice. “An order of this Honourable Court directing parties in this suit to maintain the status quo ante bellum that existed on the 18th day of February 2022 pending the hearing and final determination of the motion on notice already pending before this Honourable Court,” Justice Ekwo further ordered.