Music executive and talent manager, Ubi Franklin has bemoaned gender bias against men on the social media space. The father of four, in a series of tweets, decried social media users for constantly supporting the females at their slightest accusations without giving the men room to exonerate themselves. The 36-year-old called for absolute fairness for both genders noting men are also humans with feelings and emotions. “In the Nigerian social media space, women are never wrong because of the constant support bias of women who do similar unpleasant things. “The fact that it is a struggle to believe a story told by a man because a woman has said otherwise. The woman now chooses when she is strong or weak regardless of the man’s wellbeing. “A woman can throw in an accusation whenever she decides which unarguably gets support without an opportunity for the man to prove his innocence.   Will Smith is best actor at BAFTA 2022     ‘Portable needs rehab not shows’     Nigerian comedians can sell out 02 arena – Kenny Blaq   “The man eventually attempts to speak up and the frequent tags are ‘You are not man enough ‘You should have kept quiet. Forgetting that man is also a human being with feelings. “Today, I receive some level of hate off social media because of speaking out and refusing to be intimidated. Men also cry, men also have emotions. “The society gives audience to the woman and shuts the man up. Equal opportunity should be given to both genders to prove their innocence. “Over the years, I have learnt to fight for myself regardless of the struggle to be heard. The consciousness to keep evidence against malicious people. “Chris Brown recently got vindicated on the alleged r@pe case with little or no opportunity to prove his innocence before the backlash. If a woman cheats, her husband probably cheated that’s why she also when out to cheat. “We need to do better, we need to detect pretentious and m@I!cious people. There should be consequences for these actions too. Someone has to be an example,” he tweeted.