Historical, anthropological, and folkloric data are replete with accounts of various rituals in every human society as far back as records existed. Such rituals were performed for various reasons, notably, the regeneration of societies, institutions, associations, and individuals. While some rituals were used to reproduce societies and memories of the past, others often involved sacrifice in order to avert evil or to attract blessings or success in an endeavour. Vestiges of these rituals exist today but with the stamp of modern societies and their vagaries. Today’s money rituals have antecedents in pre-existing rituals of supplication. Such rituals often involved one form of sacrifice or the other. What is unusual in modern Nigeria is not the use of human sacrifice for such rituals. Humans were sacrificed in ancient societies, including precolonial African societies. What is alarming today is the scale and the involvement of youths in the belief that human sacrifice is a pathway to quick wealth. Whether it works or not is a totally different question. Some commentators have conflated the two issues and concluded on the basis of the latter that money ritual does not exist. I will separate both issues and address them in turn. As indicated above, human sacrifice is not new. It was practiced widely in human societies until modern religions, notably Religions of the Book (Judaism, Christianity and Islam) began to condemn the practice and modern societies came to treat it as murder. However, ritual killing involving nonhumans continues, as witnessed for example in the killing of rams during the Muslim festival of ramadan. In ancient societies, human sacrifice was offered for various reasons—to pacify the gods or a human ruler; to ward off evil, such as enemy attack; to bring good fortune, and so on. Headhunting in some societies was a type of human sacrifice that involved taking the head, for ceremonial or magical purposes, of a killed adversary. Most examples of human sacrifice in ancient societies were carried out for the public good, rather than for personal reward as such. Accordingly, money ritual  involving human sacrifice in order to get rich was unknown. In the absence of thorough ethnographic or investigative data, most accounts of money rituals in Nigeria today are based on purported confessions of those involved, who were caught afterwards; social media reports; and commentaries by armchair columnists. One can extrapolate from these accounts that the practice is becoming prevalent and getting scarier and scarier: Youths are killing their parents, siblings, friends, and others to use their body parts in money rituals. Some of these accounts indicate that youths, especially fraudsters known as Yahoo Boys, are not the only ones involved in money rituals. Politicians, businessmen, market women, contractors, artistes, professionals, and those seeking elevation at work are also allegedly involved. Not all seekers of these rituals want to get stupendously rich. Some are just looking for whatever amount they could get from participation. In one instance, a teenage boy, who participated in a killing, recounted that he was promised N50,000 if he could bring a specific human part to the occult practitioner. Apparently, the practitioner too wants to use the human part in money ritual for others for which he would be paid. Whether money rituals work or not is immaterial to both sides. It is all about making money one way or the other. As in ancient societies, those who engage in such rituals believe that they work. This belief is reinforced today by their colleagues, who suddenly became rich, building houses and riding expensive cars.   Third force, third farce     Constitution review: National Assembly on another jamboree?     Begging: Abuja’s lingering menace?   What is surprising about these believers is why they don’t stop to ask why the practitioners themselves are not stupendously rich. Why can’t they use their ritual powers to create wealth for themselves or for their relatives or friends? If specific human parts are needed for the ritual, why must they be taken from their parents, siblings, or friends, rather than from just anyone? Perhaps the answer lies in making the ritual so esoteric and outlandish to be believed. The point about belief, though, is the willing suspension of rationality and logic. Even some parents, who should know better, are caught up in this web of belief, leading them to be willing accomplices. It takes a flight away from rationality to see a connection between human sacrifice and wealth creation. Who exactly are the occult practitioners, who order human sacrifice as passport to wealth creation? They are said to include not just some jungle priests but also alfas and pastors. Do these occult practitioners believe that human sacrifice can really create wealth? It is doubtful. Many of them are in the business of raking as much money as they can from believers. The question now is how might this practice be stamped out? A four-prong approach is needed. First, while belief in human sacrifice as passport to wealth cannot be simply legislated out of existence, specific laws are in order that specify stiff penalties for anyone involved in human sacrifice. Second, a select group of investigators, drawn from the intelligence, police, and local vigilante outfits, should be empowered to secretly fish out all those involved, or are planning to be involved, in human sacrifice for whatever reason and bring them to book. There are those who would argue that such a group of investigators may not be effective or may be comprised. This is Nigeria, they might say. We are doomed if every issue is approached with this mindset. Third, all investigated cases of human sacrifice should be widely publicized to show that you will be caught if you get involved in this ignoble crime. The publicity should involve advertorials in which the pictures and names of past convicts appear in major newspapers. Fourth, there should be massive reorientation of society, focusing on the youths, who appear to be in the forefront of the objectionable practice of human sacrifice. The reorientation could take various forms. One, parents need proper education about effective parenting during this challenging period, typified by banditry, kidnapping, cyber fraud, human sacrifice, and relentless social media indoctrination. Two, federal, state, and local governments should set aside funds for various programmes that would engage the youths at all levels. A key event at such programmes should be values education and the need to avoid criminal activities, including human sacrifice. The point here is to condemn the practice as much and as frequently as possible. Human sacrifice is murder. We cannot just talk glibly about it, without coordinated action.