Back in the days when the Communist Party ruled the old Soviet Union, leadership succession and change in its governing Politburo was always shrouded in mystery. There were hardly ever any elections worth the name. More often than not the way you knew someone had lost out in the latest palace coup, was that he disappeared from sight and public functions. He would no longer feature in the photographs of grey, old men standing stiffly at the dais, reviewing another parade. Events in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last 48 hours bear a striking resemblance to the way the way the Soviet commies of old used to go about their business. Yesterday, Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, rocked up to the party’s national secretariat in his massive SUV, to preside over a meeting of the so-called Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). This is the same panel which had become so closely associated with Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, almost to the point of ownership. Hours before, word had leaked of a special conclave at Aso Rock involving President Muhammadu Buhari and some influential APC stakeholders where the order to dethrone Buni and for Bello to step in, was allegedly given. Secretary to the CECPC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, was still denying reports of the shock leadership change, when the Niger governor confirmed to the media he was now the party’s ‘Acting Chairman’ – standing in for the incumbent who was not around. No one explained the Yobe governor’s whereabouts and the suggestion was he was out of the country. Pressed to confirm if Buni had been ousted, Bello would only mutter “no comment.” That’s an interesting response because it neither confirmed nor dismissed the notion that he had been fired on presidential directive. What was more important was that a new man was sitting in the chair taking actions to nudge the ruling party towards actually holding its convention on March 26 as scheduled. Significantly, one of Bello’s first acts was to swear-in APC’s 36 state chairmen. The last time they were in Abuja they expected that there would be oath-taking, instead they were merely handed certificates and shuffled out of the room with a promise that oaths would be administered at some indeterminate date. Many interpreted this as part of Buni’s deliberate dithering to delay the convention until the very last minute. The mystery of it all was that the CCEPC was a creation of Buhari and members held office at his pleasure. It would have been expected that they would be in thrall of him and be quick to executive his orders. But the longer the committee’s lifespan lasted, the keener their appetite for tenure elongation became and the bolder their arrowhead got. In January this year, former Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Saliu Moh. Lukman, in a lengthy article pointedly accused Buni and other members of his committee of having no respect for Buhari because rather than facilitate the holding of the convention, they were inventing reasons why it couldn’t hold as scheduled. On November 22, 2021, Buni, and Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, led a delegation to consult Buhari, emerging to announce agreement had been reached to hold it in February 2022. But beyond this declaration not much was done until it became a fait accompli that the convention wouldn’t on the date stated. With the air thick with intrigue and many speculating that the interim leadership was in cahoots with those who wanted to hold a convention and presidential primary same day sometime in June 2022, tension rose to a fever pitch. The CCEPC chair was accused of nursing ambitions to become either President or Vice President, manipulating his office to actualise these dreams. It was in this charged atmosphere that the interim leadership issued the provocative statement that zonal congresses would hold on March 26, with no word about the convention. This very action was indicative of how confident they had become in their control over the party. It also revealed the contempt with which they held those who were not in their tendency. But they miscalculated badly. They thought Buhari would do nothing to get his hands dirty, just as they assumed the governors – some of whom had cooperated with them in times past – would just moan and do nothing.   IPOB battles own ghost     Kwara 2023: Whither equity, fairness and justice?     Enemies of Buhari   With a revolt staring them in the face, the party which had sent communication to the Independent National Electoral Communication (INEC about zonal congresses in the morning, would dispatch another same day announcing the convention would hold, after all, on March 26. Magically, a comprehensive programme was rolled out. Given the manner in which they treated Buhari’s directives, it was evident Buni couldn’t have been acting alone. He was doing so with confederates whose agenda dovetailed with his until a recent divergence. With the Yobe governor out of the picture, in one day APC has taken steps that make the holding of the convention more of a reality. The zoning arrangement proposed by the Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq’s panel would be speedily rubberstamped. But even as the party moves towards choosing a new national executive, it is yet to exorcise legal worries it conjured with the untidy manner erstwhile chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, was toppled in another Aso Rock palace coup with Buhari presiding. The president had during the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held at Aso Villa on June 25, 2020 called for the dissolution of the National Working Committee (NWC) which had become split by factional rifts. Buhari and others who attended the NEC approved the sacking of the Oshiomhole-led NWC and the setting up of a 13-member caretaker committee headed by Buni. There was no discussion, simply a stampede by all and sundry to fall in line after the president’s announcement. But lawyers have argued that the party’s last elected leadership was not removed for disciplinary reasons. That would have required for the accused to defend themselves. The president only suggested that dissolution of the committee would foster unity. However, Article 21 D (vi) of the APC Constitution stipulates that an officer or officers of the party must be given right to fair hearing before they are removed by any organ of the party. This was not the case in the sacking of Oshiomhole. At the outset, the caretaker committee as its name implied was to help the party elect a new NWC at the convention and function for an initial six months. If there was need for an extension they were to revert to NEC. But this hasn’t been the case each time there was an elongation of its tenure – a legal banana peel if ever there was one. More trouble would come with last year’s ruling by the Supreme Court that triggered a difference of interpretations between Attorney-General Abubakar Malami and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as to the legality of the Buni Committee. This was in relation to the judgment on the Ondo State governorship election appeal filed by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its flagbearer Eyitayo Jegede against APC and Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. At issue was whether Buni’s headship of the CECPC didn’t violate Section 183 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. A seven-man panel of the court by a slim margin of four to three held that Akeredolu could not be removed from office because Buni was not joined in the suit by Jegede. What if he had been joined? Section 183 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) bars a sitting governor from holding any other office while serving as state governor, while Article 17(4) of the APC constitution clearly states that ‘no officer in any organ of the party shall hold executive position office in government concurrently.” The APC papered over the cracks at that time, but they are still there barely-hidden. Now, the head of caretakers who have been operating on a legal tightrope has been shunted aside in another manoeuvre not known to the party’s constitution. Perhaps, in line with current trends within APC, the Yobe governor acquiesced with the “consensus” arrangement to take him out of play. In one its many dictionary meanings, the word ‘caretaker’ refers to a person who is in charge of a place or thing in the owner’s absence. Here’s hoping that the complicated case of Buni and his band of caretakers, and the legal implications of their actions, doesn’t transform them into undertakers for their party.