United States Ambassador to Nigeria, Mary Beth Leonard, has said the reopened American Corner in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, will connect Nigerian youths with opportunities on digital exchanges in the United States (U.S.A). Leonard spoke yesterday at the official opening of the remodelled American Corner in Ibadan. According to her, U.S. appreciates its partnership with the Initiative for Information, Arts and Culture Development (IACD), which hosts the American Corner. She added that the U.S. Consulate had expanded and reconfigured the centre to better serve local communities in Oyo State through provision of space for people to connect with U.S. and learn about educational opportunities, especially for young people. “It will also enhance their leadership and entrepreneurship skills. It looks so wonderful and it’s a pleasure to reopen the centre today,” Leonard said. According to her, American Corner is where Nigerian youths can be better positioned to harness opportunities in U.S.A. “The centre has windows on digital exchanges, which people can do. We also have information on education advisory. “Throughout Nigeria, we work on helping students to understand the opportunities that are available to them in the Education sector and we help quite a number of them to get scholarships. “We have so many youth empowerment programmes, such as the Young Mandela Washington Fellow for young African leaders and Africa’s Women Empowerment and Entrepreneurship programmes.   Commission may sanction agencies not implementing minimum…     EFCC chair: nothing political about Obiano’s arrest     Court sacks 20 Cross River lawmakers over defection   “This is where we help young people to discover themselves, especially on what they want to do, how they can hone their leadership skills and further their education and their entrepreneurial skills,” she said.     Also, ICAD President in Nigeria, Dr. Kolade Mosuro, expressed gratitude to the U.S Mission in Nigeria for revamping the centre. “We are looking forward to having young men and women coming to use the space to further develop themselves and, in turn, develop our nation. “The space is open for serious intellectual work and for men and women to discover themselves. “We thank the American Embassy for all the support they have given us for the past 19 years,” he said. Mosuro said the services offered by the centre cut across, as it took care of the youth and the senior citizens. “To run a nation, you need all hands to be on deck. So, the facilities here are good for both the youth and the senior citizens. “We have a new space to inspire; a place where people can orbit into the higher space and achieve greater heights. “With a place like this, you can be sure that many people will come out as better citizens,” Mosuro said.