The health insurance scheme recently floated by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) is a gesture that can make a huge difference in the welfare of lawyers, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF At last, the leadership of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) is in a celebratory mood. After initial hitches, the NBA has succeeded in its mission to take the welfare of lawyers a notch higher, having triumphed in sealing a partnership agreement with the NNPC Health Management Organisation and Garki Hospital, Abuja. With the deal, the NBA has enrolled 1,000 lawyers in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). The package covers group, individual and family social health insurance programme (GIFSHIP), in a pilot phase which the NBA President, Mr. Olumide Akpata, has described as a game- changer in caring for the well-being of lawyers and their families across the country. The NHIS-GIFSHIP is a health insurance scheme for lawyers conceptualised by the Akpata-led NBA executive through the innovation and industry of the Welfare Committee chaired by Mr. Yakubu Maikyau, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). At the inaugural ceremony in Abuja last week, an elated Akpata described the event as epochal, signalling the beginning of other welfare packages for lawyers. The NBA chief also recalled efforts in the past to provide insurance cover for lawyers. “This has been a long journey for us. Today, we received the ID cards from the NHIS for our 1000 members who were enrolled into the pilot scheme. It is a shared moment because, for me, it signals the beginning of many good things. I encourage Nigerians to embrace health insurance because there is no way we can have adequate and quality health care by paying out of pocket,” he said. In 2014, the NBA entered into an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Leadway Assurance to provide life insurance for lawyers, Akpata recalled, adding that the package was to prove unsustainable owing to the number of deaths and the huge cost of taking care of those injured in accidents. He said while members were willing to support colleagues who fell sick, the cost of care for ailments as kidney dialysis and orthopedic surgery has become astronomical. He cited the case of a lawyer who required N7million for hip replacement. “At present, he cannot walk; he cannot practise his profession. So, we’ve been telling our members that you don’t need to wait until you find yourself in that situation. That is why we said let us enroll, let us look for the best and the most affordable health insurance provider,” Akpata recalled, Akpata explained. The NBA boss also praised his colleagues who did the spade work on the health insurance scheme, working with the NHIS to agree on a pilot phase, beginning with 1000 members across the country. “I have been impressed with NHIS. The feedback has been great, but it’s taken us this while. Even those who were given for free, getting them to register has been a challenge. So, we say we will drag them, kicking and screaming; they will have to enroll. Because when anything happens, they will come back to us. Today we’ve received the cards; we tell them use the cards,” he said. In further continuation of the Vision Well-being objective of the executive of NBA leadership, the registration of the second phase of the health insurance scheme has commenced for the Group, Individual and Family Social Health Insurance Programme (GIFSHIP) by members of the NBA. The registration, which is open to individual NBA members and their family members, attracts a N15, 000 fees per person – to be paid to the NBA account. Last year, NBA set up a N100 million medical fund for its members who cannot benefit from the NHIS or whose ailments do not qualify as critical under its policy with Leadway Assurance. The fund, he said, had a seed capital of N10 million from the NBA, while the balance was raised by the NBA Welfare Committee through donations from well-meaning members. In the MoU with NHIS, NBA collaborated to provide affordable medical care for lawyers in line with the campaign promises of the executive. The 1,000 lawyers who were recently enrolled were selected from all the 125 branches of the NBA using some set guidelines – with beneficiaries entitled to enjoy, at no cost to them, the benefits of the scheme at NHIS designated hospitals across the country, Akpata said.   Don urges govt to establish science and innovation centres…     Tackling cybercrime, ritual killings among students     Reign of profiteers   But Akpata is not the person ecstatic about having lawyers enrolled in scheme. The Medical Director, Garki Hospital, Dr Adamu Onu, was excited by the development, saying it was an epochal event. The truth is that Nigeria cannot take its healthcare to the next level without considering health financing and health financing cannot thrive by paying out of pocket, he said. “That (paying out of pocket) does not meet the requirement of universal health coverage, which is our goal and the only way we can achieve that is by expanding national health insurance for the whole community. Unfortunately, over the years, the coverage has not been as wide as it should be. So, the fact that the NBA is coming on board is very significant.Their coming on board is to make it known to the public that this is a scheme that can work,” he noted. Onu described health insurance as the future of healthcare in Nigeria. “I think people need to realise that if we want a health system like they have in the United Kingdom, Canada and other developed countries, we need to have a well-developed health financing mechanism. Go to Europe and see how advanced their systems are. It’s not people paying money out of their pockets the way we do in Nigeria,” he argued. He said Garki Hospital embraced the vision a long time ago as one of the few hospitals in this country running the health insurance scheme. “Two-thirds of the patients that use this hospital are on health insurance; so out-of-pocket patients are actually a minority and even the NHIS itself has acknowledged that and regarded us as a model hospital for NHIS in the whole of this country. We have become so efficient that I dare say that we are probably the only hospital in this country that an NHIS or health insurance patient can see three specialists in one day. Here you can see the cardiologist, the neurologist and endocrinologist, all in one day,” he told the NBA team. Garki Hospital, Abuja, has grown to become a hospital of choice in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and beyond since inception in 2007. It is a multi-specialty hospital, equipped with state-of-the-art facilities backed by a wide range of expertise and skilled personnel, providing specialised and general care, in-patient and out-patient services. It has been a shining example of successful public-private partnership in health. On a recent visit to the hospital, the Executive Secretary of NHIS, Prof. Mohammed Nasir Sambo, praised the PPP model operating at Garki Hospital, which he said has manifested in efficient management of human and material resources. He promised to partner the hospital on its cost-effective method for delivering healthcare services. During the visit, Onu used the opportunity to identify areas of improvement for Nigeria’s health insurance scheme as proper documentation of beneficiaries and their records as well as standardisation to streamline areas of insurance coverage. Accredited by the NHIS in 2008, Garki Hospital has one of the largest numbers of NHIS enrollees in the FCT and the only PPP that accepts secondary referrals from other facilities. The hospital is also the only facility that carries out specialised surgery under the NHIS scheme. The hospital has over 187,000 patients registered on Electronic Medical Record application, 33,906 NHIS enrollees spread across 55 Health Maintenance Organisations (HMO). Under the FCT Health Service Scheme, the hospital attends to 8,139 enrollees from three HMOs; while its Private Health Insurance Scheme has 1831 enrollees spread across 35 organisations and it offers corporate services to 10,502 persons from 16 registered organisations. Onu told the NBA team: “The scheme is working smoothly because the hospital ensures open and transparent billing system and ensures that no patient waits for more than 30 minutes before seeing a doctor. The hospital has attended to over two million patients and encountered more than 40 open heart surgeries and 26 kidney transplants; no fewer than 100 hip and knee joint replacement surgeries; training in family medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, anesthesia, assisted reproductive technology and nursing services as well as in-vitro fertilisation services. “We are a pioneer in the use of electronic medical record application on all facets of healthcare and the hospital has been operating a paperless service since 2016. Our telemedicine services in the hospital are fully self-sustaining under the PPP arrangement and it has a continuous operation 24 hours a day. There are no strikes or interruptions in service.” Recently, the Federal Government expanded the health insurance system with the launch of a new health insurance package, Group Individual and Family Social Health Insurance Programme (GIFSHIP). The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said the new insurance product is the outcome of wide-ranging and far-reaching reforms within NHIS to significantly increase the fiscal space for healthcare services. He explained that the new product, expectedly, will address the challenges and barriers encountered during implementation of other insurance packages both by the beneficiaries and operators. He said the major objective of GIFSHIP is to expand the scope of healthcare coverage in an urgent quest to attain universal health coverage and leave no one behind. “It will also eliminate known difficulties, as it creates additional value by expanding and upgrading other insurance packages for better reach, service quality and user experience. “GIFSHIP offers Nigerians opportunity to participate and benefit from the health insurance system. There’s opportunity for affordable individual enrolment, family unit or a group of people. Any of the enrolments can also be sponsored by well-meaning individuals, trusts, or organisations,” Ehanire said.