Guaranty Trust Holding Company, Access Bank, Plc, Loatsad, Promomedia and Silvercase and community of partners have identified with the ongoing Fifth Annual Agile Nigeria Conference in Lagos. In her welcome address, founder/Chief Executive Officer, The Agile Advisor Africa/Chairman, Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria, Mrs. Abiodun Osoba, lauded the institutions for sponsoring the event. She said: “Our theme for this year is Continuous Improvement Strategies, Business & Technology  to deliberate on an important new concepts in agile that have proven to be successful in many parts of the world.” She said the event was an opportunity to learn from and connect with people who are passionate about uncovering better ways of working and doing.   PEBEC National Action Plan enhances ease of doing business     Heritage Bank, FGGC Abuloma position women for wealth…     Banking sector supports economic growth, says Lemo   “Whether you are well into your agile journey or have only just embarked, you’ll come away with new knowledge and skills to help guide you on your path. Returning for its fifth year, Agile Nigeria Conference is a practical and hands on agile practitioners conference that allows participants to connect and learn from their peers and leaders in the industry,” she addded. Mrs Osoba said the conference has a strong practical focus and attracts industry practitioners and decision-makers who want to improve their success with agile and lean methods. “The event provides two days of inspiring agile and lean learning from a dynamic mix of stimulating keynotes and practitioners working on the front line of the industry. We started with a press conference on last week, after the two days conference we have an agile games night to wrap up the conference as well as the future of agile coaching workshop after the conference and multiple agile certifications and workshops happening simultaneously  after the conference.” She said the event was opportunity to discuss and answer burning questions about agile practices, leadership, transformation and approach in Nigeria and around the world. She thanked the Board of Trustees, Board of Directors and committee members as well as the Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria for their support.