The Central of Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is seeking increased private sector participation in dairy to position the industry for  growth. A representative of the apex bank,  Garba Aminu, spoke during the opening of a Milk Collection Centre (MCC) in Kano, established by Outspan Nigeria Limited, the dairy business unit of Olam Food Ingredients (OFI). He reiterated that the bank would support investors to  help   dairy processors meet growing demand for local  milk products. Aminu emphasised CBN’s  commitment to assisting businesses and smallholder farmers to fast-track the attainment of food production self-sufficiency in the country. Also, the Doguwa communities where the project is sited lauded Outspan Nigeria Limited, for its  investment in the area, targeted at achieving large-scale development of the local dairy value chain. Representatives of the communities under the local government area said the investment would stimulate a robust local economy, create linkages for smallholder dairy farmers and generate jobs in the area.   ‘At 88, I am not tired’     Oil hits $140     Nigeria open to onshore investments with Turkey   The Chairman,  Doguwa Local Government Council, Mamuda Hudu,  said: “Outspan Nigeria Limited is making an impactful investment in our communities by building a milk collection centre in Doguwa LGA. The collection centre will enhance the economic activities of our local dairy farmers and help our young people get jobs in the dairy value chain.’’ “Our women who previously trekked miles to sell their milk in distant markets can now stay home and look after their children with the assurance that the milk collection centre would help preserve and transport their raw milk to larger off-takers who are ready to pay them accordingly.” In the same vein, the traditional head, Falgore village, Alhaji Hamza Ahmed Hamza, thanked Outspan for locating an MCC in the village. “The dairy value chain development initiative will create opportunities that would help improve the livelihoods of residents within our village,” Hamza said. Outspan Nigeria Limited has now opened five milk collection centres in Kano. The other collection centres are located in Dawanau, Imawa, Dan-Hassan and Tasa. The Regional Manager, Outspan Nigeria Limited, Mr Manish Khede, explained: “We will continue to support the local dairy value chain to ensure the country achieves self-sufficiency in milk production. We have a track record of working with local farmers to enhance their productivity and income levels while broadly enriching the agriculture value chain, in line with the government economic development agenda.” Khede promised that the business will not relent in scaling its support for the smallholder dairy farmers, as the value chain investment plans are being executed in phases. Other dignitaries at the event included Chairman of Kano Dairy Union,Usman Abdullahi Usman;  District head, Doguwa LGA,  Alhaji Abdullahi Zakari  ;  a Director at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Abba Gana Yamani;  the Councilor for Falgore ward, Sanusi Saidu and the Head, Kubau LGA, Kaduna State ,Ardo Manya.