The head coach of Lobi Stars Football Club of Makurdi, Eddy Dombraye , has expressed concern over the safety of his family in Kiev over the on-going war between Russia and Ukraine. Dombraye said yesterday that his wife and son are still in Kiev as Russia continued to bombard Ukraine. “They were supposed to catch the train from Boryspil which is about 15 kilometres away from Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital, but the train was cancelled. They are currently looking for a different alternative,” the former Bendel Insurance striker further told The Cable. “The train was supposed to move by 11 am this morning (Monday) but it was cancelled. I have been in touch with them every minute to work on alternatives.” He said he returned to Nigeria from Ukraine after he got the job as Lobi Star head coach in September 2021. Dombraye, whose other child is in Poland, also said his wife and two children were supposed to join him in Nigeria on Sunday but their flight was cancelled due to the crisis. “I have two kids and one of them is in Poland. He is a Polish citizen while the other one who is 5-year-old is currently with my wife,” he added.   Navy affirms commitment to Polo     French Cup: Nantes’ Simon may return against Monaco     Qatar 2022 Race: Black Stars coach to submit list tomorrow   “The worst part of it is that she has a Nigeria visa already. She was supposed to return as her flight originally was supposed to be yesterday to Nigeria, so, everything is so painful. “We were both residing there. I have lived there since 2002. I based there as a dual citizen but moved down to Nigeria when I got the job as Lobi Star head coach in Nigeria. “I have always wanted to come to Nigeria to coach. So, when I returned to Nigeria, I asked my wife to hold on for a few months until I am properly settled in the new space. “Their flight was supposed to be yesterday. I returned to Nigeria on 6th of September 2021 as Lobi Stars football coach of Makurdi in the Nigerian Professional Football League ( NPFL).” The 42-year-old also expressed concerns over his inability to rescue his family, adding that “this is the worst thing to happen to any parent.” Dombraye is a former Super Eagles player who had played professionally in Poland and other parts of eastern Europe.