A Federal High Court in Abuja has fixed March 23 to hear an application by the Federal Government seeking the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari’s extradition to the United States (U.S.A). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) had, on March 3, reported that the Federal Government, through the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), filed the application. The suit, titled: “Application for the Extradition of Abba Alhaji Kyari to the United States of America,” was dated and filed on March 2. While the AGF is the applicant, Kyari is the respondent in the application. Kyari was formerly the head of Inspector General of Police (IGP) special Intelligence Response Team (IRT). The matter was assigned to Justice Inyang Ekwo by the Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice John Tsoho. The application was filed under the Extradition Act, as part of Nigerian government’s approval of the request by the U.S.A for Kyari’s extradition.   Abia PDP still consulting on zoning governorship, says…     ‘Seven men raped 13-year-old’     Ex-House of Reps Speaker Chaha dies at 82   The application, which was directly addressed to the Chief Judge, hinted that a request was made to Nigeria by Diplomatic Representative of the Embassy of the United States in Abuja, for the surrender of Kyari, who is a subject in a superseding three-count indictment. The AGF, Abubakar Malami (SAN), said the case was filed on April 29, 2021, in the District Court for the Central District of California, U.S.A.. The four members of the IRT in the charge include ACP Sunday J. Ubia, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirigba and Inspector John Nuhu. Other defendants in the charge are: Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne, the two alleged drug traffickers who were arrested at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu. Although Kyari and the four police officers denied their involvement in the matter, Umeibe and  Ezenwanne pleaded guilty to the counts preferred against them. Also, 20 lawyers have indicated interest to defend Kyari in a suit the NDLEA file against him. A lawyer, Musa Shafiu, told reporters yesterday on behalf of other lawyers. He said the team comprises four Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) who represented Kyari and his co-defendant in the trial which would commence before Justice Emeka Nwite of a Federal High Court in Abuja.