Celebrity couple Bankole Wellington aka Banky W and Adesua Etomi-Wellington has opened up on why they kept their pregnancy from the prying eyes of the public. The couple welcomed their first child, Hazaiah Olusegun Wellington, in January 2021, four years after their glamourous wedding. Speaking during an interview session on Naija FM, the couple revealed it was an intentional decision to keep the news and the entire pregnancy journey away from people because they wanted to enjoy every bit of it alone. Adesua also noted that they’ve always kept their affairs private, citing their dating period and engagement which hit the public as a huge surprise. Banky W said: “When you’re under the spotlight, as a public figure, you need to be very intentional about what you want to share and when you’ll be ready to share the news. “This our culture, this social media, is a feeding culture. That’s why your Instagram timeline is called ‘feed.’ Because, if you are not careful, people will feast on you. They will eat you up like jollof rice, totally devour you and spit you out.   Toyin Abraham slams Lagos over murdered BRT passenger     Actors ‘packaged peacocks’ – Actor Gideon Okeke     I’m going to break stereotypical barriers – Whitemoney   “So, it’s now left for you to be intentional to the point when something is happening, you ask yourselves, when are we ready to discuss this thing? “When are we ready to share what God has done and take such kind of attention? Seeing, it’s not every day you will be mentally prepared for comments and reactions. “Thus, for your mental health sake, you know you are protecting what you love. So, you’ll just tell yourselves, you know what; ‘We aren’t ready so let’s keep it. When we are ready, we will tell our story ourselves and not allow someone else tell our story.’ Adesua added: “You know, it’s also a new territory and you want to enjoy the experience with the person you love. And you want to keep it inside. “Moreover, it’s not just about the pregnancy, that’s how we live our lives in general. People didn’t know when we got engaged, when we were dating because we protect some of these things for ourselves. So, it isn’t new.” Attachments area