Super Eagles Interim head coach Austin Eguavoen has confirmed he would be sticking with the same winning style that saw the Super Eagles notched three successive first round victories at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Reacting to the absence of injured Wilfred Ndidi, Eguavoen said he was counting on others in the team to step up and ensure that the ticket to the 2022 World Cup is earned. “We wish Ndidi speedy recovery,” the 56-year-old Eguavoen said at the team’s media briefing in Abuja yesterday.“ He is an important member of our team. His absence is not going to change anything. We have couple of players who can play in that position. “Our philosophy and style of play won’t change but the personnel will. I know who to take over from him,” Eguavoen said.   Nigerians want World Cup ticket not story, Pinnick says     10 prominent siblings in sports     Ghana assures safety of Nigerian supporters in Kumasi   He continued: “A lot is at stake but what is important is to get the ticket to the World Cup in Qatar. We are on the verge of doing that. We have a very strong squad.” Meanwhile, Eguavoen has called for the support of Nigerians at home and abroad for the two-legged 2022 FIFA World Cup playoffs. “Nigerians at home and in diaspora have always shown their love and support to us. I love how committed they are for our cause. They love football. We must strive to put smiles on their faces. We will need their support in Kumasi,” Eguavoen appealed. In the meantime, , captain Ahmed Musa has yet again said the Super Eagles are not oblivious of the task ahead, adding the Super Eagles are determined to shock the Black Stars even in their own backyard in Kumasi. “ I have not really played a competitive game against Ghana before and everybody has been saying that they are unbeaten in Kumasi but we are positive about our chances, “ Musa said .“ When we played Benin last time, they were saying they have not lost a game at home in a long time but we went there and beat them; that is the spirit we are talking to Kumasi,”