The Federal Executive Council (FEC) yesterday approved  N3,523,592,079 for projects under the Ministry of Aviation. This was made known to State House Correspondents after the weekly virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting, presided over by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande, said the contracts  are for Abuja, Lagos and Kano international airports. He said: “There was also the memo presented by the Minister for Aviation, which got approval for the supply and installation of two sets of complete high-capacity passenger security screening systems for the Murtala Mohammed International Airports, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja at N1,193,630,980.   Govt constitutes committee on health insurance for…     FUTO, host communities’ 10-year-old land feud worsens     The farce this time   “There was also approval gotten by the Aviation Minister for the supply and installation of airfield ground lightning materials for the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and also the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano  N2,329,961,099.60.” Also, the FEC approved two memoranda for the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, both of which are targeted at victims of the crime of human trafficking. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk, who disclosed to journalists during the briefing, explained that both memoranda, will be targeting specific agenda, including provision of assistance to victims, as well as rehabilitation and resettlement. “One is for Council to approve the National Policy for the Protection and Assistance of Trafficked Persons in Nigeria and the second memo is the memo on the Protocol for Identification, Safe Return and Rehabilitation of Traffic Persons in Nigeria. “These memos are very essential to what the NAPTIP does, that is the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons and they will help to guide our work and action as regards to the protection and assistance of trafficked persons. The two memos were viciously approved by Council and we’re very grateful to Council for that”, she said.