Manchester United face competition from two major European clubs for the services of Ajax manager Erik ten Hag, according to Dutch football expert Marcel van der Kraan. United have spoken to Ten Hag as the Old Trafford club step up their search for a permanent manager. Ralf Rangnick was handed the reins on an interim basis in November following the sacking of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer after nearly three years in charge. United want to appoint his permanent successor before the summer and plan to speak to a number of candidates, and while Ten Hag has met with the Premier League club as part of that process, the club must convince the manager as much as Ten Hag needs to demonstrate his qualities to United. “There are three major opportunities for Erik ten Hag,” Van der Kraan told Sky Sports.” Manchester United is only one of them. I don’t want to dampen the excitement in England but maybe United have not done all the work yet. “Yes, they’ve had positive talks with Ten Hag but so have two other major clubs in Europe. These are clubs who play Champions League football and who have chances to win titles in their own country. “One of those clubs is very concrete for Ten Hag, and I think that is on mainland Europe – not in England. I know for a fact that Ten Hag is very excited about that job too.”   Mali gift Tunisia narrow win     Egypt grab home win over Senegal     Morocco grab 1-1 draw in DR Congo   The Dutchman, 52, has been at the helm at the Johan Cruyff Arena since 2017 following stints coaching Go Ahead Eagles, Bayern Munich II and Utrecht. Ajax currently sit top of the Eredivisie standings as Ten Hag looks to win the league title for a third time during a reign that included a remarkable run to the Champions League semi-finals in 2019. The Amsterdam giants were eventually knocked out by a Tottenham side coached by Mauricio Pochettino, who has long been admired by United. “If Manchester United want to get things going, they will have to speed things up and make things concrete,” Van der Kraan added. “They will have to put a contract out to him because I think there’s a real danger it could become too late for him. “For Ten Hag, there may be the consideration of the graveyard Manchester United has been for managers. Not everything during his career has gone well for United when you see how Louis van Gaal, Jose Mourinho, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer have all failed and seen their reputations damaged. “It needs some more convincing from United.” Pochettino is currently managing Ligue 1 leaders Paris Saint-Germain but his position is under scrutiny following their Champions League last-16 exit to Real Madrid. Spain boss Luis Enrique and Sevilla head coach Julen Lopetegui have also been linked with the vacant post at Old Trafford, with Chelsea’s Thomas Tuchel reportedly no longer under consideration.