TO tackle quacks, the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has unveiled its seal of practice. It has also kicked off the celebration of its 60th Anniversary with the unveiling of its mascot and logo, which is OKIN (Optimising Insurance Knowledge in Nigeria). Its President, Mr. Rotimi Edu, who made this known during a press conference in Lagos, said the Council was worried by the activities of quacks who are denting the image of the profession. He stated they have the support of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) on the matter. He said: “The Council is poised to ensure the enforcement of Professional Practice, Stamp and Seal amongst others to rid the broking fraternity of charlatans. The image of insurance brokers are still being smeared by some members who are not brokers by training and certification, but masquerade as one.   Insurers record growth in assets, funds, others     Adopting InfraCo to build infrastructure     Whodunnit?   “Good enough, we have been able to exercise more commitment from the Commission under the Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, to support this purging. More than ever before, the Commission has been quite complementary to our course and we are most delighted for this. “The Council, in a little while, would be coming out with the Professional Seal of Practice to be used by registered insurance brokers, as observed in similar professions such as Law, Auditing, Architecture, amongst others. “The seals would be affixed to stationary and printed materials of members as a distinctive emblem of professional service and excellence and making members’ documents admissible as evidence in the courts of law,” he added. He noted that the council would be using the opportunity of the anniversary to achieve its objectives. Activities for the event include awards in schools, a walk, an open day for select secondary schools and sports. At the unveiling were doyen of insurance, Olola Olabode Ogunlana; Thomas; President, African Insurance Organisation (AIO), Tope Smart; President of Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Sir Muftau Oyegunle; Director-General, Nigerian Insurers Association, Mrs.Yetunde Ilori.