The Niger Police command arrested? two suspects over alleged kidnapping in Tudun Wada and Ukachi villages of Mashegu Local Government Area of the state. DSP Wasiu Abiodun, the command  spokesman, stated this in a statement in Minna on Friday. ! You Abiodun said that on March 19, information indicated  that suspected kidnappers invaded Tundun-wada village via Kaboji, Ukachi and Magama villages, Mashegu Local Government Area. The hoodlums abducted two victims from both Ukachi and Magama villages  to unknown hideout. Upon the receipt of this information, police tactical teams attached to Mashegu Division in collaboration with the local vigilante members were mobilised and trailed the hoodlums into the forest. The team discovered a temporary hideout of hoodlums they engaged in a gun battle. One Bello Ibrahim of Bafarawa from Sokoto State was apprehended at the scene in possession of10 rounds of live ammunition and five handsets. The spokesman explained that other members of the gang escaped into the forest and  two abducted victims were rescued unhurt. During interrogation, the suspect confessed to have belonged to a five-man gang which specialises in kidnapping for ransom. The suspect mentioned other members of the gang as Jamilu  Mai-glass,  Maigari Dan-Alhaji  all of Bafarawa village, Sokoto State presently at large.   47,975 terrorists surrender     Police rescue six kidnap victims in Kaduna shootout     Woman jailed 10 years for selling baby   “Effort is ongoing to arrest the fleeing members of the syndicate as case is under investigation,” the police said. Similarly, the police have arrested one Umar Dauda  of Fulani camp, Kapako village via Lapai, a food supplier to bandits and recovered fire arm. On March 16, based on a credible intelligence that a suspected supplier of food items and drinks to bandits was sighted at Kapako village, Lapai Local Government Area, the police took action. Police operatives attached to Lapai Division and vigilante members were mobilised to the village and after hours of monitoring and observation, the team arrested the suspect. No fewer than six loaves of bread, four bottles of fearless drinks, Maltina drinks, four wraps of dried leaves suspected to be Indian hemp, some quantity of raw rice and beans and the sum of N90,000 were recovered from the suspect. During the interrogation, the suspect confessed to be a food supplier to bandits and that the hoodlums usually visit his camp at the same village for collection of the food items. He further said that that would be the fourth time he would supply such items before being caught. In the process of further investigation, the suspect’s home was searched and a locally fabricated revolver gun was recovered in his camp. He claimed the ownership of the gun and said that he bought it for N65,000 from a gun fabricator within the same village for his personal protection. Effort is also ongoing to apprehend the gun fabricator as the case is under investigation,” the police said.  (NAN)