Each time we watch the behaviour of our politicians, some of us cringe. This is especially true of their behaviour at public events as elections draw near. One such public event was the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress, which took place on Saturday, March 26, 2022. A key feature of our political culture that was evident during the convention is the near deification of President Muhammadu Buhari, who, according to the party’s tradition, is the leader of the party. One speaker referred to him as Baba Nigeria (Father of Nigeria), recalling a similar honorific used for former President Olusegun Obasanjo of the Peoples Democratic Party. He was known by his party members as “Father of Modern Nigeria”. Like Obasanjo, Buhari wielded the power invested in him by the party members, by forcing the selection of the party’s national executive officers by consensus. He even met with the seven aspirants for the post of Chairman and got them to withdraw for his “anointed” candidate. One after the other, the remaining six aspirants withdrew, citing respect for the President as the main reason for their decision. Buhari did not stop there. He got the APC Governors to ensure that they came up with a zone-by-zone Unity List. The negotiations continued on the convention floor into the dead of night until the Governors arrived at a comprehensive Unity List of 77 national and zonal officials of the party. Like the aspirants for the chairmanship, each subsequent aspirant cited respect for the President as the major reason for their withdrawal for the Governors’ anointed candidates. Thus, like Buhari, the Governors became the Fathers of the party in their states. Although no one is sure of what will happen during the presidential primaries, it is feared that the stifling of democracy by the magic wand of consensus may throw the presidential primary into unnecessary chaos, unless the process is embarked upon early enough to remove the tension that comes with last minute negotiations. If Buhari’s claim to electoral reform is to be meaningful, the Obasanjo method of forcing aspirants to step down on the eve of the party’s primary should be avoided. The process so far has raised serious questions about the quality of a democracy that prevents the people or their representatives to exercise the freedom of choice by voting for their preferred candidates. Nevertheless, it must be admitted that the Electoral Act and the party’s constitution allow the party to choose its executive as it pleases, provided that necessary regulations and processes are followed. Besides, Buhari’s fear of racorous elections of party officials at national and state levels by over 7,000 delegates on the convention floor must be understood against the various problems besetting the ruling party as well as the possibility of disqualification by the Independent Electoral Commission should the process be unnecessarily prolonged.   Agbakoba decries lack of space law     Be committed to 2023 poll, INEC, others tell women     Osinbajo: we’ll realise SDGs, AU Agenda 2063   What is in doubt, however, is whether the party’s gate-keeping role in ensuring that the right people were elected as officials of the party was effectively discharged through the process of consensus. APC party leaders saw this challenge but argued that the process could be corrupted by money baggers, who would buy their way through the electoral process, even on the floor of the convention. Another criticism of the party, especially by PDP folks, is the selection of several former PDP members to top positions in the new APC National Working Committee. Such a criticism, however, overlooks the role of various legacy political parties, including members of the PDP, in the formation and growth of the APC. In any case, in a political system in which members switch political parties for expected gain, rather than for ideological reasons, the ascendancy of a politician in Party B, who was formerly in Party A, is a non-issue. True, presidential democracy invests the President and Governors with executive powers, it does not empower them to usurp the power of the voters or their representatives in exercising their franchise. Where then does the deification of the President or Governor come from to the extent that they are allowed to impose their anointed candidates on the party? The substrate of our political system is the monarchy (Oba or Emir) or Big Man in which the monarch or Big Man had the final say. The colonial government imposed a parliamentary system over the monarchical system. In the parliamentary system, the Leader of the party at federal, regional or local levels was also invested with a lot of power. He often chose whomever he trusted or liked to occupy a particular position. The transition to a presidential system in 1979 after decades of military rule did not reduce the power of the Leader in our political system. Rather, it enhanced it. The concept of Leader, already familiar from the monarchical and parliamentary systems, was grafted onto the presidential system. Today, sycophancy by political appointees and legislators looking for robbed palms from the Executive further contributed to the deification of the Executive Leader. This began with Obasanjo, who allegedly used money bags to cow down the legislators and the EFCC to instill fear in the Governors. He got party Chairmen removed and replaced and got his Vice President running from one Court to the other, while also searching for a political platform to run for President. Obasanjo wielded so much power by the end of his second term that he was regarded by his party members as the Father of Modern Nigeria. It is not likely that this political culture will change soon for two major reasons. First, culture or tradition is often resistant to change and it cannot be legislated out of existence. Second, illiteracy, material poverty, and the poverty of knowledge even by many politicians will continue to support worshipping the leader.