CAN there be a perfect Super Eagles list for any competition which could meet the expectations of soccer-crazy Nigerians? None that I know of.  Every Nigerian is a potential Super Eagles coach having devoted time to watch the European league matches and they know those who are playing and those who aren’t. Indeed these ardent watchers of the game know the parameters for picking players to play for the countries relying on the templates others use to select theirs’.  Even with the known indices used by others, there are still hues and cries from their nationals if the list falls short of a few names they expected. That is the essence of coaching. Every coach has his match plans and decides who does what and who doesn’t irrespective of how well he or she plays for her or his clubs. Does this lead us to the controversial debate of who a club and national team player is?  Interestingly, players’ comportment while in camp and how they relate with others matter to many coaches in deciding who should be selected or be dropped. And most coaches don’t have any apologies for very good players dropped if they would cause disharmony in camp or become rebels in the dressing room.  Put simply, some players are bad influences in the camp.  Of course, there can be only one captain on the ship. Any other person goes out. Global best practices among coaches are such that they lay down markers for picking players known to everyone before the season begins. Most coaches fix their gaze on players who ply their trade in the elite leagues of most of the European leagues knowing that only the best players in the world compete weekly there. Such leagues are beamed live for people to watch making it very easy to monitor the players needed by any manager. Players of countries where their national teams’ coaches have set markers for them know the leagues that they must play in to be selected. If they choose to play in the novelty leagues for the cash, then they know that they won’t be picked even if they score goals in the moon, like one Nigerian coach used to say when asked why certain players were dropped, especially the strikers among them. Most countries whose coaches or are they called managers appreciate that their domestic leagues are among the best. Such thriving leagues encourage managers to look inward unlike in Nigeria where the Supreme Court has declared the LMC illegality not known to the laws of the land. Countries consider the growth of their domestic game by the number of home groomed lads who eventually play for the senior team. Nigeria’s case is different largely because of our economy which makes it very easy for a lad who scores six goals in a four-month spell with five of them penalty kicks awarded to his side at home to be taken unannounced to Europe in search of greener pastures. This fellow is very unprepared for this trip. But he must embark on the journey knowing what $70,000 is worth at the black market when he returns home. Such lucky stars whose wages aren’t regular are taken away by shylock agents who don’t tell them the details of the contract they have been led into until such a lad is seeking a movement out of this slavish deal. It is only then he is shown the English version of a deal he struck which was written in a language he doesn’t understand. The player’s future is grounded while the agent walks away looking for another player to throw under the bus. The federation must check these illegal routes through which players are taken to Europe, the Americas, and the Diaspora. It is so bad now that academies are involved in the business of players’ movement out of the country. Where else is this kind of illegality done?   2023: On the consultation trail with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu     RETIRED POLICE AIG BOLA LONGE: I’ve never taken bribe in…     Chidinma Ojukwu: Beauty behind the bars   Have we done a justified ceremony for those who said they were retiring, such as Ighalo and Victor Moses, etc all the glitz and glamour would’ve been a moral burden for them to come back, except if we are saying to them that they are indispensable? Odion Ighalo told the world that he quit his former club because they stopped him from playing for Nigeria, which meant that he was even ready to play for Nigeria. Ighalo could be spared because he quit the national team due to death threats to his family. He did that so that the lunatics could back off from his family. This isn’t the case with Victor Moses, who bluntly refused to join the Super Eagles for the 2019 AFCON insisting that he had quit the team. This writer can only hope that Victor Moses isn’t telling us clearly that he can only play for Nigeria at the World Cup – SELFISH! Who wants Moses in the Super Eagles? You tell me. Who suggested, Ogenyi Onazi for the Super Eagles? Accusing fingers are being pointed to the Technical Committee Chairman. I don’t believe it. The reason is that even Onazi is justifying why he should be back. Since when did a dancer become the judge of his dancing steps. Shouldn’t he wait for his audience to judge you? Truth be told Onazi, you don’t know how to dance again. If you doubt it, anytime a club from Europe calls you, we will give you the Captain’s band. For crying out loud, where did the selectors see Oghenekaro Etebo play football in the last year to justify his invitation to the Super Eagles? Etebo without a doubt is a very good player but he has not played football in the last year in any stadium where he could be judged. So, how is he a fitter player now than any home-based player in the last 10 weeks? Shouldn’t we pick players on current form rather than what they have done for the country in the past? If we are insisting on retirees why don’t we just invite Austin ‘Jay Jay’ Okocha now? DSTV shows the South African league weekly, please wake me up if you have seen Daniel Akpeyi showcasing his talents. Instead of Akpeyi please, invite the usual Enyimba goalkeeper Noble. How do we want to encourage the local players who are over 50,000, if players who don’t play for their clubs in Europe, walk into the camp and win caps? Have they turned the Eagles camp into a dollar machine or a rehabilitation camp of sorts? Again, if we are talking about former Nigerian stars with experience, why don’t we recall goalkeeper Vincent Enyeama instead of Akpeyi. Please don’t tell me that Austin Eguavoen invited those players. We know the undercurrent surrounding the selection of Super Eagles players for big competitions.  And it predates this federation. It is systemic problem, which if left unresolved would affect the country’s outings in future World Cup competitions at the senior level. The Super Eagles should be the platform for the best Nigerians to exhibit their latent talents for the good of the game and to bring joy and laughter to everyone. Happily, the era of perpetually rebuilding the team has stopped with Gernot Rohr’s exit. Eguavoen has continued from where the German stopped although he threw out those mercantile choices of the past. Thus breathing fresh air with the way the team played her first three matches at the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations to qualify for the Round of 16 stages.