Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Akwa Ibom State Pastor Umo Eno yesterday walked into the warm embrace of party delegates in the Uyo Senatorial District. Eno was at the Ibom Hall, Uyo, the state capital to consult the stakeholders on his aspiration to succeed Governor Udom Emmanuel. The zone’s political leader, Senator Effiong Bob, said Uyo stands for the truth and peace and cannot be intimidated to do what is not right. Bob that all the statutory delegates from the district have resolved to adopt Eno and ensure his emergence as the party’s standard bearer. The senator also assured that the district will support him to win the 2023 governorship election. Pastor Eno who defended his aspiration as an Uyo Senatorial District indigene, added he is in the race to further peace and prosperity by consolidating achievements of past governors of Akwa Ibom State. He said: “Obong Victor Attah laid foundation for a prosperous Akwa Ibom as the father of modern Akwa Ibom and Chief Godswill Akpabio built on the foundation and Governor Udom Emmanuel continued with the same pace and even brought more development with Ibom Air and industrialisation.”   Anxiety over APC convention     Wike, Makarfi seek return of PDP in 2023     Constitution review: National Assembly on another jamboree?   Soliciting the support of Uyo Senatorial District statutory delegates, the aspirant pledged his unalloyed loyalty to the party when he emerges the governor of the State in 2023. “This race is forward ever and backward never. 2023 is the turn of Uyo Senatorial District and as an indigene of Uyo senatorial district I will stand election in 2023 as governor,” he said. The entrepreneur charged the people to embrace peace and join hands with him to move Akwa Ibom forward as his mission is to further peace and prosperity and also ensure Akwa Ibom people have better life. “You will have to decide between the dark days of killing, kidnapping and the era of peace and prosperity which is my mission. I am here to say that I will further peace and prosperity,” he said. The Director-General of the Umo Eno’s Campaign Organisation, Chief Assam Assam (SAN), said the consultation was necessary because of the critical role delegates play in party politics. He assured that the aspirant will continue to make them relevant in the politics of the state when he emerges as governor of the state. Assam, who is the former Ambassador of Nigeria to Russia, said Eno will build on Governor Emmanuel’s achievement. He congratulated Senator Effiong Bob on his installation as the political leader of Uyo Senatorial District and wished him a peaceful and successful tenure.