Prince Adewole Adebayo is aspiring to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari when he vacates office next year. In this interview with Correspondent OKODILI NDIDI, the constitutional lawyer who is contesting on the platform of the evolving ‘third force’, shares his views on the Electoral Act 2022 and other sundry issues What is your assessment of the new Electoral Act? Do you think the use of technology will sanitise the electoral process? Our entire life is exposed to technology; we use technology to do every transaction. If bankers use technology to transfer money and even courts use technology to hold cases, I don’t see any reason there should be any mystery regarding where technology should be used in election matters. It is about data collection, just like any other data collection and the transmission of that same data; it is just that the stakes are high, so people are worried about whether the technology favours them or not. There is nothing wrong with technology, it will work, it will have the same problem as every other technology has and the backups should be the same as when any technology fails. So, there isn’t anything mysterious about it. As far as technology is concerned, there is no difference between a rural area and a city because, with satellite-based technology, the whole earth is the same. In your view, what areas will the Electoral 2022 Act address? The act has tried to address many of the known sharp practices and fault lines of the past but no law can change a human heart. There are four problems affecting our elections, legislation can address manifestations of these problems but the intensions to make these problems occur can hardly be addressed by law, it has to be addressed by other value systems and people’s investment in it. For example, from my experience, we used to have a situation where the first problem was that the party in power used to have a do-or-die attitude to electioneering. If they lose a single councillorship seat or House of Assembly election or House of Representatives, it was like the party was going to die; it was like the leaders were not performing, so every leader thought it was their moral duty to maim, kill, rob, trick and do whatever to win, so they could convince their parties that they were strong in their stronghold. The next level is that the leadership and the operation of the electoral commission were meant to reflect the do-or-die mood of the leadership, such that even in the selection of the commissioners for the commission and the measures and activities they were putting in place. It was interpreted as whether they were loyal to the government, so if INEC was to do anything likely to bring popular participation, it was like you are betraying the person who appointed you; so that mentality of looking for someone that would be loyal to you had brought in booby-traps within the commission. The third part is the participants themselves, politicians were putting too many high stakes in the election; you will notice politicians selling their houses, borrowing money from banks, doing all sorts of things to finance their campaign. So, the stake is not about letting the wishes of the people be done; it was a battle that could have been fought with guns and tanks now being fought through the ballot. So, it made everyone desperate to a point where they could pay any amount of money to any official of the commission. They could liaise with law enforcement agencies, so this war-like approach may not be addressed by the Electoral Act because the act is there but every stakeholder believes that all is fair in war. What can be done to ensure electoral offenders are punished without too much delay?   Who emerges as APC national chairman?     2023: Pick me, get power before sharing, Tambuwal tells PDP     Ekiti 2022: APC stalwart predicts landslide victory for…   The problem is that people who are supposed to enforce the law are usually the biggest electoral offenders; that is why it hasn’t worked because if you read elections petitions — I have spent 20 years in my life filing petitions, defending petitions. In fact, in one of the presidential election petitions, the party that lost wrote that the police thump-printed ballot papers; that police also killed people and snatched ballot boxes. Imagine those who are supposed to enforce Electoral Act being implicated in the crime. So, if the police are the offenders if the Attorney-General is a stakeholder, if the INEC commissioner who is representing the commission is accused of fraud, if the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) is said to be working with the governor or some other politician, what do you expect would happen? This is an elite crime and all over the world, elite crimes hardly get punished; that is why a person is more likely to be jailed for stealing a bicycle than for ruining a bank. Electoral offences are elite crimes; it is only when the people are in control of the polity that they can force the elites to punish one another for their crimes. But, the best approach is to prevent the crime from being committed. In this regard, the new Electoral Act 2022 is doing more prevention and it will also provide more evidence for post-election litigations. Nigerians from all walks of life said a lot of beautiful things concerning the provisions of this new Electoral Act when they were calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the bill into law. But, I want to add that the Electoral Act would only address electoral offences that were common in the past; there may still be some loopholes that politicians can capitalise on in future. There might be a coven of mischief-makers meeting now and studying the Electoral Act critically to discover some loophole somewhere. So, instead of snatching ballot boxes, they might resort to snatching the electronic voting machines. So, we need to be vigilant and the leadership of the security agencies has to realize that we need to have a country to speak of before we can buy houses with election money. In other words, the Electoral Act will not make much difference if we do not change our attitude. We have amended the law but if you don’t amend your behaviour, nothing will change. As simple as the 10 commandments given to Moses by God is, did they obey It? No; so we need to bring the moral and ethical component to it. If we don’t, we will start blaming the Electoral Act. I like this one that we have now; it is much better than the 2010 Electoral Act. But, I have been saying it; the 2010 Electoral Act was enough for honest people, patriotic people. In Nigeria you don’t make your laws for patriots; you make your laws for criminals. This is because these people don’t have ethics, conscience or sense of duty. You make laws to cover all aspects. But, despite making the laws so simple, there is always a loophole. This is where we need to use moral suasion. If we don’t address the moral component, the implementation of the Electoral Act will have challenges. The increasing voter apathy in the country has been attributed to a loss of confidence in the electoral process. What’s your comment on this? So, when a free and fair election becomes the prayer point of Nigerians and they demand it and to be free means to be free from violence, disruptions and all of that. To be fair means that you give each person an opportunity to play by the rules and some of the rules are in the hands of the government, like the Electoral Act which President Buhari could have refused to sign or the National Assembly could have refused to pass, those are governmental actions. The government may decide to starve INEC of funds or even send unworthy commissioners to the place; all are in the hand of the government. The next is in the hand of party leaders because some of the greatest criminals in Nigerian politics are party leaders. They operate with criminal intent most of the time; they do not work for their parties; they become blackmailers and racketeers and collect money from all shades of people; they conduct lopsided primaries, and do all sorts of things. The people are equally part of the problem. To be honest, even though I am seeking votes and I need to be respectful and gentle to the public, we have to say the truth. The man who is saying I have my PVC and I am going to sell it, is also a criminal because it is against the law and such a person cannot say I am doing it because of hunger. So, we need to talk to our people and what I have observed in recent elections is that a lot of people sell their votes. So, if the people throw away their power by selling their votes for N3,000, why blame only the politicians? So, if all stakeholders, the government, the electoral commission, the politicians, the party leaders and the membership of the political parties and the contestants and finally the people, if they all desire and work towards a clean election, we will have a clean election. Even without this new Electoral Act, we could have had a clean election, but with it now, whatever we desire to do is being facilitated for us by this new act, it makes it possible for those who are willing to work for a clean election to do so. It also removes the excuses of those who were cynical, who will say I am not trying because even if I tried the hardest, it will still not work. It also gives the judiciary teeth because many of the amendments arose from studying judgments of the court when the judge will say well what has been done is bad but our hands are tied because the Electoral Act did not say we can do anything about it and this Card Reader is INEC innovation but it is not backed by the law; now everything is backed by law, so the judiciary has no excuse to miscarry justice because as a full practising lawyer I can tell you that on many occasions the judiciary has miscarried justice by obeying the law and you cannot blame the judiciary because they are to do justice according to the law and not justice according to the truth. So, they’ve been doing justice according to the law, the law now is closer to truth; it will make it easier for an adjacency to occur between them doing justice according to the law and justice to the truth because when truth and law approximate, the court finds it easier. That’s why when you hear or read some judgment of the Supreme Court, Nigerians put their hands on their heads and say what is this abomination; it is an abomination according to law, so that is why we were making efforts and you would have noticed that last year October, we gathered together and made speeches. If you win and emerge president in 2023, what will be your priority? Once elected, even before I assume office, I will do the three functions given to me as the president of Nigeria. The president is the head of state; it is unlike the First Republic where we have a prime minister and the president. So, his first duty is to be a father to the whole nation. Even before the inauguration, I will make sure that I consult with every shade and opinion in this country, so that the tension and division that we have now will die down; I will meet with every one of the stakeholders, regional, ethnic, religious, classes, groups so that they know that their joy is my joy and that their pain is my pain and that every person has a stake and access to my presidency. Secondly, is to get myself ready as the chief executive, ready to take office from day one, so that half of my presidential initiative for the four years will be inaugurated on the day of my inauguration.