The minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr Mohammad Abubakar, has expressed concern that Nigeria is not one of the leading tomato exporting countries, despite being a leading producer in Africa. The minister who spoke yesterday at the launch of HortiNigeria Project in Abuja, said this was due to challenges of low yield resulting from seed type use. It would be recalled that  Netherlands Embassy in Nigeria yesterday announced a target of 9.7 million euros income generation for 60,000 smallholder farmers in a four-year project, tagged: ‘HortiNigeria’. The project was awarded to International Fertiliser Development Centre (IFDC) and its consortium partners, East-West Seed Knowledge Transfer (EWS-KT), Wageningen University and Research (WUR), and KIT Royal Tropical Institute. It would be implemented in Kano, Kaduna, Ogun and Oyo states, focusing on tomato, okra, onion, and pepper value chains. The minister said Nigeria’s ecologies, soil and climatic conditions were suitable for horticultural crops.   Ukraine invasion: Russians seize Europe’s largest…     BREAKING: Court reserves ruling on bail for Adedoyin, six…     ISWAP training suicide bombers to attack northeast-DSS   He noted the climate conditions conferred an immense advantage and potential to have a leading role in tomato production and trade. Explaining that HortiNigeria was yet another opportunity to promote the sub-sector, he said the government would catalyse increased productivity and exposure of 60,000 smal farmers in the four states. He said the project would facilitate 200 business to business linkage and 100  business partnerships. Dutch Ambassador to Nigeria Harry van Dijk said Nigeria’s horticulture sector offers opportunities as local demand for vegetables exceeds  production, with an estimated supply gap of 13 million metric tons. His words: “The focus is on vegetables for domestic markets and the programme has four components… “The first strives towards increasing productivity and incomes of 60,000 smallholder farmers in Kano and Kaduna… “The second pilots production systems innovations in Ogun and Oyo: supporting greenhouse technologies and offering connections to Lagos markets. The third focuses on increasing access to finance … while the fourth enhances sector coordination and business-to-business linkages…” he said.