Nigeria seems to be a one-day, one trouble nation; but not in any comic sense. There are absurd happenings and it hurts more that people seem to assume certain irresponsible or negligent acts are synonymous with the Nigerian system. Problem is, most people in authority are so enamoured with positions that they never resign or get sacked for negligence or abdication of responsibility. In our modern social media world, most incidents get to the global community in seconds. The issue of the Lagos-Ibadan-bound train that stopped in the middle of nowhere due diesel exhaustion in the train had greeted the world. Passengers were stranded in the middle of a bush while the search for diesel was on. In an era of high insecurity level around the country, many would ascribe it to divine providence that the now notorious bandits did not meet the hapless passengers as they panicked while the search for diesel was on. A lot of theories has been put forward by both passengers, analysts and citizen media. However, we are shocked that the Managing Director of Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Fidet Okhiria, reportedly told the News Agency of Nigeria that the train stopped midway as a result of fuel gauge failure. “The train gauge was not reading correctly, and by the time they started moving, the driver discovered that there is no sufficient diesel in the train”. Not many statements from a chief executive can sound so puerile.  He excitedly said that under an hour, a drum of fuel was sent to the stranded train. In a country where many people in power take no responsibilities, the man would likely thumb his chest and smile at his explanations that sound very hollow. Which part of the world can this happen without heads rolling and people being held accountable?   Gone at birth     Where are her body parts?     A sensitive rejection   If the gauge was faulty, whose job is it to repair it or make contingency plans? Again, how old is the train that the guage had gone bad so early in the life of the project with the Chinese? China has one of the largest populations in the world and their transportation system is mainly through railway. Why do  the trains they bring here not meet morden specifications and digital options? We must begin to ask ourselves these questions if we must meet up with modern transportation sysytems. While the whole rail project  is a commendable infrastructural project, we insist that all those concerned must give the Nigerian people the real value of modern rail transportation. There must be no half measures. Experts must be employed to give us the international standard service. Rail transport, especially in a very populous nation like Nigeria, must be handled with the seriousness it deserrves because modern transportation has moved beyond the mundane. The saying that you can’t stop a moving train has been negated by the tacky attitude of those who are supposed to do the right things to avert such occurences. The import of the carelessness displayed by the management of NEC is global in nature. Investors and tourists must have been watching that, and not many can make the decision to trust our transportation. The connectivity of railways is unmatched by both air and road transportation, so we must have a functional rail system for the value it brings to the socio-economic life of our people. Beyond the explanations and excuses, those that endangered the lives of passengers either by omission or commission must be made to face the law guiding such negligent attitudes. We must not go the route of the ‘Nigerian system’ forever. We expect actions that can serve as deterrent to future official negligence. We must learn to adapt to international standards of running institutions.