Winner of BBNaija season 6 edition Whitemoney has spoken of plans to break the stereotypical barriers that trail BBNaija stars in the music industry. In a chat with HipTv, he vowed he won’t give up on his dream to be a great music star despite discouraging comments from people. According to him, his music is not for everyone but for a selective few who are going to enjoy it so much so it will bring them goodies, prosperity and long life in return. He said: “In fact, till today, people still assume I’m a housemate. They don’t still give me that respect as an artiste. And it’s so painful that people do not want to see you beyond Big Brother House. “They forget you have a dream or had something in mind that you actually want to do. So, they won’t even let you try it first and fail. They would discourage you. “But that can’t work for me because, why? I am Whitemoney. “And how do I intend to break that? I’m already doing it. My first feature was not in Nigeria, was across the borders. I came to my mother, African country. Another African country is Zimbabwe. I put an amazing voice on it and it came out nice.” Whitemoney speaking about his first song after the reality TV show that shot him to limelight said: ‘Selense’ is just an intro of what I’m about to do to the people of the world. My own kind of music is ‘kum-kum’ music, (kool united melodies).   Seven Nigerian celebrities that welcomed babies in 2022     Four Nigerian musicians with royal roots     Seven celebrities who survived gunshot wounds   “And everybody must not like my music. My song is not for everybody. My sound is not for everybody. But the selected few that will like it, bless their souls. Because, it’s going to give them good, long life and prosperity. Reacting to his predecessors, Efe and Laycon, he said: “The message in it is deep. Well, I’m not Efe, I’m not Laycon and they’re good. They are very very good. “For me, I am Whitemoney. I have my own way and God will see me through. That’s all I know and all I’m going to do. He concluded by acknowledging steps to gain true fans won’t be a walk in the park as many will move on to the next reality star when a new edition of show begins. However, he’s confident that his real fans will stay behind and they will be WMG (Whitemoney Money Geng). In conclusion, the Kaduna-born artiste said: “It’s not going to be easy because now, we are in the center. We are trying to concert the BBN fans to actual fans. You see the way you have the Wizkid FC, Davido FC, Odogwu FC and so on. “So we’re trying to have those kinds of things now which are not going to be easy. Because when the next show starts, all of them are going to jump ship to the next person. So, the ones that stay, those are going to be the real WMG (White Money Geng). And those are the people I’m really going to go out for. Whitemoney has produced a few songs including “Rosemary” (2018), “Your Life” (2018), and “My Heart” (2021). On December 3, 2021 he released a single ‘Selense’ which was produced by Masterkraft, the song was released alongside its video.