A dust storm has hit Kano State. At least 30 percent of Kano’s troposphere -the lowest layer of earth’s atmosphere- is polluted by dust particles from wind erosion. Two factors are responsible for the dust emissions, The Nation learnt. According to meteorologists, the northeastern strong winds are lifting large amounts of dust particles and sand from Sahara desert and from the bare, dry soils of the northern region into the atmosphere. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a weather expert explained that the winds are raising the dust particles to higher levels of the troposphere by “turbulent mixing and convective updrafts.” The “population of dust grains” are being transported by a range of mechanisms: “saltation, suspension and creep,” a process that moves sand from one place and deposits in another. Many are worried that the dust storm may continue to wreck havoc for days or even weeks, since there is no rain or “precipitation” in sight to “wash” the dust out of the atmosphere.   Olubadan to Buratai: I’ll be meeting Ibadan title holders…     President Buhari celebrates WAEC at 70     Airtel unveils self-care portal for businessowners   “Continuous inhalation of dust, embedded with iron oxides, in hot dry weather damages nose and throat mucosa, which may lead to bacterial infection,” Ahmed, a doctor told this reporter on Sunday. Ahmed, who encouraged the use of face mask, added that the meteorological phenomenon may bring some diseases including meningitis to residents, and if not treated may result to death. Our correspondent in Kano reports that while some residents are being affected by eye problems, others are coughing as a result of the dust. Some accidents have been recorded because of poor visibility caused by the atmospheric dust. Motorists were seen putting on headlights at noon time to avoid crash. Air transport is also likely to be affected, it was learnt. “I am surprised that even my rooms, the bed and chairs have become dusty no matter how I lock up the doors and windows. Outside, you can see how the dust is falling as though someone is pouring it from above,” Mrs Margaret Femi, a trader in Sabon Gari, Kano, stated on Sunday. Solar installation engineers also on Sunday said the heavy dust can affect the output of solar power plants that depend on solar radiation, since the solar collectors have to be kept dust-free to prevent particles from blocking incoming radiation.