Passers-by have found an unidentified man and his mistress dead inside a Sienna car stationed along Mowe/Ibafo corridor of Lagos-Ibadan expressway. It was learnt passers-by drew the attention of residents of the area to the strange discovery after some of them furtively found the motionless lovebirds on Tuesday inside a locked up car. The car bears Lagos number plate LSD 992 HH with a helmet on the dashboard, suggesting that the owner might have something connected with construction. Some of the shocked residents were said to have also drawn closer to the car to ascertain what happened and who the victims might be but had no clues. A resident of the area said: “The car was stationed along the road since yesterday (Monday). But this morning, people moved closer and discovered that there were two lifeless bodies inside it. We don’t know what killed them.” Ogun Police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi confirmed the incident on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the man and the woman did not die under the burning flame of romance inside the car, explaining that it was a case of murder first and suicide later. Read Also: Man kills cousin for sleeping with wife   Court restates Odefa as Ebonyi Deputy Speaker, restores two…     Many feared dead in Port Harcourt accident     Strike: ASUU demands action as Fed Govt sets timeline for…   The Police spokesperson added the man had visited the deceased woman, who is believed to be his girlfriend, somewhere in Lagos before the two died one after the other. Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said the corpses had been evacuated from the car and deposited in a hospital morgue. “The two did not die while having sex. What happened was that the girl in question happened to be a girlfriend to that man. “He rented an apartment for her somewhere in Lagos. He went there to visit her. We don’t know what transpired between them, but we learnt he hit the woman on the head and she slumped. “He carried the lifeless body of the woman in his vehicle. People in that neighbourhood ran to Ilaje police station in Bariga to report. “But he drove off straight to his house at Orimerunmu. He dropped a suicide note, informing his wife that he had killed somebody. “He told his wife not to bother looking for him, asking her to take care of the children. Then he left the house. “He drove and parked near NASFAT area and he committed suicide there. We saw a container of Sniper in the vehicle, which suggested that he drank Sniper (an insecticide). He wound up the glasses and died in the vehicle. So, it is a case of murder and suicide, “Oyeyemi explained.