The Trade Union Congress has called on workers in the country to fully participate in the 2023 general elections. President of TUC, Quadri Olaleye, who spoke at a conference organised by the Congress with the theme: ‘Political Roundtable on Sustainable Democracy in Nigeria,’ said Nigerian workers have resolved to stop being onlookers while politicians continue to destroy Nigeria’s economy. Olaleye said that it had become unsafe to consistently allow politicians to make decisions on issues affecting the socio-economic wellbeing of workers and by extension the Nigerian masses. Olaleye said:  “We have not successfully tapped into the opportunity provided in a liberal democracy which emphasises grassroots participation and negotiation of interests. Staying aloof would further worsen the situation as there is no dividing line between politics and the economy. Our kind of politics is such that a winner takes all. “Hence, it has become very unsafe to consistently allow politicians to make decisions on issues affecting the socio-economic wellbeing of workers and by extension the Nigerian masses.” Former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Attahiru Jega, urged organised labour to mobilise the workforce to ensure full participation in the political process in the 2023 general elections.   Nkata Ndi Inyom Igbo condemns non-assent to gender equality…     Monarchs, LCDA support Lagos I.D card     NLC to wade into Abuja, Lagos NURTW crisis   Jega, who chaired the event, said there was a need for labour unions in the country whose numbers are in the millions to join forces to participate in the elections and determine who governs Nigeria in 2023. Jega said: “Workers’ participation in the development of their country, especially in bringing about good governance, through which meeting their basic needs and aspirations is enhanced, is necessary and desirable.” President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba said the job of fixing Nigeria could not be left in the hands of politicians alone. Wabba, who was represented by the Chairman, NLC Political Conference, Najeem Yasin, said: “Given the unpalatable outcome produced by the indifference of the enlightened, conscious and committed branch of society to politics, it is important that we talk to ourselves in order to reset our political interests and objectives. There is no gainsaying the fact that our country needs her best women and men now to salvage the ship of state which is now sailing dangerously adrift. The increasing wave of insecurity, unemployment, poverty, hunger and short supply of basic amenities and utilities including petrol show that things are really falling apart in our country. “The job of fixing our country cannot be left to professional politicians. The attendees at the conference include: Cuban Ambassador to Nigeria, Clara Escandell; Comrade Issa Aremu; Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore; Senior Advocate of Nigeria and Human Rights Activist, Femi Falana, among others.