The Joe Biden administration has launched a one-stop website for vaccines, tests, treatments, masks, and the latest COVID-19 information. It is known as COVID.gov. The website, which will be available in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese, is accessible to those using assistive technologies. The Administration is also making all of these COVID-19 tools available over the National Hotline, which supports over 150 languages. Individuals with disabilities who may need additional support can use the Disability Information and Access Line (DIAL) or via email at DIAL@usaginganddisability.org. The website will feature a new test-to-treat locator tool to help people access the over 2,000 locations that offer COVID-19 tests and antiviral pills at one convenient location.   India hikes fuel prices 8 times in 9 days     Russia eyes Asia for oil exports as Europe turns away     Nigerian community decries delayed justice over killings of…   A statement from the White House on Wednesday said the administration would continue to urge Congress to provide funding to help keep life-saving protections readily available to all. “Today, the Biden Administration is launching COVID.gov, a new one-stop-shop website to help all people in the United States gain even better access to lifesaving tools like vaccines, tests, treatments, and masks, as well as get the latest updates on COVID-19 in their area. The Administration has worked over the past 14 months to set up over 90,000 vaccination sites, make more than 400 million high-quality masks available for free, send free tests to peoples’ homes, and stand up new test-to-treat sites where people can get tested and receive life-saving antivirals all in one place. Now, with a click of a button, people will be able to find where to access all of these tools, as well as receive the latest CDC data on the level of COVID-19 in their community,” the statement said. It added that the site would help people access pharmacies and community health centers across the nation where people can get tested for COVID-19 and receive appropriate treatments. “President Biden announced the Test-to-Treat initiative in his State of the Union address earlier this month. Since that time, the Administration has already launched over 2,000 of these sites, plus more than 240 sites across Veteran’s Health Administration and Department of Defense facilities to serve veterans, military personnel, and their families. As has been the case throughout the pandemic, the Administration is ensuring locations are established in our most hard-hit and high-risk communities. “Because of the lifesaving tools we now have, America is in a new moment in the pandemic. The country is moving forward safely and people are getting back to their more normal routines. To ensure we’re sustaining and building on this progress and protecting and preparing for new variants, earlier this month, the President released his National COVID-19 Preparedness Plan. The President was clear that in order to execute on this plan and to stay ahead of the virus, the Administration needs additional funding from Congress—including $22.5 billion in immediate emergency funds. To date, Congress has failed to provide those funds and the country is already suffering the consequences. In the last two weeks, the Administration has had to stop reimbursing health care providers for treating the uninsured, cancel monoclonal antibody orders and cut states’ supply, reduce orders of treatments for the immunocompromised, and pull the U.S. out of line for future vaccine and next-generation treatment purchases. These issues disproportionately impact our hardest-hit and highest-risk populations, including communities of color and individuals with disabilities. The Administration continues to urge Congress to act quickly, as the consequences will continue to get worse in the coming weeks,” White House said. It said protecting the American people from COVID-19 now and in the future would depend on affordable and accessible tools like vaccines, treatments, tests and high-quality masks. It explained that through efforts like COVID.gov and test-to-treat, the Biden administration was taking steps to make these tools even more readily available.