Executive Director of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) Dr. Ezra Yakusak yesterday said that the country exported non-oil products worth $3.455 billion in the 2021 fiscal year. Yakusak, who said this while speaking at a seminar organised by the Council in Owerri, the Imo capital, added that it was a record increase from $2.210 billion generated in year 2020. Yakusak, who was represented by NEPC’s  Trade Promotion Advisor in Imo, Anthony Ajuruchi, said that the Council was able to achieve this as a result of the implementation of its current mantra, ‘Export for Survival’. He also commended exporters in Imo for manufacturing products worth over $2.3million from year 2016 to 2021 and exporting same to  countries such as Poland, USA, Dubai, Italy and Australia. “As a stakeholder, NEPC has been working assiduously with other relevant government institutions handling the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement to ensure seamless implementation and gainful participation.   UBA promises sustainable growth on diversified business,…     Senate urges airline operators against withdrawal of…     Nigeria records N173.96b trade deficit in Q4 2021   “Non-oil exports have become the only means of survival for Nigeria as a nation, hence the need to partner with you journalists in educating the public and taking the activities of the Council to the grassroots “, he said. Ajuruchi said that the NEPC in Imo had organised  workshops to enlightenment exporters in the state on seamless procedures for exportation and the Ease of Doing Business policy of the Federal Government. He added that the NEPC, through its one-state-one-product initiative, was  collaborating with state governments to develop products with comparative advantage for export as part of Federal Government’s economic recovery and growth plan. He thanked the state Governor, Hope Uzodimma, for providing the enabling business environment for NEPC’s activities and called for more support from his government. He added that the Federal Government has  assisted companies with necessary certification to penetrate the global market. “Due  to the vigorous efforts of the NEPC and indigenous exporters,  local products such as palm kernel shells, breadfruit, cashew nuts, bitter kola, egusi, ogbono, oha, ogiri, uziza, ofor and crayfish,  have gone international.