The Coalition for Affordable and Regular Electricity (CARE), has lampooned the leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), saying it has betrayed the people by allowing the government to withdraw electricity subsidy. The group, in a statement, stated that the action of the union leaders is a punishment for hundreds of thousands of workers in the country who will now forcefully pay higher tariffs twice yearly as power companies now have the liberty to hike tariff periodically. Coordinator of the group, Chinedu Bosah and national secretary, Soyombo Monsuru, in the statement expressed discontent over the situation in the power sector and the failure of the labour leaders to protest incremental tariffs therein. The statement read: “The most worrisome is the fact that the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, the President of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Quadri Olaleye and other key labour leaders have kept quiet only for the government to quietly remove the so-called subsidy that practically implies that power companies can go-ahead to increase tariff so often and unjustifiably. “Labour leaders threatened to embark on strike on September 28, 2020 over increment in the price of electricity and petrol only to back down and resorted to talks with the government. Talks with the government led to the setting up of a Technical Committee comprising six representatives of government / DisCos and three representatives of NLC and TUC. However, CARE regrets that the only thing labour leaders got from the talks was a delay in the implementation of the then tariff hike for a month and government acceptance to have labour represented in NERC.   Rallying for stable electricity supply     Firm canvasses EU, ECOWAS partnership     NCDMB inaugurates facility in PH   According to the group, labour leaders have agreed with the government to have electricity tariff increased so often despite growing poverty and cost of living. It also said  labour leaders went into talks with the government but never reported back to Nigerian workers on what was agreed upon as they have chosen to remain quiet. It is the same manner NLC and TUC barked for a struggle but refused to bite and undemocratically called off strikes. In October 2020, labour unfortunately and openly endorsed privatisation and deregulation and so, it is not shocking to endorse tariff hikes, though quietly. Labour leaders have left the flood gate open for numerous attacks on the working people. “Diesel and kerosene have been deregulated and the prices have steadily moved up and currently, about 720 per litre and over N500 per litre respectively and this does not worry labour leaders.” It added that there have been three electricity tariff hikes since NLC threatened to go  on strike in September 2020 but labour leaders have quietly looked the other way. The group also carpeted government’s claim that it was subsidising the power sector, saying in reality, the government was only bailing out the corruption, expensive lifestyle of the directors and top managers and unsustainable debts incurred by the power companies. It noted  that the N6 billion released by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC) was subjected to insiders abuse and sharp practices in 2017 wherein IBEDC gave a loan of about N6 billion to its parent company (Integrated Energy Distribution and Marketing Group). It said: “In a profit-first system there will always be unjust hikes in petrol and electricity prices just like other essential commodities. The bourgeois ruling class and their private collaborators always clamour for higher rates and prices to guarantee super profit. The power companies have shown obvious incapacity to develop the sector, they are only interested in higher tariff and outrageous estimated billing while power infrastructure and facilities are in decrepit conditions triggering incessant system collapse and leaving communities mostly in darkness. In fact, hike in tariff is a reward for failure and inefficiency. “In the last 15 years, the government has spent over $15 billion on power and nothing to show for it fundamentally except darkness. Since the power sector was privatised in November 2013, electricity tariff has been steadily hiked from about N12.50 to about N48 representing a whopping 280 percent increment.”