THROUGH its spokesman Benjamin Kalu, the House of Representatives, the contentious Section 84(12) remains in Electoral Act 2022 until the right of appeal by the parliament is exhausted. The lower chamber told Nigerians not to fret over the judgement of the Federal High Court in Umuahia, Abia State, directing the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to delete Section 84(12) from the Electoral Act. Kalu to reporters at the Green Chamber yesterday that the Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation cannot tamper with the provisions of the law as a result of the judgment without first waiting for the right of appeal by the parliament which the Constitution mandates to make laws. He said that until the Supreme Court makes a pronouncement on the matter based on the right of appeal of those who are interested parties, nobody can tamper with the law after its passage by the National Assembly. The House spokesman said the judgment can only be implemented only is if the National Assembly failed to appeal at the expiration of 90 days as provided by the rules of the Federal High Court. He the National Assembly was on the verge of approaching the appellate court. ”If we miss tomorrow, definitely, by next week, we will be in court,” Kalu said. Dismissing insinuations that deleting the Section was a precondition for President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the bill into law, he said the President appended his signature because he wanted to leave a legacy of a reformed electoral process in the country. He said: “One thing I want Nigerians to know is that the Electoral Act is alive and INEC is working with the Act. There is no impediment on the act until our right of appeal has been fully exercised. “Are we waiting for 90 days to appeal? No, if possible, by next week, we will be in court. If we miss it by tomorrow, by next week, we will be in court. So, exercise no fear, the Act is alive. “The President signed the Electoral Act amendment bill into law, but raised an issue about it. There is an assumption out there that there was a precondition for the signing of the act. No. “Mr. President was not coaxed into signing the bill into law and was not compelled. He saw the benefits of the electoral reforms and wanted to leave a legacy by cleaning up the space. That was why he signed the bill into law.   Tinubu to meet ex-APC Reps     Buhari hosts APC founding fathers     Don’t be scared of me, says Adamu   “As Commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, who has raised an issue, such an issue should not be swept under the carpet. He decided to refer his concern not to the law court, but to the parliament and that is how it ought to be in the spirit of the doctrine of separation of power where everyone know where his power lies. “He did not refer it to the attorney-general. Mr. President was a better judge than what we just experienced recently where the principles that is reserved for the parliament was, in an over-reaching consequential order passed to the executive which ought not to be, if we must maintain checks and balances.” On conflicting judicial positions on the matter, Kalu said: “One court says that before going into the substance of the case, it was important that a nexus be established between the plaintiff as a person with personal rights and the subject matter. It also considered the fact that the issue of jurisdiction can be raised at any time. “The judge decided to find out which of the right of the plaintiff has been breached by Section 84(12). What personal rights do you have and what damages will you suffer as an individual? “The judge decided that if we allowed this to pass, it will cause chaos in the system and can therefore subject our parliament to ridicule. The judge said locus must be established. “Many have also raised the issue of jurisdiction, asking why not Abuja where you have INEC and the National Assembly. Why go all the way to Umuahia or Ibadan? Why having the same case in the Southwest and the Southeast at the same time? That is why the parliament frowns at that judgement because it infringes on the power of the National Assembly to make laws. “To ask that an act of parliament be deleted amounts to asking for an amendment. When you ask an act of parliament be deleted by the executive, it means that you are being irresponsible to the dictate of the doctrine of separation of powers which is one of the ethos of democracy which must be sustained at all times. “That was why the parliament felt agitated and decided to appeal the judgment and write the NJC to look into into the action of the judge on this the matter. We will ask to be joined as an interested party in the case first so that we can exercise our right of appeal.” Kalu, who said a line must be drawn between public servant and a political appointee, insisted that Section 84(12) was not addressing public servants. He said: “If you read Section 84(12) together with section 318 of the constitution, you will find out that the definition of who is a public servant was laid by the constitution. It is a rule that we have in law. “Section 318 laid out the classes of people that qualify as public servants. We were not ignorant of that because many of us are lawyers and many others have been in this house long enough. “The principle of the supremacy of the Constitution must be considered at all times in the course of enacting legislations so as to establish that there is no offence at all times.”