There was tension in Oluwo area of Abeokuta on Friday over the gruesome murder of a popular area boy identified as  Tommy. Tommy was attacked  on Thursday night at rustic Panseke area of Abeokuta, the state capital by suspected cultists who hacked him to death. The assailants battered Tommy in the head and other parts of the body before leaving him in a pool of blood, according to sources. There were insinuations he was killed by persons suspected to cult confraternity members. Residents rumoured he was a member of one of the rival cult groups operating in Abeokuta. For the better part of Friday morning, there was tension in the seedy Oluwo neighborhood over fear of reprisals. Shops and residential buildings shut down while students and some residents were seen fleeing the area to avoid likely eruption of violence.   PDP urges court to declare APC convention illegal     Court orders forfeiture of Diezani’s land to FG     Security beefed up at Eagle Square ahead APC convention   The Ogun State Police Command confirmed the incident, saying it was a cult clash. Ogun Police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said 18 persons have been arrested in connection with the clash. Read Also: Osun community boils as police uncover body in cultist’s den He advised residents of the area not to panic, saying police were on top of the situation. Oyeyemi stated: “On the early hours of Friday 25th of March, 2022, the Ogun state police command received a distress call that there was a clash between two rival cults at Oluwo area of Abeokuta, which left one person dead, in view of this, the Ogun State Police moved into action and quickly brought the situation under control. The timely intervention led to the arrest of a large number of suspected cultists who are now under investigation at the State Criminal investigation and intelligence department, Eleweran Abeokuta. “As an organisation saddled with the constitutional responsibilities of protecting lives and properties, the Command will not fold her hands and allow some disgruntled elements to make life unbearable for the residents. Contrary to the rumor being peddled on social media that cultists have taken over the city of Abeokuta, the Command wants to reiterate that the situation has been brought under control and our men are solidly on ground to checkmate the activities of these hoodlums. “We have launched a serious clampdown operation against any known or suspected cult member not only in Abeokuta but the entire Ogun State. The Command therefore appeal to members of the public to disregard the panicking rumour peddled on social media and go about their lawful business without fear of molestation or harassment as the police assure them of their safety at all times. “Parents and guardians are hereby warned by this release to call their children / wards to order as anybody caught involved in any act capable of undermining the security of the state will be dealt with in the most decisive manner. To be forewarned is to be forearmed.”