The wife of the Lagos State governor, Dr. (Mrs) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has hailed the idea of the Greater Lagos Initiative (GLI), which is aimed at supporting the efforts of the Lagos State Government in improving the lives of Lagosians. Dr Sanwo-Olu made the remark during the GLI’s empowerment programme and awards ceremony, dubbed the Lagos Peoples’ Project. During the event, which took place at Ikeja, Lagos, dozens of indigent Lagosians were empowered and some individuals and organisations were recognised for supporting the Lagos State Government to deliver democracy dividends to the people. While receiving her award, the First Lady who was honoured for her contribution towards women’s development via advocacy and various initiatives described the initiative as “a laudable move that would be of great benefit to the recipients and will improve their lives. She also said the government cannot do it alone and called for the encouragement of corporate bodies and philanthropists to be part of the Lagos Peoples’ Project. Her words: “It is obvious that government cannot do it alone, which is why we must encourage corporate bodies and philanthropists to beam their searchlight in this direction.” Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs Folasade Jaji also expressed her support for the project, adding that it is in line with the administration THEMES agenda and that the government is in support of whatever lines up with its agenda.   Giwa: ‘Our 2023 youth agenda is unfolding’     Political appointees with 2023 ambitions should resign…     Wike and political asylum seekers in Edo   GLI president, Prince Adeniyi Olutimehin said Lagos People’s Project, which is the brainchild of GLI, in collaboration with the Majesty Development and Support Initiative (MDSI), is aimed at empowering at least 2000 Lagosians. He said the GLI is committed to seeing Lagos achieve its megacity status. He hailed the performance of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration in the last three years and expressed his organization’s desire to see the administration continue the good work beyond 2023. The GLI president said: “If you look at the nooks and crannies of this state, you will see the excellent work of this administration and having seen the excellent work of the governor, we want such lofty thing to continue; we want this greater Lagos move to continue. In other words, one good term deserves another. “That is why we have been exhibiting uncommon commitment to promoting the Sanwo-Olu-led administration’s THEMES agenda, to ensure full actualisation of a greater Lagos. Currently, we are synergizing with progressive community, cultural, social, religious, artisan, youth and women organisations to actualise a robust relationship between the government and the led in order to proffer realistic solutions to some of the challenges in our society, ensure sustainable progress in Lagos State.” Others who were honoured by the GLI include the SSG, Mrs Jaji, who received the award for the Best Cabinet Member; the Chief Whip of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mrs. Mojisola Meranda, the Legislator of the Year; and the Lagos State Advertising and Signage Agency, as the agency of the year. The Lagos State Waste Management Agency (LAWMA), the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) and the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Agency (LNSA) were also recognized for their efforts in keeping Lagos safe, clean and in order.