Prominent Lagos chief, Erelu Kuti Abiola Dosunmu has hailed the courage and audacity of 38-year Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi in venturing to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari when his second term expires May next year. She is perhaps the only female aspirant in the race so far. A statement from the Okunnu-Lamidi campaign organisation said the Erelu Kuti made the remark when the presidential aspirant paid her a courtesy visit at her residence in Victoria Island, Lagos. The statement said the Queen Mother expressed her admiration of the aspirant’s courage and conviction to alleviate the people’s sufferings and bring stability and progress to the society by declaring to contest next year’s presidential election. Her words: “This is more than just the audacity of hope; it is the audacity of audacity. It gives me joy because it shows that there are courageous young women out there willing and able to answer the call to duty for the country.” The monarch also emphasised the importance of responsible use of political power in the development of the nation.   Ogunbiyi pulls out of Osun PDP Gov primary     Sani Bello denies taking over APC leadership     Why crisis persists in Ohanaeze in Lagos, by leaders   A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Yemi Candide-Johnson who witnessed the occasion was also full of praise for Okunnu-Lamidi’s works in the public space. He said the need has arisen for intergenerational mindsets to be deployed in national politics and governance. He said: ‘‘Credible and responsible youth must work hand in hand with the steady guidance of an older generation to transition Nigeria to a leadership fit for the 21st century.” Okunnu-Lamidi, the statement added, was full of gratitude to Erelu Kuti for her hospitality and motherly blessing. She reiterated her desire to be the arrowhead for the yearning of millions of Nigerians who desire a country whose boundless human and material resources are put to work for all Nigerians.  She said the nation needs a leader with the heart to serve in 2023 and the ability to unite and inspire and with a fresh vision that will activate many forgotten stakeholders in the national project. She presented her host with a large size painting of the Eyo Masquerade representing the culture, history and social ideology of an inclusive Lagos. The visit is symbolic considering the fact that Okunnu-Lamidi is an indigene of Lagos. It marks the beginning of Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi’s campaign tour across the country to visit traditional stools. Erelu Kuti is a direct descendant of the legendary Oba Dosunmu of Lagos. Okunnu-Lamidi is expected to proceed on her engagement with the traditional stool across the country after her fruitful visit to Erelu Kuti.