The sports-loving Deputy-Governor of Edo State Phillip Shaibu said the administration of Godwin Obaseki is set to give sports a fresh beginning in the state. Renowned for sports especially football, Edo used to have great and dreaded teams like Bendel Insurance, New Nigerian Bank Football Club, Flash Flamingoes and other great clubs while the state has also produced several medalists in the Olympics, Commonwealth and All Africa Games. Speaking while receiving Edo Dynamos Handball Club, the state representative at the recently concluded National Division 1 Handball League which was hosted by the Edo State between February 25th and March 6th, Shaibu flanked by newly appointed Executive Chairman Edo State Sports Commission Yussuf Alli and the Commission Permanent Secretary Sabina Chikere, said the performance of the club at the competition which had 20 men and 10 men teams, was highly commendable. The Dynamos have been promoted to top-flight Prudent Energy Handball Premier League.   Women’s T20 tourney, litmus test for Nigeria, Obalola says     And Tiger wept! Woods breaks down after induction into…     Uysk: Joshua makes Wilder No1 choice in four-man shortlist   Briefing the Deputy Governor on the team performance, the Edo State Handball Association chairman, Emma Akhigbe thanked the government for its continued and concerted efforts at positioning sports in Edo state to very great heights by not only providing world-class facilities, but also putting together an enviably wonderful board to lead the state’s sports commission. Shaibu reiterated that the Edo State Government in a bid makes Edo a global sports destination is providing world-class facilities and an enabling environment which will facilitate positive participation from the private sector. This, he believed, will result in a very robust environment for sports to thrive at the developmental and promotional level in the state. He then tasked the newly constituted Edo State Sports Commission Board members, the Executive Chairman, the Permanent Secretary and the entire staff on a total rebranding of sports in the state, he also promised to keep supporting Dynamos Handball Club in their future endeavors.