The crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC) has deepened following a letter by Governor Mai Mala Buni, which faulted Governor Nasir el-Rufai’s narratives on his purported removal as the chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The letter dismissed el-Rufai’s claims that Buni was sacked as the party’s chairman. Buni’s camp claimed that the embattled APC caretaker committee legally handed over the affairs of the party to Governor Abubakar Sani Bello before travelling out. In the letter, dated February 28th, Buni directed Governor Bello to act in his absence as the chairman of CECPC because he will be away for a medical trip to Dubai The letter was copied by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and all members of CECPC. The letter, which was exclusively obtained by THE NATION, reads: “This is to please inform you that I will be embarking on a medical trip to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from today, 28th February, 2022. “In my absence, I hereby transmit the functions of my office as the National Chairman of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) to you. “This is to enable the committee conclude all arrangements leading to the National Convention slated for March 26th, 2022 and other duties that may be required of the office.   Tinubu: APC should maintain fidelity to progressive ideals     Bandits kill three, abduct two women in Kaduna     2023: RCCG sets up Directorate for politics   “I invite all members to cooperate with Governor Abubakar Sani Bello by extending to him all the support that I have enjoyed from you. “Please do accept the assurances of my best regards.” In an interview with Channels Television, el-Rufai said he had the authority of the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Governor Atiku Bagudu, to explain the action that led to the appointment of the Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello as acting chairman of APC. An aide to Buni, who spoke in confidence, said: “Buni couldn’t have been removed by anybody or a group of Governors because his letter was explicit. He followed due process and nominated Bello to act for him. “Governor el-Rufai should tell Nigerians what actually transpired between President Muhammadu Buhari and some governors last Sunday. His narratives are faulty. “Nigerians should ask Bello and CECPC members if such a letter came to them from Buni.”