Depression is no respecter of anyone or status. It ails all men, including those whose business it is to entertain others. Here are those who have suffered depression over the years: 1. Kanye West The American rapper, singer and fashion designer once blamed himself for his mother’s demise back in 2007 and later opened up on having bipolar disorder. The award winner’s mental health is also a contribution to the split of his family. 2. Dwayne Johnson Dwayne nicknamed The Rock is one of the highest-paid Hollywood actors. The Rock once saved his mother when he was 15 but shared that depression never discriminates and should be a thing one opens up about. He also said struggle and pain is inevitable. 3. Justin Bieber The pop star struggled after his fame that came early. Justin Bieber became a musician at 13 and at some point turned to a drug addict. He claimed his faith in religion and marriage made him a better person. 4. Taraji P Henson The award-winning Hollywood actress has also been a victim of anxiety and depression due to her mother and baby father’s demises. Afterward, she had fears from the sight of deaths, most especially young Black men because of her son. 5. Lady Gaga Lady Gaga, a pop star, has never been shy to talk about her long-term battle with mental illness and trauma. She once said she’s glad her sadness never destroyed her greatness in a view to encouraging the younger generation. She is now an advocate of mental health and owns This Way Foundation to empower, inspire and provide for youths. 6. Angelina Jolie-Pit The Oscar award winner and mother of six was a depressed teenager. Angelina is a director and writer who has once tried suicide and also paid a hitman to eliminate it. The U.N Goodwill ambassador’s rise to fame in Hollywood and childbirth changed the orientation she had about life. 7. Adele The award-winning British singer confessed it was easy for her to come in and out of a depressed state.   Popular singers who featured wives in music videos     Ukraine invasion: 10 top organisations that terminated…     P-square will ‘close down’ O2 Arena – Mr P   She was suffering from bad postpartum depression and claimed she was scared to talk about it even to her friends. 8. Eminem The rapper went into depression over the death of his friend and marital issues with his ex-wife. He talked about his battle with depression a decade ago and his rough growth in his memoir. 9. Selena Gomez Selena Gomez is a music star that has also tried to encourage her fans on issues of mental health. She declared she’d focus more on her health and happiness as a way forward from anxiety, panic attacks and depression. 10. Brad Pitt The Hollywood star claimed he was depressed at a time and felt irritated, isolated and drug abuse (marijuana). Pitt is now one of most mental health global recognition for his choice to discuss depression. 11. Channing Tatum Channing is an actor who also opened up on his struggles as a depressed child. His mental state improved when he stopped hard drugs. 12. Beyoncé Beyoncé has her mother to thank for as she was who advised the American singer to do more about taking care of her mental health when Beyoncé felt her fame and awards was not her happiness. 13. Nicki Minaj Nicki Minaj, who is an American rapper, once had the thoughts of taking her life but didn’t. She felt her life was only a dead end and suicide was the way out during her depressed state. 14. Katy Perry The singer has also once said how she felt ashamed of herself for having low self-esteem and depression thoughts on one of her tracks. 15. Kendall Jenner Kendall had panic attacks due to anxiety. She feared that the world needs more love and hates the negativity of humans against one another anytime she’s online.