The Board of Directors of Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc has explained that the company plans to raise some N5 billion in new equity capital to expand its production capacity and boost production. Chairman, Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc, Dr. Ambrosie Orjiako said the net proceeds from the new capital raising would be used to construct a world-class factory compliant to World Health Organisation (WHO) Standards of Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) at Amawbia in Anambra State. He said part of the new capital would also be used to complete the ongoing facility upgrade at the company’s Oregun factory. He added that the remaining part of the new capital would be used as additional working capital. On completion, the Oregun plant alone will add additional 300 per cent to the company’s production capacity. Orjiako said these projects would not only sustain the current upbeat performance of the company but will give her a quantum leap into the league of leading global health care commodities producers. Shareholders of Neimeth had at their annual general meeting approved the plan of the board to raise the sum of N5 billion through a hybrid offer of rights to existing shareholders and  private placement. The company will raise N3.67 billion through rights issue and N1.32 billion through private placement. The rights issue will be offered at the discounted cost of N1.55 per share.  The company’s shares traded above N1.70 Kobo for most of this month. To achieve this, the shareholders approved the creation of 2.37 billion additional ordinary shares which will be allotted at the rate of five new shares for every four shares currently held in the company. The shareholders also approved that the company raise equity capital of N1.32 billion by way of a private placement at a premium price of N2.10 for 628.753 million ordinary shares.   Flour Mills appoints Adeeko director     Focus on stocks with strong fundamentals, Futureview advises…     SEC staff protest poor governance   Managing Director, Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc,  Matthew Azoji, said the  capital market is the most viable and cheaper option to source long term  funds because of the high cost of funds through other sources. “We cannot finance long-term projects with short-term funds from banks. That will not be expedient and cost effective. It will also not serve the best interest of shareholders,” Azoji said. He explained that the company considered prevailing economic situation in the country  that also affect shareholders before deciding to add the private placement equity. “We did not want to put the entire burden of N5 billion on shareholders, that is why we have decided to add private placement to the fund raise,” Azoji said. The fortunes of Neimeth has taken an upward turn since 2018 when it returned to profitablity after nearly a decade of predominantly losses.  From a loss of N404.9 million in 2017 the Company made profit of N166.4 million in 2018, N304.4 million in 2019, N297.3 million in 2020 at the upsurge of COVID pandemic and N365.2 million in 2021. Orjiako said the board was working with management to ensure that the growth trajectory is not only sustained but also enhanced beyond what has been accomplished in last four years of consistent growth in turnover and profitability. Neimeth has  emerged  from an era of constant losses to a period of steady growth in both turnover and profitability. In the past three years  the company has built a  regime of growth and profitability.  In 2019 and 2020 business years, the company recorded growth in both turnover and profit after ten years of lull. Following the same growth trajectory, the share price of Neimeth increased  343 per cent from 40 kobo as at September 30, 2019 to N1.77 as at March 14, 2022.  Between 2012 and 2021, the earnings per share of Neimeth grew 280 per cent from negative 5kobo to 14 kobo per share. The ability of the company to create wealth for shareholders has been applauded by industry and market  watchers and regulators.  In 2019, Azoji was named among Nigeria’s top 25 CEOs on account of the wealth creation ability of the company.  And in 2021 the company was rewarded with the award of the Nigerian Investor Value Awards as the Best Performing Stock (Healthcare) in the Nigerian capital market on account of the value it created for shareholders through capital gains. Also in 2021, Neimeth was nominated along with Airtel West Africa Plc and FBN Holdings Plc for the award of the listed company of the year. These were meant for companies that attained high level earnings for investors in this case over 300 per cent. The company has equally transited from non-dividend payment which lasted for a decade to one of consistent payment of dividend to shareholders. In 2020 it applied its profits to restructure its balance sheet and returned to dividend payment.  In that year it paid a dividend of 6.5 Kobo for every 50 Kobo share and in 2021, this was increased by 8 per cent to give shareholders 7.0 kobo for every 50 Kobo share held in the company.