An adjustment may be inevitable in the time-table drawn up by the All Progressives Congress (APC) towards its March 26 convention. The deadline for the sale of forms for the party’s zonal congresses slated for March 12 ended yesterday with no activity on the issue by the APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). By the schedule of activities for the zonal congresses released by the CECPC Secretary Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, the sale of nomination forms for zonal positions was to start on February28 and close yesterday. As at last night, many aspirants were in the dark with no clue on when and where the sale of the forms will begin barely a week to the zonal congresses. The party had directed that nomination forms will be sold at the zonal headquarters of the party, but The Nation gathered that the forms were yet to be dispatched to the zonal offices from party’s Abuja headquarters. A party official confirmed to this reporter that all the zonal nomination forms are in the party headquarters. It was also gathered that the zonal meeting of stakeholders did not hold in some zones last Saturday as schedule.   ‘Petrol hoarders to be sanctioned’     Tinubu takes consultation to Ekiti monarchs     Obasanjo seeks all-inclusive education reforms   Those who held the meeting were yet to sell the forms to aspirants. This development has stalled the screening of aspirants which is billed for tomorrow at designated places in the headquarters of the six geopolitical zones. The development further heightened fears that the zonal congresses may suffer the same fate of botched dates for the national convention. A Southeast zonal youth leader aspirant, who pleaded anonymity, expressed disappointment at the shoddy arrangement and the stress they have been made to pass through. He said: “It is sad the way our leaders, I mean the Caretaker Committee is treating us. They fixed the 28th of February to the 3rd of March, 2022 for the sales of form. I came from Enugu on Monday with the sole aim of purchasing the forms. For four days we have been waiting and no form and no word from the party. “We hope this is not a ploy to edge some aspirants out of the congress. Initially, we were told that forms will be sold at the zonal level, this was later changed to the headquarters. At the close of work today (Thursday), the sales of the form will close. The party should come out and let us know our fate. “The fact remains that we don’t know what is happening. Even when we asked the staff of the party here in Abuja, nobody has the answer to the situation.”