Operatives of the Nigerian Navy (NN) have arrested a Motor Tanker (MT) HARBOUR SPIRIT for alleged illegal activities within the country’s water. The vessel was intercepted around 10:30 am on Thursday, March 17 by operatives onboard Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) THUNDER while participating in this year’s multinational season exercise, OBANGAME EXPRESS. The arrest around Bonny waters in Rivers State, occurred barely two days after the suspected vessel, MT QUEEN OF PEACE was intercepted for being in possession of petroleum products without valid documents. A statement on Sunday afternoon by Director, Naval Information (DINFO) Commodore Adedotun Ayo-Vaughan, says MT HARBOR SPIRIT was a vessel of interest and was discovered to possess forged documents for the evacuation of fortified and auctioned product (crude oil) from MV KOME XVIII. “The vessel was subsequently boarded by the Nigerian Navy and she was discovered to be in possession of forged documents for the evacuation of fortified and auctioned product (crude oil) from MV KOME XVIII. “Accordingly, MT HARBOR SPIRIT and her crew of 13 men, all Nigerians, were arrested and handed over to Forward Operating Base (FOB) BONNY for further investigation and possible handover for prosecution. “The arrest of MT HARBOR SPIRIT came barely two days after the arrest of MT QUEEN OF PEACE for unauthorised possession of petroleum product without valid documents. “It is indicative of the resolve of the Nigerian Navy to rid Nigeria’s maritime environment of all infractions and illegalities for legitimate maritime activities to thrive towards the economic growth of Nigeria,” he said.   Lagos agog as Ex-Super Eagles stars honour Tinubu ahead of…     Aunt pokes stick in girl’s genitals over garri, fish in…     Plateau: Kidnappers kill brother of Gov Lalong’s aide,…   The Nation reports that MT QUEEN OF PEACE had been on the navy’s radar for over a year before its arrest South West of Bonny Fair Way Buoy on March 15. The vessel, it was learnt was first spotted at the Trans Amadi Jetty, Port Harcourt, three weeks ago but switched off its Automatic Identification System (AIS) and proceeded on dark (unknown) activities. Her activities were monitored through the navy’s Falcon Eye Surveillance System and NNS EKULU was subsequently detached from the Exercise OBANGAME to intercept and arrest the vessel and its crew. “Subsequent interrogation revealed that the vessel with 14 crew members onboard was laden with an unspecified quantity of crude oil. Additionally, the vessel was unable to provide appropriate documentation from the point of loading as well as documents and authority of her intended operations. “These, therefore, led to the arrest of the vessel and she is currently at Nigerian Navy Forward Operating Base BONNY for further investigation and possible hand-over for prosecution,” said Ayo-Vaughan in an earlier statement. The Director, Naval Information also disclosed that naval operatives also apprehended seven Beninoise in a long wooden boat fully loaded with unspecified petroleum products from questionable sources, while five other suspected oil thieves were arrested by NNS PATHFINDER with a diesel laden barge and a tug boat which were handed over to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on March 14. “These arrests depict and reinforce the Nigerian Navy’s resolve to consistently sustain its aggressive posture against oil theft and other maritime illegalities,” he said.