TO create more awareness for health, 9mobile has held its fifth health talk series, with the theme on mental health, its myths, and the challenges in managing it and the recovery. The session, which was streamed live on @healthertainer Instagram handle, and featured Africa’s leading mental health advocate and coach, Dr. Maymunah Yusuf Kadiri, as facilitator. In her presentation, she highlighted the myths around mental health challenges and more importantly, what the recovery process entails, describing mental health as the ability to be productive, fruitful and be able to give back to the society. Dispelling some of the myths, she remarked that mental illness does not have any spiritual undertone as people are made to believe, particularly in our clime. Mental health belongs to the category of non-communicable diseases, Kadiri noted, saying  one in every five persons in Nigeria has mental illness, with data showing that mental illness starts before age 14 in some instances. “Everybody has mental health, but not everybody has mental illness, which is a medical condition as it were. It will, therefore, be correct to conclude that nobody has immunity against mental health disorder,” she stated.   Tackling cervical cancer through 10,000 women initiative     LASUTH launches ‘Project Eagle’ to improve…     Expert canvasses healthy living to boost national…   Enumerating some of the stress factors that could trigger mental illness, she said: “Some of the risk vulnerability factors include death of one’s parent or loved ones, divorce in families, domestic violence, positive history of mental illness and of course, societal pressure, which can be attributed to the harsh socio-economic realities in the country. “It is important to appreciate that mental illness is real and, therefore, seek ways to address the challenges than living in self-denial. There is good and bad news about mental illness. The good news is that it is beatable, treatable and manageable with help readily available for quick recovery. While the bad news is that the longer it takes to seek medical help, the more complicated it can become.” Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, 9mobile, Abdulrahman Ado, who was represented by company’s Public Relations Lead, Chineze Amanfo, reiterated that more attention should be paid to mental health challenges, particularly among the productive population. “Mental health is a critical issue that needs attention. 9mobile will continue to bring the issue to the fore to promote a healthier and safer society for all. Therefore, we are excited that the health-talk series for 2022 has kick-started on a very impactful note, with emphasis on mental well-being, which is paramount for optimal productivity. This is one of the reasons why we focus on health as one of our strategic corporate social responsibility (CSR) pillars,” he said.