Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu and some other chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have congratulated the party’s members of the National Working Committee (NWC). The new NWC officials were elected during Saturday’s national convention of the party at Eagle Square in Abuja. They include National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore; National Women Leader, Dr. Betta Edu. In a congratulatory message yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, Governor Fayemi said: “Hearty congratulations to the newly elected national officers of our great party, APC. Their election at this crucial period in our national politics, no doubt, has placed on them an enormous responsibility. “I have no doubt that they will make a success of the task, giving their pedigree as very resourceful men and women of proven integrity, ability and capacity. “I congratulate Senator Adamu, our newly elected national chairman and all the new national officers and wish them a successful and impactful tenure that would remain quite unforgettable in the annals of the history of our great party, APC and country in general.” Addressing reporters at the Eagle Square in Abuja, venue of the convention, Oyetola hailed the leadership quality of President Muhammadu Buhari and praised him for playing a fatherly role in uniting the party in the interest of all. “First of all, I must thank our leaders in the Southwest for their support for our own Senator Iyiola Omisore. This is a great thing for us in Osun APC, and I must thank other contestants for conceding and accepting to withdraw from the race.   Osinbajo scores APC high in infrastructure, agric, others     Betta Edu is Nigeria’s youngest National Women Leader     Navy partners NPA in offshore waters survey, charting   “I commend them for the bold step, just as I assure them of our support in their time of need. I have no doubt in the capacity of Otunba Omisore to deliver and take our party to a greater level. “As you can see, the peaceful atmosphere here and the seamless conduct of the convention is a testimony to the strong unity that exists in our party. It is an attestation to the fact that we have our ways of resolving issues without necessarily resorting to conflict. “Contrary to the negative expectations of some people, the convention went peacefully. The security operatives have done wonderfully well. I am proud of what had happened today. It is a sign that our party is united, formidable and remains indivisible. “In achieving all these, I must personally commend the leadership quality provided by President Muhammadu Buhari, who always advocates for harmony and peace in the party. It is natural to disagree. But what is important is the ability to have a workable mechanism to resolve any crisis without necessarily resorting to rancour. “I am confident that with the existing units in the APC, our party will continue to remain in power beyond 2023, by the grace of God.” Lalong said: “Senator Adamu brings into the job a basket full of vast political experience spanning many decades that will be very instrumental in stabilising the party ahead of the 2023 general election. “With his experience, connections and ability to bring members together, our party will grow more united and stronger, especially with robust reconciliation, which the newly elected chairman had started alongside other stakeholders of the party before the convention.” The Plateau governor hailed President Buhari and the Caretaker and Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) for ensuring that the process went ahead, despite many challenges the party faced along the way. In a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, Governor Sanwo-Olu, who was the Chairman of the Finance Committee for the APC National Convention, praised over 7,000 delegates from 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, for participating in the convention.