Indigenous people of Biafra (IPOB) has assured its full support to Southeast governors ready to work for the interest and liberty of the people of the region. It warned those who make themselves willing tool to criminalise its agitation for freedom to have a rethink or be ready to pay dearly for it. The group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, particularly expressed its preparedness to work with Anambra State governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo to secure the State and make it envy of black race. Soludo had during his inauguration, sued for peace with the agitators, warning politicians playing politics with insecurity in the zone to desist forthwith. IPOB however warned the governor against repeating the mistakes of his predecessor who it said allowed himself to be used by its enemies to persecute its people. The statement reads in part, “Our attention has been drawn to an encouraging statement by the new Governor of Anambra State, Professor Chukwuma Soludo during his inauguration. “We commend him for reasoning the way he did, but at the same time, we admonish him to be wary of wicked, selfish and evil politicians who never mean well for our people so as not to deceive him. “We hope he will keep to his promises and serve our people selflessly and wholeheartedly which in turn will help to promote the peace and security of our ancestral land. Anambra being (Diokpara) the first Son must show leadership in the much awaited renaissance. “We, therefore, assure him of the full cooperation of Biafran youths in his efforts to secure Anambra State. IPOB will give him every support he needs to make Anambra the envy of the black race. “Soludo, in order to succeed, must not take seriously those or anyone whether part of his government or not that will advice him to arrest, imprison, and kill IPOB family members in Anambra State because if he listens to those criminal political harlots, that will be the beginning of his failure as a governor.   Buni hails protocols c’ttee says all now set for APC…     Makinde celebrates Gov. Ugwuanyi at 58     UPDATED: Sheriff steps down from APC chairmanship race   “We, therefore, advise him to remain focused on his vision and mission and shun distractions and bad advice from evil politicians. He should not repeat the mistakes of his predecessor Willie Obiano, who allowed himself to be used by Fulani people to persecute our people. “They killed our people at Nkpor in 2016 during our annual remembrance of our fallen heroes and heroines who paid the ultimate price for our freedom between 1967 and 1970, yet the Governor never asked questions. “Soludo is a seasoned technocrat and an accomplished Igbo who should use his wealth of knowledge to develop our land. “We are willing to support him as long as he will not turn to be a willing instrument in the hands of our oppressors to persecute our people, especially BIAFRA agitators. We wish him success in office. The statement added, “We wish to assure South East and South-South governors that IPOB members are human beings with an unwavering interest of Biafrans at heart. “Our work is geared towards pursuing the happiness, wellbeing and security of the Biafran people and of Biafraland. We’re ready and open to cooperating with any of them seeking our support for the common good of our people. “We also state that any governor that makes himself a willing Fulani tool to either criminalise our just agitation for freedom will without a doubt be paid in the same coin. “IPOB will fully support any Governor in Biafra land who shows he has the understanding of the times, and the precarious condition of our people in Nigeria. If any Governor does not conspire with our oppressors to perpetuate our woes, he/she will enjoy the full support of our people. “IPOB is a peaceful movement working hard to restore Biafra independence. We will never give up on our agitation until we are given a date for referendum to decide our fate as a people. “We are ready to work with anyone in Government who works for the interest and liberty of our people.”