The above was the title of the article on this column last week.  However, apart from nepotism, recent and not too recent, events in the country have shown that impunity is also one of the demons tearing vigorously at Nigeria’s entrails. Like nepotism, It has also, unfortunately, signposted the Buhari administration, thereby further exacerbating inequality and the unprecedented ethnic distrust we see in the  country today. It is one of the reasons many believe that Nigeria has never been this divided However, since we can do absolutely nothing about  President Buhari’s appointments, Nigerians should at least be able to insist on having errand public servants punished when they cause us grievous harm,  or inflict on us, indescribable inconveniences, as in the  present case  of those officials who slept off on duty when adulterated oil,  in  millions of litres, were being dumped on us. Indeed,  come the next elections, presidential candidates, no matter from which part of the country they come must,  at least during the televised public debates, be made to forswear both nepotism and condonement of  impunity in governance. We have seen enough. Let us quickly see some instances of egregious impunity in the Nigerian public service in the last few years. Unfortunately, except in the case of  the former I- G Musliu Smith- led Police Service Commission which cannot be held blameless in the case of the suspended DCP Abba Kyari, functioning like he wasnt suspended, even though that responsibility should primarily be that of the Inspector – General of Police, all the instances of impunity that I know of, revolve around officials of Northern extraction. As in last week’s article, Mr Abdulrasheed Maina’s case must be the icing on the cake. Mr. Maina was wanted for alleged pension fraud and was on the run from the anti-graft agency, EFCC. Equally, the Nigeria Immigration Service, NIS,  was, as far back as 2013, duly notified to put him on a stop list, and prevent him from travelling abroad; a directive which the agency complied with. That, of course, was during the Goodluck Jonathan administration during which Maina was , in the same 2013,  dismissed from service  for absconding from office, following allegations of diverting billions of public funds when he headed the pension reform task force. No sooner did the new government came into office, however, than the Attorney – General, on the self confessed advice of the Director – General of the DSS, who also confessed before the National Assembly to giving the dismissed man protection because “ life is a right”, met Maina in Dubai, as we were told, in the presence of an un named third party.   How nepotism killed discipline in Nigerian public service     APC: Is CECPC working towards an inconclusive convention?     Ekiti: I ask again must our politicians always fight to the…   Before you could say jack, the man who was dismissed in 2013 and declared wanted by the Goodluck Jonathan administration, was not only controversially spirited back into the country, he was reinstated and promoted. This was in spite of  the then Head of Service of the Federation, Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, allegedly claiming that she warned against it, “based on the implications such reinstatement would have on the anti-corruption war of the President”. This, she  claimed to have done in a memo to the Chief of Staff to the President, Mr. Abba Kyari, now of blessed memory. But for the judiciary, may be Maina would today be a permanent Secretary, if not higher. “Commuters were stranded in many parts of the country yesterday as petrol scarcity bites harder. Queues remained in many city centres while fares skyrocketed. Many motorists in Abuja said they woke up as early as 4 a.m. to queue at petrol stations. Some said they could not even afford to buy from the black market. “The scarcity is getting to a month and nothing has been done. At times it looks like it is getting better and the next day it gets worse,” The above is how The Nation captured the  terrible situation residents of Abuja are going through this past week. And that is only a small part of the agony Nigerians have been subjected to in all parts of the country in the past 3 weeks. Yet, not one of the fat cats manning the Nigerian oil industry has been disciplined for this National embarrassment and suffering. Could that fact of crass nepotism about which we have shouted ourselves hoarse be why no disciplinary measures have been taken against any of the officials of the NNPC? All these are a disservice to Nigeria as one impunity will only encourage more acts of negligence and ineptitude. President Muhamadu Buhari is, with justification, personally, very highly regarded, not only within Nigeria but elsewhere. For instance, African leaders, at the 29th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of African Union in Addis Ababa in July, 2017, unanimously endorsed  him to champion the fight against corruption in the entire continent of Africa. There can be no greater vote of confidence at the international arena. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case at home where he is, albeit, equally well respected. However, because of the inequality, insecurity, massive youth unemployment and poverty which  have signposted his government, contrary to the great hopes Nigerians had reposed in him in 2015, tongues are beginning to wag as all these have greatly, negatively impacted Nigeria. A glaring validation of this claim is the unbelievable refusal of some young Nigerians who, though caught up in  war -ravaged Ukraine, still refused to be airlifted, free of charge, back to Nigeria. Nothing can be more chilling than that.  For them, better to remain in a war torn country rather than return to a native land where only pain, insecurity and uncertainty are the only things they are guaranteed. Thanks to social media, they must have been thanking God for escaping the possibility of being caught up in the horrendous daily killings all over the country, just as they must be quite aware of the following gruesome facts of daily life in Nigeria today; rigours many of their parents must be going through: That in 2015, the price of a bag of rice which was N8,567, is now N27,000. A bag of beans which was N23,000  now sells for between N40,000 and N50,000. Naira exchanged N199.0151 to the dollar then but today is about N565 at the parallel market and that is when you get  it to buy. Petrol per litre was N97 as against today’s N165. President Buhari has only the next fifteen months, or thereabouts, to change all these. He appears to have started well by retaining the fuel subsidy rather than subject the poor masses to a gruelling regime of buying petrol at over N300  per litre just to allow politicians like the members of the National Assembly – who according to BudgIT, allegedly creamed off  billions of naira through untraceable constituency projects – to continue to live in their excessive, but gross luxury. The President will, however, need to do much more to be  able to shut up PDP in its tracks, come 2023.