In line with its “An Africa in Good Health” vision, mPharma, Africa’s fast-rising health tech start-up, has launched the Ten Thousand Women Initiative (TTWI) in Nigeria. The campaign, according to  the Chief Executive Officer,  mPharma, Greg Rockson, is to make free HPV (human papillomavirus) testing available to women between 35 and 60, who have never had one. The launch coincided with  this year’s International Women’s Day. mPharma boss said: “Women, when healthy, can reach their maximum potential and contribute to thriving families. They construct resilient communities and become powerful drivers of economic growth. Failure to address a preventable disease that takes the lives of so many women yearly is unethical. It deprives the nation of women’s contribution to building the nation and its development,” Rockson said. Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer among women globally and greatly affects young females in Africa. According to the Catalan Institute of Oncology (ICO) and the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) Information Center on HPV and Cancer, estimates showed that  yearly, 12,075 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer, among which 7,968 die from the disease in Nigeria.   LASUTH launches ‘Project Eagle’ to improve…     Expert canvasses healthy living to boost national…     One in every five Nigerians mentally ill, says psychiatrist   Cervical cancer also ranks the second most frequent cancers that affect women in Nigeria, the report said. The link between HPV infection and cervical cancer and improved access to HPV testing and vaccination is a sure way to reduce cervical cancer risk.The World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended HPV testing due to its high performance and sensitivity as the primary screening test for women. “As a home to over 100 million women, Nigeria has a huge responsibility of prioritising the health and welfare of women. This is especially important at a time cervical cancer has become a common cause of death among women in the region despite the disease being treatable and preventable. “Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in many countries such as Nigeria. Sadly, diagnosis and treatment remain out of reach – medically and financially – for most women. The journey from receiving HPV screening to the treatment course can be filled with many mental, social and financial challenges for women,” mPharma boss said. According to the Vice President, Global diagnostics, mPharma, John Allotey, the 10,000-women campaign is health tech start-up’s most significant commitment to women’s health because it aims to normalise screening for HPV – the most common risk factor for cervical cancer. The campaign also offers women affordable vaccination and treatment options, he added. Allotey, who described women as “doyens of our society,” the objective of the campaign is to “transform the diagnosis and treatment of cervical cancer, which takes us one step closer to an Africa in good health”.