TUESDAY March 8 was marked globally as the International Women’s Day with the theme #BreakTheBias. Despite years of advocacy for women to be given equal opportunities like their male counterparts, they are still denied their rights in so many ways due to culture, religion, bias and many other factors. This year’s celebration was yet another opportunity to draw attention to the need for gender balance and equity, a world free of bias, stereotypes and discrimination which women have been enduring. The need for a diverse, equitable and inclusive world where difference is valued and celebrated was also rested at various programmes and events that marked the day. Hopefully, many more people in positions of authority are to ensure that the necessary change will be committed to their promises to do redress the gender imbalance in various sectors. In the media sector, one of the gender advocates who has championed the campaign and implemented programmes with proven outcomes is the Executive Director of the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism, Mrs Motunrayo Alaka. She was honoured with the Media Gender Equity Advocate Award in recognition for her outstanding contributions to having a gender balance media in terms of content and personnel by Media Career Development Network which I head. The citation for the award below highlights the extent of her commendable advocacy which stands her out.   The Limits of propaganda     National anthem: Aderibigbe in history     Ban on use of generic emails   “The advocacy for gender balance and equity in the Nigeria media predates her joining the Wole Soyinka Centre for Investigative Journalism (WSCIJ) in 2005 and rising to become the head of the organization. “Many individuals, groups and organizations have over the years been championing the need for media organizations in the country to provide better coverage for women and give female journalists equal opportunities to accomplish their career goals like their male counterparts with various degrees of success. “The launch of the Report Women Project in 2014 and later the Female Reporters Leadership Programme 2017 under the leadership of Mrs Motunrayo Alaka, Executive Director/ Chief Executive Officer stand out as a deliberate, carefully planned and sustained effort in redressing the lopsided gender equation in the Nigeria media in favour of men as it is globally. “More than ever before, participants in the Report Women Programme have produced more insightful reports on various platforms on issues of access and abuse as they affect girls and women in Nigeria. The FRLP has equipped more than 74 female reporters from across the country with the skills, finesse, support and tools to take bold steps that help position them for the highest leadership roles in the media and another set of fellows are soon to complete the much sought after fellowship by female journalists. “The career and life-changing impact of the fellowship has been attested to by fellows who can now mainstream girls and women issues better in their reports, have become newsroom leaders and continued to benefit from the wide networking opportunities from colleagues. “While she vigorously advocates for gender equity, it is to her credit that she has initiated programmes and projects to enhance the capacity of female journalists and engaged media managers with relevant data to ensure the desired change. “She has indeed been intentional about ensuring not only- gender equity and not necessarily balance in the media, but overall excellence in media practice in the Nigeria media. “We acknowledge your commitment to having a media free of bias, stereotypes, and discrimination, a media that is diverse, equitable, and inclusive and a media where difference is valued and celebrated. “Well done for being a real encourager, a supporter and advocate gender equity.”