A medical doctor, Mistura Shogunle, yesterday narrated before an Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court how a 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by seven men in her neighbourhood. Dr Shogunle testified at the trial of a 20-year-old fashion designer, Rasheed Fashola, for conspiracy and child defilement. Fashola pleaded not guilty to the two-count charge. Led in evidence by state counsel, Mrs Olasunbo Abiodun-Muniru, the doctor working at the Mirabel Centre (a sexual assault referral centre), said that the minor came to the centre to seek medical attention on September 28, 2020, a day after she was allegedly defiled. “The client said that on September 27, 2020, her father sent her on an errand, and seven boys in the neighbourhood stopped her. They dragged her into an uncompleted building, her mouth was covered with a handkerchief and they took turns to rape her through unprotected penile intercourse,” Shogunle said. The doctor said that the survivor was calm and clinically stable during the medical examination and that she had no obvious physical injuries,” she said. But there were significant genital findings, including bruises, the doctor added.   Ex-House of Reps Speaker Chaha dies at 82     Imo Assembly swears in Ngor Okpala representative     Aviation fuel scarcity, price hike disrupt flights…   The doctor, also a certified forensic sexual assault examiner, testified that she asked the survivor’s father, who accompanied her, to throw more light on what happened to his daughter. She said that the father informed her that he sent his daughter on an errand and expected her to return home early but instead, saw her with two men who came to his residence to tell him that his daughter had been defiled. Shogunle said that the minor did not tell her the names of the men who allegedly defiled her. During cross-examination by defence counsel, Mr O.O. Ogunjimi, the witness said that she did not find any semen when she examined the survivor. “It was not the day the incident happened that the client visited the Mirabel Centre. “The client did not tell me whether she had taken her bath or not,” Shogunle said. Justice Rahman Oshodi adjourned the case until May 6.