A Coalition of Northern Group (CNG) and Students’ Support Group based in Katsina State, have threatened to embark on a nationwide mass action and other civil unrests if the Federal Government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) fail to resolve the impasse over the implementation of the 2009 agreements and the lingering ASUU strike. The CNG National Coordinator, Comrade Jamilu Aliyu Charanchi, who made the above declaration while addressing the reporters yesterday in Katsina, said the Students’ wing of the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) is concerned that the four-week warning strike declared by the Academic Staff Union of Universities, ASUU, is already in its third week, with no hope for a resolution in sight while universities remain shut. He said: “We are concerned at the frequency of the disruption of the Nigerian education system that keeps frustrating the ambitions and aspirations of the youth to acquire knowledge. “Sadly, the strike is the second industrial action embarked on by ASUU in less than two years, and the 16th since the inception of the fourth republic democracy in 1999. “Regrettably, in spite, all these disruptive actions, the country’s university system, the innocent students and their parents are in all cases made the victims.”   IG sets rules for mounting road blocks      Political spending pushes up dollar demand     UNEP at 50: Buhari seeks broader action against…   The Coalition further expressed concern that the number of ASUU strike-related closures in the past 23 years, affected most undergraduates that would have earned degrees in otherwise uninterrupted academic settings. While commending the effort of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) in drawing the attention of stakeholders to the implications of ASUU industrial actions, the NGO condemned the walkout on NANS by the Minister of Education during their last meeting. He said: “We condemn the failure of stakeholders to summon the courage to speak out and stand with us in these trying times. “Failure of the government to resolve the matter within the stipulated time, the CNG Students’ Wing will join hands with NANS in ensuring total shut down of the country. “When people who were elected into office are indifferent or afraid to stand up for what is right and just, then the situation is hopeless.”