SIR: The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, a couple of weeks ago unveiled the timetable for party primaries and general elections scheduled to hold between 2022 and 2023. This was consequent upon the signing of the amended electoral law by President Muhammadu Buhari. Stakeholders have been making their views known on various clauses in the new Electoral Act but the one that catches my attention is the time frame between party primaries and the election proper; this is where I will like to lend my opinion. The length of time between the primaries of political parties and the main election as released by INEC could be problematic- for one, it will allow for about three years of committed work by elected officials, who will be seeking another term and one whole year for politicking. In cases of some elected officials seeking re-election who lose their tickets at the primaries, they may lose enthusiasm for their current jobs. Some may even get lackadaisical in their duties as there may be no keenness to serve the people any longer. For the ones who still want to continue serving with zeal, they may no longer have a grip on the system, as it is common for most civil servants to shift allegiance and commitment to their principals. This will not augur well for the system as workers are expected to be loyal to the government of the day till it its last day in office.   Breaking the bias: Gender equality not the answer     Misconceptions on gender inequality campaign     Still on the unfinished business of gender equity   Shifting of allegiance and loyalty by workers to a chief executive who is yet to be sworn in to perform constitutional duties is an invitation to systemic dysfunction. This violates the cherished civil service norms and values of impartiality, anonymity and insulation from partisan politics. This will further encourage corruption as some elected officials who lose, may start devising different means of enriching themselves since they would have nothing at stake. Indeed, some elected officials might want to use this huge time frame to acquire new liabilities, bogus loans and afterthought employments to create problems for incoming administrations. I believe the wheel of governance should not be made to grind to a halt by distractions of the election season as the electorate should not be shortchanged on quality service delivery by elected officials. Ado-Ekiti.