Kemi Stone is an actress and producer. She is passionate about the creative sector and looking glamorous all the time. In this encounter, with Yetunde Oladeinde she takes you into her world, current concerns and the secret of looking good. HAVING a calm and confident disposition, she informs has always been an advantage. “I believe that it all starts from your mindset. The secret to looking good is therefore mostly about your level of confidence as well as your sense of style. If you believe in yourself, exude confidence and carry yourself in high esteem then you are bound to stand out. I also believe in the view that everybody is beautiful and we all have our unique selling point”. Kemi continued: “I drink enough water and that keeps me hydrated. The beauty routine must start from within and I must say that has really helped me”. Next, she talked extensively about pampering her skin and the different things she does to maintain her glowing skin. “I also take my skincare routine seriously. This includes taking good supplements which has always worked for me. Feeling happy and most importantly minding my own business has been a great therapy. That makes away stress and it gives me strength no matter the situation around me”. Still on pampering her skin and body, kemi informs that it is better to look for professionals who are skilled to help keep and maintain the skin. “ I make use of House of Freeda body care all day and the experience has been worthwhile”.   Etcetera returns with a new single after 12 years     KENNY OGUNGBE: Vulgar songs are part of entertainment     Laolu Gbenjo set for one of kind US Tour   Using the facilities at the Spa has also been very interesting with memories that thrill. “I visit the Spa at least two times in a month. This is because of my busy schedule, so I try to find time for this special treats that comes with results that are awesome”. Kemi added: “It has been a very interesting journey and I love to pamper my skin with the best skincare products from house of Phreeda bodycare. I don’t joke with any of their products because they’ve been very helpful to keep maintaining this lovely skin. Also as mentioned, I try to go to the Spa as much as often”. Now, you want to know some of the things that she avoids in her diet and she replied: “I don’t take too much carbohydrate. I try to balance my diet with all the classes of food that has protein, carbohydrates, vitamins and others”. So, what are some of the things that she wouldn’t do in the name of fashion? “I won’t inconvenience myself while trying to look good in the name of fashion. Comfort is usually very critical for me and that has proved to be very useful. In addition, I always think about modesty, when it comes to the clothes and accessories that I wear”. Happily, Kemi goes on to talk about your favourite products and make-up artiste this way: “I don’t have any favorite make-up products but any good product that won’t affect my natural skin is cool for me. You know that I don’t joke with my skin and everything I use to maintain it is from the houseofphreedabodycare. Also, my make-up artiste is @klassic.me . I have great confidence in their services and they have a crop of very good make-up artiste” Exercise routine? No way! That appears to be a no-go area for her. “I must confess that I do not do this regularly. But I try to exercise at weekends, whenever I am free though”. Kemi’s loves to pay great attention to her hair on a regular basis. That she noted, gives her that first impression that has paid off over time.” I actually love lace wig so much. It brings out the best looks and I just love to rock different types over and over again”.