AFEX Commodities Exchange Limited said the country’s agriculture financing gap has widened to N2 trillion. It said to bridge the gap, the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) must create an intersection between the commodity sector and the capital market. AFEX Chief Executive Officer, Ayodeji Balogun, Balogun said this yesterday in Abuja during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between AFEX and the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS). He said people are investing in the futures market and not commodities. He said the country needed to invest more in bridging the agriculture financing gap because local and diaspora individual investors have some connection to the farm.   ‘At 88, I am not tired’     DisCos: not all meters are instantly free     Bridging agric financing gap to deepen food security   He said: “Agriculture in Nigeria is significantly under-funded and that is primarily because everywhere in the world, nobody buys commodity today, everybody buys futures and until we have the commodities to exchange, we won’t be able to deliver at that and when you don’t have things like the futures market that can give assurances, it is difficult to form the entire sector. “So, we see a N2 trillion gap in agriculture financing and we are definitely positioned to solve this problem and to be able to solve it is where the intersection between the commodity sector itself but also the capital market and the security exchange makes that happen. “The second important part about the partnership is that there is so much that individual investors both local and in the diaspora, you see that everybody has either a first or second generation connection to the farm, either your father was a farmer or your grandfather, so there is always that affinity and this commodity and assets class that comes with the affection as it were. “The stockbroking community and the investment public is an excellent distribution channel to be able to make individual investors participate and enjoy in the return to grow wealth.” President/Chairman of Council, CIS, Tunde Amolegbe said the essence of the MoU is to bring on board  stockbrokers to be trained by AFEX because a lot of stockbrokers are not aware of activities of the firm.