The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has said the country’s survival depends on tax revenue. Its Executive Chairman, Mr. Muhammad Nami,raised spoke at the Second Annual National Tax Dialogue with the theme: “Tax harmonisation for enhanced revenue generation”, in Abuja. Nami noted: “The FIRS had contributed a monthly average of 59.45 per cent of revenue shared by FAAC, with such contribution to FAAC.’’ He argued that it had become clear that the survival of the nation depended on tax revenue. According to him, “all hands must be on deck to support the tax system and make it function efficiently”. He lamented that “some people have begun to play politics with tax revenue generation. We humbly invite the President to step-in to dissuade political tax gladiators to sheathe their swords”. Nami urged politicians to treat tax revenue generation as an apolitical issue. “Tax revenue is an apolitical issue. It should be treated as such by all, irrespective of their political leaning.”   Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike     OPEC unable to make up for 7mb/d Russia sanction     Firm pushes for financial inclusion   Read Also: OPEC unable to make up for 7mb/d Russia sanction Nami highlighted how the FIRS was able to record an unprecedented feat in tax revenue generation last year, where the Service surpassed its target when it collected N6.4 trillion, the highest collection in the history of FIRS. Nami stated: “Despite our 38 tax authorities, several tax laws and numerous taxes or levies, the majority of the taxpaying public still remain outside the tax net. “The tax-dodgers found it convenient to meander among the competing revenue agencies escaping their tax obligations. The result is suboptimal revenue generation at all tiers of government.” In her opening remarks, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed highlighted the importance of the National Tax Dialogue, stating that it was designed to engage stakeholders in the Nigerian tax-space in meaningful discourse so as to glean information, ideas and experience in the aid of policy formulation and improved tax environment. “We have observed that countries having lower economy and fewer tax base but streamlined tax administration have fared much better than Nigeria in terms of tax revenue collection; and ratio of tax-to-GDP. “The goal for this year’s National Tax Dialogue is, therefore, to kick-start the discussion for the harmonisation of the fragmented tax systems into a coherent whole for improved tax revenue collection for all the governments in the Federation,” the Minister stated. The FIRS also used the occasion to celebrate and reward Nigerias highest paying and most complaint taxpayers, including MTN, Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria, NOCACO, AIRTEL and CHEVRON.