Students are leveraging the ongoing ASUU strike to learn new skills and make money.  CALEB IJIOMA(AAP), TOSIN ODUNEWU (UNILAG), IFUNANYA OSAKWE (UNIBEN), SAMUEL AGBELUSI and BOLU ADEDOKUN (AAUA) spoke to students on how they are faring outside the confines of their classrooms. The Federal Government and  Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) are locked in  what seems an unending battle. The union had embarked on a warning strike on February 14,2022, before extending it for another eight weeks following the refusal of government to accede to their demands. However, with the ASUU strike becoming a yearly ritual of sorts, students of various federal universities across the country have started channeling their efforts into other endeavours pending when activities resume in their respective institutions.    Students speak The majority of students who spoke to Campus Life said the ASUU strike has given them  time to learn new skills and gather money pending the time schools reopen. A 200-Level Mass Communication student at the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Akinola Abidemi, said she was undergoing  internship in a radio station. ” I am undergoing internship in a radio station to keep myself busy and learn the practical aspects of broadcasting. I will be doing this till they call off the strike” she said. Olalekan Shindara, a 100-Level French Education student at the Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ogun State, said she intends to learn how to make creams. “I heard that the ASUU strike is usually prolonged. I am always at home, studying sometimes is tiring. I want to learn cream production. I want to learn  how to make facial creams, body lotion, lip balm and many more. After the training,  I’ll start production and sales,”  she said. For Halimat Mohammed, a 400-Level  Biochemistry student at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, said the strike pushed her to learn catering. “During the four-week strike, I learned catering. I will still be learning more and hopefully start making cakes to get money for myself,” she said. Ogundimu  Ololade, a 400-Level Linguistics student at  Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, wants to go back to  digital marketing pending when the strike would be called off. Precious Bakare, a 200-Level Law student at University of Lagos (UNILAG), is preparing to sit for ICAN examination, after that, she would volunteer for non-governmental organisations. Kelly Osamota, a student at the department of Fine and Applied Arts of University of Benin (UNIBEN),  is also  planning to learn   digital marketing and video editing. According to him, he has been in the school for about five years now when the course he is studying is for four years. “The strike is becoming annoying. I am supposed to graduate this year but with this strike it might not be possible. “Due to the strike I am also learning video editing and it is very enlightening. Apart from that, I have started making money already from it,” he said. Adeyemo Olaide, a student at Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko(AAUA), is delighted at learning  marketing and tailoring.   I’m not embarrassed by my stature, says 22-year-old AOCOED…     Foundation gives scholarship to students     VC to students: face your studies   She said: “ASUU Strike is more like a blessing to me in disguise because I always focus my attention on school activities and do not have time for other things. But now, I am learning the art of tailoring  since we do not know how long it will last.  Also, I’m able to learn affiliate marketing to ease myself from the stress of asking around for money and other things. If not for the strike, I might not know all these.” Akinola Joseph, a student at University of Nigeria Nsukka(UNN), hopes the strike won’t be  too long, although he is glad he can use this period to work on repairing computers and phones. “I don’t like staying at home, but since the strike is longer than I thought, there is need for one not to be idle looking at the situation in the country. I am working with an elder brother to repair computers and phones here in computer village in Lagos,” he said. Moses Olatuja, another UNILAG student said: “School life has been hindering me from fulfilling a lot of things which I am now working on, all thanks to the strike. I hope to achieve them before the strike is called off. Aside from music, I am learning to barb so I can know how to do something with my hands to avoid idleness.” Oshoniyi Mofiyinfoluwa, a 400-Level Human Kinetics and Health Education student at University of Ilorin(UNILORIN) said: “The strike is not a good one for me,  but I’m maximising it by getting more serious with my business.I am  planning to work as an intern in Oyo State Gymnasium as it’s in line with what I’m studying in school.” Agbola Aanuoluwapo, a student at Federal University of Katshere, Gombe State, said he was  learning shoe -making. Mariam Abubakar, another UNIBEN student,  said she would use  the  opportunity  to learn hairdressing. “I have tried  to learn hairdressing, but there was no chance in the past because of school activities. “So this strike is a blessing in disguise”, she said. Babatunde Pelumi, a 400-Level  Sociology  student at TASUED, wants to   focus more on cryptocurrency trading and engineering. For Emmanuel Iyanuoluwa, another FUOYE student   explained that he had been learning programming and coding. Mogaji Esther, a Food Science Technology student at Federal University of Technology of  Akure (FUTA)  noted that being a final year student, she stayed in school for a while to finish her project before she continued with her shoe making work. Josh Mokwe, another UNIBEN student said: “I can no longer rely on degree. That is what this continuous strike has taught me. “I have started a course on digital marketing and it is going very well. I have learnt a lot and hopefully will start making money from it soon.” Yusuf Kafeelah, a student  at AAUA said: “I’ve been occupied with my Quran memorisation and Arabic learning.” Tobiloba Justinah, another UNIBEN student said:  “I hope the strike is called off as soon as possible though, I have learnt a lot of things like hairdressing and baking . I have been learning hairdressing and baking for a while even before the strike and I am  looking forward to learning  other things  if the strike is further extended.” Adegbite Taiwo, another TASUED student said: ” I had to stop my catering business in school because of the ASUU strike but I’m in search of a job. I am not doing anything at the moment. I am working towards getting a job.” Another AAUA student, Afolabi Olawale,  said:  “This lingering strike  helped me because before I gained admission, I have learnt a craft.  I know the situation of the country and I know the system. The ASUU  strike is an opportunity for me to continue my work and meet new customers.”