To say that Nigerians love social parties is stating the obvious. To also say many of them can go to any length to organise what they see as befitting parties is incontrovertible. Despite the harsh economic situation in the country, a lot of money is still being spent on parties for weddings, funerals, naming, house warming, etc., sometimes with musicians on standby. A lot of money is spent to rent halls and event centres, even as many parties are incomplete without the guests going home with souvenirs of all kinds. These range from kitchen utensils to soaps and detergents, face caps, handkerchiefs, towels, plastic buckets and bowls, slippers, glass cups, salt, sugar, bags of all shapes and sizes, and what have you. There are even instances when invitees are given cash as souvenirs. We have seen all of these and more. What we have not seen or heard (may be it had happened but was not reported), is handing kegs of petrol to guests as souvenirs. But this happened at a social ceremony organised at the Havillah Event Centre, Oniru, Lagos. Occasion was the installation of the party host, one Chidinma Pearl Ogbulu, as Erelu Okin. Video clips from the lavish event captured 10-litre kegs of petrol, with customised stickers of the picture of the new Erelu, being handed over to guests who came to celebrate with her. The kegs with different colours were branded, ‘The Erelu Okin Foundation Installation Party’. Lagosians were naturally alarmed at this awkward development, and their palpable anger reflected in their various comments on the social media. Expectedly, the Lagos State government took exception to this absurdity and launched an investigation into the matter. It consequently shut down the events centre. The commissioner for information and strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, said in a statement on March 5 that “There is no doubt that this action is dangerous and can lead to loss of lives and property. It is blatantly against all safety measures in such places.” Omotoso added that the government would ensure that all parties to this reprehensible action are made to account for it, even as he advised Lagosians to avoid actions capable of endangering the safety of citizens in the state.   Nothing but justice     NEITI audit     The Sokoto example   The state’s commissioner of police, Abiodun Alabi, was no less irked as he ordered the arrest of the host of the event. The command’s spokesman, Adekunle Ajisebutu, conveyed the police commissioner’s anger: “Although the event centre where the distribution of the souvenirs took place has been located and subsequently sealed, the Commissioner of Police, CP Abiodun Alabi, fdc, mnim, has in addition, ordered the arrest of all persons involved in this regrettable and reprehensible act.” Nothing can justify this unusual generosity. It is true that at the time of the ceremony, Nigerians were going through one of its worst rounds of agonising fuel scarcity, sequel to importation of off-spec petrol by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). But that cannot be enough reason to embark on what could have amounted to suicide mission if something had gone wrong. Petrol is a highly inflammable product and a single spark could have endangered the lives of not only the host and her guests, but others in the vicinity. Even the events centre might not have been spared in case of conflagration. It is sad that Nigerians were made to go through the excruciating pain of fuel scarcity despite the fact that their country is a major producer of crude oil. This shows the depth of the incompetence of successive governments that have been relying on importation of fuel to run the economy. But that would not be a good reason for anyone to go to such extent in compromising  public safety. Two wrongs can never make a right. The fact that government was lax in its duty to refine fuel locally does not permit any individual to endanger the lives of countless others just to say thank you to guests who honoured an invitation to her installation. If there was fuel scarcity and the host felt this could adversely affect attendance at her event, they could have postponed the event to a more auspicious time. We do not see any urgency in the ceremony. We are only lucky nothing untoward happened. That is why even the host is alive and well to tender an apology for her ridiculous indiscretion. It is surprising that those at the party did not even see the danger in the fuel gift and merely laughed as the kegs of fuel were being distributed. This signposts how we bow to all kinds of absurdities in the country. We commend the police and the state government for their prompt intervention. We also seize this opportunity to advise owners of event centres of the need to monitor activities at the centres after renting them out because of a situation like this. It is easy to query the basis of the government’s shutting down of the venue of the party but this is only because we were lucky things did not get awry. Otherwise, the centre itself could have been partially damaged or consumed as a result of this suicidal indiscretion. The government owes all a responsibility to ensure a thing like this does not become a contagion.