The exemption of members of the Committee who executed  the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) has set a bad precedence for the scheme, The Nation has learnt. The source said this is because the retired Heads of Service of the Federation, Accountants-General, Auditors-General, Permanent Secretaries, Directors General of Government Agencies, among others, who supervised the implementation of the CPS were exempted from the scheme. According to the Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP), these retirees are enjoying higher pension payout under the old scheme – the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS). In a Memoranda to the House of Representatives Committee entitled: Pensions on A Bill for An Act to Amend the Pension Reform Act to Provide For Exemption Of The Nigeria Police Force From The Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and Amend Sections 1(C), 7(2), 8(I), 18, 24 And 99 of The Act to Allow Pensioners to Withdraw At Least 75 per cent of Their Retirement Benefits obtained by The Nation, the NUP stated that the National Assembly should review the CPS and restore those exempted from it. The NUP said though it does not oppose the removal of the Nigeria Police from the CPS, it criticised the removal of the Armed Forces, Intelligence and Department of State Services (DSS). The NUP said the Federal Government that claimed it had not enough funds to keep the old DBS curiously  exempted these retirees from the CPS. The memoranda read: “Not only that, 10 years after, the same government granted members of the Armed Forces, Intelligence and Department of State Services exemption from the new scheme and returned them to the old scheme. It is not surprising, therefore, that there is yet another call by the National Assembly to further amend the PRA 2014, to provide for the exemption of the members of the Nigeria Police Force from the Contributory Pension Scheme. “The Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) finds this development very worrisome. It is worried about the unfolding events in the Contributory Pension Scheme and its future.   PTAD partners EFCC, ICPC to fight crime     ‘Pension fund hit N13.61tr in January’     Pension complaints and solutions   “It is not out of place to submit to this House that the CPS is not good enough for pensioners.We reasoned too that, if the Scheme was favourable and so good to pensioners as the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS), why are the proponents of the Scheme, the Heads of Service, the Permanent Secretaries, Accountants-General, Auditors-General etc., the same people that mooted, studied and recommended the Scheme to our government exempted themselves from the same Scheme.  Respectfully, we want the leadership of the National Assembly to ponder on this observation. “We submit further that if the NPF, like their military counterparts and others are exempted from this Scheme, it will definitely not bring to an end further agitations by other para-military organisations and other civilian groups to exempt the Scheme. ‘’It is our humble submission and appeal to the National Assembly to  look at the problems of the Scheme and resolve it, and bring back those that were already exempted from the Scheme, rather than exempting each group as they continue to agitate for exemption. “Let us research into the reasons behind the agitations to leave the Scheme by some group of pensioners which may not be far from the cumbersome administrative bottle necks experienced by retirees in accessing their money after retirement. These bottlenecks are caused by the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), which must be addressed by the National Assembly.’ “However, if the Police Force is allowed to pull out of the Scheme like others, there is every tendency that the civil and public servants may also seek for exemption enmasse, and that will be the end of the Scheme.” NUP noted that between 1999 and 2002, the Federal Government discovered that it could no longer sustain payment of retirement benefits to its retired workers, including those of the Armed Forces. “Those days witnessed retired soldiers sleeping under bridges, and in some major streets of Abuja to demand  their unpaid retirement benefits. It was during that time that the government decided to seek for a sustainable future pension scheme that is sustainable enough to cater for employee’s retirement benefits.This gave birth to the CPS, which is said to have been borrowed from Chile, South America. “The shift from the DBS to the CPS declared a state of emergency in the pension sector economy. Such certainly called for understanding from employees of government. ‘’Hence, the Pension Reform Act 2004 gave no room to any exemption of any employee of government from the succeeding new pension regime, the CPS,” the union added.