Senator who represented Kaduna Central in the 7th National Assembly, Major-General Muhammed Sani Saleh (retd) has said Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is most competent and capable to lead Nigeria out of all the presidential aspirants. Saleh, who is also the North West Coordinator of Disciples of Jagaban (DOJ) said, Tinubu is a mature politician who has the requisite experience, temperament and understanding to take Nigeria to higher heights. Speaking to journalists in Kaduna on Wednesday shortly after the meeting of the national officials of DOJ, the former Lagos going by his antecedents is the best person for the job. According to him: “We need a leader like Asiwaju to run the affairs of this country. Asiwaju is somebody who right from his early days in politics, has been a mentor of people, a groomer of Leaders, he has been somebody who has plans with whatever he does. “We have seen his antecedents. We saw how Lagos worked, we know what what Lagos was before, we know the efforts of past Governors of Lagos State, we know what Colonel Olagunsoye did as a governor of Lagos state, we know what General Buba Marwa achieved as governor of Lagos state all those were achievements but they are achievements that did not ensure continuity. “Asiwaju became governor of Lagos state in 1999 and from then we have seen the transformation of Lagos, structural transformation, Economic transformation and the Human resource transformation of Lagos state.   Lagos fire: Traders under bridges get ultimatum to vacate     Five injured as hoodlums attack FCTA officials     Obeying court order on Electoral Act 84 (12) work in…   “Lagos is like a mini Nigeria because all the problems afflicting Nigeria as a whole can be found in Lagos and since Asiwaju was able to establish the frame work for solving them with very positive results, we are confident that, he will replicate that in Nigeria,” General Saleh said. National Coordinator of DOJ, Comrade Abdulhakerm Alawuje, urged Nigerians to refrain from demarketing Tinubu on account of his faith. Doing so, he said, will only rob Nigeria of his best. Alawuje said Tinubu is the most prepared, capable and competent among all the presidential aspirants. He said he must not be rubbished on the altar of primordial sentiments, noting the ruling party has micro-zoned presidency to South-west and urged the people to present a candidate that could win general election. According to him: “Tinubu is for real. He is well prepared, he is not fake like others; he has been consulting throughout Nigeria and has been presenting undisputable and verifiable facts about himself, whereas, others do not even know where to start from. “Some are even afraid of what to tell the world about themselves while others have needlessly and fruitlessly wasted the resources they could use for campaign to sponsor wailers, criminals and crooks against the Jagaban,” he said.