Moses Okoh, a 20- year- old student of the University of Jos(UNIJOS) standing trial in a High Court in Jos for allegedly killing his girlfriend, Jennifer Anthony, a 300-level student of the institution, suddenly turned singer on Friday as witnesses testified against him. The police accused Okoh of committing the offence on Dec 31, 2021 when he allegedly killed Anthony and removed her eyes and other human parts. During the trial, a witness, Mr Akubo Lazarus of Busa Buji, Jos, a receptionist at the Domus Pacis Hotel, told the court that he received the accused person as a guest on Dec. 31, 2021 and lodged him in room 302. “The defendant who registered in as Moses Oche came to our hotel at about 4 pm on Dec. 31, he came alone but the late Jennifer joined him a few hours later and he hurriedly came downstairs and picked her to the room. “I closed for the day and went home and returned on Jan 1st for my morning shift. The accused at about noon came to me to check out and I left him at the reception to check the room for any damages.   Airtel offers free calls for Nigerian families, friends in…     BREAKING: Uncertainty over UK trip as Buhari returns to…     Russia awaiting Ukrainian response to peace talks –…   “On getting to the room I met a lifeless body of a female on the floor in a pool of her own blood. I raised an alarm but he had already absconded from the premises,” he said. Another witness, Mrs Elizabeth Dung, a kitchen attendant at the hotel, told the court that she served the defendant two plates of food and cutlery set on the said date of the murder. “I was in the kitchen when the defendant came to me and asked for two plates of food, I took the food to him with two spoons and two forks. “I know all the cutlery in the kitchen having worked there for a long time. The fork shown to me in the court now is the same one I served him that day. “I recognise the accused person as the same person I served food on Dec. 31 and the fork is the same one I served him but it was not bent and it did not have blood stains when I served him,” she said. The judge, Justice S.P Gang, after listening to the witnesses and counsels to the parties adjourned the matter to March 9, for continuation of hearing.