Russian forces stepped up their attacks on populated urban areas yesterday, bombarding the central square in Ukraine’s second-largest city and Kiev’s main TV tower. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused Moscow of a blatant campaign of terror and vowed: “Nobody will forgive. Nobody will forget.” Ukrainian authorities said five people were killed and five wounded in the attack on the TV tower, which is a couple of miles from central Kiev and a short walk from numerous apartment buildings. Officials said a TV control room and a power substation were hit, and Ukrainian TV channels stopped broadcasting. At the same time, a 64-kilometre convoy of hundreds of Russian tanks and other vehicles advanced on Kiev in what the West feared was a bid by Russian President Vladimir Putin to topple Ukraine’s government and install a Kremlin-friendly regime.   Logistics problems weighing down Moscow’s onslaught But, logistics problems are stalling a massive Russian convoy that’s pushing its way toward Kiev, according to a senior U.S. defense official. The convoy, which has been measured as stretching for 40 miles, is apparently being hampered by fuel and food shortages. The news comes as Russia continues to concentrate attacks on the large cities of Kiev and Kharkiv. As night fell on Ukraine yesterday, the Russia’s large convoy was still about 18 miles north of Kiev — representing little or no change from Monday, the official said. They added that some elements within the military column are “literally out of gas” and having difficulty feeding their troops. However, Russian forces pressed their attack on other towns and cities across the country, including at or near the strategic ports of Odesa and Mariupol in the south. Meanwhile, Russian nuclear submarines sailed off for drills in the Barents Sea and mobile missile launchers roamed snow forests in Siberia after President Vladimir Putin ordered his nation’s nuclear forces put on high alert over tensions with the West over the invasion of Ukraine. Russia becoming increasingly isolated, ‘5000 soldiers’ captured Day six of the biggest ground war in Europe since World War II found Russia increasingly isolated, beset by tough sanctions that have thrown its economy into turmoil and left the country practically friendless, apart from a few countries such as China, Belarus and North Korea. Canada has allotted nearly $79 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine amid Russia’s special operation in the country, Canada’s Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday. “Canada stands united with those affected by the conflict in Ukraine, which is why we’re announcing an additional C$100 million (US$78.82 million) in humanitarian assistance to help experienced partners address the most pressing humanitarian needs on the ground in Ukraine and neighboring countries,’’ Global Affairs Canada said in a statement.   Fed Govt grants waiver for pre-departure quarantine…     Crisis raises anxiety over energy flows, says OPEC     Russia-Ukraine conflict threatens African economy: S.…   Maersk, the world’s largest container shipping line, says it will suspend deliveries to and from Russia due to the sanctions imposed against the country for invading Ukraine. The company announced this in a statement yesterday. Maersk said the suspension would cover all Russian ports but would not include foodstuffs, medical and humanitarian supplies. Meanwhile, Russian nuclear submarines sailed off for drills in the Barents Sea and mobile missile launchers roamed snow forests in Siberia after President Vladimir Putin ordered his nation’s nuclear forces put on high alert over tensions with the West over the invasion of Ukraine. Overall death tolls from the fighting remained unclear, but a senior Western intelligence official, who had been briefed by multiple intelligence agencies, estimated yesterday that more than 5000 Russian soldiers had been captured or killed so far. Britain’s Ministry of Defence said they had seen an increase in Russian air and artillery strikes on populated urban areas over the past two days. In Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-biggest city, with a population of about 1.5 million, at least six people were killed when the region’s Soviet-era administrative building was hit. Explosions tore through residential areas, and a maternity ward was moved to an underground shelter. Kharkiv’s Freedom Square — Ukraine’s largest plaza, and the nucleus of public life in the city — was struck with what was believed to be a missile, in an attack seen by many Ukrainians as brazen evidence that the Russian invasion wasn’t just about hitting military targets but also about breaking their spirits.   Attack undisguised terror, says Zelenskyy Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy pronounced the attack on the main square “frank, undisguised terror,” blaming a Russian missile and calling it a war crime. “This is state terrorism of the Russian Federation,” he said. In an emotional appeal to the European Parliament later, Zelenskyy said: “We are fighting also to be equal members of Europe. I believe that today we are showing everybody that is what we are.” He said 16 children had been killed around Ukraine on Monday, and he mocked Russia’s claim that it is going after only military targets. “Where are the children, what kind of military factories do they work at? What tanks are they going at, launching cruise missiles?” Zelenskyy said. Human Rights Watch said it documented a cluster bomb attack outside a hospital in Ukraine’s east in recent days. Local residents also reported the use of the weapons in Kharkiv and the village of Kiyanka, though there was no independent confirmation. Many military experts worry that the Kharkiv attacks mean Russia could be shifting tactics in Ukraine. Moscow’s strategy in Chechnya and Syria was to use massive artillery and air bombardments to pulverise cities and crush fighters’ resolve. The International Criminal Court’s chief prosecutor said he plans to open an investigation into possible war crimes in the invasion.