The American bank, JP Morgan, has told a London court that allegations of fraud and corrupt scheme made against it and former Attorney-General of the Federation and Justice Minister Mohammed Bello Adoke by Nigeria in the OPL 245-related case cannot be proven. Responding to claims submitted by Nigeria to the Business and Property Courts of England and Wales Commercial Court, JP Morgan argued that Nigeria “cannot establish a fraudulent and corrupt scheme on the facts” before the commercial court. Nigeria’s case, it said, “contains no particulars at all of any agreement or understanding pursuant to which he is alleged to have taken, or agreed to take, bribes.” The Federal Government, in the suit, is claiming more than $1.7 billion for what it calls gross negligence by the  bank in its decision to transfer funds paid by oil giants Shell and Eni into an escrow account owned by Malabu, a company controlled by a former Nigerian oil minister, Dan Etete. Nigeria, through its lawyer Roger Masefield, had said the case rested on proving that there was fraud and that JP Morgan was aware of the risk of fraud but took no action to prevent it. But JP Morgan, also citing the April 13, 2018 declaration made by a  Federal High Court to the effect that Mr Adoke could not be held personally liable in respect of the payments to Malabu (and the giving of instructions to JPMC to make them) said the former minister was merely carrying out the lawful directives and approvals of the then  President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. It said: “There is, in fact, a wealth of evidence which is inconsistent with the argument” by Nigeria that Adoke brokered the agreement to assist Dan Etete as part of a conspiracy in exchange for bribes, adding that submission by Nigeria “is plainly insufficient to justify a finding that Mr Adoke was involved in any fraudulent and corrupt scheme.” Continuing, it said: “The FRN bears the burden of proving the facts on which its claim depends,” adding that “when pleading fraud, full and specific details of the allegation must be clearly set out. “As to the evidence required to prove such allegations, the standard of proof is the ordinary civil standard of the balance of probabilities. However, the more serious an allegation, the more convincing is the evidence required to prove it. “No court – civil or criminal – in any jurisdiction has ever found that there was a fraudulent and corrupt scheme as now alleged. “On the contrary, the Italian criminal proceedings – in which the defendants included many of the alleged participants in the scheme, including Mr Etete, Shell, Eni, and various current or former employees of Shell and Eni – resulted in all of the accused being acquitted of all.   Court okays committal proceedings against AMCON MD, others…     2023: Reject parties that don’t zone presidency to South –…     Osun 2022: Court affirms Babayemi as PDP governorship…   “When criminal proceedings were launched against Mr Adoke in 2016 in Nigeria, he was successful in obtaining an order from the Federal High Court declaring that his involvement in the negotiation, execution and implementation of the Resolution Agreements “was in furtherance of the lawful directives/approvals of the President in the exercise of his executive powers” and that he could not therefore be held personally liable in respect of the same. “As noted above, some of the major participants in the alleged scheme, such as former President Jonathan and former Attorney-General (Bayo) Ojo, have never been charged with any crime. “Despite the fact that the FRN accuses Shell and Eni of participating in the alleged fraudulent and corrupt scheme, the FGN has never taken any steps to revoke the grant of OPL 245 to SNEPCO and NAE, or to rescind the Block 245 Resolution Agreement pursuant to which the grant was made. “It has also advanced arguments in multiple proceedings, including before this Court, which either rely on, or are predicated on the validity of, the Resolution Agreements. “Nor has anyone ever been convicted of any crime in connection with the supposed fraud. Furthermore, the FRN (Nigeria) seems to have taken no steps in Nigeria to recover its alleged losses from the principal beneficiaries of the alleged fraud, such as Mr Jonathan and his associates. “Instead, it has authorised ‘recovery agents’, remunerated based on a percentage of any amounts recovered, to pursue foreign defendants such as JPMC.” “When pleading fraud, full and specific details of the allegation must be clearly set out. As to the evidence required to prove such allegations, the standard of proof is the ordinary civil standard of the balance of probabilities. However, the more serious an allegation, the more convincing is the evidence required to prove it. “The courts have repeatedly emphasised that cogent evidence is required to justify a finding of fraud or other discreditable conduct, reflecting the court’s conventional perception that it is generally not likely that people will engage in such conduct.” JP Morgan could not understand  why Nigeria was  not calling  key witnesses to testify in favour of its claims, saying: “The Resolution Agreements and/or the payment instructions issued to JPMC were therefore known about and/or authorised by (at least) President Jonathan, two successive Ministers of Finance (Mr Aganga who was in post until approximately June 2011) and Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (who succeeded him)), the Minister for Petroleum Resources (Ms Alison-Madueke), the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice (Mr Adoke), the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance (Mr Kifasi), the Minister of State for Finance (Dr Ngama), the Accountant-General (Mr. Ogunniyi), the Director of Funds (Mr Shehu), the Nigerian High Commissioner to the UK (Dr Dalhatu Tafida), the Director of the DPR (Dr Obaje), the Secretary to the FGN (Senator Anyim), and a number of officials and legal advisers from relevant ministries and departments. “Of these, allegations of impropriety are only made against President Jonathan, Ms Alison-Madueke and Mr Adoke. None is made against any of the individuals who issued payment instructions to JPMC under the Depository Agreement, namely Dr Ngama and Mr Ogunniyi (who issued the payment instructions in both August 2011 and August 2013 by which the payments to Malabu were made), and Mr Aganga and Mr Kifasi (in relation to other payment instructions). An Italian court had in March 2021 discharged and acquitted all the defendants in the matter and ruled that there was no proof of corruption in the $1.3bn deal.