A consultant pathologist yesterday shed some light on the autopsy conducted on the body of Timothy Adegoke, the deceased student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State. Dr Waheed Oluogun of the Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, spoke while giving evidence before the state High Court presided over by Chief Judge, Justice Oyebola Ojo. The fifth witness in the case was led in evidence by the prosecutor,  M. O Omosun, before he was cross-examined by the defendants’ counsels, K.K Eleja, SAN, Muritala Abdulrasheed, SAN, Okon Ita and A. O Bada.   NYSC probes members’ erotic dance at orientation camp     Two soldiers, others held for robbery, murder in Borno     Six arrested in Anambra over nude widow parade   He said police authorities, through Inspector Hafiz Olaniyan on November 15, 2021, informed him of the exhumation of Adegoke’s remains along Ede/Ife Road. “While exhuming the body, it was found to be completely wrapped in a blood-stained duvet without exposing any part of the body. It was found in a supine position with two different ropes, one around the neck, the other around the ankles. “On the 22nd November 2021, seven pathologists came for the examination. X-ray was done in UNIOSUN, which revealed a fracture of the right thigh bone. There was a circum clean-cut wound on the left side of the left chest wall measuring 6cm by 4cm close to the left armpit. The soft tissue around that area showed marked tissue reaction measuring 32 by 13 centimetres. There was blood clot in the right chest cavity. There was a fracture of the left hyoid bone of the neck with the fracture of the right cricoid cartilage. There were no superficial neck markings. There was no obvious tussle reaction to the neck. No bleeding to the neck. The brain, the heart, lungs, liver, spleens, kidneys are present in their normal anatomical position with various degrees of decomposition. The external genitalia is intact. We compared it with the normal right chest wall. The result revealed there was bleeding to the tissue around the wound site. I certify the cause of death to be a severe haemorrhage secondary to severe traumatic injury.”