Suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari is due in court on Monday to face drug dealing charge filed by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). He will appear along with six others. The anti-narcotic agency which has been interrogating the suspects, accused them of dealing in 17.55 kilogrammes of cocaine among others. Yesterday, The Nation exclusively reported that Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister for Justice Abubakar Malami on Wednesday filed a request before the Federal High Court in Abuja for Kyari’s extradition to the United States, where he will face money laundering, wire fraud and conspiracy charges. Named with the former Intelligence Response Team (IRT) leader in the NDLEA charge are four senior police officers and two civilians. The officers are: Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Sunday J. Ubua; Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Bawa James; Inspectors Simon Agirgba and John Nuhu. The civilians are Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne. Justice Emeka Nwite of the Federal High Court will handle the case which was filed on February 28. The charge reads: *That you  DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J. Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirgba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male, on or about the 19th to 25th January 2022, at the office of Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Abuja conspired amongst yourselves with ASP John Umoru (now at large) to deal in 17.55kilogrammes of cocaine and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 14(b) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act, CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004.   Fed Govt blames erratic power supply on low water level     Why govt can’t meet union’s demands, by Ngige     Govt raises panel to renegotiate agreement with ASUU   * That you DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J. Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector Simon Agirgba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male, adult on or about the 19th to 25th January 2022, at Abuja dealt in 17.55kilogrammes of cocaine without lawful authority and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 11(c) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act, CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. * That you DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector  Simon Agirgba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male, all male, adult on or about the 19th to 25th January 2022, within the office of the Inspector-General of (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Abuja, conspired amongst yourselves and with ASP John Umoru (now at large) to unlawfully tamper with 21.35 kilogramames of cocaine seized from Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka AlphonsEzenwannne in the custody of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), by removing and disposing 17.55 kilogrammes of the cocaine and by substituting same with some other substance and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 14(b) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency ACT CAP N30 Laws of the Federation 2004. * That you DCP Abba Kyari, ACP Sunday J Ubua, ASP Bawa James, Inspector  Simon Agirgba and Inspector John Nuhu, all male Adult on or about the 19th to 25th January 2022, within the office of the Inspector-General of (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Abuja, unlawfully tampered with 21.35 kilogramme of cocaine seized from Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwannne in the custody of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team (IRT), by removing and disposing 17.55 kilogrammes of the cocaine and substituting same with some other substance and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 16 of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency ACT CAP N30 Laws of the Federation 2004 *That you Chibunna Patrick Umeibe, male adult and Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne, male adult on or about the 19th January 2022 at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu Nigeria, without lawful authority imported 21.35kilogrammes of cocaine and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 14(b) of the National Drug Law enforcement Agency ACT CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. * That you Chibunna Patrick Umeibe, male, adult; and you Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne, male adult on or about the 25th January 2022 at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, Nigeria,  without lawful authority imported 21.35kilogrammes of cocaine and thereby committed an offence contrary to an punishable under section 11(a) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency ACT CAP N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. * That you Chibunna Patrick Umeibe, male, adult; and you Emeka Alphonsus Ezenwanne, male adult and one IK, now at large, on the 25th January 2022, at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu, Nigeria, knowingly possessed 21.35 kilogrammes of cocaine and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 11(d) of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Act Cap N30 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004. Also yesterday, Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, explained the decision by the Federal Government to initiate extradition proceedings against Kyari before the Federal High Court in Abuja. In a statement by his spokesman, Dr. Umar Gwandu, the AGF said: “As you are aware, extradition is a process that involves multifaceted components. The components are usually multi-territorial; international, local and judicial. “Submission of request from the concern party to the relevant authorities constitutes one of such components. “The office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice received the extradition request in respect of the officer in question. “After thorough studies and reviews of issues regarding the application and components thereof, the office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice processed the application and forward same to the relevant authorities for further necessary action.”