Football fundamentally depends on being part of a team, the constant presence of others and interacting with different people – on the surface, not the ideal environment for a shy person to thrive. But there also aren’t many social situations where you can consistently not speak for 17 weeks and still get invited back every Sunday. “Like, unbelievably shy,” triple Champions League winner Lucy Bronze told 90min with a laugh when asked to paint a picture of just how shy she was growing up. “I think my mum always spoke for me. People must have looked at me and thought I was like a puppet on a string because the words never came out of my mouth. “Fara Williams always makes a joke now; I joined Everton at 18 years old, and she was like: ‘I don’t think I ever heard your voice until two years later’. I just didn’t know how to speak to people, didn’t know how to make conversation and keep the conversation going.” While off the pitch Bronze may be introverted, on it she exudes confidence. The Manchester City full-back is renowned for her all-action style, with her marauding charges down the right flank and lung-busting recovery runs a real trademark. She scored long-range screamers against Norway in successive World Cups, and features alongside Lionel Messi, Paul Pogba and Ronaldinho in Pepsi’s 2022 Play to Inspire campaign, where her strength, power and ferocious shot are celebrated.   ‘We have taken steps to reposition Lobi Stars’     Nigeria v Ghana: Ighalo’s inclusion raises doubt     Troost-Ekong ruled out of clash against Ghana   Bronze admitted  that in the early stages of her career, the contrast between her on and off the field personas resulted in some people getting the wrong impression of her. “I think when I was younger I was very misunderstood, especially in the England setup. I think because I didn’t speak but on the pitch when I’m playing football I’m always really confident. On the pitch I’m like hell for leather, I’ll run through a brick wall, I’ll do anything, and then I’ll come off the pitch and I won’t say a word. “I think people used to think I was like an arrogant child and I always got misunderstood. It was only as I got older people realised I was just super competitive on the pitch and actually I wasn’t arrogant, I just didn’t know how to talk to people.” Bronze moved to the United States as a 17-year-old, joining North Carolina’s prestigious college setup. She was coached by World Cup-winning manager Anson Dorrance, played alongside Tobin Heath and Ashlyn Harris and regularly pitted herself against the likes of Kelley O’Hara, Christen Press and Sydney Leroux. A shy teenager leaving her home comforts, moving to an alien country and mingling with a new set of teammates sounds like a hat-trick of social anxiety triggers. On the contrary, for the first time Bronze found a mentality that resonated with her own – while the Americans’ fondness of the English accent aided the social side of things.