Delta Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, says Mrs Marilyn Okowa-Daramola is qualified to run for any political office in the state in 2023. The commissioner, who stated this while briefing newsmen on Thursday in Asaba, said that political agitators should rather address issues rather than attack individuals for cheap political blackmail. He said that a certain section of Ika North East had, for 20 years, occupied the state political space, especially in the House of Assembly, adding that it would not be asking for too much for the other section to take its turn. “I am from the council area and I urge the agitators to address issues, and not attack individuals. Gov. Patrick Okowa’s daughter is eminently qualified to run for House of Assembly election. “Gov. Okowa is reluctant, but people of the community and the LGA are pushing her, knowing her pedigree, competence, intelligence and creativity and that she has the ability to represent them. “If the governor’s daughter is qualified. So, why not? People of divergent views must not look for those to pull down, after all a particular section of the council area had been occupying the position in the past 20 years.   Protest hits Abuja over incessant kidnappings     BREAKING: We’ll deliver 2nd Niger Bridge, Lagos-Ibadan…     22 ships discharge petrol, others at Lagos ports   “The governor’s daughter is a youth, and the youth have roles to play. Besides, we are towing the path of equity to allow persons from the other side of the council area to also feature, after 20 years. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Okowa-Daramola is the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Girl-Child Empowerment. On Okowa’s endorsement of any candidate, the commissioner said that all the politicians gunning for governorship in the state under Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were eminently qualified. He, however, noted that the Okowa-led administration would finish strong despite distractions. “The governor will not ask anybody not to run for any position, if such a person approaches him. We are not going to stop or fight them for using the name of the governor to campaign. “The governor has integrity, and everybody wants to associate with him. We hope that all our members are able to play safe, with respect for one another and in the interest of peace. (NAN)