WEEKENDS are interesting times for this writer devoid of the challenges of sourcing for stories, second-guessing what the competitions would produce the next day, no worries about headlines, not forgetting the burden of spotting errors in the newspaper. The issue of errors of any kind humbles any editor when shown to him or her. They spoil your day no matter how many big stories you have on that day. For columnists such as this writer, it is the most difficult thing to sit down to do a critique of the week’s reports or do interesting prose of trends in the industry. There are a few times when you have a brain block – not having anything worth the while to tell your readers for the week. It has become a ritual for this writer to sit alone either at home or in any of the viewing centres to watch matches of the week with all my phones switched off to avoid the taunting calls from rivals when things go awry for my favourite club. I enjoy watching games in viewing centres because it gives me the best opportunity to gauge how the readers patronise Sportinglife daily. I also listen and take down notes on what they would want to add to the newspaper. I sneak into these centres thinking I  wouldn’t be recognised. Foul – in minutes one reader would walk towards my seat to share the place. In no time the question – are you…? Let me use this medium to thank everyone for choosing Sportinglife. We promise to make every edition the reader’s choice. I digress! I was taken aback watching the games’ build-up to the first Premier League clash last Saturday only to see Chris Houghton doing a punditry job on DSTV.  Houghton is eminently qualified to do the job of a pundit. But curiosity arose from the fact that Houghton had boasted that he would guide the Ghanaians to clinch the Qatar 2022 World Cup ticket from Nigeria in a two-logged contest beginning with the first tie on March 25 and then the away tie inside the MKO Abiola Stadium Abuja. I had my doubts if it was Houghton but got convinced which his chest caption on television confirmed – Chris Houghton. I reckoned that perhaps, Houghton had walked out of the Black Stars’ job. Otherwise, what was he doing in the studio in London when he has two crucial matches against Ghana’s soccer rivals? Would Houghton sit on the bench on March 25? If yes, how many of the Super Eagles players does he know beyond those who ply their trade in England? Instead of preparing their team for the game against Nigeria at the Baba Yara Stadium, the talk is about the deft moves made by Nigeria to appreciate what they would be faced with in the few days leading to the matchday on March 25. The reports revealed that the Nigerian inspection team members are at a plush hotel in East Legon, stressing that: “They will later move to Cape Coast to scout for a good hotel for the team and the travelling supporters. For Nigeria, experience is the best teacher. The Nigerians don’t want to approach the March 25 tie blindfolded, which is the key needed to unlock the Ghanaians. Potential landmines, literally speaking would be addressed. It is exactly six days to the all system go game between Ghana’s Black Stars and Nigeria’s Super Eagles for the qualification ticket to the Qatar 2022 World Cup holding in any of the Ghanaian cities. As of Monday, stories flooded the media about the likely change of venues for the game with some reports suggesting that it would hold in Morocco. Did you say farfetched? It is possible if FIFA inspectors are convinced that the Cape Coast Stadium isn’t befitting to host such a high-profile game. FIFA has standards that shouldn’t be compromised on the altar of having the game played in Ghana. NO. Another report in the media insinuated that the game would be played in the Republic of Benin raising the question of the deadline within which any host country can inform her visitors of the venue and date of the game to enable them to prepare for their visit. On Wednesday CAF changed the venue to Kumasi but with a provision that certain things must be done. – Installation of new international standard, modern and comfortable officials’ benches at pitch level. – Adjustment of the floodlight intensity. A minimum of 1200 Lux should be provided all over the pitch, covering uniformly every area of the playing field. – Increase seating and lockers in the teams’ dressing rooms to reach (25) persons. – Installation of completely new modern equipment and materials in the referees dressing rooms and ensure that is equipped with all the necessary materials and CAF requirements.   Qatar 2022: only the best for Eagles     Carabao Cup: What was that… 11-10?     Learning from past mistakes   – Set up the water system to provide both cold and hot water in the teams and officials’ dressing room. – General refurbishment of the CAF office, installation of modern desks and seats, including the necessary electronic and working equipment. – VOC must be available and equipped with all the necessary equipment and requirements. – Complete refurbishment of the media tribune, press conference room and media centre, installing new and modern equipment. CAF also stated there will be onsite stadium inspections by the continental body until the day of the match and in the event that the above-mentioned conditions are not met before the match the financial sanctions will be imposed on Ghana. Evidently, the Black Stars have no home. They would be playing under the same conditions as the Eagles, with Nigerians numbering over 6,000 storming the stadium to cheer the boys to victory. The odds are stacked against Black Stars. One only hopes that the Eagles capitalise on these flaws nail the Ghanaians with goals, making the return game on March 29 – a formality. The secrecy surrounding the players invited to prosecute the two-legged ties for the Black Stars is laughable considering the fact that most of them played for the team in their shambolic AFCON outing in Cameroon. The invited players know themselves except the public, although the reason for the delay is part of the strategies being adopted by the Ghanaians ahead of the game against their West African rivals. Indeed. But the pertinent question for the March 25 game rests with which stadium in Ghana would host it following doubt about the Cape Coast Stadium? Will Ghana’s FA bigwigs play the politics of getting FIFA to accept what they have and then do the few cosmetic works to be done in areas where posers have been raised by the owners of the beautiful game in Zurich? The Ghanaians would assemble in camp on March 21 for the game on March 25. Coach Addo would be relying on those who were in Cameroon for the 2021 AFCON with a few additional players who would plug the holes noticed in the Black Stars squad during the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. For the Eagles, they must strive to beat Black Stars at home for Nigerians to have the courage to storm the MKO Abiola Stadium on March 29 for the final lap of victory ceremonies. The news from the European competitions is devastating with Wilfred Ndidi doubtful for the two matches if X-tray results show that his knee injury is serious. Tentatively, Coach Eguavoen would need to rearrange his midfield to cover up the void Ndidi’s absence would bring on the team. It is easy for optimists to dismiss by the wave of the hand Ndidi’s impact on the Eagles’ game. Ndidi brings width and depth in the midfield when the chips are down. Ndidi was injured on Thursday night in one of the Europa League ties. With six days to the first game, it would be wise that Eagles coaches rearrange the midfield. Kenneth Omerou is out injured, although the team has many options in the central defence position with the return of Leon Balogun. The obvious question would be if Nigeria can replace these two players? It is not going to happen. The coaches would pick from those registered as standby. That is if such replacements are on the standby list. Balogun, Calvin Bassey, Semi Ajayi are all playing regularly too. But Coach Eguavoen’s job has been cut out for him to prove his mettle.