Nigerians are lamenting the lingering petroleum scarcity and the flagrant price hike of the commodity by marketers. They also lamented the erratic power supply, and the ongoing strike action embarked upon by Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). In the past weeks, fuel scarcity worsened in many cities, leaving people struggling to go to work or engage in other daily activities. The Nation reports there have been fuel queues in major cities including Abuja, Lagos, Ibadan. Nigerians took to social media to vent their anger. Some criticised President Muhammadu Buhari for embarking on a foreign trip amid the country’s critical moments. Other stressed that their means of livelihood and survival is being affected by the lingering PMS scarcity and erratic power supply. Journalist Kolapo Olapoju tweeted: “This is the worst time to be dealing with a protracted petrol scarcity situation in Nigeria, given the unstable electricity supply across the country and the kind of heat that can make one delirious.” @Morris_Monye tweeted: “So in the midst of fuel scarcity, ASUU strike, crippling electricity issues, hyper food inflation etc, Buhari decides to go to the UK to relax and rest.” Nollywood Actor Alexx Ekubo said: “The fuel scarcity + University strike is frustrating, Citizens of Nigeria can’t seem to catch a break. Like is it a curse to come from this country. Only in Nigeria do we pray to God, for basic things that are done by the government of other countries.” Popular comedian Frank Donga said: “How do the people in charge of the petroleum, health and education sectors feel when there are strikes, fuel scarcity and medical tourism by top officials? Must be hard. it is well”   Third force, third farce     Crisis raises anxiety over energy flows, says OPEC     Next President should be a Christian from south – CAN   Football star John Ogu said: “No Fuel for a whole Giant of Africa. The rate on how they let people go through Stress and hardship in that country is just Crazy” Ayo Aroloye said: “What exactly is working in Nigeria? – Three week long fuel scarcity. – Constant hike in transport fares. – High cost of food. – No electricity. – No pipe borne water. – Schools on strike again. – Constant traffic. – Insecurity.” Nollywood veteran, Kate Henshaw also lamented the worsening scarcity of petrol products in the country She said: “With all due respect, we have Mr President who doubles as the Petroleum Minister. He has jetted out to go and look after himself. Nobody cares.”