The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it has disbursed N368.79 billion to over 778,000 comprising of 648,052 households and about 130,000 Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). This is as it further disclosed that a total of 4,478,381 smallholder farmers who cultivated 5.2 million hectares of Farmland accross the country and created 12.5million direct and indirect jobs had received N948billiin under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP). This is according to the Director, Corporate Communications Department, CBN, Osita Nwanisobi at the CBN’s day at the Ongoing 43rd Kaduna International Trade Fair on Thursday. Osita, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Sam Okogue, said the bank through its development role enshrined in the CBN Act 2007, as amended, has led policy and financing Support to about 40 interventions through development finance initiatives, such as the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (ACGSF); the MSME Development Fund; the Agri- business/small and medium Enterprises investment Scheme(AGSMEIS); and the Non-oil Export Stimulation Facility(NESF), the Anchor Borrowers’ programme (ABP),  among others. He explained that the recently launched Tertiary Institutions Entrepreneurship Scheme( TIES) is expected to unleash the potential of Nigeria graduate entreprenurs (gradpreneurs) by providing re-orientation, training and innovative financing model that will enhance the enterprenurial ecosystem with transformational impact on the economy.   Governors decry NNPC zero contribution to Federation Account     Lagos creates 200,000 jobs     Russia-Ukraine: MTN grants waivers to customers   “The broad objective of the 100 for 100 policy on production and productivity(PPP) is to boost production and productivity, necessary to transform and jumpstart the productive base of the Nigerian economy.  It is also expected that the initiative will reverse the nations’s over-reliance on imports, by creating an ecosystem that targets and support the right companies and projects with potentials to immediately transform and kick-start the productive base of the economy’’. “About N23.20 billion has been disbursed to the first set of 28 beneficiaries comprising 14 in the manufacturing sector, twelve in the agricultural sector and two in the healthcare sector. “it is expected when fully operational, the first set of the scheme which commenced in November 2021, will create over twenty thousand direct and indirect jobs across multiple sectors of the economy.” Osita said in view of the above, the economy without no doubt will enjoy greater global competitiveness, when all hands key into the various initiative of the bank. He therefore reassured the public that the central bank of Nigeria under the leadership of Mr. Godwin Emefiele will continue to be a people- focused CBN promoting confidence in the economy and enabling an improved standard of living.