Katsina State Commissioner for Health, Danja Yakubu Nuhu and four other survivors yesterday relived their experiences on the train. Nuhu shared his experience with visiting  Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi and his team in Kaduna. The others survivors—Fatima Shaibu,  Mallam Muhammed and Maimuna Inbrahim–spoke with Channels and a  radio interview. They said the gunmen, who first targeted the VIP coach but could not gain entry,   had to use coach SP 17 to do so. At least eight of the train passengers were on Tuesday confirmed dead and 26 injured. Many others were taken hostage. Fifteen of the injured persons were discharged yesterday by two hospitals that treated them. One of the nine patients is said to require heart surgery for which Kaduna State Government said it was making efforts to ‘import’  a cardiologist. The survivors and government spoke as more Nigerians and groups flayed the attack, the second within five months on the same Abuja-Kaduna rail corridor. Among those that flayed the attack are Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige; a former Senate President and  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Anyim Pius Anyim: Senate Chief Whip. Orji Kalu;  former Minister of Education Oby Ezekwesili;  former National Assembly member,  Shehu Sani; Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency( NIMASA), Bashir Jamoh and Zamfara State Speaker, Alhaji Nasiru Magarya. The Kaduna State branches of the Council of Imams and Ulama and the Christain Association of Nigeria (CAN) also flayed the attack. President Muhammadu Buhari led   Federal Executive Council (FEC) members to observe a minute- silence in honour of the victims yesterday. The Katsina State commissioner said he lost one of his fingers to the attack by the gunmen who also shot dead a pregnant woman. According to the Nuhu, the gunmen came in three Volkswagen Sharon vans which the attackers used to move many of their victims. He said: “The operators were clever in shutting down the engines and the lights. So, that inculcated fear in the bandits because they did not know what to confront. “Most of the passengers tried to see how they could hide under the chairs, some went into the toilets and other places. They (gunmen) started by forcing the door of the VIP coach but they could not open it. I was in that coach. So, they entered through coach 17. “Before then, about three minutes before the train halted, we had the train making a sound like an old trailer on bad pavement for about two minutes and people were asking themselves what was going on but before we knew it, they(attackers) started shooting from all angles. I think they put the gun in a rapid mood, so that inculcated fear in people. “I could see when bullets were penetrating the body of the train, I saw holes.   I tried to move my leg because it was on the floor and I was wearing a shoe but the bullet penetrated and one of my fingers is completely off. “We waited for about  90  minutes before the rescue came. We were not sure whether the bandits had gone because we could hear the sounds and some sounds that seemed to be alien. They(gunmen) entered and they were matching people. They would  climb the chairs and then swing themselves up. “I heard when they were asking who is a member here? I think they were looking for a better catch or maybe they had a target or a clue but they were asking questions in Hausa. I saw when they shot a pregnant woman, they were really merciless. “One of the escapees was telling us that immediately you climb up to the embankment, you will see them standing with Sharon buses. He said the buses were three. “I asked him how he managed to escape and he said he sat at the back and that when they got to a hilly place , the bus was struggling, he took the risk by jumping through the window. “He was fractured. He said it is better to sustain the fracture while trying to escape than the uncertainty that awaits him if he gets to the bandit’s camp.” Another survivor,   Fatima Shaibu, told Channels that after the train derailed, they first heard a loud sound and then gunshots from all directions. She said: “They (terrorists) broke into the train through the door of the VIP coach, shot at many and took several others away. My sister who was sitting next to me was one of those shot and killed by gunmen. “I don’t know what to say again because there is now a lot of insecurity in Nigeria. By road we are not safe, by train we are not safe.” Shaibu corroborated the account of another survivor, who told The Nation on Tuesday,  that the attackers were young men that looked like Nigeriens and Chadians. “They looked young and they were speaking a different language from Hausa or Fulani,” she said. Mallam   Muhammadu  said that he hid under a seat in coach SP 17  from where he saw the gunmen taking his fellow passengers away. He added that they killed a passenger in the coach before proceeding to join their colleagues that first gained entry in the VIP coach. The gunmen, he said abducted and moved many passengers in the VIP coach into a Volkswagen Sharon Van. According to him, one of the abducted VIPs escaped from the van and joined nine of them that were in coach SP 17. He added that the train driver was among those killed by the attackers while fleeing the scene. “We saw the train driver. He came out and attempted to run but they shot and killed him. The terrorists were chanting Allahu Akbar,  Allahu Akbar and saying   Come down, come down!!”. ”I was hiding under the seat praying…it remained about two steps for the terrorists to get to me but after killing a passenger, they started arguing before going to the VIP coach.   Qatar 2022: Rohr fires broadsides after Eagles’ exit     Primary schools in dire straits as UBEC funds remain unused     Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike   “They abducted many passengers. “Some old passengers had trauma. One had an asthmatic attack and another died of a heart attack. All the dead bodies were left in the train because the soldiers felt it would be difficult to convey them to where we took refuge.” Maimuna Ibrahim, who spoke in her hospital bed said soldiers moved her to a safe place by the highway after she was shot in the thigh. She explained that she was returning to Kaduna from Abuja where she attended a workshop. She said: “We saw hell, I prayed and prayed and prayed. I was shot in the thigh. But the bullet did not touch my bone. The bullet penetrated out of my thigh. I was unable to walk, it was the soldiers that carried me on the back of a vehicle that brought us to the hospital. “We suffered seriously, but thank God soldiers came and they really helped us” “I went to a workshop in Abuja in the morning and I was on my way back to Kaduna that same day after the workshop.” “I saw the terrorists from the window. They were many.    I saw them forcing  and  beating them   out of the train.”   FEC observes a minute of silence for victims At the FEC meeting yesterday, President Buhari and members of the council observed a minute of silence in honour of the victims. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha, who called for the observance, said that both the main  and  rescue train was attacked Kaduna State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the  Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI) and the Sir Ahmadu Bello Foundation joined Anyim, Ngige and others in condemning that attack.   El-Rufai: We are in state of war Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai said the attack by terrorists on the Kaduna-bound train was a pointer to the fact that “we are in a state war.” Speaking when the Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi visited him, the governor said bandits’ hideouts were known. He urged security agencies to wipe out the terrorists. El-Rufai said: “We have enough intelligence for us to take action. We have enough surveillance equipment. We know what they are planning. We get the reports. “Don’t wait until they attack before they respond. The Army should go after their enclave to wipe them out. Let the Airforce bomb them. “Before they were categorised as bandits and if you bombed them, you would have issues with human rights organisations and international criminal courts and so on. “But now that have been declared terrorists by the courts, they can be legally killed without any consequences to international human rights organisations. “We know where their camps are, we know where they are, the SSS have their phone numbers, they listen to them, and they give me the report. We know what they are planning. “We shouldn’t be waiting for them to attack. Why can’t we go after them? We are in a state of war; this place should be declared a war zone. “The Army, the Airforce, the Police should go in there and kill them. Will there be innocent casualties? Yes! In every war situation, there are casualties.”   Kaduna Muslim clerics, CAN  want change in tactics The Kaduna State branch of the Council of Imams and Ulama and the Christain Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Kaduna urged the Federal Government to take drastic steps to halt worsening insecurity. The council, in a statement by its Secretary-General, Yusuf Yakubu Arrigasiyyu,  said the continued application of sporadic tactics in fighting the bandits will not yield the desired result. It said the hideout of the bandits was well-known to all security agencies, yet they are allowed to operate without hindrance. “The government must be held responsible for any single soul that is lost. “The Council urges the government to secure our villages and roads and ensure we are safe. Enough o the talking. We need action, Mr President,” it said. CAN said the bandits appeared to have evolved an extended network for intelligence gathering and planning on how to fulfil their mission of terrorising innocent citizens. “On the contrary, the resilience of the government and her intelligence gathering happens to be more about settling scores with perceived foes,” it said. The association urged the Federal Government to deploy everything at its disposal to crush the bandits.