The Constitution is clear on how a governor and his deputy can be removed from office. They can only be removed for gross misconduct by the House of Assembly. In exercising this right, the assembly must give the governor fair hearing by allowing him to defend himself before a panel of eminent citizens duly constituted by the Chief Judge. If this process is not followed and the governor is removed, the court is empowered to void the impeachment. That is what Section 188 of the Constitution says about the removal of a governor or a deputy governor. Can the court usurp this constitutional function of the legislature? This is the question that was thrown up after Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, sacked  Abia State Governor David Umahi and his deputy, Dr Kelechi Igwe, on March 8. The judge held that they could no longer hold their positions because of their defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). According to the judge,  Umahi and Igwe got to office by virtue of the votes cast for PDP, on which platform they contested the governorship election on March 9, 2019. They, he held, could  not transfer those votes to another party by defecting to APC, who lost in the said election to PDP. “There is no constitutional provision that made the ballot transferrable from one party to the other”, Ekwo said. Lawyers have divergent views about the verdict. Some described it as sound and logical, others said it did not follow laid down constitutional provisions. Ekwo might have trodden on a path that had not been legally and constitutionally tested since the advent of this political dispensation in 1999. Parties have gone to court to challenge the election of a governor on various grounds, but none, it seemed, contested the defection of a governor from one party to the other. Ekwo’s decision may, therefore, be opening a new chapter in the legal dispute over the defection of governors and the resolution of same. There are cases that appear related to the Umahi matter, but which are not on all fours with it. For instance,  there is the case of a former lawmaker, Ifedayo Abegunde, which many are citing to justify Ekwo’s removal of Umahi, and the Atiku Abubakar case in which the Supreme Court held that the President or Vice President could only be removed from office by the National Assembly for gross misconduct. Under the Constitution, the provisions for election, resignation and removal of the President or Vice President, a governor or a deputy governor are similar. The Abegunde case may not apply to the Umahi matter because it was over the lawmaker’s defection from Labour Party (LP) to the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria. The Constitution is clear on the defection of lawmakers. It states that they can only defect where there is a crisis in their party at the local and national levels.   Poverty virus     When Bianca slapped Ebelechukwu     EFCC chair: nothing political about Obiano’s arrest   The Supreme Court upheld this constitutional provision in sacking Abegunde from the House of Representatives because there was no national crisis in LP. Ekwo cited the Abegunde case, among others, in arriving at his decision that Umahi and his deputy could no longer hold office. The only snag in his use of the Abegunde case  is that none of the parties claimed that Umahi and Igwe defected from PDP  because of any local or national crisis. So, should he have ordered PDP to name replacements for Umahi and Igwe after sacking them? It is believed that Ekwo erred in making that order. Parties do not handpick governorship candidates. They hold primaries where such candidates are elected and subsequently screened by the electoral commission before they run in the general election. There was no primary in which Umahi emerged PDP governorship candidate and Igwe, his running mate in 2019. He was the sole aspirant and was merely affirmed as the party’s candidate for the main contest which he won by over 300,000 votes. Under which law did Ekwo ask PDP to make such replacements and send their names to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to be issued certificates of return? PDP has since named Iduma Igariwey, a member of the House of Representatives, and Fred Udogwu in compliance with the order. But the duo are not going to take office soon as the case is now at the Court of Appeal. Even at that, the appeal may end up at the Supreme Court. If the Supreme Court’s decision in the Atiku case is anything to go by, the appeal may be dead on arrival. The apex court held in that case that: “There is nowhere in the 1999 Constitution that it is stated that the President or Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall be removed or is removable from that office if he defects from the political party on which platform he was elected to that office and joins another political party”. Substitute the president or vice president for governor or deputy governor, and you are likely to arrive at the Supreme Court’s verdict on the Umahi case when it gets to the highest court in the land.