The just concluded Lagos international polo tournament was an unforgettable epoch that changed polo folklores, crowning three brand new champions in the high-goal and medium-goal categories of the glamorous king of games grand slam Revered for its robust competition, the 2022 Lagos international fiesta that galloped off with 30 teams jostling for four major cups and a handful of subsidiary prizes saw the home teams sweeping three of the biggest laurels.  Spread over three weeks of high octane polo, the prestigious fiesta reputed as one the biggest polo events in the world , packed punches as Leighton Kings Saopolo team led the Lagos race for glory, winning three big titles in a swoop. Leighton Saopolo victory in the Lagos Open Cup, the Oba of Lagos and the Heritage Cup was the electricity the home teams needed to go all the way, as Lagos Dangote added the Adedapo Ojora Cup to their haul. The final week of the international event that featured top foreign professionals and the best of Nigerian players was Lagos all the way as Lagos Caverton outpaced BobTrack team from Port Harcourt to win the inaugural Chief of Naval Staff Cup. Lagos Elektron Aragorn needed a golden goal winner in the Silver cup final to extend the lead for the home teams, while STL snatched a double earning the Low Cup and the Governor’s Cup in the final weekend to reaffirm Lagos supremacy.   Klitschko brothers ‘ready to die’ fighting for Ukraine     Cricket revival in Kaduna excites Onoja     GCI Trumps GCI to firm up Second Place at the CCC League   It was not a one way traffic for the host as visiting Kano Lintex pulled the biggest surprise of the glamorous fiesta, ending the reign of the three times champions, Lagos Leighton King with a shock golden goal winner in the Majekodunmi Cup titanic final. That surprise victory broke a long agonizing jinx for Lintex Patron, Bashir Dantata (Jnr.) who won his first Majekodunmi Cup after seven years of failed attempts, as the Kano side added the Italian Ambassador Cup to emerge the best performing visiting team in the Lagos 2022 polo extravaganza. Other best performing visiting teams that left lasting impressions during the international festival include Murtala Laushi’s Malcomines team from Jos and the debuting Nigerian Navy team who both finished as runners-up in the Heritage Cup and the Silver cup respectively. The Nigerian premier polo tournament that crown the Leighton Kings Patron, Bowale Jolaosho Best Patron Award, was witnessed by societal affluence including the Emir of Katsina , His Royal Highness, Dr. Abdulmumuni Kabir Usman, His Royal Majesty, the Elegushi of Ikate Kingdom, Oba Saheed Elegushi, business Tycoons, and thousand s of enthusiasts. Meanwhile, Lagos Polo Club President, Ayo Olashoju described the tournament as one of the most successful in years, adding the campaign for Majekodunmi Cup, Open Cup, Low Cup and Silver Cup prizes, were most competitive and the most exciting in years. He thumbed-up all the corporate sponsors for promoting polo and sports generally in Lagos and in Nigerian as a whole, noting that the relationship between Lagos polo and sponsors over the years has had a positive impact in the development of the game of kings. Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola promised that next year would get better as it has always been over the years adding: “Lagos 2022 polo festival was a two weeks of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.”