A cleric, Rev Canon LumenCristi Eboh, has resigned as an ordained priest of the Anglican Communion in Anambra State. Eboh, a radio and televangelist, cited alleged harassment, high-handedness, intimidation and conspiratorial manipulations by his Diocesan, Bishop Owen Nwokolo, for his resignation. In a statement on Monday, Eboh, who presides over a congregation and prayer ministry known as God in Action Adoration Ministry, said his involvement in charismatic activities contributed to his conflict with the Prelate. He also accused Nwokolo of insisting his Ministry’s registered trustees be altered to include him (Nwokolo) and wife but explained that he resisted the conditions on basis that God did not reveal the Bishop or his wife to him as vessels in the ministry. According to him, the Diocesan authorities engaged agents to defame his character, including spreading rumours of sexual misconduct and voodooism against him. He said: “My refusal to include the Bishop as trustee and to hand over landed property of the Adoration Ministry brought about the conflict between the Bishop and I. “The troubles instigated by the diocesan authorities soon began to affect my private life as my wife has been bought over by forces working within the diocese to become instruments of subversion and opposition against me.   OAU student’s murder: Court denies Adedoyin, 6 others bail     ASUU absent as FG inaugurates panel for 2009 agreement     UNIBEN final year student hit by armed robbers’ bullet, dies   “I’m permitted by my communion to enter the sacred institution of marriage. As a married man, I have very private moments with my wife and we shared endearing words just like every young couple. “But at the moment, my wife is living differently in an apartment paid for by someone who knows that she is someone’s wife. “With the crash of my marriage, I have sought to reorder my life, but those fighting me have been sending to me young women targeted at using marriage prospects to malign my character and reputation.” Reacting, Bishop Nwokolo dismissed all allegations leveled against him by the embattled cleric as false and baseless. Nwokolo, who spoke through the Legal Officer of the Diocese, Humphrey Udechukwu said the priest also violated the church’s principles amidst support from the Bishop. He said: “The crux of the matter is that Rev. Eboh wanted to run the affairs of his ministry independent of the Diocese. “He has also refused to abide by the code of conduct of the church and has been disobedient to his superiors despite all efforts by the Bishop to support him and his ministry.”