Before Nigerian international Leon Balogun joined Rangers, the centre-back has had something of a journeyman career. Starting his footballing journey in Germany – the country of his birth – of six clubs only a three-year stint at Mainz resembles anything like home for the defender. Arriving at Rangers via Brighton and then Wigan, there’s no doubt that Leon’s heart has finally settled in Glasgow with Rangers now facing a summer dilemma regarding the defender. It’s never been a question of fight or commitment with Balogun, who on several occasions has come up big for the club and shown himself to be a technically capable, tactically disciplined, and usefully athletic defender. Now in his second year of a two-year deal at Rangers, there’s a feeling that Leon has gone through the pain barrier for the club plenty of times and he has been a warrior when he does get to pull on the shirt. Rangers paid the price of overuse earlier in the season and only now – Balogun bulleting in that crucial third goal against Red Star Belgrade – is the big man getting back to his best. Regularly dovetailing with Swedish international Filip Helander – another who has had regular injury problems – alongside Connor Goldson, it proved a solid rotation last season.   Ali promises to revive sports in Edo     Eagles’ Tracker: Dennis shines in Watford’s survival battle     Oshoala claims third Primera Iberdrola title with Barca   But this campaign Rangers have struggled defensively at times due to a lack of options with the largely inexperienced Calvin Bassey stepping in routinely and the likes of Jack Simpson unfancied. This is where the dilemma lies for Rangers; offering a player of such influence and ability, who has a clear affinity with the club, a new contract seems on paper a sensible one. But the 33-year-old’s injury problems perhaps go against him and it’s about Rangers ensuring they manage Balogun’s load more effectively heading into the final furlong. Balogun proving his fitness between now and the end of the season may be the defining factor in a new contract but the reward may well outweigh the risk already. Chris Jack is claiming Connor Goldson’s future lies elsewhere and whilst injury problems persist with Filip Helander, having Balogun as an option could be priceless for a number of reasons. The Nigerian is a clear leader in the squad and provides a level of continuity should Goldson move on, but a new contract also ensures there are adequate reinforcements in the squad. Scotland international John Souttar will join in the summer whilst Dutch defender Danilho Doekhi remains a target, so the position is being strengthened. But there’s an argument here to suggest that Rangers as both a squad and club would be weakened considerably by letting Leon Balogun leave the place he’s now proud to call home.