Executives of the FCT Chapter of the PPD have thrown their weight behind the presidential ambition of a former Senate President, Chief Anyim Pius Anyim. The endorsement was announced late on Thursday in Abuja when the party chieftains met with Anyim as part of his ongoing nationwide consultations on his political aspiration. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Anyim, who is from Ebonyi in the South East, is one of over a dozen aspirants, wanting to become the president of Nigeria in the next political dispensation. Receiving the executives, Anyim said he was fully aware of the socio-political and developmental needs of the FCT. Anyim said that his understanding of the FCT had positioned him as the presidential aspirant with the best ideas to tackle the problems of the city. He said that he had lived all his working life in the FCT, dating back to 1989, noting that he had been part of the growth and development of the FCT. Anyim said that he had clear ideas of how to tackle the challenges that had been plaguing the FCT, following the rapid growth witnessed in the city. “I am one of you. FCT is the landlord of Nigeria and I am one of you. When I completed my NYSC in Sokoto State in 1989, I moved down to Abuja and I have remained here to date.   Having my first child as 2Baba’s fifth hurts –…     Bianca/Ebele faceoff disgraceful to womanhood – MASSOB     Putin complains of Ukrainian ‘war crimes’ in phone call with…   “I, therefore, have the confidence as one of your own to ask for your support. Entrust me with the critical assignment to rebuild our dear country. I promise you that I will not fail you. “With your votes for me at the presidential primaries, you will be making a worthy and invaluable investment in building the Nigeria we and our children will be proud of. “Together, let us go for a greater Nigeria, where security, peace, unity, inclusiveness and prosperity will be our collective heritage,” NAN quotes him as saying. Anyim said that he had a clear understanding of the problems facing Nigeria as a country and that he had solutions to the problems. In his remarks, the leader of the group, Mr Zakka Sunday, who is also the FCT Chapter Chairman of the PDP, assured Anyim of their unalloyed support. He expressed his delight that the former secretary to the government of the federation understood the problems facing the FCT. Sunday assured Anyim that they would support him to become the president of Nigeria in 2023. (NAN)