Ghana has been forced to delay the Black Stars list for the all-important Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup play-off against Nigeria’s Super Eagles following spate of injuries to some key players. With captain Andrew Ayew and forward Benjamin Tetteh already ruled out for the tie due to suspension and the doubt over the availability of Kamaldeen Sulemana coupled with the injury sustained by defender Abdul Baba Rahman, Coach Atto Addo is not in hurry to make known his squad list. Rahman, former Dreams FC and Asante Kotoko left-back sustained a thigh injury during Reading’s 3-2 win over Preston North End in the Championship on February 19 and he has since been sidelined and was not in action for the Royals as they lost 1-0 to Millwall on Saturday. Mohammed Kudus is expected to return to the team after missing the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon while England-based Thomas Partey, Jordan Ayew, and Daniel Amartey have been in contact with Addo as the trio is expected to play pivotal roles in the encounter. Germany-based midfielder Daniel-Koffi Kyereh who has been in fine form in recent time for St Pauli in the Bundesliga II is expected to bring his form to the team while the majority of the players that featured in AFCON are expected to be named in the squad. Meanwhile, fans who were impressed by the display of Sulley Muntari during the 2022 President’s Cup at the weekend believe the former Inter Milan midfielder deserves a place in the Addo’s squad for the play-off.   Egypt vs. Senegal: Queiroz issues clarion call to Salah,…     WORLD CUP PLAYOFFS: Brentford celebrate Onyeka’s…     Super Eagles: Udeze, Siasia knock Eguavoen   According to the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of Hearts of Oak’s National Chapters Committee (NCC), Kobby Jones Muntari’s recent performance in the ongoing Ghana Premier League could earn him a place in the Black Stars squad. The 37-year-old after joining the reigning Premier League champions on a one-year deal has been so far impressive. On Friday, Muntari won his first trophy with the club after the Phobians defeated Asante Kotoko 2-1 to win the 2022 President’s Cup at the Accra Sports Stadium. “Sulley Muntari has demonstrated to us that with his age and all that he’s achieved in football, he can come to our level and play quality football,” he told Precise FM. “If we are being truthful to ourselves, he deserves a call up to the Black Stars. Vincent Abubakar with his age displayed a splendid performance for the Cameroon team in the recent AFCON. “His performance today against Kotoko must speak for him, everyone is advocating for his inclusion in the Black Stars squad because of his performance. He deserves the opportunity,” he added. The Black Stars will host the first leg at the Cape Coast Stadium on March 25 while the second leg takes place at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja on March 29.