President Muhammadu Buhari has approved a fresh range of solutions, including the deployment of more security personnel, arms and ammunition to douse the security situation in Imo State. Imo Governor Hope Uzodinma, who revealed the outcome of his meeting with Buhari in Abuja, also denied allegations of the culpability of his administration in the reign of terror that had pervaded the state, describing such allegations as illogical. Buhari invited the Governor over recent security developments within his state, as well as the entirety of the Southeast region. The President also met with the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, and his Chief Economic Adviser, Professor Doyin Salami, in two other separate meetings over the crises rocking the power sector and economy in general. Disclosing some details of the conversation he held with the President, the Governor said Buhari granted all his requests with regards to solving the security crises. “You must have heard that the President sent for me and I have gone to see him and based on issues, which we have adequately addressed, particularly the resurgence of insecurity in the Southeast and what is required to ensure that it’s properly controlled. “We discussed all that and he took seriously my recommendations and indeed I can tell you he immediately gave approval to all that, which includes increase in manpower to security agencies and then other logistics supports, ranging from additional arms and ammunition. “Also, we are making use of our local vigilante and the involvement of community leaders to ensure that through community arrangement, additional security is provided to the people.   Russia bans Facebook, Instagram for ‘extremism’     Two killed, others injured in renewed cult clashes     2022 UTME: JAMB laments low turnout of candidates, insists…   “You will recall that few days ago, the home of the President-General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo was attacked by bandits and the same night, a police station in Umuguma, Owerri West, was also attacked. “For a very long time, if you’ll remember, we’ve never had such a situation and this happened at a time that people are already relaxed and thought that insecurity has become a thing of the past. “But to the glory of God, security agencies rose to it, the second day they were probably repelled by security agencies, particularly men of the Directorate of State Service. They’ve been very useful, working with other security agencies. “We didn’t also wait, we initiated a community-oriented program where the vigilante approach has been re-enacted and the community leaders have shown sufficient interest. We’ll get there.” Reacting to the allegation that his administration might be culpable in the crisis in his state, as it had been accused of sponsoring some of the people behind the trouble, including the ‘unknown gunmen’ phenomenon, Uzodinma described such thinking as abnormal. “Well, thank God that you called us government and I don’t know how a government, with paraphernalia of office available to it, ranging from the army, the police, the air force, the navy, the DSS, the Civil Defense, will now go for non-state actors to be used for governance. “As civilized people, you also represent the elites, you should be able to advise such minds to reason well and think well because the only person that officially has power for coercion is government. If anything is to go by, we are a God-fearing government, that is why we have not used force as the only way of controlling the violence in Imo State.”