Performance-enhancing drugs have been around as a means for athletes in the different sporting fields to boost their immune systems. They used not only to compete among their peers but also to stay on top of their game. Caffeine or other metabolic booster drugs are not exceptional in this case.   In 1994, Argentina and Napoli legend Diego Maradona tested positive for a banned substance used to increase energy and alertness during the USA World Cup.   In July 2013, Gay pulled out of the Moscow World Championships tournament after testing positive for banned substances. He later forfeited his USA 4×1000 Olympic silver medal in May 2014. Nigeria 100m/200m track and field queen was suspended by Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) for taking a banned substance which excluded her from the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. She was handed a 10-year ban for not cooperating with the investigating team.   Senegal and Barnsley defender Bambo Diaby was banned on Jan 17, 2020 for violating anti-doping rules. His ban was slated for two years according to Football Association (FA). Read Also: Doping: Blessing Okagbare breaks silence on 10-year ban   Russian football federation angered by FIFA and UEFA bans      FIFA, UEFA suspend Russia from all competitions     Napoli puts €100M tag on Osimhen   Reigning WBC champion Tyson Fury admitted to taking substances after an investigation by the UK Anti-Doping in 2016 and was suspended for two years. Five-time Grand Slam champion and former number one tennis player, Maria Sharapova, used one of the banned drugs by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) at the Australian Open. Meldonium is a substance that helps protect heart tissue by regulating metabolism. She was handed 15-month suspension from tennis after her admittance to using a substance. Armstrong was highly regarded once as a sporting icon having won consecutively Tour de France seven times from 1999 to 2005. After a serious allegation, he confessed to Oprah Winfrey in an interview to using performance-enhancing drugs. However, he was stripped of the title.   One- time American hero Jones was stripped of her five medals won at the 2000 summer Olympics in Sydney after she admitted in 2007 that she was on steroids during her career. She was also sentenced to six months in prison. Ajax and Cameroon goalkeeper was suspended for 12 months after testing positive for furosemide. The player claimed that he mistook the drug for aspirin while unfeeling well, a prescription his wife is on. After several investigations, his ban was reduced to nine months. Alberto emerged as the Tour de France winner in 2009. His performance led top officials to investigate him for two years. After a thorough investigation, he was alleged of using substances used by farmers to fatten their livestock. Gatlin was banned two times (2004 and 2006) after he tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs. In 2006, the sprinter cooperated with International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) to avoid lifetime ban but rather, he was subjected to eight years ban.