Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun (FUPRE), in Delta State, has won the inter-university petroquiz competition organised by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). A statement by its Public Relations Unit said FUPRE beat 25 universities to come first in the contest held at the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Effurun, between February 23 and 26. The society’s FUPRE students chapter, under SPE Section 104, Warri-Delta State, won the trophy at the 20th Students Technical Symposium and Exhibition (STSE), 2022. FUPRE beat University of Calabar 44 -1 in the third stage, trounced University of Port Harcourt 79-16 in the quarter-final, outscored Obafemi Awolowo University 53-14 in the semi-final, before defeating University of Uyo 42-10 in the final. “This achievement qualifies the SPE FUPRE chapter to represent sub-Saharan Africa in Houston-Texas, United States, at the PetroBowl International Competition between October 3 and 5, 2022,” it said. Continuing, the statement said: “In 2014, SPE FUPRE students chapter represented Africa at the World PetroBowl Contest in Amsterdam, Netherland and in Houston-Texas, (2015), while in 2016 (Dubai), the chapter set a new record as the ‘Fifth Best Petroleum University in the World’, defeating University of Manchester and University of Houston”.   Udom Emmanuel reshuffles cabinet, eyes Legacy     Over 9.7m pupils risk not returning to school, says UNICEF     Obiano regains freedom, passport seized   The SPE FUPRE team, which won the contest include Olowe Emmanuel (captain), Omeke Rita Ogechi, Etchie Glory Edonyabo, Shuaib Samuel Oluwasegun, and Okpu Emmanuel Chijindu. FUPRE’s Vice-Chancellor Prof. Akpofure Rim-Rukeh hailed the team for its performance. He said: “The award is a reflection of the fact that as a specialised university with an emphasis on petroleum education, we are teaching what we are supposed to teach, and our lecturers are committed to effective teaching. “With appropriate motivation, our youths and graduates can achieve great feats in different spheres of life,” he said. He thanked the Dean of College of Engineering and Technology, Prof. Godswill Ofualagba; Head of Department of Petroleum Engineering Dr. Wilfred Okologume; and Team Coordinator Ovuema Augustina, urging the team to remain focused. Highpoint of the event was presentation of SPE PetroQuiz trophy to Rim-Rukeh. Present were Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Administration) Prof. Chris Ajuwa; Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) Prof. Chris Izelu; and Mrs. J. E. Omoyine, the registrar.