The Governor of Osun, Adegboyega Oyetola, has congratulated a former deputy governor of the State, Senator Iyiola Christopher Omisore, on his emergence as the new National Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the just-concluded party’s national convention. He has also congratulated the new chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu. He expressed his faith in the leadership ability of the former Nasarawa State governor in administering and managing the party’s affairs. Oyetola who also congratulated other newly elected officers of the party described the emergence of Omisore as a round peg in a round hole in a statement he released to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday. He expressed confidence in the ability of the Ife-born politician to deliver and contribute to the growth of the party through his new position. According to the Governor, Omisore will deploy his political sagacity, leadership qualities and experience which he acquired in public and private sectors, towards building a virile and healthy party at the centre. Governor Oyetola spoke shortly after the announcement of Omisore as the newly elected National Secretary of the ruling party, in the early hours of Sunday morning, at its convention in Abuja. The former Osun Deputy Governor was returned elected through a consensus arrangement reached by other aspirants who withdrew from the contest. Recall that the position of the party’s National Secretary was zoned to the Southwest by the party’s national leadership. Consequently, Omisore along with three other contenders from the region vied for the position.   Plateau 2023: Zoning and other issue set the pace     Taraba: PDP, APC back in the trenches     Ebonyi: APC, PDP in fierce supremacy battle   Addressing journalists at the Eagle Square, Abuja, the venue of the Convention, Oyetola hailed the leadership quality of President Muhammadu Buhari and praised him for playing a fatherly role to unite the party in the interest of all. “First of all, I must thank our leaders in the South West for their support for our own Senator Iyiola Omisore. This is a great thing for us in Osun APC and I must thank other contestants for conceding and accepting to withdraw from the race. I commend them for the bold step just as I assure them of our support in their time of need. I have no doubt in the capacity of Otunba Omisore to deliver and take our party to a greater level. “As you can see, the peaceful atmosphere here and the seamless conduct of the convention is a testimony to the strong unity that exists in our party. It is an attestation to the fact that we have our ways of resolving issues without necessarily resorting to conflict. “Contrary to the negative expectations of some people the convention went peacefully. The security operatives have done wonderfully well. I am proud of what had happened today, it is a sign that our party is united, formidable and remained indivisible. “In achieving all these, I must personally commend the leadership quality provided by President Muhammadu Buhari who always advocate for harmony and peace in the party. It is natural to disagree, but what is important is the ability to have a workable mechanism to resolve any crisis without necessarily resorting to rancour. “I am confident that with the existing units in the APC, our party will continue to remain in power beyond 2023 by the grace of God,” Oyetola added. Also speaking, the newly elected APC National Secretary, Senator Omisore expressed gratitude to God, President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Oyetola, party’s leaders and co-contenders for their unflinching support and confidence reposed in him to serve the party. He promised never to disappoint them.