Things got so bad that I told my friends and all those who usually call me to wail and cry about our country to save their breath because no matter what we say to each other merely create unnecessary heartburn without changing the situation we complain about. Without burying my head in the sand like an ostrich and thinking all will be well, I want to spend whatever is left in my life thanking God for His protection over me and my nuclear and extended families. I also pray for the leadership of my Christian faith here in Nigeria and all over the world and I pray for the political leadership of my country so that they govern in the interest of the people and that they should remember we came to this world naked and that when we die we will not take our earthly possessions with us. I am old enough to know that accumulating wealth to be passed on to our children does not always end well and in fact it is most likely to end in grief. When I read what a former federal minister of works said about all leaders of Nigeria from president to all political appointees being thieves and that he had confessed to President Muhammadu Buhari to arrest him and others and force him and others to vomit what they had stolen, I told myself that perhaps chicken has come home to roost and that this may be the beginning of national moral rearmament! If this courageous confession forces our thieving leaders to have a change of heart and reverse course, this man would have started a revolution whose end we may not be able to predict. Our country has reached the crescendo in our song of moral turpitude and this is manifesting in the apparent revolt of the disinherited and disenchanted who have decided to take laws into their own hands through violence against society unfortunately against poor fellows like themselves merely eking out wretched existence surviving minimally on poor rations sufficient to keep bodies and souls together and afraid to commit suicide by starving themselves to death. These other members of the lumpen proletariat and peasantry are the ones being butchered and killed by the fury of the roving killers of hired herders, brigands, highway robbers, doped religious fanatics and their fellow travelers. If they knew how to organize themselves they are sufficiently many and angry to threaten the state and to render the country ungovernable. It is now very difficult for the rich to enjoy their wealth some of which may have been honestly earned. A knowledgeable friend of mine always laughs when some economists suggest that Nigeria should create an environment favourable for private sector-led growth. My friend says there is no private sector in Nigeria and that the so-called private sector is in fact dependent on what it steals from government for private appropriation. I understand what he is saying because all what one has to do is to look at the so-called captains of industry in Nigeria, one will find out that their wealth can be traced to government. It is either through currency round-tripping, tax holidays, unpaid customs duties, prior knowledge of government policies, sale of government property at giveaway prices and other protection governments grant to these fronts of those in power thus helping to create oligarchs as in Russia, Ukraine and Eastern Europe in general. The privatization policies of our governments in recent times did the transfer of national property into a few oligarchs. The justification for privatization is that private people will run their businesses more efficiently and also create more jobs for the youth. There is no evidence that these two expectations have been met. Rather the companies sold have been stripped and exported out of the country. The cases of Ajaokuta steel mill and Ikot Abasi Aluminum complex are examples how privatization has not been borne out by their end results. We also have cases where minerals have been appropriated by favoured people and ports along our coast have been privatized into private hands while governments have been reduced to mere toll collectors. The result of all these shenanigans is the total collapse of morality and ethics and all or most appointments are for sale or on the basis of man know man as they say in Nigeria, the result of which is the total abandonment of careers open to talents on which the success of capitalism which we have embraced depends.   Where are her body parts?     A sensitive rejection     Reps demand evidence of N2.6tr taxes, royalty payment from…   Some days ago, a train running from Lagos to Ibadan suddenly stopped in the bush. When commuters asked whether armed robbers had gravitated to stopping trains, they were told the train had run out of fuel! Apparently, the skyrocketing price of diesel has affected the railway corporation of Nigeria to the point of running the so-called new trains on shoe strings. When questioned further the people running the corporation claimed the fuel gauge was faulty. The obvious inference is either there are no trained engineers to run the corporation or they were sold refurbished trains as new with apparent collusion of Nigerian officials to us. Whatever the case may be, this is a terrible embarrassment and national humiliation to this benighted country. For almost two months, we have not had regular supply of petrol at the fuel pumps. The little amount we have is being sold at sellers’ price. Diesel is now selling at N600 per litre. Electricity has collapsed because there is no natural gas to fire the turbines. The gas people say gas production is hampered by lack of electricity! Lord have mercy! What is going on? Where is the government in all this? The president before leaving on health vacation said he was happy the price of crude oil is now very high but his minister of state said for more than six months, Nigerian oil production has been 1.3 million barrels a day rather than the 1.8 million barrels allocated to it by OPEC. He immediately explained the reason for this shortfall as being due to lack of investment. Now who is to do the investment but government? Is government just collecting revenue and sharing it without thought of investment and just waiting for foreigners to do the investment? It is elementary mathematics to know why things are like this in the energy sector. If a barrel of crude oil sells at $125 per barrel, it follows that the price of refined petrol would have gone up. So whatever advantage derivable from high price of crude petroleum is lost by the high price we purchase refined products since we have no local refineries to refine our crude oil. Can one ask what has become of government’s perennial awards of contracts for rehabilitation of the four non-working refineries in Nigeria – two in Port Harcourt, one in Warri and the other in Kaduna? May we ask Aliko Dangote what has become the fate of his own refinery or has government buying into it brought in viruses of non-performance to it? May God help us and yet I said I want to be at peace with myself. How can one be at peace when I am writing this article while perspiring without electricity and diesel is at unaffordable price to fire my old generator? Sein Oder night sein: Das ist die fragge! I sometimes wonder why some people are interested in becoming president of Nigeria in 2023? Whoever becomes president after the current one must become a magician ready with a magic wand to solve the accumulated problems of this country or else he will be driven out of office by angry Nigerians who are bottled up with anger and ready to explode!  What afflicts the country is a legion of problems. It is not just the economic problems, huge as they are, it is also not the social and infrastructural problems, daunting as they are; it is also not the problem of the collapse of primary, secondary and tertiary education sector, irredeemable as they seem to be. Neither is it the problem of insecurity, intractable as they appear to be. The mental and psychological problems are not easily identifiable but they are there. People have lost hope in the country. They no longer believe in the future of the country for them and their children. Even those who are holding apparently good jobs are looking for how to harm the country and to loot wherever they are working and to exit the country. How does one explain managers in banks at near 50 years old jumping the sinking and stinking ship of state and relocating abroad to wash plates in hotels or work as mortuary attendants? In short there is no patriotism not to talk about nationalism. I have lived for almost 80 years and I have never seen Nigerians give up on their country like this. I honestly don’t know what to do and I daily join people of my age to lift up this country up to God for divine intervention.  I believe God in his infinite mercy will respond to our collective supplication. But we as individuals must do something. We must change our ways and join this man who has courageously confessed that he and all of us have sinned against the masses of this country and we must ask God for forgiveness because it is by doing this and swearing not to do so again that Nigeria will attain its destiny and lead the much-despised people of Africa to continental restoration and restitution and acceptance by the rest of the world as human beings and not savages!