World’s famous original equipment manufacturer (OEM), Xerox Corporation, has said a new way of working must be adopted post-COVID-19 that will not only ensure the safety of workers in the work environment but also ensure productivity of the company. The company, which operates in the country as Xerox H.S (Nigeria) Limited, said ever since the grievous impact of the pandemic, especially in  2020, there have been reductions in workplace activities, especially that will ordinarily require the presence of employees in the office. Its General Manager, Sales & Marketing, Mr Femi Abidoye,  spoke yesterday in Lagos during the re-launch of company’s Electronic Document Management System (EDMS): the New Normal for the Smart Workplace. He said the majority of the activities around the workplace still revolve around paperwork, which have made it difficult for workplaces to adopt the smart workplace. He added that the XEROX workplace assistants in the intelligent atmosphere with the connectkey solutions and software is the global solution to all reprograhphic expectation and documentation need. “In order to ensure progress and productivity in these changing times, it is high time organizations embraced EDMS, a system that helps ensure that every employee’s documents are always secure and available at their fingertips, granting them secure access, anywhere, any time and on any device.   Air passengers lament 100 % fare hike     IPMAN, NUPENG bicker over illegal increase in petrol price     OPEC: Russia/Ukraine crisis raises anxiety over energy flows   “EDMS is the sum total of the processes and technologies involved in the creation, management, retrieval, indexing, storage and disposition of documents and records of organization. In simple terms, it can be defined as digitizing of paper documents or conversion of paper documents to electronic documents for easy retrieval, safe storage, management and creation of other documents,” he explained. Gleaning from the success story of Xerox corporation globally, Abidoye said the company’s EDMS is packaged as a turnkey solution that spans the whole spectrum of document management from physical archiving of the documents through digitization all the way to upload to Electronic Content management (ECM) platform, the Xerox DocuShare. At this stage, he said one can safely say that the organization is securely on the path to full digital transformation. He said Xerox DocuShare is the global tool and a direct response to disruption in the workspace, stressing that it is the world’s first web based office software solution. He said the Xerox DocuShare comes with a wide range of robust features including a secure access and retrieval of documents; secure storage (128-bit encryption level); document lifecycle management; business process automation; electronic signing; and many others. “With Xerox EDMS, you are assured of proper handling of all your document types: be it legacy or current, physical or electronic. We support all file formats, be it text, image, sound or video.  It is a solution designed with you in mind, whatever the size of your organization, whatever the nature of business, it can be tailored to fit your current need and grow in scale with you as you progress. “The questions agitating the mind of many players in the global workplace and in Nigerian labour market is, what is XEROX response to the global work disorder and how would efficiency, productivity and work processes and procedure can be maintained. The simple answer is EDMS with managed print services commonly called intelligent workplace office assistance. Xerox pioneered the connect keys eco-systems to simplify office documents strategy and management,” he said.