CANADIAN Acting High Commissioner in Nigeria, Mr. Kevin Tokar has called for a global action against Russia for waging war on Ukraine. Tokar, who strongly condemned what he termed as President Putin’s unjustifiable and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, said the world must resist Russian aggression. He said the Russian President has “launched the largest military invasion of any European country since World War II and has shattered peace and security in Europe.” He said Putin has shown a brazen disregard for human life, with his attack resulting in the senseless deaths of innocent people and a large-scale humanitarian crisis. Tokar said: “This is not just an attack on Ukraine. This is an attack on international law, including the UN Charter, as well as democracy, freedom, and human rights.   Parents return from holiday to find son has gone to fight in…     Russia remain suspended from 2022 World Cup qualifying,…     Russia-Ukraine crisis: Is Putin a soulless tyrant?   “The consequences of Russia’s actions will extend well beyond Ukraine’s borders. In launching this war, Russia is seeking to destroy the freedom of a people and overthrow the democratically elected government of a sovereign nation. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has stated clearly that President Putin’s military offensive is a severe violation of the UN Charter. He has implored President Putin to cease his war on Ukraine.” The envoy lamented that: “Russia’s invasion is also having immediate effects on people around the world. For example, the spike in global oil prices caused by this invasion will exacerbate current fuel challenges in Nigeria, while the growing challenges and costs of producing and importing wheat will further drive up the cost of food. The rising cost of bread and fuel is something that every Nigerian, in every walk of life, will feel.” He said: “We must act immediately with one global voice to condemn President Putin’s aggressive actions. And we must hold the Russian leadership under President Putin’s command to account. No country can afford to stay silent in the face of this aggression.”