TO sanitise the building subsector, the Chairman, Lagos State Chapter of Association of Private Practising Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN), Mr Ibikunle Adaranijo, has read out the riot act to its members: The body will no longer tolerate those who give their seals and stamps to quacks for quick bucks. He said the dubious activities of the few would result in untoward consequences in the future. Speaking at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of APPSN in Lagos, Adaranjo called on his colleagues to embrace the latest technology in the sector. He said Lagos State Government had done new survey mappings, which had changed the measurement parameters, thereby affecting Certificates of Occupancy (Cof O) issued about 40 years ago. Adaranijo explained that the new survey mapping had slightly adjusted location of property which required various technological equipment for surveyors to be able to catch up with taking accurate measurements. He said: “We realised that Lagos State Government has done another mapping. They remapped the whole of Lagos as if there is a new owner and this has changed the whole coordinates. That is why we created this new Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS),  which we are using in Lagos State and with that, there is no way we can use the old instruments that will give room to error or shoddy work in our mapping exercise. The new technology is helping us in solving the problem. We will continue to enlighten our clients and the public in general,” he added. Adaranijo said instrument procurement scheme was one of their challenges in delivering accurate data but with the association’s partnership with instrument vendors for members to pay by instalments, their jobs much easier. According to him, the scheme has about 45 subscribers and over 120 surveyors were accessing the CORS service from the Office of the State Surveyor-General.   Foundation to adopt Oniru Beach     Lagos govt warns against illegal building     Property owners accuse developers of harassment   Adaranijo, however, advised property owners to clarify from surveyors on how to reassess their mapping to achieve the correct coordinates for their properties. He said the association was adopting measures to ward off quacks and appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to ensure surveyors were engaged in projects. The APPSN chair called on the government to carry surveyors along in roads, housing and projects to avoid problems. “Even when constructing bridges, surveyors must be involved because we are the ones that have the instrument and can know where the soil is sinking to avert building collapse or construction failure. “Surveyors are the foundation of everything. If you want to construct a road, you must call a surveyor even before an engineer,” Adaranijo said.  He advised his colleagues to be ethical in order not lead the public astray and seek information to understand adjustments to property locations in the new Lagos mapping. On the proposed Surveyors Estate, he said, the project would take off before July. He regretted that Lagos seem to be the only state nationwide where there is known Surveyors Estate. “My main aim is for those who are still tenants to become landlords in no distant time,” Adaranijo said. Also as part of his achievements, he gave details of the health care plan as part of the achievements of it in the last one year.