During an interactive session with journalists, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, spoke on how his administration is leveraging on the state’s comparative advantage in agriculture and how such measures have been extended to improve health, education, man power and infrastructure. Gbade Ogunwale captures the essence of the session. CAN you make a comparison between what you met on ground in 2015 and what obtains today? When we came in May 2015, we all knew how the general economic situation of the country was. States, and to some extent, even the federal government were struggling to pay wages. We pay our salaries as and when due and we pay our pensioners. We manage to stagger payment of gratuities. We set aside every month between N50 million and N100 million to attend to gratuities. That is apart from salaries and pensions of retired workers. We take that as a priority. So the FAAC (Federation Account Allocation Committee) allocation we get is very well known. It is public knowledge. Not until recently, Sokoto had never been able to hit N1 billion in terms of IGR (Internally Generated Revenue) monthly; not until recently when we worked on the Board of Internal Revenue Service. That was when the IGR began to pick up. We don’t waste money on frivolities; on things that are not necessary, that will not bring about any impact on the lives of the people. We have very robust social schemes and we still pay monthly stipends to a number of indigent people in Sokoto State. Education is free, regardless of which part of Nigeria you come from. Once you attend public school in Sokoto State, the books – either exercise books or reading books – are free. Whatever material that any child in school in Sokoto State uses is free of charge. Added to that, we pay WAEC and NECO exam fees for indigenes of Sokoto State. We also pay for all other Nigerian students that are in our public schools. We don’t take loans for recurrent and we apply them as agreed in terms and conditions of obtaining those funds from either the banks or bonds. The talk in the country today is about Nigeria getting ready for non- oil economy in the years ahead. How prepared is Sokoto State? Sokoto is largely an agrarian state, 80 to 85 percent of our populace are farmers. We do everything to support farmers generally. In the area of extension services, we employed more extension workers that are helping farmers with skills and knowledge in terms of modern knowledge and skills and also they help them in terms of guiding them on the right seeds to use on their farmlands whenever it is time for them to plant; the choice of seedlings and all of that. So we are moving them from where they were to a knowledge based agric business. We support them with fertilizer, insecticide and herbicide and all of that. I don’t think there are many states that really subsidize fertilizers the way we do here in Sokoto State for our farmers. I can tell you that in terms of subsidies, Sokoto beats any other state. We have the figures in terms of giving our farmers subsidies. Subsidies on farm implements like handheld tractors. We subsidise to some extent, procurement of fertilizers during dry season farming and the normal wet season farming. All of these input we give them free. Some of the seedlings we give free in most cases and some of the input, at heavily subsidized rates. I don’t think that there is any state that has really done as much in terms of the support we give to our farmers. When we ventured into the anchor borrower scheme, we actually had to open accounts for farmers at the expense of the state government, because of the low level of income of the farmers. They could not even afford the basic requirements of money for opening of accounts. We had to, as government, open those accounts for them. But can you guarantee that whoever succeeds you ask governor will sustain these programmes. What if he or she comes with an entirely different plan? Well, you see it is only natural, unless if you are not planning to succeed or if you are planning to fail. If you fail to plan, it means you are planning to fail. So before now, I had been working with a number of my lieutenants, and I have been understudying a number of them to see who can really serve the people of Sokoto State and even surpass my own. So it’s not about having a loyal person succeeding me; it’s about having someone who is loyal to the people of Sokoto State. That’s my interest. There are many of them.   Day FCCPC taskforce clampdown on shylock online moneylenders     Off-grid solutions answer to incessant power collapse-Muda…     National Grid Collapse: The intrigues, politics and…   What have you been able to do about the Almajiri in Sokoto?        Almajir is not these people that you see roaming about. It’s a system of education in itself. But not the way it has been implemented. We decided to say okay, there are countries that are largely Islamic in terms of population, in terms of their practices, and one of them is Indonesia, not even Saudi Arabia. So we set out, I personally led a delegation to Indonesia. We understudied their system of Islamic education and that’s what we are using now to reposition the Almajiri system of education. It’s not something that you just throw away because it’s been practiced for hundreds of years and you cannot say you are now going to disruptively cancel it or ban it without providing an alternative and that’s what we are doing in Sokoto. So we are taking all of that together. What have you been doing about healthcare and what has been the impact of your effort on the people? On healthcare, we decided to look into the existing general hospitals, some of which are in the local government headquarters. But when we came in, about two or three local government headquarters did not even have general hospitals. Some were under construction, some had been built up. So we ensured that we have all of our local governments now having functional general hospitals. We provide drugs free to mothers and children. We provide free malaria drugs in the state and we set up a malaria agency, the first of its kind that has been mandated to take care of issues about malaria campaigns and all of that, and even supplying and giving drugs free to our students. So we decided and said okay, outside the local government headquarters, there are bigger settlements. They are not local government headquarters but they have a large population of people. We have now identified about four of those areas and we are providing them with general hospitals. We are upgrading their primary health centre facilities to general hospitals. And when we looked at the situation in the tertiary medical facilities in the state, we decided to come up with an idea of premier hospital that is slightly higher than the general hospitals but not up to a teaching hospital. We identified the need for that and said, okay, let’s have three of them; one in each of the three senatorial districts. They are 150 bed capacity each but the apex should be the State University Teaching Hospital. We felt that we should do what they call telemedicine. We connect these three premier hospitals with the teaching hospital. If a patient is being referred from any of the premier hospitals, by the time he gets to the teaching hospital, his record is already there. That is telemedicine. The moment they punch the system, his medical history will come up. So it saves the doctors’ time, especially if the patient’s condition is critical. He may not be able to express himself at that point in time. So this is what we are doing. Can you guarantee the completion of these projects before the expiration of your tenure in May 2023? I believe that by the grace of God we should be able to complete all of the projects that we are carrying out in a matter of few months. On the issue of new city, Sokoto is getting congested and we don’t want what has befallen some key major cities in Nigeria to befall Sokoto. Sokoto is well planned, if you go around you will see it. As far back as 1975, the Sokoto master plan was developed. Since then, there was no second master plan. And 1975 to now is how many years? So that’s why this administration decided that okay, let us do another master plan, identify a new city, with a new master plan that will now decongest the main city. Then to also provide some kind of new structures that will benefit the people of the state. Like in many other places, there is the issue of insecurity in Sokoto State. How is your administration tackling the problem? We have done quite a lot and I have addressed it a number of times. Basically, it is the responsibility of the federal government. You all know that. But what we do at the state level is to support the federal security agencies by way of providing them with logistics, vehicles. When they are on special operations, we give them their allowances to look after their welfare. Even as we speak now, some of the security personnel that sustained injury somewhere recently, on their way to Abuja were taken care of. They undertook the journey on the account of the Sokoto State government. They were taken to one of the specialised facilities in Abuja on the bill of the state government. So we are giving the security agencies every required support. There was nothing the security agencies in Sokoto State requested from us in terms of support that we have not given them. And in the last four, five years, we have provided no fewer than 500 vehicles for security personnel in Sokoto State. And nothing is outstanding in terms of their allowances. Whenever they are having operations, we support them. And we normally give them their monthly security support. So we are doing our best and you can ask any of them. We have been building and we are still building new police stations in the state and renovating existing ones. Virtually all the divisional police offices have been renovated and we are building new ones for them across the state. We are giving them support by getting them the right equipment. We are also giving the military support in terms of getting drones. We support them in procuring drones, and we are doing same with the DSS.