The Senior Special Assistant to Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi on Electoral Matters , Mr. Olaiya Kupolati, has resigned and defected to the Social Democratic Party(SDP). In a letter dated 23rd March, 2022 and addressed to the office of the Secretary to the State Government, Kupolati, said his resignation takes effect from March 30, 2022. Kupolati, said his resignation was in tandem with the new Electoral Act, which stipulates that every appointee seeking political office should resign accordingly, saying he intends to contest for the House of Assembly on the platform of SDP. The letter reads: “I, Kupolati Olaiya, the Senior Special Assistant on Electoral Matters, hereby resigns my position with effect from 30th March, 2022. “I really appreciate Mr Governor for giving me the opportunity to serve the good people of Ekiti State”   Protest hits Abuja over incessant kidnappings     BREAKING: We’ll deliver 2nd Niger Bridge, Lagos-Ibadan…     22 ships discharge petrol, others at Lagos ports   Announcing his defection to SDP at his ward in Iye Ekiti, Ilejemeje Council Area, Kupolati hinged his decision to pitch tent with former Governor Segun Oni on his uncompromising integrity, experience and pedigree. Kupolati said: ” I perceive former governor Segun Oni as the best man for Ekiti after Governor Fayemi at this trying time and I am ready to support him. “The former governor is a man of the people. A man of integrity, with unblemished records. He has a better pedigree. He performed very well while in office in his first term, so he deserves reelection by every standard. “I am also following the trend in town, especially my people in Ilejemeje, they are totally for Segun Oni and as a good leader and community person, I don’t want to work against the wish of my constituents “, Kupolati stated. The Fayemi’s ex-aide posited further that it would be a gross betrayal of trust for him to work against the wish of his people in the June 18 governorship poll. Kupolati also formally declared his interest for the House of Assembly race to represent Ilejemeje State constituency in the 2023 election.