The Association of Lagos State Retired Heads of Service and Permanent Secretaries (ALARHOSPS), has called for a renewal of social values to achieve a saner society. Its President, Dr. Olufemi Olugbile, at their Annual General Meeting (AGM), lamented that the ‘conspicuous lack of certain decent attributes, such as honesty and a shared sense of right and wrong, has led to a chaotic situation in the society where people who try to do the right thing are often subjected to ridicule because negative values and anti-social behaviour have become mainstream’. According to Olugbile, the association’s upcoming summit will focus on ethics and values. He added: “We shall be looking at how this situation came about, and how to improve the situation for effective governance and social harmony.   Why we raise funds, Rotary     Media group partners firm     Academy holds stakeholders roundtable   “We have ALARHOSPS Consult that would be providing quality services towards the entrenchment of right values in the society. ALARHOSPS Consult was established as an avenue to provide trainings and other value-adding services to both the government and private sector “It’s a work in progress, we are packaging ourselves to be useful human resources to the public and private sector. You can guess the quality of human resources that would be available from a pool of over 200 members who are professionals in various fields. “We are focused on developing and packaging our human resource potential to become useful to the society. The government angle is just one of the initiatives that we are pursuing.” The association will also undertake some projects as part of its social responsibility. Last year, it refurbished the Ajegunle Primary Health Centre, and also donated items to the Rehabilitation Centre in Majidun, as well as the Vocational Centre in Owutu, Ikorodu. “This year we will pick a different part of town, going by the Ibile divisions, so no part of Lagos is left out of our interventions,” Olugbile added.