One of the National Chairman aspirants at the just-concluded national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Mallam Saliu Mustapha has explained why he made a last-minute pullout from the race. In a statement titled: “We ran a good race” in Abuja on Monday, Mustapha through his media aide, Dapo Okubanjo, said he acted for the greater good of the party. “Since our party held its long-awaited national convention, I and my team have been inundated with calls from political associates and friends, and even the media on what they viewed as an unexpected turn of events that saw me stepping down on the convention day. “Indeed many would have wanted me to take the battle to the convention ground because that was our goal but we had to pull back in deference to our great leader President Muhammadu Buhari. “My decision to concede was never an easy one but I pride myself as a core party man who does not joke with loyalty and party supremacy. “Only a few years ago, I considered the greater goal and refused to take steps that could have cost our party, Kwara state when I was unfairly treated at the gubernatorial primaries but not once did I regret that decision.   Tinubu: A political colossus at 70     Convention: Oyetola congratulates Omisore, other newly…     Plateau 2023: Zoning and other issue set the pace   “I congratulate the new set of party leadership and urged them to hit the ground running and complete the reconciliation process which Senator Adamu started because we have an election to win in a few months,” he said. The Turaki of Ilorin also commended members of his campaign team for their commitment and zeal. He said: “To my political associates, friends, members of my campaign organisation and other volunteers in support groups across the country who all worked tirelessly on the project, I urge you all to keep the faith. “And I also won’t forget to appreciate the good people of Kwara state for their unquantifiable support despite everything. “We may have lost a battle but we did not lose the war. We brought colour and brilliant ideas to the race, and indeed our party members and the leadership took notice. “We hope to meet with the new party executives led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu to share our thoughts on the way forward with them.” He added that he remains loyal to President Buhari just as he was several years ago as one of the prime movers of The Buhari Organisation (TBO)