Members of staff of Took Trading Company, one of the vendors of Century Group, owners of Century Energy in Lekki, Lagos, have picketed the premises of the energy company over alleged indebtedness running into millions of Naira. The placard-carrying workers of Took Trading Company, an offshore support services company servicing offshore installations and vessels, alleged that Century Energy owed their company more than N20 million in unpaid salaries.  Some of the placards brandished by the angry staff of Took Trading Company, who stormed the premises of Century Energy on Wednesday, read: ‘Century Energy Stop the Corporate Bullying’, ‘We Have Waited for Long; Stop Corporate Bullying’, among others. One of the staff members, who identified himself as Chikezie, lamented: “I have not been paid since November because we supply to the company, but they have not paid us…”   NACCIMA appoints Opeyemi Ag. DG     ‘Agropartnerships’ strategy not choking businesses’     New 25% freight rate may raise petrol price   The Chief Executive Officer of Took Trading, Mr. Toju Okoro, said he was aware of the protest. He admitted that he has not been able to pay his staff because money for supplies made to Century Energy has not been paid. Mr. Okoro noted that his company supplied 125, 000 litres of Marine Gas Oil (MGO) to Century Energy worth N36, 259,500 since last November, regretting that after initial payment of N15, 740, 000, nothing had been heard of the balance. He also said many letters had been sent to Century Energy to pay the balance, but that nothing came out from them. Okoro said he had been told authoritatively that Folawiyo Aje Services Limited, a subsidiary of Yinka Folawiyo Petroleum, who were the main recipient of the services rendered, has actually paid Century Energy upon which they (Took Trading) should be paid has proved abortive. But efforts to speak to Folawiyo Aje Services Limited failed. Addressing reporters, the head of procurement for Century Energy under whose office the deal was carried out, Mr. Ayebatari Wilson, admitted that his company was actually indebted to Took Trading, but blamed the delay on slow response from their own client who should have paid them for them to also pay Took Trading.