The Federal Government has expressed its disapproval to recruitment of Nigerians as mercenaries to fight in Ukraine or anywhere else in the world. This is as the Ukrainian government denied admitting foreign volunteer fighters in its bid to contain Russia’s onslaught. Besides, the Ukraine also denied requesting for $1000 from Nigerians volunteers for air tickets and visas. Spokesperson, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mrs. Francisca K. Omayuli, who stated these in a statement, said: “As a responsible member of the international community and consistent with our obligations under international law, Nigeria discourages the use of mercenaries anywhere in the world and will not tolerate the recruitment, in Nigeria, of Nigerians as mercenaries to fight in Ukraine or anywhere else in the world. “The Federal Government will continue to engage with the Embassy of Ukraine in Nigeria and other relevant authorities to prevent this possibility.” But, the Ukrainian Embassy refuted the allegation, but confirmed that a number of Nigerians had approached the embassy indicating their willingness to fight on the side of Ukraine in its on-going conflict with Russia. The embassy, according to the Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Ministry, clarified that the Ukrainian government is not admitting foreign volunteer fighters.   Russia absent at UN court hearing on Ukrainian ‘genocide’     How eight Nigerian students escaped from Ukraine’s…     Vatican to send two cardinals into Ukraine to help refugees   The statement added: “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs contacted the embassy to verify the speculation. The Ukrainian Embassy refuted the allegation, but confirmed that a number of Nigerians had approached the embassy, indicating their willingness to fight on the side of Ukraine in its ongoing conflict with Russia. “Furthermore, the embassy clarified that the Ukrainian government is not admitting foreign volunteer fighters and as such dissociated itself from the claim that it is requesting $1,000 from each Nigerian volunteer for air ticket and visa.” But, the Nigerian Youth Union (NYU) has hailed Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, for ensuring that Sokoto indigenes in Ukraine were airlifted early enough when signs of impending hostilities between Russia and Ukraine emerged. This is as the youth body urged the Federal Government to adopt more proactive strategies to protect Nigerians abroad, especially during unforeseen emergencies. It decried the sluggish response of the Federal Government to the safety of Nigerians in Ukraine, especially students, after Russia invaded the European country last week. In a statement in Abuja yesterday, National President of NYU, Comrade Chinonso Obasi, lamented that Nigerians were subjected to various acts of social abuse, degradation and molestation at the Ukrainian borders due to the nonchalant attitude of the government. Obasi, a former National President of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), expressed dismay that the Federal Government dithered in evacuating Nigerians from the troubled country despite early warning signals.