Top-flight Indian content channel, Zee Africa, has announced plans to work on two local productions in Nigeria as part of the media company’s focus for this year. This was made known recently by Somnath Malakar, the Chief Executive Officer for Sub-Saharan Africa and Indian Ocean Islands during the partners’ meet session in Lagos. “Our aim and focus are to maintain number one. The company intends to invest more and to this end, we will be having two local productions for Zee World in Nigeria. This is the first time. Hopefully, we will also run a Zee One production soon.” Malakar also explained that the production will have Nigerian film stars and Indian film stars working together to create two masterpieces for television audiences in Nigeria and across Africa. Malakar also noted that Zee World intends to have content close to viewers’ hearts in Hausa and Yoruba very soon as well as kiddies content following a recent merger with Sony.   Davido laments high cost of clearing Lamborghini     KWAM 1 holds Sikiru Ayinde Barrister’s colloquium today     Adesua Etomi, Daniel Etim to host 2022 AMVCA nominees…   Malakar also revealed that the highly successful dance show, Dance Africa Dance, will be having a Nigerian version before the end of 2022. He said the Nigerian version will be tagged Dance Nigeria Dance. “We plan to have Dance Nigeria Dance in Nigeria while possibly starting a Zee Naija channel. The Dance Nigeria Dance will occur two months from March 2022.” During his presentation, Malakar praised the Chief Executive Officer of Deep Vision Legacy, Mr. Ejiro Okene, for his company’s diligence and efforts in making the Zee brand a household name in Nigeria. “I strongly believe we at Zee Africa couldn’t have done it without the support of the individuals present at this partners meet session – most especially Ejiro Okene of Deep Vision Legacy – for the support and taking charge of the brand from where we were in 2018 to where we are at the moment. The teams have worked hard to get the Zee brand to exactly where it is at the moment,” Malakar said. In his response, Okene thanked the management of Zee Africa for believing in Deep Vision Legacy’s abilities saying the media company would not relent in taking the brand to higher grounds. “As a media marketing agency, we are focused on product and its market. We did our research and concluded that Zee Africa is a brand worthy to market and there’s a waiting market for the brand. So, it was cool for us to go to work and ensure the market gets all the brand can offer,”