It will henceforth be business unusual for operators in the oil and gas sector of the economy. They will be held accountable for the impact of their activities on the environment, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva said yesterday. He sounded the note of warning in his remarks at the 5th Nigerian International Energy Summit (NIES) in Abuja with the theme: “Revitalising the Industry: Future fuels and energy transition.” Speaking on the summit theme, the minister said: “In recognition of its importance, top CEOs from our National Oil Company, International and Indigenous Companies have been assembled on this session in our bid to drive a new narrative and make energy transition the cornerstone of the country’s industry policy. “What is obvious from this energy transition journey is that the oil and gas industry will face more scrutiny in their operations and business models. “They will have to explain more often the impact of their activities to the environment, their contributions to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and their efforts towards achieving net-zero carbon emissions.”   Wike: It’s time for stomach infrastructure in Rivers     Constitution Review: How lawmakers voted     Buhari reminds National Assembly to rework controversial…   Chief Sylva said while the government pursues the country’s energy transition agenda, operators should also recognise that fossil fuels will continue to play a critical role in the country’s energy and economic systems. He noted that the role may appear to be in contradiction with the energy transition agenda, fossil fuels will still remain important and will remain integral part of the vision in Nigeria’s energy transition journey. Sylva promised that the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, will in the discharge of its mandate, creates the environment for a seamless energy transition in Nigeria. Reminding the operators about the commitment, he urged them not forget that “our mission as the country’s Petroleum Ministry is to ensure an enabling environment to improve the oil and gas value chain, driven by modern technology, industry, best practices, stakeholders’ engagement and innovations in alternative energy. “The focus should be to come up with a workable and accelerated energy transition strategy for the country, look at the critical factors that can make them happen whether these factors relate to the government, society, policy makers, technology, investors or the industry itself – and also look at the implications of the factor on different parts of today’s oil and gas industry.”