Experts have made a case for more participation of women and youths in the agriculture value chain in order to sustain the growth in the sector. This was the outcome of the one-day symposium organised by OOK farms, one of Nigeria’s leading exporters of agricultural produce at the IITA conference centre Ibadan, recently. The event had farmers, researchers, stakeholders and students x-raying the challenges, opportunities and prospects to chart a way forward for the sector. Ms Omolara Svensson, CEO OOK Group and the Convener informed that the theme, “Redirecting the Youths and Women to opportunities in agriculture and agribusiness industry in Nigeria,” is very timely. “It breaks my heart to see the enormous opportunities that the state has. I believe it is time we start acting, enough of the charade.” Infrastructure, she stressed, has been a great challenge, “but that should not stop us from pushing forward.  The problems are part of growth and we must realise that nobody would give Women and youths, a free template. I didn’t learn how to plant my tomatoes easily, it took me years. We have yams, cassava, maize and others. We just set up a processing plant in Cotonou.” Mr Sola Adeleke also of the OOK Group talked extensively about the power of small business holders, the importance of women and youths in the agriculture value chain and the vision and mission of the group.   Worries as global powers launch new ‘scramble for Africa’     APCON boss to stakeholders: ‘join us to sanitise IMC…     Group unveils agency banking for Nigeria’s unbanked…   On her part, Mrs Olarenwaju Elizabeth Nwankwo, one of the speakers identified the opportunities in export, creating jobs and opportunities for youths along the agriculture value chain amongst other issues. Seun Ogidan, one of the beneficiaries of the scheme also shared her experiences and the things that drove her to success in spite of the myriad challenges. Professor Isaac Aiyelaagbe of FUTA talked extensively about the milestones and steps taken to improve the sector and make it attractive by glamourising agriculture. “The future is bright and the marketplace is supposed to wear a new look. We need to take advantage of the female gender, we have the opportunities to move faster if we use females. You can see that the narrative has changed with more female executives in the banking sector. That will also happen in agriculture soon.” Also Professor Olapeju Aiyelaagbe, a gender specialist at the University of Ibadan talked about the gender gaps, gender mainstreaming in the University and the opportunities available. “Gender is so important and we must factor this into everything that we do to explore our potentials to the fullest. We must empower both female and male gender. Collaboration is very important and we must not put anyone down based on gender, while gender mainstreaming policies must be strictly adhered to.” The main Speaker,  Dr. Reuben Abati took a look at the issues from the perspective of the ordinary man, giving a historical background to agriculture trends, initiatives of the different administrations, diversification of the economy as the latest narratives,  the challenges with access to credit, need for proper standards, opportunities as well as generating employment. He explained that Nigeria is a youth population who unfortunately do not have jobs. “70 per cent of the women in agriculture are smallholders and the bulk of which is for domestic consumption. There are success stories and we need to develop for mechanised farming. The big question is why is it that the policies have failed? It is the problem of leadership and scepticism on the part of the followers.”