UK-based preacher, Pastor Tobi Adegboyega has showered pop star, Davido with pound sterling at an in-door event in London. In a video, Davido surrounded by guests thrilled them to some “Champion Sound” goodness. Having fun just like everyone else around, the founder of Salvation Proclaimers Anointed Church, London, sprayed the award-winning music star with a couple of pound sterling bundles as he sang while they all danced. Seeing the 41-year-old pastor chilling and having a good time as he enjoyed secular music, most persons have queried him for being there as they noted it was a club. Others also expressed concerns about what is being done with the congregation’s tithe. Matthewmensah said: “1. You are a ‘Pastor”, 2. You are in a nightclub, 3. You are spraying money in bundles to a properly the richest celebrity in Nigeria…. I would not pay 1 Kobo again in tithe in that church if that was me going to that church… What a big WOW… SMH.” Ushiejs wrote: “The next generation of pastors go get church and club franchise.”   Joe Budden, Nicki Minaj urge Grammys to make Wizkid’s…     Oxlade signs new deal with Columbia Records     My daughters ask why their mums are different – Davido   tekena_fresh stated: “Imagine seeing your pastor spraying money like that after suffering to pay your tithe and offering.” tosan_wumi said: “Pastor has been craving to chill with the big boys.” unapologetic_sina wrote: “Pastor still doing d things of d world in a churchy way jaythekeed stated: “imagine seeing your pastor carrying your tithe to spray davido smh.” Tonnesofbeauty wrote: “Your tithes and offerings are working well @daddyfreeze is still typing.” jojo_nelson stated: “People will still pay tithe and offering to him lol. Irony of life.” mrsnamz asked: “Please is it congregation money that he is spraying?? However, talent manager, Ubi Franklin In the comment section of the post clarified the scenario was that of a night club. “That’s not a Night club. A pastor in the church wedded and DAVIDO and Zlatan performed”, he wrote.