The Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment issued about 4,672 certificates of capital allowance worth N7,865,186,245,398.81 to 2,203 companies between January 2017 and last December. This is contained in the documents presented to the House Committee on Public Account by officials of the Ministry at the resumed hearing of the Committee in Abuja yesterday. The hearing was attended by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, who was summoned to appear alongside heads of agencies of the Ministry who have refused to appear before it for a long time to answer audit queries from the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation. The document also indicated that within the same period the Ministry recorded what they described as disallowance (finding after an audit that a business or individual taxpayer was not entitled to a deduction or other tax benefit claimed on a tax return) of N101.553 billion. The Public Account Committee had summoned the Minister to answer queries from the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation over the issuance of capital allowances to companies without proper documentation. Chairman of the Committee,  Wole Oke told the Minister that before the coming of the Finance Act, only Permanent Secretaries were invited to answer such queries, adding that with the coming into effect of the 2020 Finance Act, invitation is being extended to Ministers.   Eedris Abdulkareem and Nigeria’s condition     Constitution amendment: Inside lawmakers’ plans for judicial…     ‘Uthman Danfodio: A legacy of anti-corruption’   He explained his mission in the House was to bring head of agencies under the Ministry that have refused over time to respond the invitation to come and answer queries from the Auditor-General, but rather consistently give one excuse or the other for their failure. He said: “These people are appointees of the President through your office. By the provisions of the constitution, the President has often come to the National Assembly and yet, his appointees refused to come. If they cannot do the job they are asked to do, they should resign because there are those who ready to do the job. “We did not want to get to the level of issuing warrant of arrest for the heads of agencies. We felt that if we invite you and ask you to come with them, they will respect you and come. We were right, today, they are here with you.’’ “We want them to come and explain to the Nigerian people how they spent public resources in their disposal. Is that too much to ask? If the President will come to the parliament, why won’t his appointees?” Adebayo, however, appealed to the Committee to give them more chance to fine tune their documents and come back to them. The Minister said the issues were just being brought to his notice at the hearing, stressing that he would need time to sit with his officials and the Permanent Secretary and prepare a more comprehensive answer to the queries, adding that he would personally come back to the Committee with the Permanent secretary for the presentation. The Minister appealed to the Committee not to it the figures involved in the issues of capital allowances in the public domain as it will lead to Nigerians forming an opinion that is not a true reflection of the issue.