Director-General and Chief Executive Officer, National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA), Dr Rufus Ebegba, has urged the National Assembly to expedite action on the concerns raised by President Muhammadu Buhari on section 85(12) of the Electoral Amendment Bill. He said section 85(12) constitutes an infringement on political appointees who are also involved in nation-building and deserves praise, not victimisation for their patriotism. Ebegba, a Delta APC governorship aspirant, who spoke to reporters yesterday in Asaba, commended President Buhari for bequeathing to the nation a better electoral system that will afford equality and fairness to those seeking elective office, as well as the average voter. His words,: “I want to lend my voice in commendation of the President and Commander in Chief of The Armed forces of The Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency (Gen) Muhammadu Buhari (rtd), on his assent to the Electoral Bill as amended by the National Assembly.   Aregbesola’s failed coup de grace     Why I want to succeed Masari, by Katsina SSG     NASS will soon start second batch of constitutional…   “This goes a long way to exemplify and reassure Nigerians on the commitment of President Buhari towards free, fair and credible electoral processes in the country, as he has always emphasized”. He said: “It is now very clear to Nigerians that the Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration and All Progressives Congress (APC) indeed mean well for Nigerians with the recent development relating to the Electoral Act, having observed and noted the contradiction section 85(12) bears with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Therefore, I also lend my voice to the call by the President, for the National Assembly to delete the section 85(12) of the Act, as it constitutes an unfair infringement to political appointees who are also involved in the business of nation-building, and do not deserve to be victimised for their patriotism”. Ebegba urged Deltans to take advantage of these positive developments to demand governance that works and is responsive. He said: ” Flowing from this development, I, therefore, urge Deltans to be inspired by this and come out en- mass to take part in electioneering activities by joining the APC, and ensuring credible candidates are given the party’s ticket, getting registered to vote at designated INEC centres, and coming out to cast their votes on elections days.”