Sixty-six days after the Computerised Vehicle Inspection (CVI) kicked off in Lagos, many motorists’ experiences at the centres had been terrible, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE For many motorists in Lagos, taking their vehicles for the mandatory computerised testing is akin to the Biblical parable of the camel going through the eye of a needle. Since January 1, this year, when the government began the enforcement of the “no testing no road worthiness permit” regime, motorists who had wanted to be on the right side of the law, irrespective of their age and status, have had their worries multiplied. Madam Veronica, 75, at one of the test centres last week, lamented that she was tired of coming to the place to get her Lexus SUV vehicle checked. She said she had been coming to the centre since Tuesday and that her latest time of arrival had been 7.30am, but at 2pm, on Wednesday, she was yet to be attended to. From its pilot Ojodu Berger Centre, to Bolade, at Oshodi, Ibeju-Lekki, Olowu, Yaba, Ojota, Ayobo, Oko-Oba, Gbagada, or Mile 2, where the state government had built computerised centres, it has been tales of woes for motorists since the government began the enforcement. Before now, motorists enjoyed the latitude of procuring the road worthiness permit through the “backdoor”. The Chief Executive of a marketing firm, Adeyinka Adebayo, said it was no brainer that the government is insisting on getting vehicles checked. For him, giving the impression that Nigerians love to put unchecked vehicles on the road was embarrassing. But for a state which has about 50 per cent of the nation’s total vehicular density, and about four million private vehicles and three million commercial vehicles, getting vehicles tested under the ongoing policy regime for most remains herculean. For instance, at most centres visited in the past two weeks, it was observed they suffer capacity shortfall, which makes the surge at most centres look overwhelming. To have their vehicles checked, many made the centres their homes, while those who cannot ensure they arrive the centres latest 5am or lose the chance to have their vehicles tested for that day.Though the operator had introduced call in options for booking, the throng of crowd at many of the centres remained intimidating. At the Ayobo Centre, the list had grown to 15 as at 5am and by noon, no fewer than 87 people had enlisted on the list provided by the centre officials to have their vehicles checked last Thursday. One such person, who simply identified himself as Adewale, said he arrived the centre about 5am. For him, the nightmare people go through trying to have their vehicles checked is enough to demotivate them.   Public transportation gaining new traction in Kano, Borno     Mecho autotech raises $2.15m for vehicle maintenance, repair…     Vehicle testing: Achieving safer roads   Victor Aimeden, who said he had been on queue for about four days, said his vehicle failed alignment and suspension test and had  returned for recertification. For him, the government should rework the policy before it is breached, “not because they wanted to, but because the path to getting this done has remained laborious”. Bosun Johnson, another motorist whose vehicle was certified fit, said he had spent about N100,000 on his vehicle to put it in good shape before presenting it for test. “I avoided putting the vehicle on the road after spending such a huge amount and went out pretty early to have it checked. Even when I decided to come early and got here at 4.30am, I was still number eight on the list. That means some people had either come earlier, perhaps by 3am or 4am, or paid to get registered,” he said. Another motorist who claimed to be a lecturer in one of the private polytechnics in the state lamented the suffering. He urged the government to rework the policy to reduce the pains members of the public go through to comply with its laws. But the Managing Director of Temple Group, a  CVIS, Prince Segun Obayendo, pleaded for patience, adding that efforts were on to establish more centres. He said they would soon introduce weekend testing as well as phone in operations to further reduce the pressure. Obayendo listed things to test to include electrical fitting – lightings (headlamps, rear lights, brake lights, directional/pointer lights, etc), braking systems, absorbers, axle, tyres, emission testing, among others. He said LACVIS intends to establish 57 centres, one in each of the 20 local governments and 37 council development areas. Like Obayendo, the Director, Vehicle Inspection Service, George Fashola said the new policy is part of the transport sector reforms of the government aimed at sanitising road transportation. He said the government would continue to enforce the policy because it is in the interest of motorists and road users in ensuring that vehicles found on the roads are in good state. He said anyone with expired particulars would be asked to bring their vehicles to test centres to ensure that such is certified fit before they could be put on the road, as those caught doing otherwise may be arrested. He said the government has installed the state Automated Number Plate Recognition cameras and any vehicle caught by the app would be flagged and might be blacklisted from the central server until the needful was done. He said the VIS would not be pursuing any motorists on the road for road worthiness permits or any other infractions as top notch technologies have been deployed by the government to enhance smarter work by the VIS. He, therefore, urged motorists to comply with the policy in their interest or do away with their vehicles with expired particulars until such is tested and certified fit for the roads. Fashola said the policy is in the best interest of the people of the state and a demonstration of government’s commitment to protecting the lives of all residents in line with the THEMES Agenda of the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration as all classes of vehicles including commercial vehicles, trucks or articulated vehicles are to be tested safe and road worthy before being presented with road worthiness certificate in the state.