The Nigerian Gas Marketing Company (NGMC) has signed $50million contract to deliver 125 to 250mmscf of gas to the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC). The deal would result in additional 800mw to the national grid. The Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Infrastructrure, Mr. Ahmed Zakari, made this known on his Twitter handle yesterday. He noted that the Calabar Odukpani NIPP power plant came back on the grid came yesterday, ramping up to 400MW. His words: “The Niger Delta Power Holding Co.has signed a $50M gas security contract with NGMC for 125 to 250mmscf to secure up to 800MW of additional power.” It would be recalled that the Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu at the weekend said there a was the “pigging” of the gas pipeline supplying gas to the Odukpani power plant is scheduled for completion on March 21, 2022 thus ramping up generation by about 400MW. According to him, “to optimise the capacity utilisation of the power plants owned by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC), the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission has approved a special gas pricing for emergency contracting of gas from the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company Limited.   ‘Easy cash access to SMEs vital’     Lagos seeks stakeholders support on rising bread prices     ‘Edo deepens investment in tech, infrastructure’   “We expect an on-grid improvement of about 800MW generation capacity from the NDPHC plants. “In the medium-term, we have agreed with NGPIC (.. a subsidiary of NNPC) on the framework for the overhaul of the Okoloma gas processing plant thereby restoring the full capacity of the 650MW Afam VI combined cycle power plant.”   He explained that while the recent spate of system collapse is regrettable, it was a direct consequence of a snap on a 330kV transmission line. The mitigation measures for avoiding such incidence of blackouts are being implemented through several interventions including the Presidential Power Initiative. The statement was an update to the on progress so far made to address the recent challenges in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry. Earlier, the minister said recalled that the national grid lost about 1,100MW generation capacity as a consequence of simultaneous disruptions in gas supply to the Okpai, Calabar and the Afam VI power plants. He noted that the available generation capacity was exacerbated by the ongoing water management regime at the Kainji, Jebba and Shiroro power plants. “We wish to reassure all electricity consumers that all relevant agencies involved in the restoration of normality in power supply have been charged to act in the context of the emergency state of the industry. The Federal Ministry of Power shall continue to periodically update the nation on the progress,” he said.