NEWLY installed Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba (Dr) Olalekan Balogun, on Friday, assured that he would not let down the people of Ibadanland and Nigeria in general. The monarch made the pledge in his first public speech shortly after Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, presented the Staff of Office and Instrument of Office to him as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland. Speaking after receiving the staff, the Olubadan thanked the governor for the gesture, saying:  “I want to assure all that I will not let the people of Ibadan down. I will not let the people of Nigeria down.” The traditional ruler thanked all the eminent personalities, including the traditional rulers, serving and former governors and National Assembly members present for honouring him with their presence. Makinde presented the Staff of Office and Instrument of Office to Oba (Dr) Olalekan Balogun as the 42nd Olubadan of Ibadanland at exactly 12.30 p.m. The governor in his address, urged the monarch to remain steadfast as the gatekeeper of Ibadan traditional system. He also urged the traditional rulers, as custodians of the traditional system, not to play politics with the system. He said that no politician, no matter how highly placed, could destroy any system without the cooperation of members of the system. Makinde implored Balogun and the Olubadan-in-Council to work toward ensuring that the laws, having to do with the ascension to the throne of Olubadan, remain sacrosanct. He advised the Olubadan-in- Council to be self-conceived and remain self-regulated without any external interference from the political class, if there was going to be any amendment in the laws. The governor further said that he had always taken a stand for the integrity of traditional systems. “And so, I am especially delighted that today, Friday, March 11, the sanctity of the emergence of this century-old dynasty, has been restored. “His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr) Moshood Olalekan Ishola Balogun Alli, Okumade II, has distinguished himself as an excellent professional. “He has without doubt contributed and will continue to contribute to the development of Ibadanland and Oyo State at large. “He has served both in private and public service and has even represented Oyo State at the Senate. “He is indeed a man of many parts and so, we rejoice that His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr) Moshood Olalekan Ishola Balogun Alli Okumade II, climbed the 22 steps on the Olubadan line, starting from the lowest rung of Jagun Olubadan over a period of 39 years. “We rejoice because His Imperial Majesty, having seen how things were, when politics became a factor in the ascension to the throne, is in a great position to defend the traditions of our people and ensure that this does not happen again. “And, I want to restate that though, we politicians will come and go, sometimes, to satisfy our political whims, we may make decisions that do not protect our traditional systems. “But, this is why the custodians of our culture must always take a stand preventing us from tinkering with the age-old traditional systems.   Gunmen kidnap 24 in Kaduna mosque raid, rustle animals     Why I want to be Benue’s next governor, by Aondoakaa     2023: On the consultation trail with Asiwaju Bola Tinubu   “So, I join the Oyo State Government, sons and daughters of Ibadan and good people of Oyo State to wish the Imperial Majesty a peaceful and successful reign,” Makinde said. His openness, large heart earned him the throne- Osinbajo Also speaking, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the openness and large heart of the new Olubadan of Ibadanland earned him the throne. Osinbajo, in his remarks also prophesied that the reign of the traditional ruler would witness greatness. “He was better prepared for the throne, having been a scholar, former Senator and champion of indigenous culture and community empowerment,” the Vice President said. Osinbajo, while congratulating the new Olubadan and the government of Oyo State on the coronation, commended the orderliness and unique steps taken in ascending to the throne of Olubadan. The programme was officially declared open at exactly 11.14 a.m with the recitation of the national anthem, Oyo State anthem as well as Ibadan anthem. The opening prayers were said by Christians and  Muslims  with the traditional prayer said by the Araba Awo of Ibadanland. Members of the Olubadan-in-Council, the Iyalode-in-Council, traditional, and religious leaders, baales, traditional title holders, mogajis, amongst other groups pledged their loyalty and support to the new Olubadan.   The pledge was made when the groups and their representatives, individually and publicly prostrated before the new Olubadan as part of the coronation and installation rites. Key among the dignitaries include former governor Rashidi Ladoja, all the high chiefs, head of traditionalists, leaders of the title holders, mogajis (compound heads), religious leaders (Christian and Islamic) baales from all the regions of Ibadanland. In her welcome address, Secretary to the Oyo State Government, Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun, congratulated the new monarch and the entire people of Ibadanland as well as the state, saying that the succession system to Olubadan throne is unique in that it gives no room for bitterness or rancor. Meanwhile, the Senator Kola Balogun (Oyo South) who is a younger brother of the new Olubadan was left stranded at the ceremony as he could not secure a seat by the side of the monarch. The lawmaker who accompanied the new monarch (also a former Senator) to the venue after the coronation right was seen walking away from the stage where the monarch and his Oloris were seated. It was gathered that the Senator was billed to sit beside his brother but could not due to some logistics error. He however secured a seat alongside his wife and some other family members somewhere close to the platform where the new Olubadan was seated. Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, was among the notable personalities who graced the occasion. Other dignitaries in attendance were Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, Deputy Governor of Osun, Benedict Alabi and Lucky Aiyedatiwa, the Deputy Governor of Ondo State. A former governor of Oyo State and the Otun Olubadan, Chief Rasidi Ladoja and a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Femi Pedro, who represented Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, were equally present Also in attendance were the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom, Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, Ambassador of Republic of China to Nigeria, Cui Jiauchun. Oba Yusuf Adeleye, the Olubaka of Okaland in Ondo State, Oluwo of Iwoland, the Ikere of Saki and Aseyin of Iseyin.