Stakeholders and partners across the agricultural sector in West Africa have called for increased  collaboration with research, extension institutions and producers organisations. They said this would help in in the development and adoption of innovative products and technologies to support agri-food systems transformation. The stakeholders made the call in a communique issued at the end of the 13th Multidisciplinary Team Meeting initiated by the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) Subregional Office for West Africa with the theme: “Joining efforts to build resilient agri-food systems in West Africa and Sahel”. According to the communique, there is the need to engage youths and women at the heart of agri-food systems transformation interventions and related projects and programmes. It also reiterated the need to leverage Southsouth cooperation to strengthen knowledge sharing, up-scaling good practices, capacity building and technical assistance.   5G: Telecom operators urge support for deployment     ‘Opportunities abound in oil sector’     ‘How Nigeria can make effective energy transition’   “There is a need to support livestock and pastoralism for conflict prevention, strengthening animal health using an One Health approach especially Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR), other transboundary animal diseases and improvement of feed availability and sustainable use of natural resources. “There is a need to strengthen the adequacy of the regulatory environment to increase agricultural production, improve nutrition, raise the standard of living of rural populations and contribute to economic growth in the sub region”, the communique noted. It, however, called for the implementation of the humanitarian peace development nexus approach in the context of protracted crises, with focus on local opportunities in terms of resources such as land, water and human resources (youth in particular) and positive narratives. Furthermore, the communique recommended that the FAO continues to strengthen the efforts to consolidate the partnership with sub-regional institutions, UN agencies, private sector, and support the implementation of the regional initiatives for the resilience of agri-food systems. This, it said, includes initiatives towards improved intra-regional trade of agricultural products, inputs and livestock.