The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) is worried that the war between Russia and Ukraine may cause shortage of imported wheat and soya beans in the continent,if the war does not end soon. Its Director, African Region, Mr. Shaukat Abdulrazak, spoke at the IAEA annual regional meeting of National Liaison Officers (NLOs) and national coordinators of the African Regional Cooperative Agreement for Research, Development and Training Related to Nuclear Science and Technology (AFRA) in Abuja. According to him, African must learn to develop its own agenda that can culminate in growing its own crops. He urged African countries to leapfrog to catch up with their peers in other continents that have advanced in nuclear sciences technology. The director noted that the world is on the move in terms of nuclear science and it has no intention of slowing down because of Africa. His words: “We are being faced by the challenge of the war, which is unfortunate. And I hope it ends pretty soon in Russia and in Ukraine. You can see that it affects us.   Zelenksy says Russian fighter pilots will face justice     Beijing locks down city of nine million over COVID-19 wave     Chinese recovery teams sift debris of crashed China Eastern…   “Quite a number of people are importing wheat, including my own. Quite a number of African countries are importing soya beans, and when the situation gets worse in that direction, we will be affected badly in our continent. “Shouldn’t we learn a lesson to be able to do the ownership and be able to drive the agenda ourselves? I always advocate for an agenda in Africa, by Africa and for Africa. “We must leapfrog to catch up because the world is not about to slow down because we are behind in the areas of nuclear science technology. We must leapfrog to catch up.” Shaukat advised that the nuclear technology must be used in a safe and secure manner. In his remarks, the Nigerian Atomic Energy Commission (NEAC), Prof. Yusuf Ahmed revealed that Nigeria has commenced discussions with Morocco on how to consolidate their nuclear sciences applications. He urged countries to take advantage of the week event to discuss with one another and also cooperate on the nuclear sciences applications.