Since coming to power in May, 2015, Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State has taken steps in three key areas – education, economy and infrastructure- to lift the state from the state of despondency that he met it to a modern state. And he has made tremendous impact on virtually all the sectors, thus earning for himself several awards of excellence and recognition. Particularly interesting are the state government’s giant strides in the agricultural sector, especially beef and milk production, in which the state has rated itself as the state to beat. We may not have incontrovertible statistics to back the state’s claim to being the highest producer of beef and milk in Nigeria, but what we know for a fact is that the state government has invested massively in cross-breeding of local cattle with improved stock from South Africa, through ranching. Under the scheme that is the baby of the state government in conjunction with some private sector livestock investors, the state government has proved that ranching, that is confining grazing to certain areas, is the way to go. According to the commissioner for animal health and fishery development, Prof. Abdulkadir Junaid, the government’s livestock management package was executed in collaboration with partners in South Africa. This has had tremendous impact on livestock production in the state. Prof Junaid said “We observed that the local breed can only give you between 100 to 150 kg of beef and the milk production is between three to four litres of milk on the average. “On the other hand, Brangus breed from South Africa can give you a minimum of 500kg of beef and between 10 to 20 litres of milk per cow.” The difference is clear. But how was this achieved? The commissioner shed more light on the issue: “To bridge this gap, we import semen and embryo of the Brangus from South Africa with which we fertilise our local breed through artificial insemination, thereby resulting in high production beef and milk”. This is instructive. Sokoto State still contains Sokoto, which is one of the most senior emirates of the former Fulani empire, with agriculture as the mainstay. The people are essentially itinerant pastoralists. For years, and especially in the very recent times, there have been intermittent clashes between herdsmen and farmers in several parts of the country. These clashes have claimed several lives, with several others losing their limbs and life-time properties and investments to the avoidable clashes.   ‘Tinubu is God’s chosen for Nigeria’     Sometimes you lose battle to win war, says Irabor     Re: Mefi’s Orchestra   What the Sokoto State experience has taught us is that with dynamic leadership, most of these clashes are unnecessary and would have been avoided. Many knowledgeable people in the country have canvassed severally that the days of itinerary cattle rearing are over. In the first place, it is anachronistic. Several other countries have done away with it many years ago and are the better for it. Second, as Sokoto State livestock programme has shown, the old order is not only archaic, it devalues both the herders and the cattle. Whilst trekking long distances in the name of cattle rearing by the former is bad for the health of the herders, it also results into less yields and nutrients on the part of the cattle. If only cattle could talk! Unfortunately, many of those who could have doused the tension by enlightening their respective people on the advantages of ranching chose rather to politicise it. While the ignorance on the part of most of the herders could be understood due to their limited or no exposure to modern trends of doing the business, not so that of the elite who knew the right thing to do but refused to do it. Not only did they refuse to do the right thing, they encouraged anarchy by their silence, as silence was not golden in the circumstance, or by poisoning the minds of the herders. Many of the elites in the south too who should have sought amicable resolution of the dispute did not help matters by their inflammatory comments. Unfortunately, the Federal Government that is expected to know and indeed show maturity in its policy options, also chose to toe the path of some archaic grazing routes rather than embrace modernity in cattle rearing. It is however gratifying that the Federal Government, in spite of its avowed threat to still pursue the old grazing routes, advanced some money to some states for ranching. At least four states, namely Nasarawa, Plateau, Adamawa and Kaduna, had as at November last year been given N1billion grant each, representing 80 per cent start-up funds for a pilot model ranch to be constructed for the training of pastoralist and crop farmer households within grazing reserve. The state governments are expected to provide the remaining 20 per cent. Twenty-two state governments were as at then said to have indicated interest in the scheme and the funds were expected to be provided in batches. While we urge that the states that have been given the money utilise it judiciously, we also appeal to the Federal Government to fast-track the release to other states that have indicated interest. The way to douse persistent clashes between herders and farmers is ranching. Sokoto State has not only shown that it is doable, the state has demonstrated that it is more beneficial to all the stakeholders.