To provide maximum satisfaction for its customers, Abbey Mortgage Bank has launched a new mobile app with code *5103#. The app provides customers with easy access to their account as well as the ability to perform transactions seamlessly. Addressing reporters, Managing Director/CEO of Abbey Mortgage Bank, Madu Hamman stated: “We are delighted to be at the forefront of digital banking within the mortgage banking space. We recognise that these are very difficult times and our customers are looking for a partner that can help them navigate the challenges induced by the COVID-19 pandemic. This is why we are constantly raising the bar and pushing the limits in service delivery by pioneering innovative solutions that make banking easier and faster for our customers.” Hamman maintained that in keeping with its commitment to simplify home ownership, provide funding to qualified customers and reduce access times, Abbey is utilising the latest technology to consolidate the compendium of care and expand its vision to customers’ mobile devices. General Manager, Information Technology & Platforms, Lolita Ejiofor, noted that the bank has been at the vanguard of pioneering innovative solutions to enable its customers achieve their strategic objectives.   ‘Easy cash access to SMEs vital’     NGMC signs $50m contract to deliver gas to NDPHC     Buhari: Airport terminal will birth new dawn in air travel   Ejiofor said: “The AbbeyMobile App was developed based on the need to provide a more seamless and convenient banking experience for both existing and new customers, simply by downloading and registering securely on the AbbeyMobile App. The app would ensure a better experience is accessible for day-to-day banking services, including opening an account to save towards their equity for a mortgage (Save to Own), without the need to visit a branch. Of course, our friendly Customers Experience Team are readily available to assist.”   Also, Group Head, E-business & Support Felix Omodayo-Owotuga, said: “Customers will also be rewarded with fabulous prizes as they refer a friend to the AbbeyMobile App. Our goal is to consistently create value for our customers and to provide them with solutions that enable them meet their strategic objectives ”This game changing application will facilitate smooth interaction between customers and stakeholders nationwide. It also marks a big step in the democratisation of mortgage banking in Nigeria and providing unprecedented home ownership access for Nigerians in all geographical locations. “The app is attributed to a rise in the number of internet consumers, increased access to web-based and online services, and the rising need to simplifying home ownership. “With over 108 million internet users in Nigeria and estimated 200million mobile phone users, Abbey Mortgage is now able to connect more Nigerians to quick and professional guide towards their journey to home ownership.”