Ahead of the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) slated for March 26th, ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, reports that the party’s Sokoto State chapter has been hit with a fresh crisis. LAST Sunday, the Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), declared Mainasara Sani, a chieftain of one of the factions within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Sokoto State, to be the authentic chairman of the party in the state. His endorsement of the factional chairman caused a stir and renewed the leadership tussle within the party, with many APC chieftains within and outside Sokoto state, disagreeing over the move. Recalled that leadership of the party in Sokoto State was not part of the inaugurated ones last month when chairmen of the state executive committees of the party across the country were issued certificates of return. Kano APC too was excluded from the inauguration. The party didn’t state exact reasons for excluding the two states. However, while there is an ongoing court case involving the APC in Kano, party crisis in Sokoto had resulted in parallel congresses. The crisis took a new twist last month with three factions claiming leadership of the party. One of the factions is loyal to the immediate past governor of the state and current Senator representing Sokoto South Senatorial District, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, while another enjoys the support of Senator Isa Abubakar Gada, a former acting governor of the state. The third group is under the leadership of House of Representative member, Honourable Balarabe Salame. The factions continued to lay claims to the authentic leadership of the APC in Sokoto state amidst the confusion generated by the failure of the national leadership to inaugurate a state executive committee for the chapter last month. The chairman of the Wamakko faction, Alhaji Isa Acida said they are still waiting to see what the national headquarter of the party will do before taking any step on the ongoing leadership tussle. “It is our congresses that the national headquarter sent delegates to monitor, so what I’m saying is that they didn’t back any group but acted according to the constitution of the party. The results of the congresses supervised by the national headquarter are still with us. So, nobody can truncate the will and wish of APC members in the state,” Acida said, confirming that although he was in Abuja for the ceremony, he wasn’t given the certificate. But Honourable Salame, said there is no faction of the party in the state, explaining that what is going on in the APC in Sokoto State is a fight against injustice and imposition. According to the lawmaker, members of his faction of the party purchased nomination forms and conducted congresses as stipulated by the constitution of the party. He is therefore optimistic that the national leadership of the party will ensure that justice is done in the matter. The Wamakko-led faction had produced Isa Sadiq Achida as the state chairman of the party upon conclusion of its congresses. Mainasara Sani, who was declared as the legitimate state chairman of the party by Malami, was elected at the state congress organised by the Senator Gada-led faction in the state. Sirajo Abubakar emerged chairman of the Malame faction.   Legal tussle The crisis rocking the party deepened following the decision of the factions to approach the courts for reprieves. But rather than bring respite, the cases filed before the courts have truncated hopes that the crisis will soon be resolved. Last month, the Apo Division of the Federal Capital Territory High Court adjourned the case of the leadership tussle in the Sokoto chapter of the APC indefinitely, creating anxiety within the party ahead of its planned national convention. The presiding judge, Angulu Musa, delivered a ruling on the matter between Sirajo Abubakar and five others, including Mainasara Abubakar. The two groups represent two factions of the party in the state. The judge stated, “Since the appeal has already gotten to the Court of Appeal, the FCT High Court has no jurisdiction to hear the case and does not want to find itself in collision with the Court of Appeal.” The judge asked the petitioners to approach the Court of Appeal as it is not a pre-election matter. Abubakar’s faction had appealed an earlier judgment of the FCT court (FCT/HC/CV/3265), delivered on December 16, 2021, affirming Mr Sani’s faction as the Sokoto APC executives. Similarly, Achida’s faction had also presented an application before the FCT High Court as an interested party, praying the court to set aside the earleir judgement since the matter remains pending at the Court of Appeal. Last December, the judge had, based on the provisions of sections 223(1)(a), (2) of the APC constitution, barred the APC National Convention from substituting the name of Mainasara Abubakar Sani and his officials “who were duly elected” in the congresses conducted in the state as well as stopped the inhibition of their functions. The faction of the state chapter of the party loyal to Gada had filed the suit challenging the congresses of 2021.   Aregbesola’s failed coup de grace     It’s dangerous to disrupt Enugu zoning…     APC Convention: Nwosu, Okorocha’s men make…   The application by the Wamakko group, which was brought by the party’s state chairman, Isa Sadiq Acida, had asked the high court to restrain APC from recognising Sani and others as officers and delegates of the ward, LG and state congresses of the party which held on October 13, September 14, and October 16, 2021, respectively. The many legal actions instituted by the various factions, according to pundits, complicated the situation within the state chapter of the APC.   Malami stirs fresh crisis The above was the scenario in Sokoto APC until ast Sunday, when Malami made a public statement that has been interpreted by the three factions in the state as an endorsement of Mainasara Sani as the authentic chairman of the party in the state. Malami reportedly made the statement at a ceremony organised by Salame, a member of the House of Representatives. “This is the elected chairman of the party in the state. His election was affirmed by the court,” Malami said, in reference to Mainasara Sani, while speaking at the event. Sani who spoke earlier said he was the authentic chairman of the party in the state “as affirmed by a competent court of law.” Expectedly, the statement credited to the Attorney-General has been generating reactions from stakeholders within and outside the state. Reacting, the chairman of the Wamakko-led faction, Isa Sadiq Achida, said the endorsement was a charade, and urged Malami to go and resolve the crisis in his state before coming to create problems in Sokoto. “This is the man who could not win his polling unit during the last local government election in Kebbi State. Malami just played to the gallery because he knows the people he is supporting have lost bearing as far as Sokoto politics is concerned. We are the authentic leaders of the party in the state. We are in control of all the wards and the local government areas. We have two senators, six members of the House of Representatives and 15 members of the state House of Assembly in our fold,” Achida said. He added that the minister’s action had shown that he was behind the crises in the Kano and Sokoto State chapters of the APC and urged Malami, to resign from his position. According to him, “For Malami to openly recognise Abubakar Sani Mainasara as the authentic chairman of the state APC is unfortunate.” He maintained that the matter was in Appeal Court, and so for “somebody like Malami, who has legal knowledge to comment on it, such amounts to contempt of court.” Acida further explained that Malami is neither the APC national chairman nor holding any position in the party, saying he is not in any position to know who is the authentic chairman of APC in Sokoto State. He called on the leadership of APC in the country to monitor the activities of Malami “before he destroys the party. “I call on the leadership of our great party to be mindful of the antics of Malami. As for me, he is a PDP mole in APC, who is conniving with the PDP-led government in Sokoto State to destroy APC,” Acida said.   Claims and counter claims But factional leader of the party in the state, Honourable Salame, accused Acida and other members of the Wammako-led faction of being behind the crisis in Sokoto APC. The former speaker of the state assembly during Wamakko’s administration accused the faction of perpetrating injustice against other groups and members of the party for many years. “It is this injustice we are determined to fight and end now in Sokoto APC,” he said. Salame accused Senator Wamakko of sitting down in his house and writing the names of executives and submitting it to the party headquarter without consulting other stakeholders of the party in the state. He stated that it is because of this imposition that made the party lose the governorship election in 2019. The House of Representatives member insisted that the majority of the members of the APC in Sokoto state are tired of the former governor’s leadership. Surprisingly, this is just as the Coalition of APC Support Groups in the state commended the leadership of Senator Wammako, describing him as the pillar of APC, in Sokoto State. The group particularly hailed the former governor for financing the party’s activities in the state, saying its victory in some elections during the last general election was a result of Wammako’s leadership. They condemn those ganging up against the former governor. In a statement by its Chairman, Comrade Andulrahaman Umar Aliyu, the group pledged loyalty to the leadership of Wammako. His words: “The APC in Sokoto state remains the only formidable political party in the state.  It has the highest number of supporters across the nooks and crannies of the state owing to the personality of Sen Aliyu Wammako. His dedication to duty earned him the support and respect of the entire state. Wammako  is no doubt a factor behind the making of APC as the most loved and populous political party in the history of Sokoto  politics.” “We, at the Coalition of APC Support Groups, with all our counterparts here and those not present, are undeniably loyal to the able and capable leadership of His Excellency, Senator Aliyu Wamakko for making Sokoto State and its people proud during his tenure as governor. He is also doing the same as as a senator and leader of Sokoto APC. He has proved to the world that he has no other place but Sokoto.”