At 70, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is swarmed by grudgers — those who can’t but begrudge those who can.  It’s the perfect political dog in the manger. Yet, it won’t be the first in Nigerian history. The great Chief Obafemi Awolowo who also, like Tinubu now, marked his 70th birthday ahead of his presidential run in 1979, was so riled at such characters that he let fly this famous rebuke. “While many men in power and public office are busy carousing in the midst of women of easy virtue and low morals,” Awo quipped, “I, as a few others like me, am busy at my desk thinking about the problems of Nigeria and proffering solutions to them.  Only the deep,” came the final, crushing put-down, “can call to the deep.”! Still, the political Lilliputians of that era flailed at their perceived Gulliver, even if all they had were hate and spite.  Nigeria was the loser. If Awo played in “far-away” 20th century Nigeria, the 2015 Muhammadu Buhari story appears fresh enough.  Rapacious “yam eaters”, in President Goodluck Jonathan’s government, had cleaned out the common barn. A sunk, desolate nation was looking for the sole man of integrity to salvage the mess.  It wasn’t unlike Abraham driving a hard bargain with Jehovah, for that sole righteous soul that could well save Sodom and Gomorrah. Enter Buhari: who kept his head while his peers, with zest, lost theirs in sweet decay.  Yet, the vapid dogs-in-the-manger confected a certificate-less Buhari!  Many self-deluded souls have basked in that for the past seven years.  Well, delusion is free! Tinubu is at a similar pass: those who cannot pay his price are bitterly questioning his prize. Old man Bode George, as a young naval officer-governor of Ondo State, was a slithering snake on the smooth rock.  He left absolutely no trace or mark. Yet, he flies into a fit at the sight of Tinubu, who used his youth to leave indelible marks as Lagos governor (1999-2007), spawning a glorious set of brilliant leaders. Long before, the “me too” ensemble of the “Yoruba Nation” — a mishmash of acute modernists and stark atavists — had planted, in the South West political waters, enough anti-Tinubu toxin to literarily re-sink the Titanic. Yet, preening over routine bail for battling ram, Sunday Igboho, who had rammed himself into a ditch in Benin Republic, marked the zenith of their gumption.  How scalding hate cripples the brain! But hate, envy or mischief aside, Asiwaju Tinubu is the prime revelation since 1999.  If you doubt, compare and contrast him with other leading lights since then. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo inherited PDP as a solid military-conservative forces’ special purpose vehicle.  Fela would have called PDP Army Arrangement (AA). Yet, it took only eight years of imperial presidency and raw self-worship, ala Obasanjo, to crash that vehicle.  Another eight years after, the battered PDP crashed out of power — a ruin Obasanjo even celebrated with impish glee, because the ill-fated Goodluck Jonathan wouldn’t be his poodle. In 2003, Tinubu (no thanks to Obasanjo’s killer manoeuvres), was the last Alliance for Democracy (AD) governor standing, after the electoral perfidy of that year.   War, our oxygen     Ghost of Oshiomhole     Putin peril   Yet, from that meltdown, in 12 tumultuous years (2003 -2015), Tinubu led a progressive counter-charge:  AD to Action Congress (AC), to Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and finally, to APC: Nigeria’s first-ever successful political merger — and federal power. Away from party matters to policy and governance: the polity would have been much poorer but for Tinubu’s policy and constitutional activism as Lagos governor. Tinubu was part of the opposition lobby that shot down Obasanjo’s attempt at term extension.  Just imagine how the republic could have turned out, had that succeeded. Then, the law records teem with facts on how the Yemi Osinbajo-led Lagos legal team rang rings round Obasanjo’s Leviathan Federal Government, on core basic law matters, which negative resolutions would have chained the commonwealth. Tinubu, as governor, pushed radical concepts as independent power projects (IPP), away from the national grid; and liberalized railway corridors.  The dog-in-the-manger Federal Government balked at both, flexing sterile federal might. But today, both are near-routine under the Buhari Federal Government.  That explains Governor Jide Sanwo-Olu’s progress on Lagos urban railway projects (ideas, by the way, developed under Tinubu); and why the Kano government is building light rail. Still, just imagine what progress Nigeria today would have made on power, had the Obasanjo order been less hostile to fresh thinking in federalized electricity that Lagos, under Governor Tinubu, had pushed. Again, the Tinubu tendency in the APC takes credit for federal safety net policies: N-Power (youth empowerment and training), national home-grown school feeding programme and soft credit to the humblest of traders — a classic South West signature anchor on Nigeria’s federal ocean, brilliantly tested and patented by Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola during his eight-year Osun governorship: in OYES, O’Meals, etc. Yet, it’s on this home front that the Asiwaju, at 70, faces some dissonance, vis-a-vis his presidential dreams.  It’s quite a quandary: how could protégés you’d always come through for, be so dog-nosed cold at coming through for you this once? The most sensational tiff in the Tinubu camp would appear the Ogbeni-Asiwaju blow-out. That was unfortunate. Aregbesola should not have said all that stuff about Tinubu. Still, Aregbesola would appear more riled at Gboyega Oyetola, Osun governor, for his lack of fidelity to the legacies of the Ogbeni government, in which Oyetola served as chief of staff — and virtual prime minister — for eight years, than at the Asiwaju himself.  Still, that rumpus shouldn’t ever have happened. Be that as it may, what is required now is due reconciliation and mutual forgiveness.  The Ogbeni tendencies — left-left of social democracy, the Asiwaju himself being a progressive centrist and pragmatist — hold core strategic value for a Tinubu presidency, if the envious, baleful South West hyenas were not to query him, in supreme mischief, what his presidency had done for his native region. Femi Ojudu, celebrated guerrilla journalist and former senator, has also run his mouth in shocking antipathy to the Asiwaju cause.  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Ojudu’s boss, has sealed his.  But even with malice to no one, clearly the adorable Veepee doesn’t hate the Asiwaju cause.  He only craves the Osinbajo deal — hardly a crime! The other day, Muiz Banire, SAN, commissioner in Lagos for 12 years, mounted a media “lecture”: both Tinubu and Osinbajo might be “too old” for president! The aging: is it of persons or of ideas?  And when did the learned silk find that out?  Before his long, long Lagos tour of duty or after? Strange times! At 70, Asiwaju Tinubu is fated to living his most famous quip: power isn’t served a la carte.  You go there and grab it!  The famed strategist and pragmatist may yet cobble together the needed compromises to blunt these backyard threats! But as folks gather for his 70th birthday colloquium this morning, it’s time to toast the celebrator! Happy birthday to the Jagaban: most consequential politician of his era!