The story of Adebolu Adepoju brings empathy to a cold and cynical society. Yet it is as universal a tale as it is a peculiarly Nigerian one. He emerged the top student of the West African School Certificate Examination at his school in Lagos State. That in itself should be a distinction that should bring pride to any parent. But Adepoju is suffering from cerebral palsy, and he rode it to glory. He, as the cliché goes, showed the ability in disability. The young man said at his graduation that his childhood and growth did not point to any progress but for the fortitude and care of his parents and his gigantic self-belief. He then said that his neighbours told his parents to use him for rituals in order to enrich themselves. The father, Israel Adepoju, is a shoemaker. He could have fallen to such a temptation in the habits of the perverted in this society. He could have gone that primitive route of trying to use his child’s body parts for self-enrichment. He ignored the advice and chose the noble path of nurture. The young Adepoju’s confession reflects a very dangerous trend in the country today. There have been many reports of travellers being stopped and kidnapped by hoodlums and other forms of never-do-wells for the sole purpose of butchering the innocent and cutting off parts of their bodies in a cold and brutal slaughter. They have turned the bushes and highways to traps leading to human abbatoirs. This is a trend that must be addressed with clinical investigation and punishment. Recently, the nation witnessed the saga of a young lady killed for boarding the Lagos State BRT bus, an otherwise safe and dignified means of transport. The story of another young Nigerian, who was at a hotel in Ile-Ife, is in the courts. There are some who suspect too that he was murdered for ritual purposes. While there is no proof that a human body will transform into human wealth, science has failed to convince the barbarisms that bloodthirsty cults cannot make wealth. But it is thanks to the compassion and enlightenment of the Adepojus that they chose nurture and education over slaughter. But even then, it was a path of torture for the parents, especially for the crippled child.   So long, SO     Slow lynching     Prince of the air   “I suffered a lot of discrimination as a child,” said Adebolu Adepoju.  But before he knew discrimination, he had to rise out of bed. He lived a life of stagnation and vegetation, covered in a cloth. But he was not born disabled. He turned a cerebral palsy patient when a hospital administered an injection to the child, according to the parents. This again reflects the incompetence and the irony of care turning into a peril in Nigerian hospitals. That is what has turned him into a different person today. His father said he was mocked for fathering such a child, and nicknamed “Baba Julius Berger,” for making the boy exercise his limbs in walks and making him stretch his body on motorcycles. He said he never ate at home but after he stretched his body, he would develop an appetite and thirst. The mother, Toyin, said it was difficult to secure a school for him. He had to be taken all the way to Ekiti State to Tolu Vick Nursery and Primary School at Efon Alaye. He completed his secondary school at Ajayi Crowther in Lagos. “I am very proud of my disability,” said an upbeat Adepoju. He can be a poster child of the disabled in this society. The wife of the Kogi State Governor , Yahaya Bello, set up a foundation because their child, Hayatula Bello, suffered from cerebral palsy. We need cheery stories of triumph like this to let everyone know that we are all human.