Businessman, Tony Elumelu has lamented the worsening state of the nation. Elumelu, in a lengthy thread on Twitter, highlighted the ineptitude of national leaders despite vast natural resources in Nigeria. He lamented Nigeria has not been able to provide basic amenities for its citizens, leaving them to wallow in hardship and poverty. The Chairman of United Bank for Africa Plc charged Nigerians on the need to hold their leaders accountable and be more vocal about their rights and demand in view of the electioneering year. “This morning, I am listening to my colleagues at the office bemoan the very pressing issues that they face every day in this country, and how things have been getting worse and worse – no electricity for 5 days, hikes in the price of diesel, frightening food inflation, etc”, he said.   NCC upgrades emergency communications centres     World Bank report rates Netflix high     Farmers, marketers hit by high diesel cost   “How can a country so rich in natural resources have 90% of its citizens living in hardship and poverty? I have often said that access to electricity is critical for our development, alleviation of poverty and hardship. And speaking of security, our people are afraid! “Businesses are suffering. How can we be losing over 95% of oil production to thieves? Look at the Bonny Terminal that should be receiving over 200k barrels of crude oil daily, instead, it receives less than 3,000 barrels, leading the operator @Shell to declare force majeure. He continued: “Why are we paying taxes if our security agencies can’t stop this? It is clear that the reason Nigeria is unable to meet its OPEC production quota is not because of low investment but because of theft, pure and simple! “Meanwhile, oil-producing countries are smiling as their foreign reserves rise. What is Nigeria’s problem? We need to hold our leaders more accountable! Elections are coming – security and resources need to be everyone’s agenda – let’s be vocal for our nation’s priority. “Evil prevails when good people are silent. We need to be vocal about 2023. Let’s focus on Nigeria. Demand and advocate for leaders that deliver. In 2023, Nigeria must be on a strong trajectory for progress and development.”