The Lagos State Government has issued a stop-work order on a petrol station allegedly constructed illegally at No.1 Robinson Gbagi/ Benson Anoruo Street, Ajao Estate, Isolo. Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development Dr. Idris Salako told The Nation that the move to stop further construction on the site was important to forestall a disaster. According to him, the facility is being erected without any approval or stage-by-stage inspection by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) to ascertain the quality of materials used. “We cannot even be talking about checking for compliance against approval that was never given in the first place and this is dangerous for the built environment as the safety and structural integrity of the facility cannot be guaranteed,” Salako said. He noted that the unapproved construction is a growing concern for residents of the area, who petitioned the government against its continuation.   Lawan: Buhari will be APC’s compass beyond 2023     Group to DSS: Uphold Kanu’s fundamental rights     How suspected kidnappers killed driver in Rivers, by police   While reiterating the importance of building rights, the Commissioner emphasised that no construction should be carried out in Lagos State without Planning Permits and Stage certification by the authorities. He said the Owner/Developer of the petrol station would be brought to book for ignoring several warnings issued against the construction by LASBCA, which served contravention notices and stop-work orders on the builder. In a related development, the ministry said it had arrested three persons for parading themselves as LASBCA staff and illegally embarking on development control activities, thereby defrauding the unsuspecting public and causing mayhem. The commissioner noted that the impostors met their Waterloo when they posed as a government demolition gang and illegally pulled down a disputed property in Ogombo, Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the State. They have since been handed over to the police for prosecution while one Adeyemi Ajose, who is believed to be their mastermind, is still at large. The Commissioner assured that the full wrath of the law would be made to bear on those caught, while he urged residents not to hesitate in performing their civic responsibilities of reporting suspicious activities, particularly in the built environment of Lagos State.