A British jury was told to ignore Boris Becker’s celebrity status as the former world number one tennis player faces trial, accused of failing to hand over trophies he won to settle his debts. The 54-year-old German, who was declared bankrupt in 2017, is alleged to have concealed assets, including properties in Germany and London. Becker is accused of removing hundreds of thousands of pounds by transferring it to other accounts, including those of former wife Barbara Becker and estranged wife Sharlely “Lilly” Becker. The six-time Grand Slam champion is also said to have failed to hand over a number of trophies, including two for winning Wimbledon and his two Australian Open trophies, as well as his 1992 Olympic gold medal for the men’s doubles. Becker, who commentated for the BBC at Wimbledon last year, is facing a three-week trial at a south London court, where he denies 24 charges under the Insolvency Act relating to the period between May and October 2017. They include nine counts of failing to deliver up trophies and other awards and seven counts of concealing property.   Debut goal for Copenhagen delights Amoo     Belgrade 2022: : Sports Minister lauds Brume’s silver…     Lobi Stars reappoint Iorfa as Vice Chairman   Other charges include five counts of failing to disclose estate, including properties in Germany and London, and one of concealing 825,000 euros ($910,000, £690,000) of debt. Becker, who won 49 singles titles during his 16 years as a professional player, arrived at court on Monday morning hand in hand with his partner Lilian de Carvalho Monteiro. Qatar 2022 volunteer program launched  The volunteer application process for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022™ officially opened yesterday, with 20,000 places up for grabs for people from around the world to play an integral part in the tournament. The launch event was marked at Katara Amphitheatre in Doha, where 3,500 potential applicants were greeted by special guests, including H.E. Sheikha Hind Bint Hamad Al Thani, H.E. Salah Bin Ghanem Al Ali, Minister of Sports and Youth, H.E. Hassan Al Thawadi, Secretary General, Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, and FIFA Secretary General, Fatma Samoura. Speaking at the event, Al Thawadi said: “This is the first FIFA World Cup of its kind; the first in our beautiful country and region. We want to use the power of football to open the door to a world of amazing experiences.” “This edition of the FIFA World Cup is an amazing opportunity to share Qatar’s unique identity and create experiences that connect a global community. Our volunteers are the heart and soul of it all. They are the welcoming smile, the helping hand, the cheering voice. They share our pride, share our traditions and will help to create a lasting legacy for our country, the Middle East, Asia and the world.”