It was one of the bills that many stakeholders in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) thought would sail through voting in the National Assembly. While it sailed through in the House of Representatives, it failed in the Senate. By implication, the bill to grant the FCT a Mayoral status failed and would not be part of those bills that will be sent to the state Houses of Assembly. TONY AKOWE reports The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and his Deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, had to do some political lobbying to get bill number 60 which sought Mayoral Status for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to sail through after it failed on the first ballot with 233 votes. It needed 240 votes to sail through. After a short explanation, the Speaker asked members to vote again, and this time, it got 245 votes to sail through in the House for the FCT to have an elected Chief Executive in the status of a Mayor. That effort ended in the trash can as the Senate rejected the bill. What that meant was that it will not form part of the proposals to be sent to the state Houses of Assembly for concurrence. In the bill, which sought to amend section 299 of the Constitution, the Mayor is to be granted all the powers of the governor which is currently exercised by the President through the Minister for the FCT. The section, however, did not take into cognizance the legislative aspect as the National Assembly will continue to exercise the legislative authority over the city. The House of Representatives also voted overwhelmingly for one that is indigenous to the FCT to be appointed minister of the Territory. The territory has never had the opportunity of being represented in the Federal Executive Council despite several court judgments on the issue. The Senate, again, rejected the proposal for a minister from the territory. While the women whose bills were also rejected took to the streets to protest their exclusion, those indigenous to the FCT stayed back. Highly placed sources close to the Original Inhabitants Development Association, a body of those indigenous to the FCT told The Nation that people of the territory were never in support of granting the FCT a Mayoral status as they believe that it will diminish the status of the FCT. The source believes that the Senator representing the FCT was actually on a wild goose chase as the people already told him their mind. He said: “It’s a divisive and touchy issue as the Senator was on a wild goose chase and didn’t take heed to our group. OIDA doesn’t want a mayor as it runs contrary to what we already have in the Constitution in Section 299 of the 1999 Constitution which states that the FCT shall be treated as if it is a state. Section 299 of the Constitution states: “The provisions of this Constitution shall apply to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja as if it were one of the states of the federation. “We told the Senator that the FCT already has the trappings of a state and he should seek the enforcement and recognition of the FCT as a state in accordance with several court judgments affirming the FCT as a state. But he didn’t. He went on a wild goose chase for Mayoralty which is just a glorified local government Chairmanship system.” Stressing why they are opposed to a Mayoral status for the FCT, the source said: “MAYOR, in England, Wales, and Northern Ireland is the head of a town, borough, or county council, elected by council members and generally having purely ceremonial duties.   Tears, anguish as Abuja demolishes illegal structures     When NICO adopts secondary school’s cultural club     Begging: Abuja’s lingering menace?   “In the U.S., Canada, and certain other countries, he is the head of a municipal corporation, elected by the public. The FCT is 8,000sq kilometres and too large to be declared a mayoralty. “In OIDA’s view, mayoralty could have just been for Abuja City Centre (1,500sq km), if they so wish to have it badly but not for the entire Territory. “But the Senator didn’t want to listen and was blinded by his own ambition to be the first Mayor of the FCT. We told him in 2016, and it failed. We also told him last year and now it has failed again. “Our position paper is very clear on the status of the FCT and what the best practices should be. We submitted our memoranda to the Senate and House Committees, but he used his influence to shove aside our well-articulated and widely consulted memoranda. “Unfortunately for him, we can’t support his wild goose chase. Even if the National Assembly had passed it, it would have been killed by state Houses of Assembly in the Northern states.” The Nation was also informed that the Presidency has always been against the FCT having an elected Chief Executive for the entire territory. The Source said: “The Presidency also doesn’t want an elective chief executive for the FCT as they don’t want another party different from that of the President to always be in charge of the FCT. “Goodluck Jonathan told us this around 2013 and the Buhari government has also told us that in several meetings. Also, the Nigerian elites see the FCT as the inky safe haven in the country and where they can feel relaxed without being threatened with ethnicity issues and have secured investments, as such, they feel more at home with the Federal Government (President) being in control of the capital city despite that the governance system remains a crap and a military contraption that is still with us.” A close look at the memoranda presented by the Original Inhabitants revealed that they made it clear that they were not in support of a Mayoral seat for the FCT. Rather, they advocated for a Mayor for Abuja City, the status of a state for the territory and the creation of additional local government areas, three senatorial districts and six federal constituencies for the FCT as well as an FCT House of Assembly. They sought to be given the status of a fully-fledged state just like other states of the country in view of the constitutional status it is supposed to enjoy. Justifying their position, they referred to the Court of Appeal on the status of the FCT which it has never enjoyed. In the judgment, Justice Raphael Rowland in 2005 said: “By virtue of Section 299 of the Constitution of the Federation, the Federal Capital Territory is, in law, a state. “In other words, the Federal Capital Territory should be treated as one of the states in the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It follows, therefore, that bodies such as the Federal Capital Development Authority are to be regarded as an agency of a ‘state’ independent of the Federal Government… “Section 299 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 has clear and unambiguous provisions to the effect that the Federal Capital Territory is in law a state. “It is a law that where the provision of a statute is clear and unambiguous only its natural meaning will suffice. There are a plethora of cases on this point.”