The Women Agro Processors Agricgen and Exporters Initiative (WAPAGEIN) has urged the Federal Government to modernise and transform the nation’s ports management system. The President of WAPA-GEIN, Esther Adebayo, gave the advice at the inauguration of the initiative and National Export Centre, on Thursday in Abuja. “I am of the opinion that the Federal Government should not be decongesting the ports in Nigeria but engage in transforming the ports. “This must start with cleaning up administrative bottlenecks most of which are unnecessary with multiple government agencies at the port, high transaction cost, or even plain extortion from illegal taxes, which do not go into the coffers of the government. “Nigeria should rapidly modernise and transform its ports. Ports are not there for equipment revenue generation. They should be for facilitating business and exports, and stimulating industrial manufacturing, and competitiveness of local business and exports. “Papers and other documents are to be forwarded on the Internet to other countries of destination, and all meris, calle eight, collected and According to the sector operators,” she said. She disclosed that the cost of exporting 100 tons of cargo in Nigeria was $35,000 compared to $4000 in Ghana. “Today the leading ports for West Africa are in Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo and Benin Republic. All these countries have modernised their port management systems, leaving Nigeria far behind,” she said.   She also stressed the need for the Federal Government to increase the training and employment of extension workers and other supportive services to boost increase in agricultural production. “We must unleash the potential of the youths of Nigeria. Today over 75 per cent of the population is under the age of 35 years.   ‘Code of practice for social media coming’     Women get N203.31b credit from CBN interventions     Buhari reappoints Dikko, Pitan BoI Chair, MD/CEO for another…   “More decisive actions are needed to turn this demographic asset into an economic dividend. A young productive, youthful population with access to education, skills, social protection, affordable housing, and medical care will power Nigeria’s economy now and well into the future. “We must move away from so-called youth empowerment programmes “The youth do not need hands out”. They need investments. Agro business is well loaded with millions of jobs created for the youths.” Adebayo urged State Governments to establish farm settlements, clusters of agro producers including women and youths. He also enjoined the three tiers of should promote operation “feed yourself” by helping households to access information, and inputs that would encourage them to produce food around their houses to feed their families. According to her, sustainable household food security is the bedrock of successful export business. “With sharp focus, relentless execution, fairness, equity, public accountability and transparency, we shall drive for a much better and economically stronger Nigeria.” Earlier, Chairperson, Planning Committee of the event, Dr Funmilola Daudu, said the initiative would develop better agricultural and business management practices that would result in improved competitiveness, productivity, income, gross marginal yields for small holder farmers and Micro Small and Medium Enterprises. She stressed the need to increase women’s potential to participate in high level businesses that could foster high level empowerment, job creation and social development in their communities. WAPAGEIN is a non-governmental and not-for-profit organization established to promote agric businesses, entrepreneurships, youth and women development careers. WAPAGEIN has a network of agribusiness marketing professionals from across Nigeria. With chapters located in the six geopolitical zones including the FCT.