The HAB Foundation has donated relief materials to 100 less privileged people comprises of widows, aged and single parents. Founder/Chief Visioner of the foundation Hakeem Bamgbola, said the outreach and intervention programme, third of its kind, was targeted at the underprivileged people in the society. Bamgbola added that this year’s edition was to assist to the widows, elderly and single parents, who are seen as the bulk of the vulnerable people in the society. He also said that in the last three years, the foundation has continued to intervene with tremendous efforts aimed at improving the living conditions of the people. He noted that the outreach started with a medical exercise which dealt with screening and treatment for malaria, hypertension, diabetes, prostate, breast and cervical cancer. He stated over 750 people benefitted with more than 500 underwent eye screening for glaucoma and cataract while over 300 getting free eye glasses. The beneficiaries were cut across Surulere Local Government, Coker-Aguda and Itire-Ikate Local Council Development Areas.   VC urges industrialists to commercialise innovations for…     Pedro inaugurates health centre     ‘APC must unite to win 2023 election’   Last year, Bamgbola said the foundation provided school bags, exercise books, writing pens and mathematical sets to all primary school pupils in Itire-Ikate LCDA. The foundation, he said, also distributed free health preventive kits like nose masks and personal sanitizers, while schools were given hand-wash kits to curb the spread of the COVID-19. “The Hab Foundation also gave a cash assistance of N20,000 each to 30 tertiary institution students spread across Itire-Ikate and Coker Aguda LCDAs. The spirit behind this initiative is to attempt to give back to a society that has given so much to us. Aside, it is a compulsory injunction in the holy books that we must always be our brothers’ keeper. This is the dictate that we have always kept at the back of our hearts. It is a route from which we will never depart – the route of generosity, benevolence and philanthropy,” he said. He hailed those who contributed to the success of the outreach, with the urge to strive to serve the society and humanity at large. All Progressives Congress (APC) Apex Leader in Surulere Chief Tayo Adenekan hailed Bamgbola for the gesture. “I’ve followed your (Bamgbola) progress since you’re a supervisor. You have always lifted yourself and people up and you’re a good party man. I wish you greater success,” he said. APC Vice Chairman Lagos Central Senatorial District Chief Abayomi Daramola lauded Bamgbola’s efforts in making life meaningful for the needy. He urged him not to relent in assisting the less privileged.