Gender Advocacy for Justice Initiative (GAJI) with support from the Government and People of Japan, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Benue State Government has strengthened Sexual Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) community protection committees in Benue State. The Board of Trustees Chairperson of GAJI, Prof. Mrs Charity Angya, revealed the activity was in furtherance of the implementation of the project titled: “Support for social stability and security of conflict-affected communities in North-Central Nigeria”. The one-day linkage meeting was organised to enhance the skills of stakeholders in protection from SGBV and the linkage of community protection committees to state- and federal-level structures in Benue State. Benue Command Gender Desk Officer of the Nigeria Police Force, SP Ann O. Ameh, observed that issues of SGBV were becoming prevalent and should concern everyone as anyone can become a victim or perpetrator. She emphasised the need to partner in ensuring that peace prevails.   NACA donates four ambulances to Jigawa     Insecurity: Ndume seeks profiling of Abuja IDPs     NYSC DG wants corps members to be security conscious   Ameh commended the project activity and stated that “it was proactive; and links to community volunteers will be helpful, as they will be better equipped to swing into action without delay, once a case is brought forward.” CSOs, FIDA and representatives of the Benue State SGBV Taskforce expressed delight over the opportunity to link up with State and Federal SGBV actors for an effective response towards curtailing the menace of SGBV on victims and ensuring that aggressors are punished appropriately. Over 80 persons of concern were trained on protection from SGBV in four protection committees from Agatu, Buruku, Guma and Kwande local government areas of Benue and four SGBV protection committees were linked to state- and federal-level structures in Benue State. Participants were drawn from the Benue State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Nigeria Police Force, National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), State SGBV Committee; Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Office in Benue State, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), SGBV Protection committees, and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). There were also key stakeholders drawn from the four local government areas of the project Implementation namely: Agatu, Buruku, Guma and Kwande.