Women’s groups yesterday protested at the National Assembly in Abuja and Houses of Assembly across the states over what they called inequality against women in the country. In Abuja, the protesting women blocked the entrance to the National Assembly and the Federal Secretariat gate of the Parliament. They expressed disappointment over the rejection of gender Bills during the constitutional amendment last week. The security agents at the entrance to the National Assembly did not allow the protesters entry into the premises. The security agents locked the gate against the protesters on the day they were marking the International Women’s Day. The women, led by Dr. Abiola Afolabi, insisted they would not leave until they met the leadership of the National Assembly and get assurances that that something urgent would be done to address their demand. Some of them hung chains on their necks to symbolise how women were being caged in the polity. Also, wives of some governors across the country yesterday joined the various women groups protesting injustice at the gate of the National Assembly. Those who joined the protesters included Erelu Bisi Fayemi of Ekiti State, Betty Obaseki of Edo State and Martha Udom of Akwa Ibom State. The other protesters were led by Mrs. Fayemi, who said they were in Abuja in solidarity for fellow Nigerian women. “We are here to demand our rights. We want our leaders at the National Assembly to recognise that Nigerian women matter,” she said. Lending her voice Mrs. Obaseki said anyone who neglects the interest of women would lose election in Edo State. Mrs. Emmanuel, who emphasised the essence of 35 Affirmative Action for Women, advised that women be given the opportunity to contribute to the development of the society. Also at the protest ground was the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM), Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who said women were not asking for the easy way out but only were seeking equity.   PDP chieftains to Obaseki: you haven’t earned leadership     U.S. celebrates women with $2.6b for gender equity, equality     Buhari: women have made invaluable contributions in my govt   Some women senators also joined the protest, calling for equality for women. There were also protests yesterday in Imo, Kaduna, Enugu and Lagos states. The protesters in Lagos were women from Ogun, Ono and Osun States, who called for gender equality and equity. Also, the House of Representatives yesterday rescinded its earlier decision to reject three gender-related Bills during voting on the constitutional amendment. The three Bills, which were among those that failed to get the required 240 votes, are: the Bill on Citizenship, Indigeneship and 35 per cent Affirmative Action for Women. Women’s groups have, since the rejection of the Bills, besieged the gate to the National Assembly to protest the action. But at its resumed sitting yesterday, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila said there was the need for the Green Chamber to rescind the decision for the good of the country. He said the House would set aside its rules and rescind the earlier decision to reject the Bills and relist them in the next batch of constitutional amendment, which will be presented to the House in the next four weeks for voting. Thereafter, the Chairman of the House Committee on Rules and Business, Abubakar Hassan Fulata, moved a motion for the House to rescind the decision and was seconded by Deputy Minority Leader Toby Okechukwu, who said it was important to do so in solidarity with the women as they celebrated the International Women’s Day. Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Babajimi Benson said the day was unique. Benson, who has been among those pushing for the women to be given a pride of place, said in recognition of the role played by women in the society, the House decided to rescind its earlier decision on the three bills, hoping that by so doing, the Bills would sail through in the Senate and state Assemblies. He added that during the Executive session held by the House before the rescission of the decision, members dropped their emotions and played up why the women should be given a pride of place. He said the House did not act under influence from any quarters, but for self-examination. Addressing reporters after the House sitting, House spokesman Benjamin Kalu said the decision to rescind the earlier resolution was taken after due consultation. Kalu said the Bill on citizenship and indigeneship would give the women all-inclusiveness in the affairs of the country and ensure a pride of place for them.