Lagos stood still yesterday for former Governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu, whose 70th birthday was marked with a novelty match between Nigeria’s best of all time – the 1994 Super Eagles team that won the African Cup of Nations – and ex-Lagos Internationals. Asiwaju Tinubu, whose birthday is March 29, is bidding for the presidential ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Star ex-Super Eagles Austin Jay-Jay Okocha, Kanu Nwankwo, Mutiu Adepoju, Julius Aghahowa, Victor Agali, Garba Lawal, Ifeanyi Udeze as well Victor Ikpeba, and a host of others show class in the match in which Victor Agali scored a brace to defeat the ex-Lagos internationals. Those who played for the ex-Lagos Internationals include Godwin Okpara and Friday Ekpo. A side was led by a former junior international Waheed Akani. Ex-Eagles stars were coached by former Super Eagles assistant coach Fatai Amoo. Asiwaju Tinubu was accompanied to the Mobolaji Sports Arena, Onikan, Lagos venue by his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu. Tinubu wore the Super Eagles jersey. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, Executive Council members, senators, House of Representatives members, among other political associated were present to honour the APC stalwart.   Court issues warrant of arrest against ex-Reps member     Court strikes Gov Umahi’s bid to stay execution of…     BREAKING: Ex-Anambra Gov Obiano gets EFCC administrative…    The stadium was filled to capacity, with friends, loyalists, party faithful, and supporters in their various attires chorusing Tinubu’s praise while his posters adorned the venue. Also at the colourful event were Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare; Senators Adeola Solomon (Lagos West), Tokunbo Abiru (Lagos East), Rep James Faleke, Rep Ademorin Kuye, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, ex-Deputy Governor Femi Pedro,  Nigeria  Ambassador to Spain, Mr. Demola Seriki, Senator Magnus Abe, Lagos Whitecap chiefs, among others. Two matches preceded the star match of the day with the first being played by Team Asiwaju Lagos (state excos, house of assembly members, council chairmen), and Team Asiwaju Abuja (National Assembly members). The match ended 1-1. After ending the first half goalless, the ex-internationals were resplendent in their old jersey. It was Agali who broke the deadlock in the second with an assist from Aghahowa to put the ex-Eagles ahead. The mercurial midfielder, Okocha also dazzled with his skills when his long cross was nodded in by Agali to give the former Eagles a 2-0 win. It was a free day for Ike Shorunmu who was in goal for the ex-Eagles. He was on holiday throughout the second half.