African average insurance penetration dropped from 2.78 per cent in 2019 to two per cent in 2020. While the global average penetration rate was 7.20 per cent in 2019, it rose to 7.40 per cent in 2020. Speaking at the Insurance Retreat for Africa organised by the Government of Zanzibar at Madinat el Bahr, the President, African Insurance Organisation (AIO), Mr. Tope Smart, said this should be of concern to insurers in the Africa. He attributed the low insurance penetration on the continent to low income and awareness, failure to embrace digital technology, high level of financial exclusion, lack of infrastructural and distribution channels, as well as domestic skills and a shortage of data. He said: “While the global average penetration rate in 2019 was 7.20 per cent, that of Africa was 2.78 per cent. “In 2020, while the global average went up to 7.40 per cent, that of Africa came down significantly to about two per cent.  This should be of great concern to us as a region.”   ‘Leadway Assurance leveraging data to boost customer…     Unitrust Insurance gets nod on agric business     NAICOM portal suffering hitches, say operators   Stating that regulators were not keeping pace with innovation, as timing and implementation of regulatory changes need to be looked into, Smart stressed that the lack of consumer trust as presence of weak firms erode trust, pricing and other market and cultural issues, fragmentation and over competition were hindering insurance penetration. Smart charged stakeholders to address these barriers to galvanise the  sector. “If the issues highlighted are critically addressed, the result will lead to a significant growth of the insurance sector.  It is also important to mention that the underlying economic growth forms the most important catalyst for growth and good enough, the outlook for Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth is strong across markets,” he said. The coming up of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA), an initiative of African Union, he said, is a game changer for the sector. Since insurance plays a major role in the development of the continent, he said, the expected increase in intra-African trade through the AFCFTA would lead to higher insurance penetration. “The potential to increase life insurance growth is noteworthy. In many markets apart from South Africa, non-life represents at least 65 per cent of total premium income with even some up to 85 per cent (Tanzania & Uganda). Given this scenario, the potential opportunity to expand life insurance is very great.”