The All Progressives Congress (APC) is up against a fresh challenge ahead of its national convention in Abuja this weekend as party leaders and vested interests are working at cross purposes, jeopadising the power sharing formula worked out by the party hierarchy. Reports from the various zones yesterday suggested that the micro-zoning of the Non-National Working Committee and zonal positions earlier agreed upon in some regions are now being jettisoned and many zonal positions thrown open to interested aspirants. The screening of aspirants for the various positions in the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party is expected to get underway today in Abuja with the seven aspirants for the office of the National Chairman going through the process to determine their suitability. Party sources said yesterday that APC leaders in Kano and Kebbi states, for instance, had refused to abide by the micro-zoning arrangement for the office of the National Organising Secretary. The Bayelsa and Rivers state chapters of the party are also said to have refused to cooperate on which of them should produce the National Vice Chairman South-South. A party chieftain from the zone attributed the situation to the presidential ambition of a minister from the zone. Said the source: “The moment the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) released the zoning arrangement, party leaders in the South-South micro-zoned the National Vice Chairman to Bayelsa State, but the presidential ambition of the minister is pushing Rivers State to reject the zoning arrangement. “The truth is the micro-zoning arrangement has collapsed in South-South and some other regions. “Consensus candidacy too is done with, even at the NWC level. That is why we have Abdullaziz Abubakar Yari from the North-West zone vying for National Chairman when the position is supposedly zoned to the North Central.   Committee begins screening of aspirants for NWC positions The Kastina State Governor, Aminu Masari-led National Convention Screening Committee will today begin its assignment, interviewing aspirants for the various offices. The highlight will be the screening of the seven chairmanship aspirants. It was learnt that the security report carried out on them about a month ago at the instance of President Muhammadu Buhari may also play a key role in the choice of the party’s new helmsman. There were indications yesterday that the President may make up his mind and build consensus on an aspirant on or before Friday.   Defection: APC state chairmen decry court ruling sacking…     Nigerians count losses from electricity grid collapse     Petrol scarcity: NARTO urges members to resume full…   But aspirants with issues before any of the nation’s anti-graft agencies may not be fielded by APC despite the fact that they are presumed innocent in the face of the law. Aspirants from Niger and Nasarawa states are heating up tension in the party ahead of the convention. Four of the seven aspirants for APC chairmanship are from the two states. They are Sen. Sani Mohammed Musa and Mohammed Etsu from (Niger State) and the pioneer Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu; and ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa State). Governors Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger), Abdullahi Sule and all political leaders from the two states have not been able to prevail on the aspirants to step down for one another. Apart from those from the two states, other aspirants for screening are Mallam Saliu Mustapha (Turaki Ilorin); ex-Governor George Akume and another former Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum, Abdulaziz Yari. A reliable source said: “All the aspirants are expected to appear before a screening committee which is headed by Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State. All the aspirants have been waiting for Masari because the exercise will be done within 24 hours. “Besides the screening, security report on the aspirants may guide the committee and President Muhammadu Buhari on how to take a decision on the right choice. “The President, governors and party leaders are working towards a consensus candidate. I think by Thursday or Friday, the real candidate will emerge.” Responding to a question, the source said: “I think those having issues with any of the anti-graft agencies may not be cleared. “Although the law presumes them innocent, APC will not take any risk on any leader undergoing investigation.” Party sources said yesterday that chairmanship aspirants from Niger and Nasarawa states were heating up the tension in APC. The source added: “Governors and APC leaders from the two states have not been able to come up with consensus on each state’s representative. “The governors are confused because they don’t want to step on the toes of the gladiators. Aspirants from the two states are going to the battle divided. “The tension from the two states has been extended to the national level of APC. We hope it will not snowball into political crisis in Niger and Nasarawa.”