Nigeria and others on the African continent pay the highest rate for mobile internet in the world proportional to income, a tech start-up, Simplifyd Systems Inc, has said. According to estimates by the International Telecoms Union (ITU), an agency of the United Nations, sub-Saharan Africa is home to approximately 700 million of the global 3.7 billion unconnected people. ITU’s Connecting Humanity study said internet access can be made a reality for all sub-Saharan Africa by 2030 with an investment of about $97 billion. Affordability remained a challenge, Simplifyd Systems Inc, a YCombinator backed Nigerian startup, added. Its Co-founder and CEO, Tomi Amao, spoke in Lagos during the unveiling of ZeroData, a toll-free internet app platform, to solve the challenges associated with accessing affordable data as its consumption surges, especially among mobile and web app users in emerging markets across the continent. “For us, the realisation that Africans pay the highest rate for mobile internet in the world proportional to income is worrying. This is a significant challenge that we are happy to solve sustainably through the launch of ZeroData. At the moment, smartphone penetration in Africa sits at 50 per cent and the numbers are steadily rising. What you’ll typically find is that the market favours low data apps, owing to prevailing realities around data affordability.   Fed Govt inaugurates committee to review Nigeria’s…     Access Bank transits to Access Holdings     Eunisell launches 2022 graduate trainee programme   Through ZeroData, we are creating a convenient platform to access the Internet away from the challenge of huge data consumption for the continent’s growing number of Internet users. “ZeroData is designed to cater to both users with active data plans and those with none.  For users with an active data plan, their data plan isn’t consumed when they make use of the application. Our app also enables users with no active data plans to enjoy uninterrupted access to the Internet apps listed on the platform,” he said. The firm’s ambition is to become the platform of choice for data-free access to the internet across Africa, and has taken a huge leap. Founded by Amao, Mayowa Amao, Sam Keiru and Abiola Fajimi in 2020, the company has raised over $500,000 in pre-seed funding from YCombinator and Future Africa. Amao said the platform was created out of a strong desire to solve Africa’s worrying data affordability challenge, alongside the drive to support greater digital inclusion across the continent. According to the CEO, users will only need to download the Zerodata app available for mobile (Android) and desktop (MacOS and Windows). This provides them with instant data-free access to listed apps & websites. The ZeroData platform also allows businesses to bundle data with their apps for the purpose of making them accessible and data-free to those who need it most. In Nigeria, data consumption is a growing concern. Reports say usage surged by 202.08 per cent in three years – 2018, 2019 and 2020 – according to data from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as data usage across Africa continues to grow. According to the Global System for Mobile Communication Association (GSMA), Nigeria had 53 million smartphone connections in 2018 and GSMA estimates that smartphone connections will rise to 154 million by 2025. Experts believe the uptake in data usage across Africa is largely driven by mobile devices, with GSM having the large portion of the market. A significant uniqueness of ZeroData is the availability of fine-grained policies, which help organisations define who should have data-free access to their apps, how much data free access does each user get, and how best to geolocate data free access to users in a particular location among others.