Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has said the state has adopted the Building Energy Efficiency Code (BEEC) to reduce energy costs and tackle epileptic power supply. Governor Simon Lalong made this known in Jos during the launch of the Building Energy Efficiency Code (BEEC) in Plateau and implemented by GIZ and European Union. The Deputy Governor Sonni Tyoden, who represented  Lalong, explained that the initiative would boost the state’s investment in the rural communities as well as save energy in the state. According to him, this initiative was part of efforts to save energy, adding: “We are proud that Plateau is one of the states that this programme is being launched.’’ He assured the development partners that since Plateau was the first to launch the initiative, the state would continue to be a shining example for other states. Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola, represented by Director Electrical Engineering Services, Cyril Onyeneke, said President Muhammadu Buhari had inaugurated 1520 WP solar power PV plus Microgrid system which has been serving the energy needs of the Ministry at the headquarters in Abuja. He emphasised that the Ministry has been collaborating with the Nigerian Energy Support Program/GIZ on Building Energy Efficiency Programme to set minimum requirements on Building Energy and Enforcement. He said the programme was aimed at providing advice to professionals in the building industry on how to design, construct and operate more energy-efficient buildings.   Lagos records 276 building collapse     Russia-Ukraine conflict: ‘West Africa at risk of food…     Brent crude prices rise to $114 p/b as EU mulls Russian oil…   “By investing in energy efficient buildings, our cities would benefit from the economic, social and environmental contributions of this systems.” Country Representative of the European Union Inga Stefanowicz said the Building Energy Efficiency Code contributes immensely to the achievement of the energy efficiency target set in Nigeria. He said the project if fully implemented will place Nigeria on a 2.5% reduction in energy intensity across all sectors annual. He said Plateau being the forerunner and the first state to adopt BEEC in the country, expressed hope that other states in the country will key into the initiative for the overall development of the country. Commissioner of Physical Planning and Urban Development Hon Idris Gambo said the aim of the project was to set minimum requirements on Building Energy Efficiency and to provide proper implementation, control and enforcement. He explained that ‘energy efficiency measures are specified based on bio climatic principles of compliance with minimum requirements for window-to- wall-ratio or compensation through the integration of shading solutions. “We now look forward to the next phase of empowering our professionals in the relevant knowledge to support the wide spread implementation of the BEEC on code, he added Director Building, Ministry of Housing, Plateau State, Arch Solomon Jankwa’a, explained that the ‘Building Energy Efficiency Code is talking about the consumption of energy at the minimum level so that energy can become affordable to all Nigerians. ‘There is power epilepsy in Plateau and this is because some of the gadgets that we have cannot pick with low power but with this development, there will be some appliances that will come to the market and they will pick at a very low voltage at a very low cost of power,’ he stated.