There are fresh lessons for Nigeria on how to fight terrorism by fighting its sponsors, and strengthening anti-terrorism capacity.  The question is whether the country’s authorities are teachable. The US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has added the names of six Nigerians to “the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons… for having materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, Boko Haram.” It accused the Nigeria-based terrorist group of “numerous attacks in the northern and northeastern regions of the country as well as in the Lake Chad Basin in Cameroon, Chad, and Niger that have killed thousands of people since 2009.” The six Nigerians are: Abdurrahman Ado Musa, Salihu Yusuf Adamu, Bashir Ali Yusuf, Muhammed Ibrahim Isa, Ibrahim Ali Alhassan, and Surajo Abubakar Muhammad. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) Federal Court of Appeals in Abu Dhabi had convicted them of transferring $782,000 from Dubai to Boko Haram in Nigeria.  Adamu and Muhammad were sentenced to life imprisonment for violations of UAE anti-terrorism laws; Musa, Yusuf, Isa and Alhassan were sentenced to 10 years in prison, followed by deportation. The US sanction against them, the agency said in a statement on March 25, “will prevent these individuals’ funds from being used further to support terrorism.” Crippling terrorism enablers is a critical aspect of the war against terrorism. But the Federal Government has failed to tackle terrorism sponsors, and so encourages terror-support which sustains terrorism. In April 2021, for instance, the government announced that it had arrested 400 alleged Boko Haram sponsors. At the time the said arrests suggested a new level of seriousness in the fight against terrorism. The arrested alleged financiers of the Islamic terrorist group were said to be businessmen, including bureau de change operators. They were arrested in Kano, Borno, Lagos, Sokoto, Adamawa, Kaduna and Zamfara states, and Abuja. The arrests were said to have been carried out based on investigations involving the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA), the Department of State Services (DSS), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU), and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The suspects were expected to be prosecuted without delay. Five months after news of the arrests, the media reported that the Federal High Court in Abuja had fixed September 17, 2021 for the arraignment of the suspects for alleged terrorism funding. The public had looked forward to the event. “The case will come up before Justice Anwuli Chikere,” the media said. But there was no subsequent report of the case, which suggested that it didn’t happen. About a year after the said arrests, the public is still expecting the trial of the suspects. This cannot encourage public confidence in the government’s effort to tackle terrorists and their sponsors.   Obiano’s troubles     Mubarak Bala’s persecution      Abubakar’s stained hands   Apart from the failure to deal with terrorism financiers, there is the question of poor anti-terrorism capacity. The United States government, on March 25, donated five nuclear detector cans to the Nigeria police to help tackle terrorism in the country. The security donations were said to be worth about two million dollars. It is unclear how much the country’s anti-terrorism capacity has improved.  Last year, National Security Adviser Babagana Monguno was reported saying “huge sums of money” approved for the purchase of weapons were “missing” and the weapons “were not bought.” He later claimed he had been “quoted out of context.” Also, the House of Representatives had set up an ad hoc committee to investigate the government’s procurement of arms and ammunition from 2011. Claims that the armed forces are poorly equipped to fight insecurity were reinforced by some striking incidents.  For instance, Lance Corporal Martins Idakpini of the 8 Division, Sokoto, of the Nigerian Army, dared to speak truth to power in a 12-minute video that went viral in June 2020. He had criticised the military leadership for failing to provide adequate weapons to fight terrorism. Also, in two other videos, soldiers involved in the war against terrorism had claimed that the army was ill-equipped to defeat the terrorists. In one video, a former theatre commander, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, was seen and heard telling troops that “it appears the people we are fighting have more firepower than us.” He was court-martialled for embarrassing and ridiculing the armed forces. Is the military better equipped now?  The war on terror has gone on for too long. It is more than a decade since the military launched its counter-insurgency operation, and Boko Haram continues to terrorise the country. Tragically, it looks like a war without end. There are disturbing allegations that the war on terror has become an inspiration for corruption in the military and political leadership; and those benefitting materially from it do not want the war to end. This may explain why the things that should be done to boost the anti-terrorism effort have not been done. In January, Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum supplied information showing that the Federal Government cannot claim to be winning the war against terrorism. He told members of the Senate Committee on Army during their visit to him at the Government House in Maiduguri that two local government areas in the state were under the control of Boko Haram terrorists. He said:  ”Two of our local government headquarters are still under the control of Boko Haram terrorists, Malamfatori in Abadam local government and Guzamala. We want the owners of these two local governments to take over, that is the government of Borno State and the two local governments.”  Have the areas been recovered? There may be greater trouble ahead as Zulum highlighted the growing presence of another terrorist group, the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP), in the southern part of Borno. This is likely to worsen the country’s terrorism problem. Increased activities by terrorists can only mean increased insecurity in the country. Zulum observed that “If nothing is done to check and tackle the growing presence of ISWAP fighters who are better armed, better equipped, more deadly, more sophisticated and receive more funds than Boko Haram, it will be disastrous not only to Borno State but the country in general.” The alarm was loud enough. The government needs to adequately equip the anti-terrorism fighters and effectively tackle terrorism financiers.