Actress Chioma Grace ‘Ifemeludike’ has taken a swipe at her colleague, Mary Lazarus, over her comment on accepting money from politicians in 2023. As the 2023 elections draw closer, Mary Lazarus, in a recent post on social media, said she would gladly collect money offered her by politicians in exchange for her vote. She however noted accepting the money doesn’t guarantee her vote for the politician as she would only vote for her preferred candidate. “If any politician gives me money to vote for him/her, I will gladly collect,” she wrote. “Na my money, especially the one’s wey don rule before but I go use my head. Don’t reject their money or gift. #DontRejectTheirMoneyOrGift #nationacake #nationalbudget.” Faulting Lazarus’ comment, Ifemeludike explained it displayed unpatriotism, greed and lacked integrity. Ifemeludike wondered why a celebrity would make a post on social media solely to encourage vote-buying and selling. “Some people we celebrate in this country show we have a long way to go. How can a public figure encourage citizens to collect money from polithieftians in exchange for a vote? “In a functional society, she could be arrested for promoting unpatriotism and encouraging corruption. “Vote buying and selling is Electoral malpractice that indirectly disenfranchises the ignorant and greedy masses. It is also grossly undemocratic.” “Whoever thinks that taking money from a politician and not voting them is smartness is just really dumb. “Why do you even need money from someone you don’t want to vote into power? That’s greed, shows lack of integrity and exactly how we got here.   Reactions as Erigga wishes he were a cow     US boxer offers Kanye West, Pete Davidson $60m to fight over…     Portable bags N50m Obi Cubana’s endorsement deal   According to her, such ‘hunger mentality’ is the bane of the country’s prostitution among young girls. Ifemeludike also argued such an anomaly could never be seen anywhere in developed countries. She continued: “This same hunger mentality is why young girls date multiple men, faking love just for the money. “We’ve successfully killed trust, truth, and commitment in Nigeria and we dare talk of a better society? “My people say if you reject the devil, you reject his evil works. This is a primitive and archaic mindset and it’s unfortunate that some of these celebrities are negatively influencing our society. “You can’t hear an average American, Chinese or European celebrity publicly say they will take money from a politician in exchange for votes. The filmmaker further urged Nigerians especially celebrities to bury the hunger mentality and ensure they communicate the right messages when they feel the need to talk about governance and politics else the next generation will bear the brunt of their corrupt deeds. She added: “We need to understand that if we must rebuild Nigeria to be great then we must bury our hunger mentality and quest for national cake. “You don’t need money from people with questionable intentions, most importantly you don’t need money to make critical decisions for the future of your children. “Biko anytime we wish to talk about governance and politics let’s endeavour to send the right message, this is the only country that’s originally ours, if we fail, our children’s children will suffer it.”