The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has called on Nigerians to reject any political party that refuses to zone its presidential ticket to southern Nigeria in the 2023 election. The forum made the call in a communique issued at the end of its meeting in Abuja on Thursday. The meeting, which was chaired by elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, also warned southern politicians against pursuing personal ambitions that run contrary to the decision of the forum, which it noted was aimed at strengthening fairness, equity and promoting a sense of belonging in Nigeria’s democracy. SMBLF consists of Afenifere, Ohaneze Ndigbo, Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF (South South) and the Middle Belt Forum. The forum called on all political parties to, therefore, zone their presidential tickets to southern Nigeria. “We, therefore, unequivocally, and in full resolve, again call on all political parties in the country to zone their presidential tickets to the South. “Accordingly, we call on all lovers of peace and equity in Nigeria, particularly our people of Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt region to reject any political party that fails to zone its presidential ticket to the South. “We also caution political stakeholders from Southern Nigeria against aspirations or actions that would compromise the shared Resolve of our people.” The communique read.   Osun 2022: Court affirms Babayemi as PDP governorship…     Olubadan: I won’t let down Ibadan people, says Balogun     Gunmen kidnap 24 in Kaduna mosque raid, rustle animals   The meeting also faulted current efforts by the National Assembly to grant local governments an autonomy, saying what Nigeria needed is restructuring which will take care of lopsided news in the constitution. “That the legislations of the National Assembly granting local governments autonomy are superfluous and exercise in futility. “State police is a sine qua non in a federal system of government; and there is no government, properly so-called, that is without the Instrument and capacity to enforce its laws and maintain security within its territorial jurisdiction. “The resultant effect of the monopoly of internal security by the Federal Government is the unprecedented dire state of insecurity in the country,” The forum posited. The forum further demanded  in national interest, the immediate release of Nnamdi Kanu and a stop to any further persecution of Sunday Igboho, who is currently on a conditional release in Benin Republic. It warned that the continued detention and trial of Nnamdi Kanu on charges of terrorism and treasonable felony while known Boko Haram terrorists are being given VIP treatments and hosted in Government Houses is not only provocative and perfidious but a bizarre double standard on the part of the Nigerian State. The meeting was attended by leaders across the southern and Middle Belt regions.