Gift Jackson aka Babylon has opined that many talented youths in the Niger Delta were groping on the streets because of lack of finance and official support to develop their skills. In a chat with The Nation, he said, “There are millions of talented youths in the Niger Delta. But they are wasting away. The challenge of finance and lack of official support is real but the truth is if families can support their children in their endeavors it will go a long way to keep their dreams alive. “As for me I am expanding from dancing to music and also adding fashion. I am a stylist. I have styled many artistes in Port Harcourt. I have a lot of potential I am just harnessing it with  due time they will all come  to limelight”, he said. Babylon began making waves when he participated in the Season 9 of the Maltina Dance Hall. Though his group of dancers, the Jackson’s Family, at the reality show couldn’t top the chart, they came fourth.   Pasuma, Murphy Afolabi, others attend Malaika’s…     Young Jonn joins Chocolate City, releases new single     Niyi Johnson, Omowunmi Dada feature in Rebirth   But Babylon, a Port Harcourt boy, who hails from Okirika in Rivers State, kept fate with his dancing career. Babylon recalled how he became famous at the show for creating an amazing dance, which he christened, Chicken Flavour. “Chicken Flavour went viral”, he said. “How did I come about the name? There is this dance I always do at home. So, I decided to perform it at the show on a national television. Everybody loved it. When they asked what the name of the dance was I didn’t have a name in my head I just called the dance style ‘chicken flavor’. It went viral”, he said. Despite growing up in  Port Harcourt old township of Diobu and Borokiri, Babylon said as a budding dancer he had always dreamt of partaking in the Maltina Dance Hall and was happy he eventually made it to that bigger stage in 2015. He said: “I have always dreamt of being at that show. The truth is when I put my mind on something, I always get. Though it may not be immediately l, I will definitely achieve it.”