Following the scintillating performance of Victor Osimhen for Napoli this season, Napoli midfielder and Cameroonian international Zambo Anguissa has described the Nigerian as a fighter for the Serie A side in their quest for Scudetto. Anguissa was speaking with ‘Radio Goal’ on Kiss Kiss Napoli that the defeat against AC Milan was a setback to Napoli. He (Osimhen) is a great fighter, bold, strong, surprising, unbeatable. I have many adjectives for Victor,” says former Fulham midfielder. Ahead of this weekend’s tie against Udinese, he said: “Udinese are a very technical but above all athletic team. It will be difficult even if we play at home. We have to be on all players. We will certainly play it equally.”   Europa League: Aribo, Balogun hit quarters with Rangers     Galatasaray 1-2 Barcelona: Xavi men thro’ to Europa…     GTCO rallies support for 26th NUGA Games   On racism, he said: “I do not pay attention to these episodes of racism on my person, the only remedy to this problem is to find a solution at the organizational and managerial level of Serie A. Whoever has the power must enforce the rules “. Meanwhile, Osimhen has been described as a big factor in Napoli’s Scudetto ambition according to Tuttonapoli. The Italian outlet noted: “The only untouchable in this final rush is Victor Osimhen who is dragging the team and, beyond everything he represents for his teammates in terms of game solutions, since the return after the injury he has also adjusted his numbers by inserting himself between the best bomber in the league.  “13 goals this season, four assists, four penalties, and penalties much more that do not end up in the statistics. Osimhen in the league has not yet reached the double figures, but simply because he has almost half the minutes of his most celebrated colleagues. The Nigerian scores a goal every 151 minutes: if we exclude penalties, Lautaro Martinez also has the same numbers while Vlahovic drops to a goal every 155 ‘, Dzeko every 159’, and Abraham without a penalty shot ends up with a goal every 215 ‘.  “If Napoli are still there to fight for it, they undoubtedly owe it to Osimhen, and the final outcome will also depend a lot on him. Double to Verona in the last match, but also decisive with Venice and Cagliari for four points in the most difficult moment and with little offensive production. The Nigerian allows Napoli to have more solutions in the same match: the depth when the opponent presses or gets up, the physicality and the elevation in the area if instead he waits for you and tries to close,” the website wrote.