A 400-Level  Business Education student at  University of Lagos (UNILAG), Aremu Mubarak Olajide, was presented with a motorised wheelchair by a philanthropist, Mrs Funmi Ayinke, last week on campus. This was done at the university multipurpose hall. An elated Olajide noted that he told the Vice Chancellor, Prof.Oluwatoyin Ogundipe he needed a wheelchair. It was dream come true after his request for same was turned down several times by individuals and groups. The VC contacted Ayinke, who made the donation.The donor also offered  to sponsor him  all through his remaining stay in the university. Olajide,who  thanked the donor and the management, said being on wheelchair was challenging. “I am herefor the collection of my motorised wheelchair. I participated in ‘NUGA Walk for Life’.I was able to meet with the VC  and I told him  I needed a motorised wheelchair.   Success is not transferable, Oyedepo tells Landmark freshers     Encouraging appropriate drug use     Adeyemi University of Education holds Ekiti maiden re-union,…   “I thank Almighty Allah. I feel so elated because, I have been trying to get this wheelchair for so long but it was not possible. So many people turned me down, even some radio stations turned me,” he said. Olajide said he did not see disability as a hindrance to achieving life’s goals. “Life is full of ups and down. I have been through hard times and there is no one to support me. My family is not that wealthy.  But with God’s support, and my friends’, I have been able to scale through. I am trying to develop myself more. I want to go on into Computer programming and website development if there is somebody to help,” he said. Ogundipe said the gesture was part of his agenda in supporting students living with disability. “This is part of what we will continue to do  to take care of our students who are physically challenged and make sure we get people who will be able to support them and provide facilities they need. They will be able to do well and excel in their academic pursuit. The help we offer is not based on tribe or religion,” he said. The donor, Ayinke, said this was her little way of helping humanity. “Everything about humanitarian services, is like the air that I breath. To me, I see myself as helping to push forth the work of God. You are not a billionaire by having the billions to yourself. The souls you help matters. I will be a blessing to any person that crosses my part,” she said.