Nollywood actor, Olanrewaju James alias Baba Ijesha yesterday told an Ikeja Special Offence Court that the video purporting him to have defiled a minor was a script they were rehearsing. Baba Ijesha denied defiling the foster daughter of a comedianette, Ms Damilola Adekoya alias Princess. He also told the Court that Princess, the complainant in the child defilement case brought against him by the State, as a jilted lover. He stated this while under cross-examination by the Lagos State Director of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Dr Jide Martins, before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo. The defendant denied defiling the minor with his car key during the visit to her foster mother’s home in 2014. He, however, admitted knowing the child since she was seven years old and that he had visited Princess’ home seven years ago. “Princess is not my benefactor; she is the one who benefitted from me,” he told the court. Baba Ijesha, who broke down in tears in the course of the cross-examination, said that the evidence he gave in court in his defence is not an afterthought. He insisted that Princess was a jilted lover and that he had plenty of evidence to prove that both of them were in a relationship. He maintained that the comedienne, Princess, was his former lover. Led in evidence by defence counsel, Dada Awosika (SAN), Baba Ijesha, who was the second defence witness, gave a description of the nature of the relationship he used to have with Princess. “We were dating, my lord. She always sleeps in my room. We sleep together. I touch her, she touch me, she kiss me and I kiss her (sic),” he said. Earlier in his evidence, the defendant threw some light on how he met the comedienne.   Bayelsa to support laboratory scientists     Armed robbery suspect shot dead, car thief remanded in Delta     Enugu gov inaugurates 34 model customary courts across 17…   He said he received a phone call from Princess while he was on-air personality on Radio Lagos and LTV 8. “She claimed she was my number one fan and asked me to promote her on my programme. “That was how we started. “She told me she wanted to join the Yoruba section because the English section is bad, Ali Baba is bad, Buchi is bad. She also asked me to introduce her to my producer,” he said. The defendant said that during the course of their relationship, he met the mother of Princess who took a liking to him because they are namesakes. He said that the mother gave him her nickname which is “Mama Larry”. According to him, Princess’ mother also advised him to take care of her daughter and that though her daughter was stubborn, she was sure that he could “handle her”. “I promised to promote her. I cannot allow anything to affect her career. I cannot hurt a woman. I’ve never done it in my life,” he said. Narrating what transpired in 2014, the day he allegedly sexually molested Princess’ foster daughter with a car key, he said in October 2014, a day after he returned from visiting his wife in the United Kingdom, he received a phone call from Princess. He said the comedienne informed him that she was battling ill health and needed some fruits. He said he responded to her request and took some fruits to her home. “Immediately I opened the door to her house, I saw her half naked and I told her that I am outside, your fruit is inside the car. “Few minutes (later), the young girl (Princess’s foster daughter) came to pick the fruits from the car, she even met some area boys asking me for money, I gave her the fruits and she left,” he said. Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo adjourned the case until March 11 for continuation of defence.