The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has expressed satisfaction with the contribution of agriculture in helping to rejuvenate the economy in the last six years. Addressing reporters during a tour of the palm plantation at Odighi village in Ovia Northeast Local Government Area of Edo State at the weekend, Emefiele wondered what would have happened to the country with the rising cost food items across the globe, had the country not invested in rejuvenating the agric sector. He however expressed delight that the bank has played a pivotal role since 2015 with President Muhammadu Buhari’s pronouncement that “we produce what we eat and eat what we produce” by coming up with several initiatives aimed repositioning the sector with a view to creating jobs as well as growing the gross domestic product (GDP) of the country. On his assessment of the developments in the farm, Emefiele, who was elated with the strides recorded in the production of maize and cassava already, expressed optimism that in the next 12 months, palm produce harvests would have commenced.   Afreximbank releases 700m Eurobond for oil, gas     ‘40 per cent of Nigerians live on less than $1 daily’     NNPC opts to buy Fed Govt’s power plants   Emefiele, acknowledging the significant role played by Edo State government, thanked Governor Godwin Obaseki for matching his words with action by making sure that arable lands were made available to those who were genuinely interested in agriculture. He however appealed to other  governors to emulate Edo, which has so far, made available about 70 per cent of the promised arable land. On the socio-economic impact of the CBN interventions, Emefiele singled out the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), among other schemes, which revolutionized agricultural practice whereby small holder farmers who hitherto could not approach commercial banks for loans, are now being granted credit facilities in the forms of inputs like seedlings, fertilizer and herbicides. Those small holder farmers can now cultivate and produce enough for their families and sell produce as loan repayment with ease, thereby generating employment, improve living standards and create wealth simultaneously. Emefiele also commended the efforts of the promoting company, Agri-Allied Resources and Processing Limited and its parent company, Tolaram Limited for heeding the call made by the CBN to source their critical raw materials locally. He said the company has painstakingly embraced backward integration principle by acquiring farmland to the tune of 18,000 hectares for cultivation of oil palm, cassava and maize which are the critical raw materials used by the group. The Managing Director of Agri-Allied Resources, Mr Madhukar Khetan, said the company has accessed a 10-year-loan of N15 billion at single digit interest rate with two-year moratorium, under the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme (CACS) for the project. The farm has about 1000 workforce.