Of all the pressing issues confronting Nigeria – an economy on life-support, bandits and Boko Haram insurgents collaborating in parts of the North, a tertiary education system crippled by never-ending strikes of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) – religion is shaping to have an explosive impact on the next general election. That’s nothing new given politicians would press every button that gives them an edge at the polls. But this year things have gotten interesting rather early. First, the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) issued what it thought was an innocuous instruction to its members to take an interest in political activities. It followed this up with the creation of a Directorate of Politics and Governance to provide them guidance. Given that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, is a senior pastor in the church, many concluded that this was a frontal intervention to back what was then the poorly-hidden presidential ambition of one its own. So serious was the flap that followed that the mission’s General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, had to issue a blunt clarification indicating the church wasn’t backing any party or individual as politicians of different persuasions were in its fold. While his strong words calmed things a bit, RCCG, Osinbajo and the religion factor, were back on the front burner not long after, when the Vice President formally announced what had been suspected, that he was interested in succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari. His entry into the fray triggered the columnist Farooq Kperogi to write an acerbic piece accusing the VP of having a religious agenda which he loosely tagged ‘RCCGification.’ This he claimed could be seen from skewed appointments in Osinbajo’s office which allegedly favoured mostly members of his church. Clearly, the accusation hit a raw nerve since it had floated around for a while and had the potential of resonating badly in parts of the North for the very fact that the aspirant was a pastor. Reacting, his office rushed out a video which disputed the claims of the columnist. But the firefighting footage rather than clear things up has drawn more scrutiny to an area the aspirant would rather not focus on. The religious din is being amped up by the day. So-called prophets whose prophecies only centre on politicians, elections, celebrities and football marches, have been spending extra time in front of their crystal ball. They are quick to claim credit for predicting the obvious. Now, they are falling over themselves to say who the next president would be. It’s as if it matters if we know the result of the contest early. How does it alter the price of diesel? Equally entertaining is the fact that many running for office at different levels are blaming God for putting them up to it. Everyone claims to have had a chat with the Almighty who, at some point, gave them the unequivocal go-ahead. Just the other day, the inimitable former senator Dino Melaye, made remarks which he probably thought would send a shiver down the spine of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) aspirants competing against his man, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. He said thrice God had spoken to him that the ex-VP succeeding Buhari was a done deal. Who am I to doubt him? After all, there’s precedence. God spoke to little Samuel in the Bible three times in one night! But just when you thought this business of consulting God was becoming jaded, Minister of Labour and Productivity, Chris Ngige, pops up with something original. He says he not only sought counsel of the Most High, he bent the ears of angels and archangels for good measure. At the end of the conclave, the heavenlies gave their approval for him to plunge into the race. Lord have mercy! At this point I feel like I’m getting too much information from aspiring politicians. I am trying to understand how a private conversation these individuals purportedly had with God is supposed to make voters elect them. The problem is this isn’t the first time people would make such claims. Believability departs with every instance of failed prophecy. Pastors Chris Okotie and Tunde Bakare assured us of divine backing for their presidential projects in the past. But we all know how close they got to sitting on the president’s chair. It’s not as if the faith of candidates eventually impacts their performance when they get to power. There’s scant evidence that Christianity or Islam which emphasise holiness, compassion and consideration for others, has rubbed off on the actions of office holders through the years.   Alleged gang sex: Chrisland denies pregnancy test claim     National insecurity: Has Kogi found the solution?     Scaling airlines’ certification hurdles   Across states in the largely Muslim North it would be unthinkable to suggest that someone of a minority faith aspire to be governor. Yet those who have presided over the impoverishment of this region have been people of the same faith as the majority. The same thing can be said of states in the largely Christian South whose brothers and sisters have overseen the plundering of communal resources – especially in the Niger Delta. Today, given the poverty in its rural areas it’s hard to believe that trillions naira accrued to the region in the last three decades. Unfortunately, the bulk of that money has disappeared into private pockets of those who share the same faith as the poor and dispossessed. While faith is a powerful thing, it isn’t rational and can be easily manipulated for selfish ends. Politicians understand this all too well. This isn’t just a Nigerian phenomenon. We see religion being abused for political ends from India to Iraq, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Syria, Northern Ireland etc. Even when Nigeria’s internal issues were not this terrifying, religion was a problem. Back in 1993, people felt the late Chief M.K.O. Abiola was eminently qualified to be president. But the closer he got to winning his party’s ticket, the more the religion issue became an obstacle. The question was who would be his running mate from the North. It didn’t matter that he was a Muslim. Powerful figures like the late Shehu Musa Yar’Adua who could make things happen made it clear that only a Northern Muslim would be acceptable. He was asked to go sell the same-religion ticket down South and not worry about the North. It was a tough sell, but in one of those rare bright moments in Nigeria’s history, he faced down the religious merchants and triumphed with the supposedly taboo Muslim-Muslim ticket. It is a measure of our retrogression that in 2015, 22 years after, the main reason All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Bola Tinubu, didn’t become Buhari’s running mate was the argument by a tendency within the party that a Muslim-Muslim ticket was a recipe for electoral disaster. For a man who had been typecast as a fundamentalist, Buhari quickly succumbed to pressure and settled for the more conventional Muslim-Christian ticket. The question can be asked today whether Osinbajo’s Christianity has made life better for Nigerians of the same faith. There’s only one president at a time and he never shares power. If anything, we’ve seen power being consolidated around the president’s office at the start of the second term under Buhari and former President Olusegun Obasanjo. It is the same story: Deputy Governor or Vice President you quickly understand the role of the spare tyre – irrespective of your faith. Those who keep regaling us with their conversations with God, do so because ambition has become a four-letter word in today’s Nigeria. It’s almost shameful to admit an aspiration. Tinubu was vilified by some for honestly stating that becoming president was his lifelong ambition. In many countries, little kids dream of becoming Prime Minister or President. They are applauded when their dreams become reality. Here we celebrate reluctance to serve as virtue and drag God in to score points with the religious populace. So, rather than pretending this isn’t an issue, perhaps time has come to properly interrogate it. For instance, it is argued that religious balancing gives people a sense of belonging. How has Buhari’s Muslim faith given communities in Zamfara, Kaduna and Borno – devastated by banditry and insurgency – a sense of inclusion? How has their president being of their own faith been a comfort to families of hostages from the Abuja-Kaduna train attack? If we are to make headway, voters North and South must resist every elite trick to dupe them again with religion. These polls should be ones where candidates at every level are confronted with hard questions about how they intend to solve our problems. Offering long lists of empty promises or playing on our emotions won’t cut it. Voters have to focus on the things that matter – an aspirant’s vision, his track record, character and the credibility of the solutions he offers, before handing them the keys to Aso Villa.