Actress Nkechi Blessing has revealed she was never married to her ex- lover Hon Opeyemi Falegan with whom she had had a public spat recently. She apologised to the public for the ‘deceit’ by creating a false impression of being married. She shared a screenshot of Whatspp chat which displayed her conversation with Falegan where she noted she was leaving the relationship. Captioning the post, NBS wrote: “I am going to leave this here just because of future reference. “Na that Yoruba Oko mi Oko mi cus all this one. ODF leave my name out of your mouth ooo….I am glad you know me before you say you like me join all my cra#e no let me unleash all for this Mark app.. “I walked away from this relationship by myself and left you in it since I left London. But na every day beg and cry. I saw all d red flags and I cannot be caught up in such because, a failed relationship is better than a failed marriage.   Former Miss World Agbani Darego celebrates wedding…     Amaechi more Igbo than Joe Igbokwe – Ohanaeze     IPOB remains proscribed, says Court, okays Kanu’s…   “I was never married to you. Apologies to anyone who feels I was married to this man…Make Una no vex, na my fault. “Opeyemi please move on in peace, na God wey Dey heaven I take beg you. LEAVE ME ALONE!! I tried hard to meet you at d level of love you claimed to have for me but I couldn’t and I wasn’t going to lead you on.I decided to take a walk instead… “I wish you all the best in whatever relationship you find in future..But pls leave this Ghetto Nuisance’s name out of your mouth…I go drag you reach 2036 if you no leave me ooooo…ENUF SAID!!!” On June 10, 2021, Nkechi claimed she was married and shared photos from her supposed ‘secret wedding’ on her insta story as part of activities to mark Falegan’s birthday. “I was going to write an epistle, But then again I realized Instagram didn’t bring us together. So I will rather say it to you directly. “But still here is to wishing you Nothing but the absolute Best my King.thank you for staying True to what we share and loving Dis stubborn Girl unconditionally. Happy Birthday Twinnie @hon_falegan_official_”, she wrote. She went on to caption one of the ‘wedding’ photos: “The day I said I do to forever.”