Wizkid’s first baby mama, Oluwanishola Ogudu, has opened up on what she knows regarding the trending case of alleged rape involving a 10-year-old girl and male student of Chrisland Schools. Ogudu, who also accompanied her son, Boluwatife Balogun to represent his school during the just concluded sports competition hosted in Dubai by The World School Games explained, she was perplexed to find out what some of the students were involved in during their time there. She also insisted the 10-year-old girl in question was definitely not raped as she was then accosted over the now viral s3x video which she owned up to proudly. The mother of one entreated the public to stop heaping blames on the school for the immoral acts of these particular students noting charity begin at home. Ogudu said: “It took me a lot of thinking before dropping this comment. The way we just throw the word ‘RAPE’ around so loosely without considering how much damage it can cause. “Firstly, as parents we need to pay close attention to our kids and what we expose them too, cos mahn it’s a crazy crazy world we live in. “Secondly, I accompanied my son to represent his school at the just concluded WSG and I can say for a fact that the 10 yr old in question was DEFINITELY not raped,” she said.   Flaunting relationships on social media hastens breakup…     Best way to dispose used sanitary pads, by Halima Abubakar     Alexx Ekubo marks Easter onboard world’s largest…   “I remember vividly the ‘SHOCK’ in my son’s face when he was telling me about a video some other kid was watching, he said Mum, I couldn’t stand the video I had to excuse myself, he said the gist circulating was that the girl and her click played a game of truth or dare, of which this particular girl couldn’t stop with the mind bugging’ DARES’ I couldn’t believe my ears when I learned about the nasty activities this lil kids get themselves involved in. “To make matters worse, even when she was accosted about the video, she was owing it with her full chest, saying yeah it’s me in the video and so. “It bothered me so much, I needed to see this kids I question so I’ll know how to advice my child against such kids (well he knows better) before they use their reggae to spoil my blues. God Abeg. “But seeing this post now and the twist of it all, I just couldn’t take it ( cos I know for a fact how very very strict the teachers were on this trip) blaming such immorality and negligence on the school is unfair cos it DEFINITELY WASNT RAPE!!! Responding to another’s comment, Shola said: “If ma’am, they were in a hotel where other schools also stayed at, To avoid stories that touch like this, they made sure the boys room was on the 10th floor and the girls room 2nd floor. “The teachers did their parade 3-5 times daily making sure they were all in their rooms. There were over 70kids to 5-6 teachers (these teachers went through hell trying to get them together) But for you to know how badly behaved this kids were, they waited till after mid night (after the last roll call) to get their nasty acts on. “You can blame the guardians all you want for trying their best and breaking their backs for kids all you want, but CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME.”