It is finished. A pattern has unwittingly followed Nigeria’s path towards seeking a World Cup qualification ticket since our debut in 1994, but we have been blinded by our emotions and refusal to evaluate the reasons for the downward trends. That way we can proffer enduring solutions and not resort to finding scapegoats for cancer that is endemic. I hope we don’t tow that undesirable path again with the country’s failure to qualify for the 2022 World Cup slated for Qatar in November. We can’t change the narrative of our football problems when we continue to allow a warp system to produce those who run the country’s football. And it starts with – who is in charge of the game? What are his antecedents in the game? What kind of work has such a candidate been doing in the last decade? Modern-day football is business-oriented. Therefore, whosoever wants to be an NFF member or president should be a trusted and tested business-minded, proficient and successful entrepreneur who understands the intricacies of running a business for profits. We should change the way we conduct elections into offices in the federation such that we have enlightened people as members. That way, discussions at meetings are robust and no person runs the rule over others. In Nigeria, it is the same cycle of people who ‘fight’ to be elected every four years including those who had served at the NFA or NFF in the past. Don’t you think we should ask what did they forget in the place? For those habitual contestants, the question would be what they have done for the game in their states of origin or Local Government Areas (LGAs)  to necessitate their quest to administer the game at the centre? You can’t go to the well and expect to fetch clean water. Nor does anyone expect to bring back water using the basket. The problem with our football is systemic such that the cabal ruining the game here has made it impossible for anyone outside the system to vote or be voted for. Such a system that disfranchises eminent Nigerians from administering the game is heading for doom – which is where we are again. And not for the first time. We should find a Nigerian way of getting people into the federation without flouting FIFA’s rules which are working in the other 208 federations. For the records, there are 209 nations in FIFA. If it means asking those eager to run for the offices in NFF to face painstaking examinations to be conducted by firms versed in such an exercise, so be it. This process should help filter out ineligible people. This setting where half-bakes constitute the NFF rubs off on the quality of ideas being churned out to administer the game. The corporate world would be willing to identify their goods and service with the beautiful game in Nigeria if the faces they see on the NFF board are men and women of proven integrity. Firms’ cash belongs to the public. They must, therefore, be careful how they deploy their resources such that the shareholders can smile at the end of each fiscal year. In 1994, Nigeria debuted at the World Cup in the United States of America (USA). Nigeria attended the next World Cup in 1998 in France and then the Japan/Korea World Cup in 2002. The twists and turns from undertakers of the game as we are seeing now ensured that Nigeria’s flag wasn’t hoisted among the comity of nations in Germany in 2006. Nigeria returned to the World Cup in 2010 at the aptly tagged Africa Mundial hosted in South Africa with all the undertakers going after the men who ruin (sorry) the men who ran the game then. Nigeria was at the 2014 World Cup riddled with crises in the Super Eagles with the top four members taken before the court, although the four men were discharged acquitted of the allegations levied against them and then the Russia 2018 World Cup.   Not a laughing matter     Dimming the Black Stars     Qatar 2022: only the best for Eagles   For Nigeria to compete with the other 208 nations, we must resolve the issue of membership in the federation. We should set targets for them with timelines which we should evaluate in order to make the right decisions to avert what happened inside the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abuja on March 29. The new NFF should have qualified members in their working committees such that there would be the right synergy to articulate their ideas brought forward to be implemented by the board. The new NFF should routinely make wise and simple decisions based on recommendations from their different sub-committees. The Senegalese are number one in Africa. The West African country has a population of about five million people but is ranked 18th in the world, with its dominance in world football cutting across age groups and cadre – male and female soccer. The Senegalese who exited the Korea/Japan World Cup in 2002 as quarter-finalists in their debut appearance,  have some of the best youth soccer facilities in the continent and have religiously churned out talents who have held their own against the Europeans as Nigerian stars do weekly in Europe. A Mundial appearance for the Senegalese would be the third time in their history and the first time they would be qualifying for the senior World Cup consecutively (back-to-back). Sadly, Nigeria with a population of over 200 million people and the largest exporter of footballers in the world to Europe, the Americas and the Diaspora is ranked third in Africa and 30th in the world. The domestic league is in chains. Talks of a Supreme Court judgment about the change in the narrative of how the league should be run looms large with undertakers unperturbed as they drift down into the abyss. Every World Cup year, NFF is always at the centre of the storm with those angling for positions in the next board spoiling for a needless fight. The spiral effect of this war without end from the stake breakers puts the country’s World Cup qualification in a quandary. It is part of the reasons no board, no matter how successful their tenure was returned to office after their first service lapsed. Only Amaju Pinnick-led board broke the jinx and since then the members have known no peace. Indeed, every new board becomes worse than its predecessors. The promises made on election day became a mirage and those in the past who were complaining about their business being ruined as a result of their NFF membership conspired with their ilk to pull the roof down – including resorting to endless court cases but few judgments. The country’s soccer nose-dived with our teams across gender losing matches. Nigeria lost the fear factor in which others regarded us. Not much attention was paid to these markers for as long as the Super Eagles won their matches. A little thought was given to the Super Falcons, easily the country’s best soccer team in ranking and winning titles. Age grade teams fell like a pack of cards at continental levels with reason for the decline attributed to the federation’s insistence that the coaches fielded the kids with the correct ages. Many clapped at the new dawn but refused to urge the federation to look inwards from the 774 Local Government Areas instead of storming Europe in search of Nigeria-born kids. Such short cuts in strengthening the national teams literarily crippled the domestic game. And with Super Eagles manager being Europeans, visiting league venues looked like going to the beach to relax. With Nigeria’s exit from Qatar, it is important to appeal to the federation to use the next four years to develop the game at the grassroots where specialised coaches are sent to the 774 LGAs to teach the youth  how to play the game correctly. It won’t be out of place to use funds earmarked for the botched Qatar World Cup participation to inject life into the domestic league such that in the next two years, at least three world class goalkeepers would have emerged to plug the lapse of poor goalkeeping noticed in the Super Eagles.