As part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR), TotalEnergies and its partners have commissioned and handed four projects ranging from maternal healthcare centre, to solar-powered water in four southern states. This is coming after four projects were equally handed over to four South-Eastern states in the same month. One of the projects commissioned in the South-south includes a maternal and child referral centre inside the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital, Cross Rivers. Others are recovery and stabilisation rooms, two consultation rooms, nurse bay, technical room, medical record office, equipped laboratory, equipped modern theatre, delivery room with two multi-purpose delivery beds, pharmacy store, changing room, borehole installation, power supply of 60KVA generator, solar power of 15KVA installed, toilets for staff, patients; with one dedicated disabled toilets, fully furnished with relevant seats, tables, examination bed, and air conditioning equipment. The last three projects were borehole and water treatment plants project at Ikiri, Rivers state, Warri in Delta state, and Odukpani, Cross River state. The water projects for each of the communities boast of three large G-PEE tanks with total capacity of 21 thousand litres of water content, alongside eight dispensing points connected into each of the community.   Univasa launches cashless payment system for yellow taxi     Despite economic headwinds, Nigerian Breweries records…     SON unveils four year strategy plan   In his address at the ceremony, Mike Sangster, Managing Director, TotalEnergies Upstream Companies in Nigeria, said the projects were borne out of the need to mitigate the gaps in qualitative and technical education, maternal and child health, access to clean water, and women and youth empowerment. “This approach which is new in the industry permits the delivery of projects in remote and challenging environments while ensuring the use of local expertise and stakeholder engagement. I am very happy the pilot projects were successful. We are using the Return on Experience, to improve our processes and deliver our 2nd and 3rd phases faster and better,” he said. TotalEnergies partners include state oil firm, the NNPC Limited, NAPIMS, CNOOC, Prime 130 formerly Petrobras and Sapetro. Bala Wunti, Group General Manager, National Petroleum Investment Management Services, NAPIMS, said NNPC would continue to consistently champion the implementation of sustainable community development projects that would positively impact the lives of the citizens of this country. “The completion and commissioning of this project in 2021, Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives of the Nigerian Government through its oil and gas sector is in furtherance of the NNPC, our vision for social intervention is to continue to operate in an ethical and sustainable manner and deal with the environment and social impacts occasioned by our activities.” On behalf of the partners, Luc Vanson, General Manager, Prime 130, said the partners were proud to be part of such laudable initiatives.