After a brief hiatus occasioned by the Covid 19 pandemic, inspiro productions the organisers of the annual Lagos International Jazz Festival have announced April 29 and 30th 2022 dates for the jazz fiesta this year. Held live last in 2019 and virtually in 2021, the festival resumes live performances and will also streamed to audiences around the world. In a statement LIJF founder and festival director Ayoola Sadare said “We are glad that we are able to once again resume live performances and the staging of Nigeria’s premier Jazz festival – The Lagos International Jazz Festival amidst all the challenges we faced. Our goal of establishing Lagos, Nigeria as a vibrant global Jazz tourism destination alongside cities like Cape Town, Montreal, Montreux, New Orleans, London and Tokyo among others in Africa and the world is still on course. We appreciate the effort of all the artistes, our sponsors and supporters now and over the years for making this happen. They are assured the same quality production and artiste line up they have enjoyed over the years”.   Tekedia unveils mini-MBA programme     CSO to access effect of COVID-19 pandemic on mental health…     Corruption: FG urged to inculcate spirituality in tertiary…   The Lagos International Jazz festival (LIJF) is designed to offer visitors and residents in Lagos world class entertainment attracting Jazz and contemporary music lovers to the city and by extension Nigeria. The festival has adopted and incorporated both the April Jazz Appreciation Month (JAM) and International Jazz Day to its program. International Jazz Day On April 30 is the culmination of Jazz Appreciation Month. The 2 day Lagos International Jazz festival 2022 is scheduled to hold at the largest waterfront lounge in the Lagos megacity – The Bay Lounge, Plot 10, Admiralty Road, Lekki 1, Lagos. Artistes to perform at the event will be unveiled hereafter. The Lagos International Jazz Festival is supported by Insurance giant Sovereign Trust Insurance (STI) plc, The Bay Lounge Waterfront & Lagos Tourism. This year’s admission is by invitation.