The Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi has directed the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to handover processing of train passengers to Secure ID. Secure ID is the technology firm in charge of the e-ticketing platform for Abuja-Kaduna rail service. The Minister explained that the act would reduce cases of crime, security cases on the corridor and enable the firm match faces with names of passengers. Amaechi disclosed this when the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) presented the Full Business Case Certificates (FBC) for Lagos- Ibadan and Itakpe-Warri e-ticketing service to him in Abuja. According to him, the introduction of the e-ticketing platform for Abuja-Kaduna has increased the generated revenue from about N100million to N400million monthly, adding that all avenue for revenue leakages has been blocked. The minister said: “The benefits of the e-ticketing platform is that we rose from N100million to N400 million per month, which is an improvement. We have been able to do something that will eliminate leakages. “One thing I think I may disagree with the public on is the issue of tickets racketeering. I have spoken to the person in charge of Abuja-Kaduna to take over the identification process from NRC.   NLC gives FG 21- day to resolve ASUU, SSANU strikes     MC Oluomo didn’t sack secretariat workers- Chief Accountant     Alleged N3.6bn fraud: Appeal Court orders ex-NDDC boss to…   “Because what the National Assembly told me was that NRC doesn’t cross check the ID of passengers on the tickets and they (Secure ID) had wanted to do it, but they have not gotten the approval from NRC. “So, I have told NRC to allow them do it, so that we match faces with the names. It is not all about crime but it is also security, so we should release it to those security outlets. “Even though we cannot eliminate 100 percent crime and corruption, it will reduce the danger of having to run into security crises, so that we know that what we are battling with is not crises in our terminals but on the way and I believe that, that also will be sorted out as we go to cabinet for approval of the security gadgets.” The Acting Director-General of the ICRC, Mr. Michael Ohiani said the concession is for ten years and it is expected to generate over N140billion during the period and also create over 3000 direct and indirect jobs. “The concession is for ten years, it is going to generate over N140billion to the federal government. Most importantly, it will also create job opportunities for over 3000 direct and indirect jobs. “The next phase is for minister to take it to the Federal Executive Council for approval and the Ministry of Justice will now clear it.”