It was an unusual intervention. But timely. The current circumstances-the lean period and boring social condition-made it more compelling. Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, General Overseer of the  Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) spoke truth to power last Sunday. It was at  a  thanksgiving service at the National Headquarters, Throne of Grace, Ebute-Meta, Lagos. It is up to the government to listen and  reflect on his honest admonition or dismiss it with a wave of the hand. Pastor Adeboye expressed great concern over the national drift. He focused on politics, economy, particularly oil, insecurity and social disorder, and grand preparations for next year elections in an atmosphere of uncertainty, threats, apprehension and pandemonium. The exposition was partly a reassessment of the administration, based on its promise of economic revitalisation, security and anti-corruption. Nigerians are closer to religious leaders than to the distant government. They do not erect barriers because they, unlike government, leave the channels of communication open. Thus, pastors and imams are in a vantage position to better feel the pulse of the people. Yet, the 80-year old highly respected cleric avoided highly inflammatory statement. His words edified. His homily was devoid of partisanship. He spoke in national interest. But, he first of all cleared the air on the Directorate of Politics and Governance by RCCG. He clarified that he is not a politician, adding that he has never, and he will not, steer the congregation to a particular political direction. He emphasised that all politicians who are members of the church are his children. He urged members of the congregation to perform their civic responsibilities and vote for parties and candidates of their choice. Pastor Adeboye expressed deep worry over the worsening insecurity. There is no solution in sight. Land, sea and rail transportation have become nightmare. There is suspicion everywhere. No sense of safety. The North, like other parts of the country, is in turmoil. Worseh it these days is Kaduna, old political capital of the larger North.  Pastor Adeboye said: “Kaduna is on my mind.” There is justification for the worry. Even, the Defence Academy, Kaduna, has not been spared. People are being murdered daily. Many have been kidnapped for ransom. Young men come in bikes, invade towns and villages, kill and maim at will, capture innocent citizens and get huge ransom. Kaduna Governor Nasir  El-Rufai, is overwhelmed. The state is helpless. In frustration, he said the services of mercenaries would be required. It paled into a vote of no confidence in the Federal Government, its armies and other security agencies. In the same country where Amotekun, the Southwest security network was initially resisted, Northern leaders are now thinking about foreign fighters to bail them out. Palaces of monarchs are not insulated. Schools are victims. Places of worship are attacked. Both the rich and the poor cry in the city. That reality also led the man of God to ask:”Why Kaduna? Who is trying to isolate Kaduna?” Without waiting for an answer, Pastor Adeboye also queried:”After Kaduna, which is next?” Amid the slaughtering innocent Nigerians, politicians are gazing at 2023. Will there be election next year? The General Overseer said the political class is warming up for political battle, without even considering whether rapture will take place.   Train attack: 14 passengers found alive, says NRC     Nyako declares interest for Senate     Uncertainty over insurance of train, passengers   He said he has not heard yet from God whether 2023 polls will take place. He did not say the contest will not take place.  I have not heard from the Creator, Pastor Adeboye said. The eminent mathetician delved into the hidden politics of oil, which has been a bone of contention because of the distribution of the proceeds. The general overseer , who is not given to frivolity, claimed that 80 percent of Nigeria’s oil is stolen. It is an understatement. If a case of direct theft has not been established, illegal bunkering is undisputable. If  illegal bunkering has persisted, unpatriotic elements may have really graduated into direct stealing. Part of the fraudulent framework is that the actual production and proceeds are unknown. Nigeria solely depends on oil revenue, having failed to really diversify its economy. The issue now is that not only is oil stolen from source, the income from the leftover is also stolen. The dangerous dimension is that countries that make a fool of Nigeria buy the stolen oil. Lamenting the rot, Pastor Adeboye said:”It is in the news that the oil we are producing is being stolen. And nobody has denied it. That leads me to several questions. Who is stealing the oil? Where is the money going to? “Eighty per cent of our money is going into the hands of some people. Who are the foreigners buying this stolen oil? How many of these foreign nations are your friends? “It is an open secret and not denied that more than 90 per cent of our income from the leftover of the oil stolen is being used to pay interest on the money we borrow, meaning we are moving steadily to bankruptcy. Borrowing is an issue. There is wise borrowing for the purpose of funding capital projects that will alter infrastructural deficit and promote economic development and job opportunities. There is also unwise borrowing for the purpose of misappropriation and embezzlement. The leaders can swim in opulence.  But, the burden is shifted forward. The inheritors of the liability is the future generation, which may lead Nigeria to devise a new plea for debt forgiveness or live under the bondage of debt, thereby becoming a laughing stock in the comity of nations. Surely, they will not be proud of the older generation that left a legacy of debt. Neither would they render honour and justice to their memory. Pastor Adeboye warned that “We are moving to bankruptcy,” adding:”You can see the reason why I am more concerned about what is happening now than what will happen a year from now.” Is the hope lost? Pastor Adeboye is not in government. He can only do what his calling recommends-admonition and prayer. “We must pray for Kaduna,” he said. But, he also added that other states needed prayers. It is not an ordinary prayer or noise making. The prayer should be properly focused. To the bewildered nation, he said:”Pray that God will expose those who are stealing our oil and that God  will have mercy on our nation.” Pastor sAdeboye said Nigeria was once debt-free under the Obasanjo administration. Therefore, he added:”God can still do it. If God does not intervene, out great-grandchildren will still be paying debts.”