THE Music Business Academy (MBA) for Africa has called for applications for its training and development programme for the second year. The programme, which is geared towards developing the next generation of music industry executives in Africa, opens registration on April, 11. The MBA is developed by iManage Africa, in partnership with Music Ally and Dr. Carlos Chirinos of the Music Business Department at New York University. Led by the MBA’s new program director Elizabeth Sobowale, this year’s edition is powered by YouTube Music. Highlighting some of the benefits of this year’s programme, Head of Music Sub-Saharan Africa, YouTube, Addy Awofisayo said it would develop the next generation of music industry executives in Africa. “Africa’s music industry produces some of the world’s most creative content and contributes significantly to global pop culture,” Awofisayo said. “This initiative enables the support of more creatives who will play a critical role in the continent’s fast-growing creative economy. According to the organisers, the class which is scheduled to run between July and November 2022, will teach students about a range of music business trends and technologies, as well as give them hands-on experience in releasing and promoting music to create sustainable careers for artists. With equality and social impact at the core, the project’s ‘Women’s Fund’ aims to ensure that at least 50% of participants this year are women, after the program hit its 40% target last year thanks to contributions from sponsors.   What happens when you argue with a fool – Tiwa Savage     TikTok impact on music, distribution in Nigeria     Agbani Horsefall speaks on new gospel karaoke studio   “As Africans we must take the creation and distribution of our knowledge into our own hands. MBA for Africa plays an important role in ensuring that the knowledge of Africa’s music, creative and cultural industries are passed on to the future leaders, executives and creators of the continent.” says programme director Elizabeth Sobowale. During this year’s MBA, the students will also get to pick the brains of senior music industry executives, including a faculty drawn from all the different sectors of the business. On his part, Music Ally’s commercial director, Anthony Churchman described the most advanced music business programme on the continent. The MBA began as an internship scheme in 2017, before evolving into a talent management training program, and ultimately the full music business education initiative that launched in 2021. “When I started out in this industry, there was nowhere to learn about the business and so I, like many of my peers, had to make so many mistakes and it took me years to realise I had been doing so many things wrong,” said the founder of MBA, Godwin Tom. “The Music Business Academy for Africa has all the modules designed for creative music entrepreneurs to leverage and tap into the wide opportunities in Africa’s music and entertainment industry.” Tom recently moderated a panel at the NY:LON Connect industry conference about Africa’s music industries, which included a discussion about the importance of education to nurture young managers, lawyers, PR people and other roles there. The MBA’s practical side is geared towards this. In 2021, students from the inaugural cohort worked with five African artists in a ‘Talent Project’ that saw them release two EPs, including a crowdfunding campaign. “The number of talented artists in Nigeria far surpasess the number of music industry professionals that can help those artists achieve success. The MBA for Africa program fills the gap by providing professional education to create the required workforce for the industry. In doing so, MBA is contributing to the social and economic development of Nigeria and the continent,” Dr Carlos Chiniros, NYU said.