Reflecting on his ground-breaking transfer from Lille to Napoli for a club-record fee of €70 million in 2020 , Super Eagles striker Victor osimhen enthused about his humble beginning especially with the Golden Eaglets where he was known with his trademark green training jerseys. In that phoney Adidas gear, Osimhen signposted his scoring potentialities and one wonders who would have inherited that particular iconic training jerseys after he hit world-acclaimed stardom. “ I actually gave that my training jersey to Evans who used to train with us in Calabar,” the 23-year-old Osimhen who began his European adventure with German Bundesliga side VfL Wolfsburg in 2017, exclusively told NationSport. But who is this lucky lad that inherited Osimhen’s try-out jerseys in his days with the Golden Eaglets and what progress has he made since he was bestowed with such remarkable honour in 2014? “It was a great experience and an unforgettable one to have had the opportunity of training with the national Under-17 team, the Golden Eaglets when they were camped in Calabar,” the 18-year-old Evans Enoobong, an indigene of Akwa Ibom State, began In an exclusive interview with NationSport.“ I had the opportunity to play with some of the would-be great footballers who are now doing very well with their various teams; and not forgetting the chance of being taught by one of the great coaches I’ve met (coach Emmanuel Amuneke) who taught me a lot and made me who I am today.” Talented in his own right, Enoobong was as constant as the northern star at those Golden Eaglets training sessions from the U.J Esuene Stadium practice pitch to the Hope Waddell Training Institution (HOWAD) in Calabar and he was a delight to watch as he ‘rough and tumble’ with the lads preparatory to their FIFA U-17 World Cup conquest in Chile in 2015. At Chile 2015, Osimhen who started his career at Lagos-based modest side, Ultimate Strikers Academy , had his breakthrough after he struck a record-setting 10 goals in a single FIFA U-17 World Cup to eclipse the long-held of French striker Florent Sinama Pongolle who scored nine goals at Trinidad & Tobago 2001 U-17 World Cup. The scoring feat in Chile saw Osimhen winning the tournament’s Golden Boot and Silver Ball awards and was deservedly named the CAF Youth Player of the Year award in 2015. “ The last time I saw Victor Osimhen face-to-face was the night he gave me his training jersey after the qualifying match against Gabon at the U. J Esuene Stadium in Calabar,” Enoobong continued. “I can’t remember the date exactly (27th September 2014) but he said: ‘this is the jersey I used for my try-out and my best jersey, I have nothing else to give you except this (jersey), use it and it will bring you luck. “ I can’t forget that day; I felt great and really happy and he told me that was the best thing he could give to me because he liked me ,” he recalled. “ Unfortunately, I didn’t snap any photo with the jersey because I didn’t have a phone until it was stolen by some guys.” In the words of Wess Stafford, President Emeritus of Compassion International, ‘every child you encounter is a divine appointment’ and Enoobong recalled with glee his encounter with that new generation of footballers blooded by Amuneke en route to their winning the historic fifth FIFA World Cup title for Nigeria in Chile in 2015. In that squad was captain Kelechi Nwakali, the former Arsenal recruit who has star for a clutches of European clubs including MVV Maastricht, VVV-Venlo and most recently Huesca as well as Samuel Chukwueze whose goal recently took out Bayern Munich out of the 2022 UEFA Champions League as the Yellow Submarines qualified for a historic semi-finals. “I felt very good for having the opportunity to train with those collection of players because I was still very young,” Enoobong, the then impressionable 13-year-old youngster, quipped. “Even with how young I was, I had that opportunity to train with all those great people then I think that was a great achievement for me. “ Of course, I loved Osimhen very much because of his fighting spirit and passion for the game. “Osimhen was and is still an unbelievable player on and off the field, he has this fighting and never giving up spirit. “I wonder where he gets his strength from. I remember him always telling me not to give up that it is gonna be fine and better. I so much love him. “ The same way , I have love for Samuel Chukwueze, goalkeeper Akpan Udoh , John Lazarus, Kelechi Nwakali , Kingsley Michael and some other great ones because they made it easy for me and I learnt a lot from them.” Incidentally, Enoobong’s still rings bell within the rank and file of the Golden Eaglets class of 2015 where he was regarded as one of the players for the future. Indeed, Amuneke recalled with fond memories Enoobong’s impactful presence in those heady days in The People’s Paradise, adding the youngster has a glorious future ahead of him.   2023 AFCON: Legends fire Super Eagles warning     Oboh keeps eyes on Paris 2024 Olympics     One ‘killed’, vehicles razed as tanker explodes…   Evans trained with us in Calabar in 2014 as a very young boy then,” explained Amuneke, the 1994 African Footballer of the Year who made his breakthrough with the Nigeria U-20 national at the 1991 All-Africa Games in Cairo. “ I saw a lot of potential and qualities in him and that was the reason I brought him in into the Golden Eaglets despite the fact that he was a far younger players in order to help him grow and develop because I was already think about future Golden Eaglets. “ That was the same thing I did for both Samuel Chukwueze and Kelechi Nwakali when I discovered and brought them to train with the Golden Eaglets set of 2013 before they were drafted for the successful Golden Eaglets of 2015. “ While Nwakali was the captain, Chukwueze was also instrumental to the success of the team and was what I thought about Evans when I allowed him to train with us in 2014 despite the fact that he was a younger player. “ He is a very good player with a lot of potentials and what I really liked about him is that he has the desire and courage to succeed and he wanted to play football. I hope we can still see him in the future to represent the country one day. “ We have so many good players like that ; just like Terem Moffi who I also brought into that team to train with us then and today Moffi is really doing well in France. “ I hope one day, luck would smile on Evans too so that he can be in a place to express himself and show the world what he can do; and establish himself as a great player because there’s no doubt about him as a player,” noted the former Barcelona winger. Similarly, Bologna midfielder Kingsley Michael who is currently on loan to Reggina in the Italian Serie A, equally recollected the humble beginning of Enoobong. “Of course, I know and remember Evans,” Michael said. “But the last time I saw him was in Calabar when we were in the U-17 camp. “He was then a very good player, skilful and humble,” noted Michael who struck a goal in the 3-0 quarter-final defeat of Brazil in Chile. Defender Lukman Zakari, one of the few players that featured in Golden Eagles’ seven matches in Chile was even more forthcoming on Enoobong. “The first time i came across him (Evans), he was very young and a little bit younger than us back then in 2014 at Calabar,” the 22-year-old Zakari explained. “He was humble, hardworking and dedicated. “He was a good player with a lot of potentials, very tricky and smart with the ball at his feet. You could see from those days he was gonna be a very good player in the future,” Of course in Yoruba (the famous ethnic group mainly in the south western region of Nigeria) folklore , there’s a saying that ‘ogun omode ko le sere fun ogun odun’ which literarily means ‘20 children cannot play together for 20 straight years’ and so it seemed as Enoobong has yet to meet some of his illustrious mentors including current Africa’s costliest player and Super Eagles foremost striker Osimhen. “Well, I am not close to him (Osimhen) anymore but I do follow him on Instagram,” a crestfallen Enoobong explained further even as he acknowledged the heroics of the former Charleroi strike. “I ‘m really happy for him; but I’m not really surprised because I think he has a lot in him that the world is yet to even see.” Yet the baby-faced Enoobong is pushing on his own career path and remain hopeful that luck would shine on him as he did for Osimhen. “God has been faithful and I think everything in life is time,” Enoobong enthused. “After all the practice sessions with the U- 17 team, I went to a scouting program in Uyo with my team from Calabar and I was selected and asked to go to Ghana for a year training program with a team Cheetah FC of Ghana. “After, I travelled to Russia which I spent two and half years with FDC Vista) academy team and I came back November 2021 and hopefully my big break will come soon. “Right now, I am in Nigeria playing with an amateur team while I hope for greater things in the days ahead. “I hope to become a great player and play for some great clubs in the world but I have to wait for God’s time because his (God) time is always the best,” he reiterated.