The Department of State Services (DSS) arraigned Adeniyi Adedeji, 35, at an Osogbo Magistrates’ Court on Monday, for alleged impersonation and defrauding a Point of Sale (PoS) operator. Adedeji faced a five-count charge of conspiracy, fraud, theft and impersonation. He pleaded not guilty to the offences. DSS Prosecution Counsel, Mr A. Ademodi, told the court that Adedeji committed the offences between Jan. 17 and March 25 when he presented himself as an employee of the DSS to defraud people in Osogbo. “On Jan. 17 in Osogbo, the defendant obtained goods worth N85,770 from a pharmacy shop while presenting himself as a security personnel, and also using fake debit alert in the transaction. “Also, on Feb. 7 at Ogo-Oluwa Area, the defendant obtained N54,000 from a PoS operator by presenting himself as a DSS officer. “He presented fake debit alert to the victim on his cell phone line 08131859789 to deceive the operator,’’ Ademodi said.   Heavy downpour sacks residents, community in Imo     Insecurity: Buhari’s govt. not overwhelmed, says minister     Kumuyi slams choristers for male ‘jackets’,…   The DSS prosecutor said that on March 15, Adedeji collected electronics gadgets worth N565, 000 from one LG showroom located at Ogo-Oluwa Area, and presented the shop also with a fake debit alert. He said that it took strenuous efforts by the DSS personnel to track and arrest the defendant before charging him in court. Ademodi said the offences contravened the criminal laws of Osun, in 2022. The defence counsel, Mr Jimmy Jones, prayed the court to grant his client bail in the most liberal terms. Presiding Magistrate M. Olatunji granted Adedeji bail in the sum of N750,000 with two sureties in like sum. Olatunji said the sureties must be resident within the court’s jurisdictions and must have evidence of tax payments. They must swear to affidavits of means and attach their passport photographs to the affidavits. He said one of the sureties must be a civil servant not below Grade Level 10, while the other must be a close relative of the defendant and must have landed property. Olatunji adjourned the case to May 25 for a hearing. (NAN)