Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike says the 2023 presidential election is the right opportunity for him to be compensated for keeping the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP)  afloat. Wike, therefore, tasked delegates to the May 28-29 primaries of the opposition party to ensure that he did not miss the chance of clinching the presidential ticket. He spoke with Imo PDP delegates just as a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, reiterated yesterday that  Northern PDP presidential aspirants of the PDP were ready to back a consensus candidate. Also yesterday, the Governor Samuel Ortom-led PDP zoning committee submitted its report to the party’s National Working Committee (NWC)  for ratification. Ortom was absent at the ceremony. Wike, who continued his presidential ambition consultations with a visit to  Imo State delegates in Owerri, said that with the delegates’ support, he would emerge victorious in the presidential election next year. He also reminded the delegates that it  was common knowledge that people were conversant with his roles in keeping the PDP “alive.” His words: “Each time, our party people will say ‘but for Wike, the party would have died.’ Now the same person has come out. “That Wike who has stood for this party; that Wike who has made this party not to die;  that Wike  who has made this party be alive has come out to say I want to now lead this party.” The presidential aspirant assured the delegates that his presidency would solve the leadership problem stunting the nation’s economic growth. The governor, according to a statement by his Special Assistant (Media), Kelvin Ebiri, said he had a clarity of purpose, the capacity to galvanise and coordinate the abundant human talents and resources in steering the country to greatness. He said: “Nigeria is full of talents. Nigeria is full of people who are intelligent. What is the problem of this country today is leadership. “You require somebody who can galvanise, and coordinate those resources and it takes leadership. If you give me the mandate of the party, I know I will win the election in 2023.” Wike said it was hard to believe that President Muhammadu Buhari was truly in charge of the affairs of the country, given the intractable insecurity situation and poor performance of the economy. Earlier, Imo State  PDP Chairman, Charles Ugwuh, had said that  Nigeria was in search of a great leader like Wike.   Buhari deplores ‘heinous’ killings     BREAKING: Real Madrid kick Chelsea out of UCL     BREAKING: Chukwueze’s goal sends Villareal to UCL semi…   In Abia State, Northern presidential aspirants led by Saraki reiterated that they were willing to accept the emergence of a  consensus candidate for the PDP. They said that their decision was to ensure that Nigeria was rescued. The aspirants – Saraki,  Governors Bala Mohammed(Bauchi) , Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and former Chairman of FSB International Bank Plc, Mohammed Hayatu-Deen —spoke with reporters after a consultation visit to  Governor Okezie Ikpeazu at his Umuobiakwa country-home. Saraki said: “As you are aware, four of us who are aspirants have been going around consulting. We’ve been discussing consensus for the interest of our party and the country. “We’re motivated to hear leaders like Governor Ikpeazu urging us to go ahead.” Ikpeazu said that the initiative of the aspirants was commendable and altruistic. “I want to say that you have my commitment and cooperation as you move on. And I’ll do my little bit to ensure that all of us come together. “I want to encourage all the aspirants wherever they’re coming from to come together and realise that someone needs to be alive to be selfish. “The survival of our country and the interest of the poor masses should come before whatever personal agenda. “Only one person will be president. Let the president who is ready to serve Nigeria emerge not the one that will serve himself.” In Abuja, Elumelu, who presented the zoning committee’s report to the PDP National Chairman Iyorchia Ayu, did not disclose the recommendations. He said that the  report was addressed to the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) which would very soon make  the contents known. There were reports last week that the committee had thrown open the party’s presidential ticket to all aspirants. Ayu thanked the committee members for responding to the call for service. “This decision will be known to party members across the country and all Nigerians who are eagerly awaiting the final decision of your committee,”  Elumelu added.