The Edo command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), says it has destroyed 17 suspected cannabis sativa farms measuring over 15 hectares in the state. Mr Buba Wakawa, state Commander of the agency, made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Benin, on Tuesday. Wakawa explained that the farms were destroyed between January and March, describing the reviewed period as having recorded the removal of 480.074 kg of psychotropic substances from circulation. He explained that the substances removed included Exol, Tramadol capsules/tablets, Diazepam, Lexotan, Swinol tablets, Cocaine, Heroin, Meth, Cookies, Ampoules of Pentazocine injections, among others. Wakawa further revealed that the command also seized 2,349.424 kgs of substances suspected to be cannabis sativa during the period. In the period under review, he also said that the command arrested 94 suspects comprising 80 males and 14 females.   Tinubu rallies governors in mission for APC ticket     APC NWC gears up for primaries guidelines     Youths give Amaechi 48-hour ultimatum to resign   Similarly, Wakawa also told NAN that eight different types of exotic cars such as Lexus ES 330, Toyota Camry, Honda, Previa, Trucks, among others, used as means of conveyance were seized through the command’s interception activities. He added that 21 drug related cases were filed at the Federal High Court, Benin, within the period under review, securing 10 convictions, while 81 drug dependent persons were counselled and ”released to be re-united with their families”. Wakawa also disclosed that within the period, the command took the War Against Drug Abuse (WADA) project to schools and traditional rulers like the Otaru of Auchi, HRH Aliru Momoh, and the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II. He noted that in pushing the WADA, it was the vision of the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Brig.- Gen. Buba Marwa (Rtd) to eradicate unwholesome abuse of substances in the country. He said that it was based on this that the Edo command was taking the fight against illicit drug and trafficking to every door step with a view to eradicating negative drug use in the state. Wakawa appealed to the Edo public to always avail the command of every useful information, as well as leads on drug activities, ”particularly information about cannabis sativa farming in the state as the cultivation season had begun”, he said (NAN)