Knox Wire, a real-time gross settlement system, has said 20 banks will be integrated into its Real Time Gross Settlement network that will allow the company settle dollar transactions for banks’ customers. Speaking at the conference on real-time cross-border wire network in Lagos, Knox Wire Chief Operations Director, Clifford Niemand, said more Nigerian banks would be accommodated in the second phase of the integration. He said the company had held several meetings with some banks on its services, adding that many banks had shown interest. Niemand said the company had allocated dollars to support connected banks in meeting customers’ dollar needs. He assured financial institutions of a seamless solution for communicating and making cross-border payments to over 200 countries in 150 currencies. Niemand said due to high demand and rapid expansion of the Fintech sector, there had been a huge increase in the need for a secure, ultrafast and cost-effective financial service web-based platform that could accommodate cross-border traction worldwide.   FITC chief advocates raising women creativity in corporate…     Ecobank supports creative industry     EFG Hermes completes advisory on $6.1b DFM IPO   He said Knox Wire evolved from a global financial service organisation that included financial service experience in many global economic solutions with a total organisational value in excess of $10 billion. According to him, the solution ensures sub-two-second processing of payments between Knox Wire financial institutions, prompting settlements to third-party financial institutions. He said Knox Wire was a world-class system that saved on transaction costs and included a rebate for economising transactions. The Country Representative, Sweetapple Capital, Bode Akinboye, said the conference featured meetings and discussed integration agreements. The firm said Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was expected to reach $445billion by the end of the year and boasted of the highest remittance inflows in Africa. “Knox Wire has garnered huge attention among Nigerian financial institutions and is set to provide an RTGS platform that is not only one of the most feature-rich but is also unparalleled in its speed. “Knox Wire is one of only three major global solutions but greatly improves upon current offerings by leveraging a correspondent network for off-network payments, advanced technical features to provide near-instantaneous cross-border transactions, anti-money laundering transaction monitoring to prevent fraudulent activity, and a system that integrates seamlessly with existing financial systems,” it stated.