The new National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may soon commence a probe of the party’s National Secretariat, National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu hinted yesterday. Adamu also said his team has a clear mandate from President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver victory to the party in next year’s elections. The ex-Nasarawa State governor, who spoke after receiving his certificate of returns from the National Convention Election Committee led by Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru, said there would be no room for failure during his tenure. He said clean employees at the APC national secretariat had nothing to fear about the impending probe, insisting that the party could not continue with the way things were. “It is in God’s pleasure that we are here at the helm of affairs of this party. We have come with a very open mind, but you have to reciprocate in the same spirit,” he said. “We will definitely, by the will of God Almighty, need to look at you. But I am not saying anything today until the Transition Committee submits its report. “I hope that by the time the report is submitted, you have what they call a clean bill of the ledger. That’s my prayer. Right? “We have zero tolerance for failure in this new dispensation of our great party.” The chairman also asked party leaders and members to buckle up ahead of the 2023 elections. His words: “We cannot move the way we are to the elections. We have a marching order from the leader of this party, President Muhammadu Buhari. We have to deliver. There will be no excuses whatsoever and we will need everybody’s hands on the deck for this to happen.” Also speaking, Badaru urged the Adamu-led NWC to carry along all those who stepped down for them at the national convention. He said: “So, we thank all the contestants for really behaving in a mature and understanding manner for the interest and progress of our party. “They are heroes of our party. Despite their interests, they chose to withdraw to allow consensus to reign so that our party might come out stronger and stronger, and indeed this was what happened. “I thank them and I believe they deserve all our commendation and the party will never forget them.”   Mr Ibu’s poisonous ordeal     2023: PDP zoning crisis deepens as Atiku, Wike’s men…     Portable: Stirring pots of unending controversies   He said that out of 78 positions in the NWC and zonal offices, 66 positions were returned through consensus while the remaining 12 positions were keenly contested and winners emerged. Governor Badaru, with who were the Secretary of the committee, Hadeiza Bala Usman and her assistant Dr Sanusi Ohiare, later presented the certificates to the Chairman, National Welfare Secretary, National Financial Secretary and Deputy National Woman Leader. Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni was yesterday treated to a grand state reception in Damaturu, fresh from the completion of his assignment as National Chairman of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). Buni was welcomed by a large crowd at the Maiduguri Airport and then travelled in a long convoy to Damaturu. He was met at Warsala, a border town between Yobe and Borno states, by an equally large crowd. The grand reception soon followed at the August 27 Stadium. In attendance were Senator Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan and the deputy governors of neighboring Borno and Gombe states. Other dignitaries at the occasion were Yobe State House of Assembly legislators, members of the National Assembly from the state, members of the State Executive Council, the Secretary to the Government of Yobe State Baba Malam Wali and the Head of Service Nura Mohammed, among others. Addressing the crowd, Buni promised to make youths in the state productive. According to him, over 300,000 youths in the state will be empowered to make them active entrepreneurs as a deliberate way of taking them off the poverty line. “Youth constitute the larger number of our population in the state. A strategic investment in this direction will be the best for the future of our dear state,” he said. He added: “This administration will do everything humanly possible to make them not only productive but suitable for other competitive jobs within and outside the state.” In his remarks, Senate President Lawan said Buni made Yobe proud with the success recorded during his time at the helm of the party and for conducting a successful convention. Buni’s assignment as APC’s CECPC ended at the weekend following the election of a new national executive committee by the party at its national convention held in Abuja.