Many Nigerians have applauded All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for cancelling his 70th birthday on Tuesday, following the train attack by terrorists along Kaduna-Abuja Road. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the lessons of compassion, sacrifice, patriotism and leadership.  The crowd was huge. Dignitaries came from far and near. They converge in one accord to honour the political icon and bridge builder, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who turned 70 on Tuesday. But, the celebrations of the 70th birthday of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was cancelled as a mark of respect for victims of the recent train attacks. The celebrator said he cancelled the ceremony in  utter sensitivity to the national mood. Tinubu said he cannot roll out drums when the country should be united in mourning the tragedy of train bombing, which claimed many lives and left others critically injured and  hospitalised. On Monday, a train was bombed by suspected terrorists along Abuja-Kaduna Road, killing 60 people. Those who lost their lives included Trade Union Congress (TUC) Secretary-General Musa Ozigi-Lawal, Kwara TUC Chairman Akin Akinsola, National Board of Technical Education (NBTE) Director Abdul Isa Kofar-Mata and a dentist, Dr. Chinese Nwando. Tinubu, who got to the colloquium at Eko Hotel and Suits, Victoria Island,  Lagos, with his wife, Senator Oluremi, said as a statesman and senior citizen, he could not be hosting dignitaries from all walks of life for a birthday ceremony when the country was bereaved. The hall was filled to the brim. Statesmen, top government officials, captains of Industry,  monarchs, clerics, politicians, diplomats,  and other dignitaries, who came from across the six zones and abroad, joined relations, associates and disciples of the eminent politician for the ceremony organised by Lagos State government. The guest speaker at the 13th colloquium with the theme: ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the new world order: Imperatives of good governance,” Prof. Olufemi Bamiro, former Vice Chancellor of University of Ibadan, and panel discussants were on ground. Apart from the host, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, dignitaries, including Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, his Osun counterpart,  Gboyega Oyetola, the representative Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Andrew Adejo, APC National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omidore, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Osemawe of Ondo, Oba Victor Kiladejo, the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo and Olugbo of Ugboland, Oba Fredrick Akinruntan, and Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, had taken their seats. Also at the event were Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun, wife of Lagos State Governor Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Senator Abu Ibrahim, former Niger State Deputy Governor Musa Ibeto, Senator Kashim Shettima, T.A. Gwazo, Senator Ibikunke Amosu, business mogul Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Mr. Femi Otedola, Senator Tokunbo Abiru and the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi. At 2.42pm, Tinubu stormed the venue, amid cheers by guests who rose up to welcome him. Two clerics-Sheihk Suleimon Abou-Nolla, Chief Imam of Lagos, and Bidhop Stephens Adeegbite, Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State chapter-rendered their opening prayers, signalling the commencement of the programme. Rev. Adegbite, who brought felicitations from the CAN president and Southwest chairman, prayed for robust health and long life for the APC stalwart. Eulogising Tinubu, the priest recalled his giants strides as governor for eight years, adding that he is a kind and generous giver, who the nation can depend on for leadership. However, few minutes after, Tinubu, accompanied by Ganduje, Sanwo-Olu and former Ogun State Governor Segun Osoba, went to the podium to announce the cancellation of the programme. Hale and hearty, the APC national leader thanked God for attaining 70. But, he lamented that the programme had to terminate, having learnt about the bombing that terminated the lives of many passengers. Tinubu, who called for a minute of silence in honour of the departed, urged clerics and other Nigerians to intensify their prayers for the peace and stability of the country. He said: “Today is supposed to be a very joyful 70th birthday of my living on earth. I give thanks to God Almighty for being able to survive to this age. “I have just been informed of a very sad incident in our country, very sad indeed that over 60 people and many more were killed and bombed on a train between Kaduna and Abuja just last night. That is a very serious incident about the security of lives in this country and it calls for a very serious sober reflection. “For me to be here celebrating, dancing and enjoying myself doesn’t show enough concern of a statesman and a senior citizen of this country. “I urge the clergies here to continue to pray and everyone of you to go home and pray. “This event should not be holding. I’ve discussed with eminent personalities on ground and they have agreed with me. I’ve been a highly committed democrat; I have given myself to their suggestion that this event should be cancelled. “We pray for the souls who have departed prematurely that they find rest. We also pray to almighty God to help us win the war over evil, set Nigeria on the right path, bless us and provide His guidance on all of us in our various ways. “I want us to observe a one minute on this national tragedy. May God almighty bring peace and stability to our country, accept the souls of the departed and give succour and healing to the injured.” Later in the evening, Tinubu issued another statement, lamenting the tragedy that hit the nation. It reads: “Fellow Nigerians, my heart is with you. “In sober realization of the extent of the terror that befell our nation yesterday on the Abuja-Kaduna rail line, we reach out to console the families left bereaved as well as those who have been left scarred by the mindless violence. “While we do all we can to give comfort to those in need of it, we must stiffen our resolve and make stronger our response to such atrocities. “Today marked my 70th birthday, a moment intended for celebration. Yet, I cannot celebrate knowing what has happened to so many of our beloved people. “Earlier, I stood before the attendees at the annual colloquium held on my birthday, explaining to them, and asking for their understanding, why the event could not proceed given what had happened. “Now, I ask for something further from you, as a show of compassion. I have been informed that many people continued to celebrate my birthday at various events in different locations throughout the day. I appreciate the show of support and affection. However, I must ask that such celebrations stop. Now is not the time. “Additionally, I ask all who can, to join me in donating to the families of the bereaved and to the immediate needs of the wounded and distressed. We are one national family. We must aid our brothers and sisters at this time. “Nigeria deserves better than what took place yesterday, and at other times. Terror and banditry have no place here.   Reps threaten sanction against NNPC over absence during…     Minister: Non-oil sector contributed 70% of N6.4t tax     Train attack: MURIC urges unity against terrorists   “We must eradicate them such that these twin evils have no hold on even a centimetre of our national soil. We must not stop until we realize a better future, a greater, more peaceful Nigeria. “To the bereaved, I offer my thoughts and prayers. To the wounded, may you heal. To the perpetrators, I have nothing to say except that may the justice you face be swift and uncompromising.” “Many dignitaries hailed Tinubu for his sensitivity and passion for the welfare of other Nigerians, noting that he is a good and compassionate leaders. Deputy Governor Hamzat said Tinubu had demonstrated the traits of a humanist and a leader who shares the feelings of others. He ssid: “This one is supposed to be the 13th edition of his birthday colloquium, but he said we should look at what has happened yesterday where some people bombed a train which has resulted in the deaths of our people. The Vice President (Prof Yemi Osinbajo) had already landed in Lagos, but he had to go back. “Asiwaju decided that we should not have the celebration anymore so as to let Nigerians know that what has happened was an unfortunate incident and may God not let us experience such anymore. God should help take the devil out of the country. Of what use is killing ourselves? They killed people going to their various work places; they have turned children to orphans. What happened was a tragic event and Asiwaju said there is no need for us to celebrate this elaborately. It is good that we cancelled it and we pray for the soul of the departed which I think everybody in the audience agreed as you can see that people clapped and they appreciated that thinking that we commiserate with Nigerians. Imagine innocent people going for their livelihood just met with this type of death, may the soul of the departed rest in peace.” Hamzat added: “Asiwaju Tinubu’s action is a sign of unity amongst Nigerians from the top to down. All Nigerians, we have the same land; different languages don’t matter. The fact that somebody is an Hausa man or a Yoruba man is not by his own making. It’s the making of Almighty God. “Some people understand that we are the same. It’s God that created all of us whichever tribe you are. If people understand this and believe in God, you shouldn’t base anything on nepotism. We are one country, one people.” Former Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr  Oluranti Adebule commended Tinubu for living up to expectation. She said: “When we are talking about him being a good leader, being a visionary, being a giver, a compassionate person, this is a typical example. He has demonstrated what everybody has been saying about him that he is a very compassionate man. “Look at the amount of money they must have spent putting this occasion together, but for the love he has for the people of this country, he cancelled his own special day; that indeed, is a demonstration of kindness; it is a demonstration of compassion, a demonstration of a man that will do anything to assist and support the goals of Nigerians. “My condolences to the families that are affected in this tragedy and I pray that Almighty Allah will have compassion on their souls and of course comfort the families and the immediate members of the departed. “I cannot thank Asiwaju enough for this laudable decision that he has taken this afternoon.” Hakeem Bamgbola, member of the  Lagos State Local Government Service Commission said: “It takes a man like Asiwaju Tinubu who has human feelings to will cancel such a very big event, to sympathise with those who lost their lives in the bombing of the train. “It shows the level of insecurity in the country and the man felt he can’t be celebrating while some Nigerians are mourning. I think he took the wisest decision by cancelling this event.” He added: “Asiwaju Tinubu’s action shows leadership. Lagos is not just alone; it is part of Nigeria and when something tragic like that happens, I think we must show sympathy to those who lost their lives. “It is an ugly incident that calls for concern; we must show that we felt for those who lost their lives and there is need for us to continue to pray for peace in the country.” The l eader of Nupe Community in Ifako-Ijaiye and Ojokoro, Muhammad Abubakar, said Tinubu has shown leadership and demonstrated emphaty. He stresed:” It shows he has what it takes to lead Nigeria. He has human feeling; you can’t be rejoicing while people are mourning. “The bandits should repent, I don’t know where in the Christianity or Islamic religion where it is said that you should kill a fellow human being. What the Quran says is that, if you kill one person, you have killed the whole world. Their actions are condemnable.” A member of Nupe Community, Muhammad Ibrahim, said the cancellation made a lot of  sense, adding: “Asiwaju Tinubu just proved that he is a detribalised Nigerian and what happened in Kaduna state is sad and tragic.” Former Lagos State Commissioner for Transport Dr. Kayode Opeifa described him as a caring and sympathetic leader, who is genuinely concerned about the poor and needy. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire described the attack as unfortunate. She said: “It is very sad that some people that left their houses for their normal activities only to meet their death. It is unacceptable. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s action is commendable; I can also do the same. As an elder who contributed immensely to the development of our country, the cancellation of his birthday is a very tough decision for him to make and some of us were shocked with the announcement. “Birthdays come and go, although it is a landmark one and a lot of efforts have been made towards this celebration; all his guests have gathered. For him to cancel it shows a lot of leadership quality and uncommon courage. “We thank him for respecting the souls of the departed. The incident is very painful and I know that he was pained too. “I pray for the departed and their families. God will heal their wounds. Mazi Leo Obasi, a state Youth Leader of Ndigbo in APC Lagos State saluted Tinubu, saying: “That is to show you that we have in him a father; someone with human feeling; someone who feels the beat of Nigerian; someone who can go to discomfort himself to make sure that everyone is comfortable.” He added: “The nation is mourning and he has to cancel his celebrationg. I think he has done what no politician can do. It is a wonderful, great statement. I support him. “Nobody saw this coming, but he being who he is, that is why they call him Asiwaju. He is always in front; he is always one step ahead of every other person. So, the decision today is so awesome. It is so humane and we are in support of it. That is why we always stand by him.” At the event were Chief Judge of Lagos State Kazeem Alogba, Minister of State for Health Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora, Ambassador to Spain Demola Seriki, Senator Magnus Abe,  Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa, his deputy, Wasiu Eshinlokun Sani, former Deputy Governors Olufemi Pedro, Oluranti Adebule and Tawa Orelope-Adefulire, Third Republic House of Representatives Chief Whip Olawale Oshun, Senators Musiliu Obanikoro, Ajibola Basiru, Solomon Adeola, and Fatai Buhari; Hajia Amina Ibrahim, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Lagos State Head of Service Hakeem Muri Okunola, Chief of Staff Tayo Ayinde, Moruf Akunderu Fatai, Ayangburen of Ikorodu Oba Kabiru Shotobi, Ojora of Ijora-Iganmu, Oba Fatai Aromire, Oniru of Iruland, Oba Gbolahan Lawal, Olumide Ojerinde, Seye Oladejo, Ayodele Adewale, and House of Representatives members-Jide Jimoh, Samuel Adejare, Rotimi Agunsoye, Kolawole Taiwo, Wale Raji, Adeyemi Alli, Jsmes Faleke, and Kayode Akinolu. Governance Advisory Council (GAC) members at the ceremony included Prince Oluyole Olusi, Prince Abiodun Ogunleye, Asiwaju Olorunfunmi Basorun, Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, Senator Tony Adefuye, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, Otunba Dele Ajomale, Omoba Muyiwa Sosanya, Chief Rabiu Oluwa, Chief Mutiu Are, Senator Tony Adefuye, Olawale Edun, and Alhaji Tunde Balogun. Others included Prof. Ropo Sekoni,  Prof. Adebayo Williams,  Yeyeoge of Lagos Mrs Ophra Benson, Senator Soji Akanbi, Mrs. Gladdys Ndubusi Kanu, Comrade Joe Igbokwe, Mrs. Kafilat Ogbara, Mrs. Kemi Nelson, Mrs. Kehinde Babalola, Hakeem Bamgbola, Abiodun Mafe, Lateef Ibirogba, Hon. Labinjo, Chief Sunny Ajose, and Justice Ayisat Opesanwo.