For Ghana’s radical economic activist, Ernesto Yeboah, the proposed African Continental Free Trade Area, otherwise known as the AfCFTA, holds more harm for Africa’s economy than good. Yeboah gave his reservations while featuring on the Toyin Falola Interview Series. The series which has as its chair, eminent professor of history, Toyin Falola, regularly features prominent economists, activists, industrialists, politicians and academics with the intent of giving a voice to the African continent. Speaking, Yeboah stated that what Africa needs are homegrown economic initiatives and policies that prioritise Africa. The African Continental Free Trade Area is an ambitious trade pact to form the world’s largest free trade area by connecting almost 1.3bn people across 54 African countries. The agreement aims to create a single market for goods and services in order to deepen the economic integration of Africa. However for Yeboah, fears of significant tariff revenue losses and an uneven distribution of costs and benefits are among the main obstacles to the continent’s integration. According to him, “Everything is not coming from us; they are dictated to us and we are simply following. With this new trade arrangement that we intend to have under the AfCFTA, it doesn’t benefit Africa in the long run. The established industries and companies are just going to migrate to the continent to establish their factories, and they will still be producing. We need to have a coherent vision owned by the African people, and it has to be consciously pushed by the leadership and all sections of the society. Until this happens, Ghana’s attempt to resolve its issues wouldn’t yield much. “We are confronted by existential realities which are wrapped up in neocolonialism. Under neocolonialism, you cannot be anything but a consumer. You are like a dog; you only eat what your master gives you. The various countries making up the African continent are all under the mastership of Europe and to a large extent the West and Asia. This is where we are. Until we confront issues of neocolonialism, many of these actions and questions may not yield much. That is why I think what is happening in Rwanda is a good example without linking it to the total liberation of the African continent. In a few years down, they will come down to ground zero. It was exactly what the likes of Kwame Nkrumah saw which on the day of Ghana’s independence declared that the independence of Ghana was meaningless until there was the total liberation of the entire African continent.   Oparaugo to sub-Saharan Africa govts: embrace STEM     Ghana lifts most COVID-19 restrictions     African Ministers’ Council sets to formulate post-2025…   “Ghana, with a population of a little about 30 million, has her traders having to bring in their goods with the dollar, because it is cheaper. Until we have a coherent African vision, borne by us, the African people, and followed through by us, we would not be able to resolve some of these key issues.” He informed the gathering that his movement was “championing a new constitution in Ghana. In that constitution are frameworks that would protect local industrial areas, collapse negotiations that help foreign companies from migrating their profits out of the country. We could negotiate for a certain percentage to not less than 6o percent of the profits they make, and that they must not be taken out of the country. These are things that are not in our hands. This growing dissatisfaction that many people feel has accosted us in many places that we have visited. “Sometimes we are just stopped and told that we need guns. In fact, there are some who feel that for Africa to rise to the level where we all expect, there must be a full blown war. And they would often point to the example of Rwanda, saying that it was after the war in Rwanda that Rwanda had the breathing space to be able to put things in place. Our own Nkrumah said we should take to arms in liberating ourselves. We have to interrogate that space carefully. What we are doing is holding the forte and preventing the avalanche of violence from breaking.” He said. On the urgent need for Africans to have ideologically propelled education, he submitted that: “The lost bearing of the African is rooted fundamentally in the kind of education that we are getting. Until we are able to correct that anomaly, the African of today and the future will continue to be a confused person who doesn’t understand the existential realities that confront him. Chinua Achebe says that the frog does not loiter in the day for nothing. It is either something is pursuing it or it is pursuing something. What is pursuing Africa and what is Africa pursing? What has happened to African leaders who confronted the problems bedeviling Africa? Such leaders are often vilified, isolated and killed. We have seen that with Thomas Sankara, Patrick Lumumba. Recently we saw that with Ghadaffi. “This is our existential reality where a body of people somewhere actively worked to ensure that we do not have the right kind of leadership that would advance the core cause of our society. To the extent that this has not agitated the minds of policymakers in our society. Kwameh raised the question of what the vision of Africa is. When this is asked, this people will quickly point you to some MDGs and SDGs and visions that have not emanated from us, that have been imposed on us and all we are doing to rehash these things. Talk about Agenda 2063 by the African Union and these leaders are telling us that that is when the see the unity of the nations of the African continent.” He said.