Former Kano State Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso yesterday picked the nomination and expression of interest forms of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) for the 2023 presidential election. Kwankwaso, who said he paid N30million for the forms, urged Nigerians, especially politicians who truly wanted to change the country for good, to join the NNPP. Speaking at the national headquarters of the party in Abuja while collecting the forms, Kwankwaso said his party would take over power in 2023. He enjoined Nigerians to come together and ensure the country is returned to peace and a modern world economy. Kwankwaso said: “I am happy to say that I have already paid N30million to the party for the expression of interest and presidential nomination forms. “Let me call on all Nigerians, especially my brothers and sisters who are in this game of politics, to do what I have done, that is to join NNPP.   Stories of impact: Real women, real lives, real growth     Wamakko, Uzodimma fault Afe Babalola’s interim govt call     Ngige, Nnamani declare to run for president   “From 1998 to 2014, I realised that we were together in the PDP for the purposes that the party was formed. That was to get rid of military rule. It was then that I realised there was so many differences, the ideology was completely different. It became so difficult for us to work together. “In 2014, I became a senator under the APC and worked for the party, believing that they were real progressives. Unfortunately, we realised that the PDP was even better.” The former governor said he was “angry with the status quo.” He added: “While we are calling on everyone to join the NNPP, I want to remind Nigerians that this is a progressive party that wants to change the political landscape of the country. “I want to tell them that those who really want to serve this country should join hands with us. “But those who are satisfied with the status quo, ranging from insecurity to the issue of economy that is so much in shambles across this country, it is unfortunate that they will continue to be there. “But for those who believe in the unity of this country, Nigeria is divided like never before. So we are the people who have decided to come together to make sure we have one Nigeria, no matter which religion you practise. “We have to come together to fight them and make sure Nigeria is returned to peace and a modern world economy.”