Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State Cornelius Ojelabi has called on Igbo residing in the state to identify with its development. Ojelabi, who spoke at a meeting with the coalition of Igbo in Ojo, said: “Politics is about interest, and it is when the environment is conducive that your business can thrive. “If not 90 per cent, I can say between 60 and 70 per cent of you go home once in a year. The rest of us are within this particular place, Ojo. “Your children school here, you are part of us, which is the essence of this meeting; we need to talk and be on the same page.” Ojelabi noted that the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is working to improve infrastructure. “In Ojo Federal Constituency, where Alaba International Market is situated, I, former Deputy Governor Dr Oluranti Adebule, and chairmen of Oto-Awori, Iba, and Ojo councils, have engaged the special adviser on Works and recommended three roads for attention. “We gave her Mosafejo–Ilufe Road, and we explained the economic importance of that road; Osinlemo to Odan–Era and White House to pass through Oke–Ijewu to Ilogbo–Elegba. “But, in all, our performance politically is what can influence these projects,” Ojelabi added.   Stories of Impact – Real Women, Real Lives, Real Growth     2023: Nigeria needs new crop of leaders, says Olawepo-Hashim     INEC voids 1.1m voter registrations   Giving reasons why the Igbo in Ojo should support APC in 2023 elections, Ojelabi said as the party’s state chairman, he is privy to what members of the National Assembly were attracting, in terms of infrastructure to their constituencies. “I am very sure that more than 80 per cent of those seated here today may not know or recognise the person representing them at the National Assembly, let alone approaching him to ask questions,” he said. Chairman of Ojo Local Government Rosulu Idowu called for better synergy among constituents to attract more infrastructural development. “We cannot do this thing alone, we need the support of all to achieve our objective which is to make our council wear a new look. We want to turn it to a better place for us to stay, we want to turn it to a better place for our businesses to flourish,” he added. Leader of the Igbo delegation Chief Kenneth Agwedu pledged his people’s support for APC. According to him, Igbo in the diaspora, especially those in Lagos, should understand the need to support those giving them a conducive environment to work. He said the delegation would take these decisions  to others so they can better understand the importance of supporting APC in Lagos State. “The Igbo in Lagos are not against APC. Igbo are not the only one living in Nigeria, we should try to learn ‘adaptation’ (wherever you live, you have to adapt to their culture). “We are in Lagos, even if we have up to one million members, we are under a Yoruba leadership, and we must work with the government to make sure it wins at all levels,” he added.