Heirs Insurance Limited (HIL), the digital general insurance company, has demonstrated its commitment to gender inclusion with the launch of its motor insurance plan for women, Her Motor Plan. Prioritising safety, the plan offers to its subscribers 24-hour road rescue and vehicle repair services, as well as access to an exclusive community of likeminded businesswomen. The launch held yesterday at the Heirs Insurance headquarters, Heirs Towers, and pulled female business icons from all walks of life to celebrate the drive and enthusiasm of all women. Guests included the 44th Miss Nigeria, Shatu Garko-brand ambassador for Heirs Insurance-Lanre Da Silva, celebrated fashion designer; Nkiru Anumudu, Nigerian businesswoman, and many others. Her Motor Insurance Plan is an affordable, yet holistic comprehensive motor insurance plan offering coverage and support involving the mechanical breakdown of vehicles. It provides all-day protection and coverage for vehicles against road accidents, theft, or fire. Other benefits include towing service, free vehicle tracker and medical support in the case of an accident. The launch of this plan not only reinforces the company’s efforts towards improving lives in Nigeria by promoting gender inclusion, but it also demonstrates its commitment towards democratising insurance through the availability of value- adding insurance products that are simple to understand and accessible.   Stanbic IBTC reaffirms commitment to creative industry     Interswitch to boost revenue in healthcare sector with…     Businesses adopt sustenance pills against inflation, FX…   According to the Managing Director, Heirs Insurance, Dr. Adaobi Nwakuche, the product is the outcome of the extensive research the company conducted to understand the lapses in the industry prior to the kick-off of operations. She stressed the importance of inclusion for women in the quest to deepen insurance penetration and she expressed confidence in the new product championing this cause. She said: “Women face several challenges at work, home and generally in the society yet they stand strong. This is what we are celebrating with Her Motor Insurance Plan. We believe that the drive of women should not be hindered by the challenges they face. Through this launch, we emphasize our commitment to making insurance accessible to everyone. Our message to all women is simple: keep driving, keep moving”. The Chief Marketing Officer, Heirs Insurance, Ifesinachi Okpagu, during her welcome remark, noted that the product further emphasises the company’s overall ambition of creating products that offer value and make better the lives of customers. In her words, “As a company, we remain committed to providing excellent service to the insuring public, based on research and insight. We will continue to provide service that is simple, quick, and accessible. Anyone can access this plan via our website and other digital channels in 2 minutes”. Heirs Insurance continues to transform insurance in Nigeria by providing simple, quick, reliable, and accessible protection plans to individuals and businesses. Heirs Insurance underwrites all classes of General Insurance Business for properties including vehicles, buildings, oil & gas, power, utilities risks, among others. A subsidiary of the pan-African investment company, Heirs Holdings, Heirs Insurance is on a mission to drive financial inclusion and make insurance accessible to everyone.