A group, Unified Northern Nigeria Youth, has joined the calls on Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele to contest the 2023 presidency. Director-General of the group, Ibrahim Bature, told reporters in Damaturu, the capital of Yobe State the deliberate policies of Emeiele to bring millions of Nigerians out of poverty, especially in the area of agriculture have qualified him to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. He mentioned some of the initiatives under the CBN Governor to include: the Real Sector Support Facility, Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme, National Food Security Programme and the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI). “Under Dr. Godwin Emefiele’s stewardship, CBN also disbursed a total of over N114.09bn to support the fertiliser industry in the last five years. “These innovative interventions were long-term loans at concessionary interest rates to support domestic blending and distribution of fertilizer across the country. “Given the massive funding support received by members of the Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN) from the CBN, Dr. Emefiele announced that the bank is working with majors stakeholders in the industry, such as Dangote and Indorama, to ensure that they sell Urea at discounted prices to the blending plants to ensure that the prices of fertilizer are moderated in the market,” the group explained. The group also lauded the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme of the Bank, which Emefile initiated.   Oyedeji not our Reps consensus candidate, says Oke-Ogun PDP…     2023: Why we must support Tinubu – ACF Chieftain     PDP Govs insincere about call for Emefiele’s…   The group added: “Due to success attributed to the Anchor Borrowers programme, there is currently a balance of stock of fertiliser from the last planting season to the tune of 1.95 million bags despite committing additional 2.6 million bags for use during this year’s programme”. The group vowed to work hard for actualisation of Emefiele’s presidential ambition to sustain what it believes President Buhari has started. “For sustenance and continuity of this revolution, we must work tirelessly to ensure that Dr Godwin Emefiele succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2023 elections so that we will continue to drive away unemployment, poverty, hence, insecurity with all aggressiveness for peace, progress and prosperity to reign in our land. “Dear distinguished stakeholders and the entire people of Yobe state, know that, Agriculture remains the major employer of labour mostly for The Nation observed the group came into Damaturu 48 hours when posters of the CBN governor and Gov. Mai Mala Buni flooded the city. The posters have already dotted major locations in the city, including the central roundabout at the heart of the capital. The posters have Emefiele with his trademark white eyeglass in a suit with a green necktie with the caption: “A CALL TO SERVE; Emefiele & Mai Mala Buni 2023”.