The March 28 Abuja-Kaduna rail terror attack met the expected: a thunder of recriminations but hardly any empathy or cutting strategy. From a tally by The Nation, the AK9 Abuja-Kaduna train casualty figure: eight dead, 41 injured and a-yet-to-be-established number seized by the terrorists.  Terrible! Yet, the news broke — “breaking news!” — with the tone of the terrific: like the gleeful herald of some grand wedding or some sweet christening or some epochal bunting! Shortly after, a cartoonist strutted his stuff — and quite brilliant too: terrorists had taken full charge of Nigeria’s roads, air and rail!  You couldn’t move nowhere, unless you bought satanic tickets from them! That clear hyperbole connects with the angst of the moment.  But doesn’t someone, somewhere know that could be excellent oxygen for the terror attack next time — if not some dampener for security agents that often foil tens of attempts before one terror attack succeeds? By the way, did any heart go out to the battling security agents, who might have died so the rail terror victims could live?  Or their lives and families’ pains don’t matter? In trying times, the soul hurts.  The heart quakes.  The mouth wails.  Yet, wrong reactions to present peril could ensure future ones.  That’s a lesson in strategic communication our media must learn. Then, from the Nigerian Parliament, a huff of shame-and-blame.  A bilious House of Representatives passed a vote of no confidence on Nigeria’s security agencies (The Nation report: April 1). Now, what does that mean?  The wholesale junking of the security order?  And after that, what?  It’s all in tune with the anger of the moment, of course! Then, furious members bristled with sundry ire: one, that citizens be free to arm themselves and confront terrorists.  And what then?  Free-wheeling gun violence, ala America, even after terror attacks are distant memories? Another, that the House go on strike, like ASUU, if that would force President Muhammadu Buhari to take responsibility! Is our wise House imbibing ASUU’s culture of crippling strikes, with doubtful values? Another called for the removal of the National Security Adviser — hardly new.  Before the present set of security chiefs, there was wild clamouring to sack the old ones. Yet, that sack has proved no open sesame magic to the security challenge — even if the present occupiers try their best under grave conditions.  No NSA sack would do the magic either. Again, while all of these were legit and understandable responses to the angst of the moment, they add very little value to solving the problem. So, in moments of crisis, what Nigerians need from their leaders are reassurances, fired by penetrative thinking; not chamber echoes of helpless worries in the street. Besides, if the parliament would reflect more and point fingers less, why did it not birth a new federalized Nigeria police, in its latest raft of constitutional amendments?  Isn’t centralized police a major plank of the current insecurity challenges? From the executive, the mercurial Nasir El-Rufai, governor of Kaduna State, fast becoming the epicentre of North West insecurity, weighed in with own executive hysteria — go into the bush and bomb terrorists/bandits into ash!   Grudge ahoy!     War, our oxygen     Ghost of Oshiomhole   The frustration of Mallam El-Rufai is understandable.  He has shouted himself hoarse, warning the federal authorities that the vortex of Islamist terror and opportunistic banditry is moving from the North East to the North West — and his Kaduna is being swamped by it all!  That perhaps explains his mercenary bug. Still, his umpteenth vote for go-in-and-bomb-them-all-to-hell harbours pretty little emotional intelligence.  True, the bandits-terrorists will get their due.  He who lives by the sword must die by the sword.  But what of their captives? For context, the terrorists kidnapped an undisclosed number during the March 28 rail attack.  Families and friends of these folks still worry sick about their fate, in the hands of those brutes. Would the government, in a bid to wipe out these felon-captors, be right to wipe out their captives too?  Shouldn’t our thinking be more pin-point and precise? Governor El-Rufai appeared to have given that a thought.  Yet, his best take was that every crisis harbours its own collateral damage.  That could well be. But bombing off captives with their captors doesn’t portray high emotional intelligence — an area where the Kaduna governor seems to lag, despite his acute mind. Still, Governor El-Rufai gave useful context to the flare of bandit attacks in some parts of rural Kaduna — much more than the media that seems to glory only in reporting explosive end-tragedies. The governor accused the local vigilante of reckless and arbitrary acts, suggestive of wrongful killings; which then attract revenge raids that put the victim communities in utmost peril. Again, with federalized policing and better training at handling such matters, such killings and revenge missions would greatly reduce, if not completely eliminated. So, Nigeria sorely needs a decentralized police system, with state police working in tandem with the central police. Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, also threw his Federal Executive Council (FEC) peers under the bus for allegedly refusing a N3 billion-plus rail censor and security deal, that could have averted the March 28 disaster. But a leaked memo has hit right back, suggesting that cabinet rejected the Amaechi request for alleged suspected conflict of interest, since the minister’s vendor-nominee didn’t seem to have the required track record, if not competence. This cabinet to and fro seems to expose needless turf wars, when concerted efforts should save lives and avert disasters.  Yet, there seem no enough facts to start ascribing ill motives to either side of the isle, even with the train disaster. It’s another chilly and lonely spot for President Buhari and his security chiefs!  Already, the ill-graced Ebora Owu is mouthing his umpteenth cant.  Olusegun  Obasanjo just can’t shine unless he bad-mouths others!  Still, the president must carry his cross!  Buhari must end his seeming fixation with central policing. So, what should happen now is for the federal cabinet to grant accelerated approval to secure every metre of Nigeria’s rail track, because rail holds the key to Nigeria’s socio-economic renaissance, despite the present gloom. To beat the terror next time, everyone must know the country is at war. To beat this war against terror, everyone must be at their best: the media, the government (state and federal) and the people at large.  All must work hand-in-hand. To ward off future attacks, there must be clinical forward-thinking; and vital fellow feeling to tide over the present gloom.