President Muhammadu Buhari has signed Executive Order 11, which mandates the government to institutionalise maintenance of public buildings, into law. ﻿ Signing the new law just before the commencement of the weekly virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the Presidential Villa, Buhari directed all Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government (MDAs) to set up maintenance departments in line with the provisions of the new Executive Order. He pointed out that the maintenance of public facilities has gone beyond just a culture but an economy, providing employment for a good number of Nigerians. He said the order now gives legal backing to the country’s national maintenance policy, following its earlier approval by the Federal Executive Council.   Omisore to Soyinka: retract your statement     Foremost ex-referee ‘show boy’ Okubule dies at…     Yahaya pledges infrastructure renewal at the grassroots   Buhari added that the government had already started utilising the policy to give a facelift to some of its buildings like the Federal Secretariat Abuja and 24 others spread across the country. “Since the approval of the policy by the Federal Executive Council, the federal government has consciously started the implementation of maintenance of strategic facilities like the federal secretariat Abuja and federal secretariats in 24 states of the federation, where at least 40 people are now daily employed in each of those 24 secretariats. “The office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation has approved the establishment of a department of federal public assets maintenance as a vital step in support of the implementation of this national policy, which is unprecedented in our history and approach to maintenance. “In order to ensure the fullest implementation and impact of the policy, it is my pleasure to sign this Executive Order that ties maintenance direct to our economy. “By this Order, I expect Ministries, Departments and Agencies to set out and ensure the operation of their maintenance departments and make necessary procurements for their maintenance in accordance with the provisions of the public procurement act,” he said.