The Armed Forces has been charged to continue the war against terrorism, banditry, and other forms of insurgency in the country. The Nigerian Institute of Management (Chartered) gave the charge at the induction of 65 officers of the armed forces and some officers of the Nigeria Police Force in Abuja. This is as the Institute renewed its military management training partnership with National Defence College, Abuja, for another five years. President and Chairman of Council of the Institute, Maj Gen Abdullahi Muraina (rtd) during the induction, urged the military to continue in like manner until every trace of terrorism and insurgency were exorcised from the nation’s territory. The NIM president said: “Let me seize this moment to commend the nation’s Armed Forces for the gains they have recorded in recent months in the war against terrorism, banditry, and other forms of insurgency. “I urge you to continue in like manner until every trace of terrorism and insurgency is exorcised from the nation’s territory. “I hereby pay special tribute to the nation’s fallen heroes who paid the supreme price in the effort to bring peace to our land. May the Almighty comfort the Armed Forces, their families, and the loved ones they left behind.”   We’re tackling whiteflies infestation on cassava farms, says…     Presidential aspirant laments Plateau killings, Kaduna-Abuja…     2023 elections: Gombe gov asks political appointees, others…   He commended the NDA for renewing the agreement with the Institute for another five years. The NIM President charged the new inductees to imbibe and display the values of integrity, transparency, responsibility, accountability, equity, fairness, efficiency, and effectiveness which the Institute preaches In his remark, the Commandant of the College, Rear Admiral Murtala Bashir, said the College decided to renew and sign another MoU with the Institute because of the value the training adds to the management professional know-how of the beneficiaries, the Armed Forces, and the nation. He commended the institute for bringing unparalleled management professionalism to the table to justify the decision to renew the training MoU. The training partnership infused into the military training of the officers first kick-started with a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in 2014 elapsed in 2021 hence the renewal this year. Under the training partnership, the Institute trains officers of the elite military institution and inducts them into her professional membership at the end of each course at the College. Amongst the beneficiaries of the programme were officers from Congo, Mali, and Sierra Leone. Also in attendance during the signing of the MoU and the membership induction ceremony was the Acting Registrar of NIM, Mr. Jude Iheanacho; Mr. Abayomi Folarin, MNIM, Director of Membership Service; Mr. Emeka Iwelunmor, Assistant Director, Field Operations, and Mr. Emma Emeasoba, Assistant Director, Management Services.