Former Bayelsa State Commissioner for Information and Orientation Daniel Iworiso-Markson has promised to implement his ‘new deal manifesto’ if elected into the House of Representatives for Ogbia Federal Constituency. He said he remained the best choice for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with the general acceptance and popularity to win the coming election for the party. Iworiso-Markson said the ‘new deal manifesto’ was anchored on six pillars of Bond of Unity, Education, Empowerment, Special Status for Ogbia, Oloibiri Oil Museum, a UNESCO heritage site and Effective Communication. He spoke yesterday in Yenagoa when he presented his expression of interest and nomination forms to the people of Ogbia Kingdom to contest the 2023 House of Representatives election on the platform of the PDP. Iworiso-Markson said his decision to procure the forms was another stride in his conviction to provide effective representation at the National Assembly by leveraging his experience, network, exposure and connections. He described his manifesto as a well-thought-out strategic plan that encapsulated his vision to bring about a pragmatic approach and a paradigm shift in people’s representation.   ‘Why I chose to run for House of Assembly seat’      Compensation battle may stall N79b Calabar-Itu Road project      Ex-Ebonyi SSG to dialogue with IPOB to tackle insecurity   He said the manifesto formed the basis of his aspiration to the National Assembly and that he would work with PDP leaders and stakeholders to achieve it. Iworiso-Markson said: “Having picked the form, I decided to bring it back home to present to our leaders and stakeholders who are pivotal to my journey to the Green Chambers. It is another significant day in my quest to offer myself to represent Ogbia people.” “It also signifies a major step in the realisation of the ‘new deal agenda’ which we have mapped out. The focus of the agenda is to make stronger the Bond of Unity in Ogbia, to provide workable partnerships that will guarantee quality education for our children, empower our youths and women in critical skills that will make them employers of labour. “Also create a special status for Ogbia, as the first place where oil was discovered in commercial quantity. Make the Oloibiri Oil Museum, a UNESCO heritage site and provide like never before, effective and efficient communication so that our people can have a sense of what is going on in Abuja. This is the thrust of our agenda.” He vowed to deploy his network and support base to ensure the re-election of Governor Douye Diri, noting that he deserved a second term.