The spokesman of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oluwaseye Oladejo has promised to deliver quality representation for his constituents, if given a chance to represent Mushin II Federal Constituency at the National Assembly come 2023. Following his formal declaration to contest for the APC ticket to contest next year’s general elections, the party spokesman said given the current situation in the country that it is in the party’s interest to send its best hands to represent it at all levels “to be able to compete and contribute our quota to make life easier for our people by bringing dividends of democracy at the end of the tenure”. Oladejo said he understands the constituency, knows their fears, their apprehensions, expectations and what people are going through at the moment and is in a position to deliver exactly what they want. He said: “There is no house within this constituency that does not have issues of unemployment, poverty, poor health care and fears about what the future holds in store for them. Based on my experience living in this constituency, I am in the best position to address those issues and fears by putting things in place to take care of our people and give them hope for a better tomorrow. As their representative, I will live up to the billing in accordance with our party manifesto. “From what you have seen here, we have mobilized everybody, including non-Yoruba speaking residents like the Igbos and the Hausas, the artisans, the market men and women. From what is on the ground, it is as if the election is going to hold tomorrow. So, at the end of the day, I emerge as the party’s flag bearer by consensus, nobody is going to talk about imposition, based on my endorsement by the people. From what you can see, anyone earlier nursing the idea of contesting the election against me would have to think twice. This is a reflection of my acceptability; a reflection of the confidence people has in me, and a trust in my ability to deliver. As a person, I try to do what I say; so this is not going to be different: I would try my best to live up to their expectations.” At the event, which witnessed a large turnout of party chieftains, residents of the area, representatives of major ethnic groups, artisans, as well as market men and women, there was a strong clamour for the party spokesman to represent the constituency at the House of Representatives after next year’s general elections. He challenged other aspirants for the seat to stage the kind of rally where he made his declaration, saying it is a test of his strength and popularity in the constituency. Earlier in his declaration speech, Oladejo said Mushin Local Government Area has been one of the reference councils in Lagos politics since the return to civil rule in 1999. He added: “There is no way we can review the political history of Lagos State in the last 22 years of this present Fourth Republic and 61 years of Nigeria’s independence without making reference to Mushin and the political giants from the local government area. Mushin has produced many great men and women, who have distinguished themselves at the federal and state levels by writing their names in gold in politics and governance.”   Tinubu’s excellent footprints in Lagos     Timing, nature of Amaechi’s presidential declaration…     Ekiti 2022: Fayemi, Adebayo, Egbeyemi lead APC campaign…   Examples of such politicians, he said, are the first civilian governor of the state, the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande; Second Republic politician and former member of the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), Oba Olatunji Hamzat; Alhaji Rafiu Ishola Solomon; and his son, Senator Ganiyu Olanrewaju Solomon (GOS). Speaking about his antecedents in politics, Oladejo said for over two decades he has proved beyond reasonable doubt that he is someone to be trusted with public office. He said: “I have shown accountability and transparency in service at local and state levels. I have also served my party passionately at local and state levels. Now, I believe it is high time for me to yield to the clarion call of my constituents calling on me to represent Mushin II Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives come 2023 on the platform of our great party, the APC. “My decision to throw my hat into the ring for the House of Representatives contest was because I believe strongly that I will be useful to my constituents in the lower chamber of the National Assembly for qualitative representation. My main promise to the people of Mushin II Federal Constituency if given the opportunity to represent them in the House of Representatives is to provide and guarantee qualitative, discerning, visible and result-oriented representation for my constituency. I will also leverage the experience of the best hands in Mushin II Federal Constituency to provide the desired representation in every sense of the word to my constituents. “As a democrat and firm believer in the rule of law, if given the opportunity to represent Mushin II Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives, I will collaborate with other colleagues in the National Assembly to review some laws that have remained a clog in Nigeria’s spirit of true federalism to engender progress, unity and fair-play. I assure you that if I am elected as a member of the House of Representatives, representing Mushin II Federal Constituency, I am going to be a visible, listening, discerning and active legislator in the Green Chamber. I will also contribute my quota to the growth and development of our dear Lagos State and Nigeria. I will do this and many other great things to fulfil my part of the social contract with the people and collaborate with other arms of government to bring unquantifiable benefits to my people.” An experienced politician with a strong pedigree, Oladejo was at different times secretary of Mushin Local Government, former local government chairman, former commissioner for special duties, and now publicity secretary of his party. A prominent Igbo leader in Lagos politics, Chief Chris Ekwilo describes Oladejo as an icon in Lagos State politics, particularly Mushin Local Government. Ekwilo said Igbos resident in the area will work assiduously with other stakeholders to ensure that Oladejo represents the constituency at the National Assembly after next year’s election. He said: “We are here to endorse a man that has paid his dues in the politics of Lagos State, Mushin particular. We the Igbos in Mushin are here to say that Hon. Seye Oladejo has always gotten it right politically. We the entire non-Yoruba speaking residents of Mushin, particularly the Igbos hereby endorse him to represent Mushin Federal Constituency II at the National Assembly come 2023 unopposed.”