Chairman of Roots Television Nigeria, Dumebi Kachikwu, yesterday declared his interest to contest for President in the 2023 presidential election. He said Nigeria needs merit, character and know-how instead of zoning. He pledged to win the war against terrorism, banditry and kidnapping. Kachikwu, who is a younger brother of the immediate past Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, unfolded his plans at an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja He said: “Together we can design a new menu for our people. We will rebuild Nigeria from the ground up and do away with the faulty and archaic colonial foundation that now characterises our current existence. “We must define our common charter as Nigerians and constitute a new nation that is not only inclusive for all but guarantees equal rights and expressions to all irrespective of tribe, tongue and religion. “This new Nigeria must come first before any other identification. It will be our common bond as we do away with all colonial relics of division, mistrust and hatred. “No longer will we engage based on Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba or North and South but on the basis of Nigeria, our only fatherland. “We will resist all those who make religion and tribe their mantra. It will no longer be business as usual.   Odinkalu, Charley Boy, Onwenu, Bianca for talks with IPOB,…     Two die in ex-President Jonathan’s convoy crash     Nasarawa State govt. gives appointees April 8 to resign   “We will zone out all proponents of zoning and usher in a Nigeria that promotes merit, character and knowhow above primordial sentiments.” On the security challenges facing the country, Kachikwu said the alternative is to take the battle to terrorists, bandits and kidnappers. He added: “For too long our people have cried. Men and women are being butchered, orphans and widows created by the minute by a war sustained by the greedy who profit from defence contracts and the bloodthirsty, who seek to destroy our way of life. “We will confront them headlong and destroy them. This war will be fought on our terms. We will arm all the willing and able to rid our nation of foreign invaders. We will take the fight to their camps as we arrest and prosecute their sponsors. “We will no longer close one flank and leave another flank open for further incursions. The full might of the Nigerian army and the united will of the Nigerian people will confront our enemies. Our army will have clear instructions on what to do to the enemy. “Our borders will be closed to all those who seek to harm us because we now know the enemy is the enemy irrespective of religion, tribe and tongue. War is war and Nigeria will win this war.” He also promised to ensure that men and women enjoy equal opportunities, welfare for teachers, support technology-driven education and the healthcare system to stop medical and education tourism abroad. He also pledged to eliminate corruption by ensuring that Nigerian workers are paid better salaries, build modern cities and ensure that all nooks and crannies of the country have better amenities, world-class health facilities and accessible and affordable internet services. He vowed to redirect the vast energies of youths to a productive venture like trading with their technical skills rather than engaging in online scams popularly called ‘yahoo yahoo.’