It IS not an issue that should generate so much heat. Political appointees abound all over the place and they know themselves and what they do. So, why the fuss? A political appointee is hired and fired by the head of the executive at the federal or state level. He does not seek appointment into the civil or public service in the same way as career civil or public servants. He holds his appointment at the pleasure of the President or governor. These appointees, however, work in the bureaucratic set up of the civil or public service. The only difference between them and the career civil and public servants is that they have a tenured appointment tied to the term(s) of office of their principals. They are unlike the career civil or public servants who leave after a 35-year service or upon attaining the retirement age of 60, whichever comes first. Career civil or public servants are subject to civil or public service rules, which guide their appointment, discipline,promotion and retirement. Political appointees, on the other hand, are in a world of their own, by virtue of being the President’s or governor’s staff. At times, they are deployed to work with Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). These staff of the President or governors have become people of interest in the countdown to the 2023 elections. The National Assembly led by Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has barred them under Section 84 (12) of the Electoral Act from participating in parties’ primaries. The provision says: No political appointee at any level shall be a voting delegate or be voted for at the convention or congress of any political party for the purpose of the nomination of candidates for any election. The provision did not go down well with President Muhammadu Buhari. He delayed assenting to the law until he extracted a promise from the lawmakers to expunge the provision from the Act. The lawmakers passed the law without doing his bidding when it was returned to them. The executive then surreptitiously went to a Federal High Court in Umuahia, Abia State, to get the provision voided as well as an order that it should be expunged from the Act. The National Assembly, which was not joined in the suit, has since appealed the decision. With the elections drawing near and the parties getting ready for their primaries, the burning questions are: who is a political appointee? Section 84 (12) does not say. It assumes that he is known. Should such political appointees resign before the primaries, as stated in the Electoral Act, or the general elections, as contained in the Constitution?   Which 2023?     Doomed air, road, rail     Judiciary lost   The definition of a political appointee can be deduced from the Constitution under which the National Assembly derives its power. The President’s contention is that Section 84 (12) contravenes the constitutional provisions on election matters. According to Sections 66 (1)(f), 107 (1)(f), 137 (1)(g) and 182 (1)(g), a civil or public servant must resign, withdraw or retire from service at least 30 days before election into the Senate or House of Representatives, a House of Assembly, the office of President and the office of governor. Herein lies the problem. Section 84 (12) talks of political appointees, while the Constitution mentions civil or public servants. Are political appointees civil or public servants as envisaged under the  Constitution? Can civil or public service be taken as one and the same thing? The second poser is imperative because of Section 137 (1)(g) of the Constitution which specifically states that a presidential candidate must quit civil or public service at least 30 days before election. For one, the Constitution talks of election and not primary which Section 84 (12) dwells on. Second, the issue is under which category do political appointees fall in the Constitution? Part II of the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution seems to answer the question. As a layman, I may be wrong. My own understanding is that they are public officers like their principals who appointed them. The schedule lists public officers for the purpose of the Code of Conduct as the President, Vice President, governors and their deputies, National and Houses of Assembly members and staff, all judicial officers and court workers, all ministers, armed forces, police and other government security agencies’ members, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Head of Service of the Federation and their counterparts in the states  and the workers. They also include ambassadors, high commissioners and missions’ staff abroad, workers of universities and other colleges and institutions and chairmen, members and workers of statutory agencies. It is evident that political appointees, like public servants, are subject to the declaration of their assets on assuming and leaving office under the Code of Conduct. Is it then just and fair to other contestants to allow these appointees to remain in office till 30 days before an election in which they are candidates before resigning? The lawmakers as politicians know the consequences of that. They know what their fellow politicians in the executive arm can do with their power and enormous resources in determining who gets a party’s ticket. This is why they came up with that provision, even though they too would act as the political appointees, who are busy declaring interest in one office or the other, if the shoe is on the other leg. Many are doing so, while still holding their political jobs, and their principals are encouraging them. The intention of Section 84 (12) is clear. It is to stop the use of executive power to frustrate the chances of strong and popular aspirants at primaries. Only those with bad intentions will oppose such law which is meant to create a level playing field for all aspirants. People should look at the message and not the messengers, who are fighting to protect their own selfish political interests by using their legislative powers to check the influence of the executive to determine the outcome of the shadow elections. Sadly, those who should know better and endorse the provision are shooting it down. But, the public looks up to the court to save the day and our democracy.