Manchester United are reportedly expecting Cristiano Ronaldo to leave Old Trafford this summer. The Portugal international re-joined the Red Devils from Juventus last year and has enjoyed an impressive goal scoring return, finding the back of the net on 18 occasions in 32 appearances. Ronaldo has a contract with the club until June 2023, with the option of a further 12 months, but there have been claims that he wants to leave during this summer’s transfer window. Man United are currently facing a battle to finish in the top four in the Premier League, as they fight to secure Champions League football for next term. According to Football Insider, the 20-time English champions are expecting Ronaldo to push for a move away from Old Trafford in the upcoming market. The report claimed  that Man United could be prepared to let him leave on a free transfer due to the savings that they would make in terms of his wage packet. Ronaldo is not believed to be considering moving away from European football at this stage of his career, and there have been suggestions that Paris Saint-Germain could be an option for the 37-year-old. Still in the Premiership, cash-rich Newcastle are reportedly  ready to offer Barcelona’s Philippe Coutinho a £1million bonus to convince him to join them over Aston Villa this summer after  the Brazilian smash hit on loan in the Midlands. According to Sport, the Magpies have already started to explore a deal for the Brazilian through intermediaries with a significant bonus heading in the direction of Coutinho were he to choose Newcastle. Coutinho has been a revelation since swapping Barcelona for Aston Villa on loan in January, scoring four goals and adding three assists in 10 matches so far.  A permanent switch to Villa Park is reportedly Barcelona’s ‘priority’, with a deal mooted to be around £33.5m – but Newcastle’s reported interest could complicate any switch to the Midlands. Newcastle found themselves in a fierce relegation battle in January but key signings of Dan Burn, Kieran Trippier, Chris Wood, Matt Targett and Bruno Guimaraes has lifted Eddie Howe’s side to 14th  in the table. While Newcastle have professed caution about expectations in the summer, with money no object under the Saudi owners, the report in Spain stated  that he is seen in the north east as a key player to build around as they look to push for trophies.   StarTimes to beam Barca, Sevilla tricky tie     Liverpool, Manchester City resumes Premier title charge     Showdown as Juve-Inter tie ends Italy’s COVID…   The 29-year-old’s huge £480,000 a week wages at the Nou Camp won’t be matched in England and Villa are currently paying just under 25 per cent of those weekly wages for six months, around £120,000 a week. Villa boss Steven Gerrard has made no secret of the fact he would like the club to sign his former Liverpool team-mate come the end of the season. But Gerrard has also welcomed interest in Coutinho from rival clubs as it proves Villa secured a coup by signing the Brazilian in January. “For me it doesn’t make any sense to make any decisions now,” Gerrard said last month when quizzed on whether they are pushing to get Coutinho permanently.“When he’s physically in the right place, when he’s comfortable and happy and enjoying his football, we all know we’re dealing with a world-class talent. “We just need to keep enjoying him, to keep him healthy from now until the end of the season and I’m sure he’ll help us. To watch him and work with him and see him get back to his top form and enjoy his football again is a pleasure.” Asked about whether Villa is the place for Coutinho to fall in love with the game again, Gerrard added: “Phil was successful at Barcelona but he had difficult periods as well. He got to the stage where he needed a change of scenery and a different movie. “We want to be that movie for him because if we want to get to where we want to be, we need to build it around talents like Phil, because at his best he is a high-level player. “All good teams have game-changers who the opposition are really concerned about before a ball is kicked. Phil has that status and he is giving belief to his team-mates. “Our strikers Ollie Watkins and Danny Ings want him alongside them because he delivers on the big stage. I don’t control transfer fees or wages. “All I can do is give my opinion to (sporting director) Johan Lange, (chief executive) Christian Purslow and the owners. They are watching the games and they will make the final decision. Phil has shown what he is capable of so far.” Elsewhere, Real Madrid are reportedly set to extend the contract of Vinicius Junior this summer.