A House of Representatives aspirant and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Anambra State, Ifeyinwa Morah, has promised to adequately represent the people of Oyi/Ayamelum Constituency, if elected. In a statement,  Morah promised to offer a special kind of representation in the National Assembly that would impact their lives positively if voted for. She disclosed this recently when she was accompanied by the Omambalaã chapter of Nzükõ Umu-Ada Igbo International, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that caters for women and children in rural communities worldwide, to purchase her Nomination and Expression of Interest forms at the PDP National headquarters in Abuja. She added that, if elected,she would lobby other members to deliver a brand new constitution and equitable sharing of economic powers among states for economic growth and diversification. Others in her entourage were members of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), who charged her to also sustain her gender rights fight. FIDA, The NBA and Nzükõ Umu-Ada Igbo International members urged her not to bother about the hurdles she might encounter in the “process of liberating the people because they would be involved in her election, and will muster everything required to ensure her victory, especially in the electioneering and financially,” as they believe in her ability and precedence to bringing fresh air to legislation in Nigeria. The group delegated its members at Omambalaã chapter to purchase the forms for her. It also presented her with Fidelity Bank a cheques of N1,000,000 and N500,000 respectively.   ‘Southeast should produce next president’     Tinubu: How to be a leader     Ogun East 2023: Ashiru throws hat in the ring   Morah, who is also a big player in the Oil, Gas and the Forex industry, said: ”I must dare to be different because only those who dare have the chances of winning. I want to go the National Assembly to give my people back home, a good representation and leadership. I will be heavily involved in canvassing for Women  and Youths – especially gender rights.” “I will work with my colleagues to deliver a brand new Nigerian Constitution, equitable sharing of economic powers among states in the federation to deliver economic growth and diversification. I will champion active agriculture assistance for the Ayamelum constituents and promote their trade to the world outside their hinterland where most of their harvested food produce perish for lack of proper distribution chain.” She added that she would champion the cutting of costs of governance to spend more on public health and education. According to her, “I will focus on delivering at least five bills during my first year in the Green Chambers to unlock Omambalaã potential in this directions. “My party (PDP) is solidly grounded in my state and is putting a very strong front in the coming general elections. I’m very optimistic that if given the chance and nominated, I will be the First Female to go to the House of Representatives in my Constituency & surely with all the permutations on ground, will make it victorious at the general election, and use the rare opportunity to give my people the kind of representation never experienced before in the area.” Speaking from the Canada chapter of the NGO, the leader of the Nzukõ UmuAda group, Mrs. Amaka Ebenebe, expressed emotions as she recounted the deplorable state of their federal constituencies, saying, however, that: “finally a woman with the capacity and carriage to rescue their people and resuscitate their lost glories has come out to take the bull by the horns. She, however, vouched that Mrs Morah would be worthy to carry their cause to the federal level, adding that she is the best candidate for transparent leadership and good representation.