Goalscorer Ademola Lookman is eager for Leicester City to put Sunday’s late 2-1 reverse at Newcastle United behind them as quickly as possible ahead of tomorrow’s tie against Everton. The on-loan forward applied the finish to a well-worked corner routine in the 19th minute to put the Foxes ahead at St. James’ Park, but a double from Bruno Guimaraes – including a winner deep into added time – put a halt to City’s five-game unbeaten run in all competitions. Following that last-gasp defeat in the North East, Lookman spoke to LCFC TV, outlining the importance of a speedy response from Leicester. The games keep on coming for Brendan Rodgers’ men and they will be at Goodison Park tomorrow to tackle Everton in the Premier League “It was definitely a sucker punch,” Lookman said. “The least we should come away with from that game is a draw. Obviously, they go on the counter and they score, so it’s a disappointing result. The game’s over now so we’ll just look forward to Wednesday and come back from that and hopefully get the win there.   Ikoyi Club agog with Easter junior tennis clinic     Ronaldo announces death of twin son     Aribo tipped to replace Gallagher at Crystal Palace   “I think we created good chances today. It’s just a shame we couldn’t work it better in those moments and kill the game. It’s just disappointing. “[The goal] was well-worked. We worked on it yesterday and it came off for us today. I’d have been more pleased with a better result. For me, winning is the most important, so we’ll look to put this game behind us and put it right on Wednesday.” Lookman believed Leicester failed to capitalise on the momentum they had created in the early stages of the second period. Lessons will be learned, he says. “For the equaliser, I’m not sure what happened,” the 24-year-old continued. “I think in the second half we came out stronger. We attacked them and created chances but it’s just a shame we didn’t make anything out of it. “Obviously, we lost today and it’s something we should learn from. We want to create that winning mentality and keep that winning feeling going, but today it didn’t happen for us.”