The curiosity of some residents living at Ijapo Estate in Akure, the Ondo State capital, has saved a prostitute from the hands of a ritualist. The victim (name withheld) is battling for life after she was inflicted with various degrees of injuries. She had matchet cuts on her face, shoulders and hands. Sources said the victim is married with a 12-year-old son. It was gathered that she visited her assailant as a call girl. Residents in the area said the suspect moved into the apartment three days ago. One of the residents said it was the noise from the victim that aroused their curiosity. But the suspect said he had a little fight with his girlfriend after initially telling them he was trying to kill a snake. According to the witness: “I woke up around 12am and was hearing strange noise in the compound. “I thought it was from the hotel at the back of the house. I later called the young man living in the apartment where the noise was coming from; he said he was killing a snake. “The noise started again around 1am. So I called my other neighbours and went to the room of the young man. We called him and he said he had little argument with his girlfriend.   Police arrest suspected IPOB/ESN bomb manufacturer in Imo     Why I did not see Obaseki when I visited Edo, by Wike     BREAKING: I won’t declare now for 2023 but……   “I wanted to force myself into the room but he blocked the way. We noticed blood stains on his cloth and when he suspected we were about knowing what was happening, he fled. So, one of my neighbours called the landlord.” The victim was rushed to the Police Clinic for treatment but was referred to the University of Medical Sciences, Teaching Hospital, Akure. Landlord of the house, a football coach, declined to give his name. He said he does not know identity of the suspect. He said, “I was called by one of my tenants that someone was killed in my house. “I went to the police station immediately before going to the house because I don’t live in the compound. “On getting to the house with the police, we met the door locked and after opening it, we met the girl on the floor in the pool of her blood. My neighbour called Amotekun and we rushed her to the hospital.” The landlord claimed he doesn’t know the fleeing tenant, noting that the suspect packed into the house without his knowledge or approval. “Some days back while I was on training pitch with my boys, I saw this young man and I don’t really know his name. I was told he normally come over as spectator. He told me he wanted a room in my house and I told him to come with a guarantor. “Two days after, I was told he had moved in without my knowledge. I asked him to move out immediately or get someone to represent him. “I was surprised to see this. I don’t know his name and have never met him before he came to me.” Son of the victim said, “My mother told me she works in a hotel but I don’t know what she does. I received a call that my mother is in the hospital and I came to meet her there.”