Karim Benzema scored a stunning treble to put Real Madrid in the driving seat of their Champions League quarter-final tie against defending champions Chelsea. Having netted a stunning quick-fire hat-trick to down Paris Saint-Germain in the second leg of the Round of 16 tie, Benzema took his superb run of form in the competition to Stamford Bridge. The Frenchman opened the scoring in the 21st minute in spectacular fashion, directing a header beyond the reach of Blues goalkeeper Edouard Mendy following a superb run and cross from Vinicius Junior. Three minutes later and Benzema doubled the lead for the visitors after guiding another stunning header from Luka Modric’s delivery. Kai Havertz halved the deficit five minutes before the break with a superb finish following Jorginho’s lofted ball into the box. However, Benzema restored Madrid’s two-goal advantage in the first minute after the break; completing his hat-trick by taking advantage of a dreadful and uncharacteristic error from Blues goalkeeper Edouard Mendy. Here are five talking points from the action at Stamford Bridge.   Super Six: Lakeside Queens plan big for amateur female…     Qatar 2022: Senate summons Dare, Pinnick over Stadium…     NFF mourns FIFA referee Bolaji Okubule   For many years, Benzema was the most underrated and underappreciated forward in world football. Then for a few more years, Benzema was the most appreciated underrated footballer in the world. On current form, it feels like Benzema is the best footballer in the world. The Frenchman produced a virtuoso performance at Stamford Bridge, following on his devastating hat-trick against PSG with another against the defending European champions. The first two goals showed his link-up play, positional awareness and of course, his ability to contort his body and guide powerful headers beyond even the very best goalkeepers. While the third was a gift, it was a result of his relentless and endless pressing – even more admirable considering his advancing years.   CHAMPIONS LEAGUE RESULTS Chelsea 1-3 Real Madrid Villarreal 1-0 Bayern Munich