China’s first-quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew faster than expected despite the impact of COVID-19  lock downs in parts of the country in March, according to data released by the National Bureau of Statistics. First-quarter GDP rose by 4.8 per cent, topping expectations of a 4.4 per cent increase from a year ago. Fixed asset investment for the first quarter rose by 9.3 per cent from a year ago, topping expectations for 8.5 percent  growth. Investment in manufacturing rose by 15.6 per cent in the first quarter from a year ago, and infrastructure saw an 8.5 per cent  increase over the same period. Industrial production in March rose by five per cent, beating the forecast for 4.5 per cent growth. However, retail sales in March fell by a more-than-expected 3.5 percent from a year earlier. Analysts polled by Reuters anticipated a 1.6 per cent decline. Beginning in March, the country has struggled to contain its worst COVID-19 outbreak since the initial phase of the pandemic in 2020. Back then, lock downs across more than half the country resulted in a 6.8 per cent contraction in first quarter growth from a year earlier. “We must be aware that with the domestic and international environment becoming increasingly complicated and uncertain, the economic development is facing significant difficulties and challenges,” the bureau said in a statement. The unemployment rate across 31 major Chinese cities rose from 5.4 per cent  in February to  six per cent  in March – the highest on record according to official data going back to 2018. “This indicates the unemployment problem in the large cities has become more severe than when the COVID -19  pandemic started in 2020.”   ‘Boost oil production ahead zero emission target’     UNESCO, African ICT Foundation partner     World Bank votes $17b to tackle food insecurity   “The COVID-19  outbreaks only forced Shanghai and some other cities to enter lock downs in late March and early April,” Zhiwei Zhang, chief economist, Pinpoint Asset Management, said. Therefore the economic slowdown likely worsened in April,” he said. As COVID  stretches into a third year, China again faces the challenge of ensuring a record high number of graduates find jobs. This year, the number of higher education graduates are expected to rise by 1.67 million from 2021 to 10.76 million. In March, the unemployment rate for those from 16 to 24 years remained far higher at 16 per cent  – the highest since August 2020. Overall, the national urban unemployment rate ticked higher in March to 5.8 percent , up from 5.5 percent  in February. That rise “reflects greater difficulties for businesses’ production and operations, and greater pressure on employment,” Fu Linghui, spokesperson of the National Bureau of Statistics said. He noted that since March, some people have had a harder time finding jobs due to the impact of COVID  domestically. That contrasts with a historical seasonal trend in which the unemployment rate tended to fall in March, after rising in January and February as workers changed jobs around the Spring Festival, Fu said. “To achieve this year’s 5.5 percent  economic growth target, consumption must not be dragged down by the pandemic, real estate investment must stop falling and stabilize as soon as possible, fiscal spending must be strong enough and imports and exports cannot contribute negatively,” Bruce Pang, head of macro and strategy research at China Renaissance said. Since retail sales and trade have a limited ability to contribute to growth, the market has greater expectations for real estate to play a role, he said. Real estate, which has struggled since Beijing’s crackdown on developers’ high use of debt, saw investment rise by 0.7 per cent in the first quarter from a year ago. That’s despite double-digit declines in the floor space and total sales of commercial buildings sold.