Diversity Bridge Builders Collective (DBBC), a coalition of advocates for true inclusion, zero prejudice and peaceful coexistence, has said Rivers Governor Nyeson Wike’s attributes as a strong character and assertive leader, are virtues of firm and effectual leadership. DBBC said that rather than vilify Wike over such attributes, he should be applauded for being a non- nonsense leader, who doesn’t give oxygen for laxity, indolence and underwhelming performance in public office. According to the coalition, the current day Nigeria, with all its self-inflicted multi-faceted challenges, decadence, hopelessness and widespread disillusionment, requires a decisive, vibrant, fire-brand, assertive and result-oriented leadership, not the incumbent, underwhelming, indecisive leadership, characterized by uninspiring lethargy, evasiveness and nonchalance. Wike is a prominent 2023 presidential aspirant in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Ever since he made his intention for the top job public, some interests in the polity have been making strenuous efforts to impugn his character and question his democratic credentials on account of his outspokenness and assertive leadership style. But DBBC in a statement, in Abuja, on Friday, April 1, 2022, by its national coordinator, Dr. Feng Mancha, insisted that those attributes some people count against the Rivers state governor, actually present him with remarkable edge over the other aspirants, whether in the PDP or the rival All Progressives Congress (APC). Dr. Mancha said Nigeria at this moment of grave insecurity, needs a decisive leader, with an uncompromising willpower, as a Commander in Chief, to unless the wrath and fury of the federal might, without sentiments, on terrorism, banditry and other forms of criminality that are ravaging the nation.   ‘Southeast should produce next president’     Tinubu: How to be a leader     My plan for Oyi/Ayamelum Constituency, by Morah   ABBC, said further, “Wike brings these effectual leadership attributes and more to the table. A leader must be firm, decisive and brave enough to communicate his vision and views, devoid of confusing ambiguity, clothed in speculative body language, usually exploited by political jobbers in the corridors of power to the detriment of the people. “You say Wike is combative? Yes, we agree. If it’ll take purposeful, fearless combativeness to rescue Nigeria’s public institutions to be alive to their responsibilities and purge themselves of laxity, gross self-sabotaging irresponsibility and lack of responsiveness, then Wike is your man for the job. ‘If it’ll require patriotic combativeness to rejig, refocus and energize the Nigerian governance system; and release it from the unproductive, paralyzing chokehold of government bureaucracy and unveiled impunity and festering corruption, then Wike ticks the right boxes. “Nigeria needs a combative visionary leader, to say enough is enough to the lingering downward slide of our dear nation. We need a leader with a sense of urgency to pull the nation out of the dark valley it has found itself. “Wike’s strong character attribute is essentially underscored by his passion to stand up for his people; to protect their interest against all odds. And speak truth to power. So, why will you vilify such a leader. It’s uncharitable to do so. “He has overtime, demonstrated that love and passion for leadership, through variable, massive human and infrastructure development witnessed in Rivers state in the past seven years he has been in office as governor. This unimpeachable fact, could be attested to by many Nigerians, including most of the presidential aspirants across board, who had one time or the other participated in commissioning of legacy projects initiated and implemented under his watch. “Nigeria’s decaying health, education, power and other prostrate sectors, would undoubtedly need a firebrand, uncompromising leader, who doesn’t have appetite for failure, to reactivate them into meaningful productivity and democratic accountability. And a Wike presidency might just be that missing elixir.”