Three years after his exit from government, former Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, yesterday, returned to Gombe with a promise to return the People’s Democratic Party PDP to power in the state. Received by a tumultuous crowd from Gombe Airport to the PDP Secretariat in Gombe, Dankwambo, who later addressed journalists in his house, said the people of the state have been harassed and intimidated to submission by the ruling All Progressive Congress APC government. “Generally, things are not easy; things are very difficult. People are timid, intimidated and afraid, but Gombe people are still hopeful and I want them to continue to maintain that hope. “I want to most especially thank the people who came out en mass to welcome me back to the state from Abuja at the airport. I did not invite anyone; I did not inform anybody that I was coming. I just want to come and pay homage to my people, extend condolences to some places and share goodwill and good spirit to the people of Gombe,” he said.   COVID-19: New travel guideline takes effect from April 4…     Obangame Express ’22: Navy showcases readiness to…     Pay TV prices and Senate’s faux concern for the masses   The former governor, however, said he still cannot make a categorical statement on the situation of Gombe after his exit from government, adding that he needs to interact and familiarise with the people of Gombe before he can make a pronouncement on the situation of the state. “How is Gombe and what was the difference in the last three years? In the next few days, I will get to understand how Gombe is. What is the impact in the last three years – whether there was progress in terms of human progress, improvement in poverty, general well being, security and other indicators? Before I go, when you come around like this, I will tell you the difference,” he said. On his future political ambition, Dankwambo said at the moment, he has not been invited to come and contest for anything, even though he was a presidential aspirant before. According to him; “I came out before. My aspiration was to become president in 2019. If they still want me to go and purchase form, then I will go and get it. I will consult with everyone, including you journalists. If you still want me to go and get form, I can still get it between now and Friday, but I must tell you that I am prepared to make sacrifice.”