Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said he would be betraying Nigerians if he doesn’t contest the 2023 presidency. Osinbajo, who spoke in Akure while addressing delegates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State, said he believed the hand of God was upon him. The APC presidential aspirant said it would amount to a disservice to Nigerians if the expertise he has garnered in the last seven years ended up in retirement and writing memoirs. He said: “Opportunity of public service is the most valuable thing. It comes once in a while. It is a special privilege to be called upon to serve. Our country needs service. That is what will get our country out of doldrums. “I have formally declared my intention to run as President. It was because nobody can be anything if God has not decided it. I believe the hand of God must be upon me. “In those capacity, I got to find out so many things and gained lots of experience. I had opportunities to do what I could do. Knowing what I know and experience I think it will be a betrayal to our Nation.   I’m detribalised leader Nigerians need – Ameachi     Ex-Minister Graham-Douglas dies at 82     UPDATED: Trial stalled as Adedoyin’s co-defendant slumps in…   “With all that has been given to me, I now retire quietly, it will be a great disservice to our country. I want to ensure I make the best case for the position I can. “Now the opportunity has come, knowing what I know and the experience I have had, it will be a betrayal if all that I have been given I now retire to either Lagos or Ikenne to write memoirs, it will be a great injustice. “I have come to you because you can make it happen as delegates. We make sure that. Nobody can be anything unless God says you will become what He has planned. God will make it happen and we will give the nation the best.” Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu said only God could make Osinbajo presidential bid became a reality. “We have known ourselves for long, not today. We did not meet in politics; we have been friends since secondary school. Nothing can separate us as friends. “Ondo State is a State for you and a state for all. Be homely, this is your home. Where you are going, it is God that can take you there. It is only God that can do it.”