As the Federal Government intensifies its battle against terror, governors are also devising means to curtail insecurity in their states. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines efforts by Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello to tackle kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery, assassinations, herders/farmers clashes, and other forms of violence in the Confluence State. Nigeria is in a fix. Insecurity is growing in geometric proportions. There is no state that is insulated from terror and unwarranted violence. Although security is a joint responsibility involving the participation of government and the people, anxious stakeholders are locked in blame game and buck-passing out of frustration. Terrorism, though a global phenomenon, has taken its toll on Nigeria, denting the image of the most populous African nation abroad and affecting its investment drive as investors perceive the country as an unconducive environment. Also, Nigerians in the Diaspora are apprehensive that they may not have a safe haven to return after their sojourn in foreign land. It is not the best of times for Northern governors. They are agonising over the distraction and diversion of their concerted attention from other developmental priorities. In the bewildered North, particularly Northeast and Northwest, which are the epic centres of inexplicable horror, there is panic. Indeed, the fear of the Boko Haram sect and other scattered bandit groups is the beginning of wisdom. Much havoc has been wrecked on socio-economic activities as the dreadful sect and other criminals are perpetually on the prowl. Its members claim to be against western education.  But, they use motorcycles, vehicles and AK 47, which are products of the Western world. The insurgents kill, maim and kidnap for ransom. A lot of towns and villages have been sacked. Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps cannot contain the multitude of distressed, homeless victims. In the Northcentral and the South, comprising Southwest, Southeast and Southsouth, there is no respite. Kidnapping is now a lucrative business. Ritual killings and armed robbery are growing in leaps and bounds. The worsening insecurity has even assumed a more dangerous and frightful dimension in the Southeast. For example, the sit-at-home on Mondays is being enforced by unidentified killers and arsonists, thereby crippling commerce, which the region is known for. Unless drastic actions are taken to halt the trend, the next general election may be in jeopardy in many parts of the country. Last week, the chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmod Yakubu, alerted the beleaguered country to threats posed to peaceful electioneering. Raising a red flag on 2003 polls, he said 42 offices and other facilities of the commission have been attacked in 14 states. “In more specific terms, across the six geo-political zones, the threat levels have gone beyond what obtained during the 2019 general election,” Yakubu stressed. The need for security at the state level imposes a heavy burden on governors, who are camouflage chief security officers of their fretting states. They do not directly control the Armed Forces and the police, which are under the jurisdiction of the distant Federal Government. But, the mounting security challenges confronting  their trembling states have made it compelling for governors to face the reality, be more pro-active and mobilise available resources to secure their states, instead of indulging in complaints and excuses, and waiting for the Federal Government to resolve these challenges in their domains. In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello is not sleeping on guard. He has not left any stone unturned to liberate the state from the yoke of criminality and violence. Thus, the state is relatively secure, unlike many of its neighbours. Many travellers pass through Kogi daily. Therefore, the state is too strategic as the link between the North and South. However, as the governor recently acknowledged, the battle against security is work in progress in the state. Much has been accomplished. But, new challenges are rearing their heads. Explaining why government must confront the monster with courage, fortitude and determination, Bello said some of those fuelling insecurity are also from unusual quarters. “We caught a monarch, who was involved in terrorism and begging for the release of those caught in action,” he lamented. Prior to the inception of his administration, terrorism, kidnapping, bank robbery, high way robbery, pipeline vandalisation, politically motivated killings, settlers/host community clashes, communal clashes and cultism created nightmare for the people of the state. Although the governor inherited a very volatile security situation, observers pointed out that he has restored sanity into a state of pandemonium through his concrete policies and programmes specifically designed to tackle the menace. Giving an insight into the causes of insecurity in Kogi, the Security Adviser, Commander Jerry Omodara (retd), said they revolved around the unique geographical location of the state, which shares boundaries with nine states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He added: “This has made the state vulnerable to all sorts of criminal activities. In addition, the use of unemployed youths as tools for political thuggery compounded the situation. This, coupled with the low level of collaboration and synergy among security agencies as well as lack of well-structured intelligence gathering network affected the attainment of unified security architecture. “Volunteer organisations like the vigilante service to tackle emerging challenges, especially at the community level, were lacking.” Bello did not fully disclose the security strategies for stemming the tide of criminality and achieving relative peace. The governor and his security advisers are conscious of the fact that security is a sensitive matter. However, at a recent two-day seminar for journalists in Abuja, the governor and key functionaries of the Kogi State Government gave an insight into the efforts at securing the 31-year old Northcentral State, which had been commended by observers. These result-driven strategies are also being copied by neighbouring states in peer review sessions. Recently, naval officers also visited the state to examine the  tactics. At the second ‘GYB Seminar for Nigeria’s Political and Crime Reporters’ held at ‘The Wells Carlton and Apartments’ in Abuja, Bello and other officials spoke on the deliberate moves to nip insecurity in the bud. The aim of the seminar with the theme: “Setting the agenda for 2023” was to empower the media with deeper knowledge of Nigera’s peculiarities and to enable them set agenda for next year’s election by shaping the process through patriotic, professional and unbiased reportage, and without jeopardising national unity. The governor, who was accompanied by Information and Orientation Commissioner Evangelist Kingsley Fanwo, Senator Smart Adeyemi (Kogi West), former Aviation Minister Chief Femi Fani-Kayode and Chairman of his presidential campaign organisation, Senator Jonathan Zwingina, tendered his stewardship, which, he said, has served as motivation for bidding for the presidency in 2023. Fanwo said the training was in fulfilment of the governor’s desire to make it an annual event, urging reporters to identify challenging issues and “the demons to be defeated.” While Omodara delivered a paper on ‘Succeeding in the fight against insecurity, terrorism: The Kogi example,’ the Chief of Staff, Jamiu Asuku, spoke on ‘Impact of youthful government on the development of a state/country.’ The Director of Research and Strategy of the campaign organisation, Moses Okezie’s paper focused on ‘Achieving unity and bridging the gap in a multi-ethnic, multi- religious society: The Kogi story.’ The President of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Chief Chris Iziguzo, spoke on ‘2023 elections: ‘Journalists as watchdogs.’ Former Presidential Spokesman Dr. Reuben Abati presented a paper on ‘Constructive reporting in crisis situation.’ Leadership Newspaper Editor-In-Chief Azubuike Ishiekwene spoke on ‘Setting agenda for 2023 elections.’ The President of Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mallam Mustapha Isa, gave a good message, admonishing the media to be upright. Bello, who rendered accounts, said he has tried to justify the confidence reposed in him across the sectors. “We are in the political season. We pray for good leadership. The kind of leadership we will get will depend on how the media sets the agenda,” he said, adding that “the most important thing is that a competent person should succeed President Muhammadu Buhari.” Bello stressed: “We have our challenges like other countries. We should be patriotic. Nigeria is the only country we have. I never intend to leave this country for another country. We need good leadership. Nigeria deserves good leadership. That is why I threw my hat into the ring, to give hope to Nigeria. 2023 is the year of restoration of hope.” He reflected on the worsening insecurity, saying that they are not the President’s making. He also highlighted measures he took to solve the security challenges in the state. Bello said: “The insecurity was not caused by the President. He inherited it. We cannot pass the buck. Nigeria was not prepared for this. Bombs were detonated at Ikeja Catounment. They were not replaced. Mr. President bought many equipment. The terrorists were deflated, although we still have attacks. Some of the crimes are more than what we are looking on the surface.”   IPOB declares war on fleeing cultists in Abia     Ex-Kwara Gov Lawal’s son defects from APC to SDP     What I’ll do when I buy over Coca-Cola, by Elon Musk   Bello, who applauded the president for reviewing the allowances of security agencies, said instead of pointing out flaws of the security architecture in the public, he preferred to discuss the loopholes privately with the Commander-In-Chief. Investment in security is an important component of Bello’s New Direction Agenda. To motivate security agencies, tools, including over 200 patrol vans and 500 bicycles, were provided. In Kogi, he said he had brought the security problems from the zenith floor to the lowest ground, adding the President Buhari has also given him support. The governor said if chief executives of states are doing their best, many of the security challenges would have been resolved. Noting that the president is trying to deploy technology to fight terror, he urged the heads of security agencies to “get up and do their job.” On measures taken to safeguard tranquility, Bello said: “Many of the security challenges are politically motivated. Security cannot be discussed outside. Sometimes, more havoc have been averted than what we see manifesting outside. “In fighting insecurity, many things were done underground. I agree more need to be done. As president, I will give credit to performers and I will not condone indolence.” Bello, who said vigilance is key, added: “I have made all citizens intelligence officers to secure Kogi because security is the business of everyone. In less than 24 hours, we detect crimes and deal with the perpetrators.” Okezie, a lawyer, said while the management of diversity in Kogi by Bello has contributed to unity and peaceful coexistence among the ethnic nationalities, the state has also played host to Nigerians from across the federation. He lauded Bello for promoting inclusion, thereby fostering a sense of belonging and brotherhood. “On daily basis, Kogi welcomes many Nigerians as the terminus, with nine borders. If bandits have taken over Kogi State, there will be no journey between the North and South. The North and South would have been separated,” he added. Omodara acknowledged that insecurity cannot be completely eliminated. He also submitted that the problem is not peculiar to Kogi. “You cannot go to sleep while tackling insecurity. You have to restrategise. No state is also the same,” he said. The security adviser lamented that the previous administrations in the state failed to understand the conditions that made insecurity to thrive. Echoing his governor, he said while the problem has not fizzled out, “we have brought it down.” Omodara pointed out that there were still threats by the Islam State’s West Africa Province (ISWAP), attacks on correctional centres at Kabba and bank robberies. He addded: “But, the robbers were rounded up within three days. Also, over 200 inmates were released wrongly; over 100 were recovered immediately. Today, they are all back.” Besides, Omodara alluded to isolated kidnappings in Itoge, Ibaga and influence of kidnappers who strayed into Kogi from Nasarawa State. Data is key in the anti-terror battle. In 2016, Kogi started data collection and analysis. Traditional rulers were mobilised to participate in the brainstorming and problem solving. The result was confounding. Kogi Central District accounted for 51 percent of crime rate in the state; Kogi East accounted for 26 per cent while Kogi West accounted for 23 per cent. Armed with the statistics on the crime prevalence,  Bello did not run to the President because of the danger. “All he did was to mobilise the Army, Police, Navy, Civil Defence, Customs, and State Security Services. They swung into action,” Omodara recalled. Also, no fewer than 3,500 vigilante were trained and deployed to the local governments. Omodara said the idea of demolishing the houses of kidnappers have sent a signal of seriousness to the bad eggs. “No fewer than 23 houses have been demolished,” said the security adviser. He also disclosed that the policy on whistle blowing has been sustained, stressing that it is a product of intelligence gathering. Conscious of the wider implications of house demolition for kidnappings, he said: “Landlords should be careful not to harbour kidnappers and other criminals. A landlord should report people in his or her houses who indulge in crimes.” The security adviser highlighted some obstacles, which also became an eye opener. “People work against the system. We arrested some people. Some people were calling us for negotiation. I told His Excellency. He said I should tell them to come.  When they came, they were detained along with those arrested. People try to subvert the Kogi Vigilante Scheme. There were threats,” he said. Omodara said it has been very hectic to flush out criminals from ungoverned areas and forests. He also said that the prosecution of suspects is challenging because of the legal loopholes and slow pace of adjudication. However, the security architecture withstood the threats because it was fortified by solid intelligence gathering,  incisive wit, powerful weapons and collective commitment by law enforcement agents. For example, the ‘Operation Total Freedom,’ which came on board in 2015, was divided into eight sectors to wage the war. Bello purchased and deployed many security gadgets for what Omodara described as lawful interset. He also assigned specific roles to local government chairmen as partners in progress. “We sustained the security meetings with stakeholders at the grassroots. If a local government chairman fails to report any security breach or incident within three days, he will be sanctioned. You must be in charge of your local government before the governor can effectively  be in charge of the state. “The hunters who know the terrain and roads were carried along. Criminals live among people. So, all the people were carried along,” he added. Omodara hailed Bello’s vision, management skills, will power, reliance of the local compass system, and consistent support for security agencies, which have been efficacious. Hailing the governor for his swift response to the security challenge, Omodara said Bello took pre-emptive action, because as it is said, prevention is better and less expensive than cure. Urging other governors to emulate Bello, he said: “It is an aberration for governors to  expect the Federal Government in Abuja to police their states. They should mobilise their people, traditional rulers and youths to form  security machinery to police their states. Chiding politicians for lack of self-control, he said security had been sacrificed on the altar of political differences and partianship. “Opposition should stand with the governor and desist from celebrating criminality,” he said. To the retired naval officer, the Federal Government can succeed in the battle against insecurity by encouraging states to collaborate and build synergies. He also said security agencies will achieve greater success if they jettison “I can do it alone attitude,” adding that “the synergies should be harmonised.” He stressed:  “Ordinary ‘kill and go’ was deployed to tackle Maitasine uprising. Criminals are now terrorising people. They come from the forest, untrained. Why should soldiers not be able to tackle them? We need to get things right.”