In the English Premier League, Tottenham will slug it out with Leicester City at the White Hart Lane tomorrow with the maximum points the only ideal for the home team who are angling out for a Champions League ticket. Leicester City registered a goalless draw last time out and the Foxes have  drawn each of their last two league games, but they have also drawn three of their previous five while Brendan Rodgers’ side have only lost one of their past six Premier League encounters. The Foxes were held to a 1-1 draw by AS Roma after a second half own goal  restored parity in the first leg, semi final tie of the Europa Conference League played on Thursday at the King Power Stadium. The goal was provoked by the Super Eagles attacker, Ademola Lookman who forced Gianluca Mancini to bundle the ball over the line in his desperation to prevent the Nigerian from making contact with the cross from Harvey Barnes in the 67th minute.   No respite yet for Mason Greenwood over rape case     Ballon d’Or 2022: Benzema, Mane are strong contenders     King Klopp: Well-loved Reds’ manager aims for dynasty at…   Lookman has featured in 38 games in all competitions with eight goals and five assists including 23 games in the EPL alone while   Iheanacho has been erratic this season with just seven goals and nine assists from 39 games in all competitions. In Italy, Udinese are set for  Inter Milan at the Stadio Friuli tomorrow for their Week 35 Serie A fixture of the season. Udinese come into this game on the back of a 4-0 win over Vincenzo Italiano’s Fiorentina in the league. Goals from Spanish centre-back Pablo Mari, Spanish winger Gerard Deulofeu, Brazilian midfielder Walace and young left-back Destiny Udogie sealed the deal for Gabriele Cioffi’s Udinese. Inter Milan, on the other hand, lost 2-1 to Bologna recently with goals from experienced Austrian attacker Marko Arnautovic and forward Nicola Sansone while  Croatia international Ivan Perisic scored the consolation goal for Inter Milan. The two clubs last faced each other last year in Serie A, with Inter Milan beating Udinese 2-0. A second-half brace from Argentine attacker Joaquin Correa ensured victory for Inter Milan. Udinese are 12th in Serie A with 43 points from 34 games, and have won three of their last five league games.