The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Southeast Zone has vowed to put its house in order to ensure the party records 70 percent success in the zone in the forthcoming 2023 polls. The party also urged all its aggrieved members to withdraw their cases from the courts to allow out of court settlement. These were the resolution of the first Zonal Executive Committee meeting of the Southeast APC which was held in Enugu weekend. The zone under the leadership of its National Vice Chairman, Dr. Ijeomah Arodiogbu announced its desire to record immense electoral success at the forthcoming polls with the fielding of credible candidates for all positions during the general elections. The party identified states such as Abia, Anambra and Enugu as critical states where it will focus more to win all electives positions in 2023.   Plateau 2023: APC, PDP renew rivalry over senatorial seats     Osun West: The scramble for Oriolowo’s seat     2023: Tension in Ogun West over ‘West to West’   To this end, the zone would begin a series of consultations with numerous party stakeholders across the states as well as sensitization programmes. “One plank of such a sensitization programme will be the training of party executives from the state working committee down to the wards in order to bring a number of these party executives up to speed on present day party management techniques as well as the setting up of a Think-Tank at the Zonal level to develop the content and manuals for such training programmes”, Arodiogbu said. On the party’s identification of Abia, Anambra and Enugu as critical states, Arodiogbu noted, “Since these states are presently without our sitting governors, the task of ensuring that these aforementioned states come under the APC’s orbit will require strategic planning as well as the identification of the party’s strength and weaknesses within the various states. “To this end, the APC Southeast Zone needs to begin quite early to sort out the best ways to win over such states come 2023. We’re leaving no stone unturned in order to achieve our target. “We have equally noted that some aggrieved members of our party are yet to withdraw their suits after the national leadership of the party had urged them to do so. We’re also using this opportunity to urge all aggrieved members to withdraw their suits from the courts in order to give peace a chance”.