Hundreds of street cleaners in Gombe State on Thursday blocked the entrance of the Government House, demanding justice for termination of their contract. The contract was awarded to INEX, which belongs to a prominent politician, Abubakar Ali Gombe. Gombe recently decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC). Inex was responsible for the employment of 1,000 workers responsible for the cleaning of 145 kilometers of streets in the state capital. But the General Manager of Gombe State Environmental Protection Agency (GOSEPA), Mohammed Ahmed Kumo, said the purported termination was a case of misinformation. He said Governor Muhammadu Yahaya has no intention of sacking any worker because they are his family members. As early as 7 am, the streets cleaners, mostly women, armed with tree branches and leaves, gathered at the entrance of Gombe Government House chanting “adalci muke so” meaning “all we want is justice.” One of them Sa’adatu said street cleaners were protesting because they have been treated unjustly by the State Government, which allegedly took away the contract from INEX. She said some of them came to work around 5 am only to found that they have been replaced by another person.   Ex-President Umar Yar’Adua’s cousin joins Katsina State…     Actress Nkechi Blessing, husband confirm split     Hisbah seizes 1,426 bottles of alcoholic beverages   “We do not know why we are being treated as nobody by the government. This job is what many of us who are widows are using to train our children and feed ourselves. If the job is taken away from us how do we survive,” she said. An aide to Gombe, the owner of INEX, told The Nation the State Government has refused to renew the contract, meaning no more job for the workers. “It is a common sense matter, since the State Government has terminated our contract, the workers will automatically lose their jobs and there is nothing we can do about it. “It will be wrong however for anybody to insinuate that we instigate the protest,” he said. Kumo blamed politicians for the protest, explaining iNEX contract expires last month. He said the process of bringing the workers to the new two contractors; Bapton Green Star and Cosmopolitan Cleaners, has just started in April. Kumo explained government decided to terminate the contract of INEX because of the huge disparity discovered in the amount government is paying per kilometers when compared to other States. “We found out that while we are paying, N900,000 per kilometers here others are paying just N450,000, N500,000 or N560, 000. “So we decided to go for the company with the cheapest amount which is N450, 000 and awarded the contract to Bapton Green Star and Cosmopolitan Cleaners. “The Governor has however vowed not to take the job from the workers so he made it a condition for the new contractors to absorb all the 1000 workers of INEX who are mostly women while those who engage in cleaning the gutters, that is the men are to be employed directly by GOSEPA,” he said.