A group made up of dons, Abia professionals, prominent members of the political class and top businessmen have told Abians to support Sen.Orji Kalu for performing better than other senators from the state. According to a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja by Orji Kalu Media Organisation, the group is drumming support for the former governor of Abia ahead of the 2023 general elections. The leader of the group, Dr Kalu Ncheghe, said that indices showed that the Senate Chief Whip performed better than other senators from the state. “The group believes that Kalu’s performance as the senator representing Abia North senatorial district is the best in the history of Abia State,” Ncheghe said. He appealed to the people of Abia North Senatorial District to continue to support the Chief Whip of the Senate, noting that Kalu was ready to do more for the district. Ncheghe said, “Orji Kalu’s performance as a Senator is the best in the history of Abia State.   2023: Fayose withdraws for PDP zoning committee     2023: I’ve not declared for Kebbi Gov race – Malami     Ex-Plateau governor’s son “yields to pressure”; to contest…   “We need to encourage and support his aspiration in 2023. What he has done as a Senator is unprecedented. The building of roads, schools and distribution of educational materials is the first of its kind in Abia North senatorial district. “The bills, motions and infrastructural development is the best I’ve seen since 1999. “We should not joke with our best at this critical time. We need more development in Abia North. Therefore, I am appealing to all to continue to trust Senator Orji Uzor Kalu even beyond 2023 for more development”. Also speaking, Mrs Odide Agwu said that Sen. Kalu empowered more women than any other Senator from the zone since the return of democracy in 1999. According to her, Abia North women were ready to do their best to support Kalu’s aspiration in 2023. “No other Senator has done what Sen. Orji Uzor Kalu is doing today. “He has done so much for women through his foundation and direct empowerment. Before, when we elect Senators, you won’t see them around till the next four years. “Some of them even shared frying pans as their empowerment, but today, the story has changed,” she said. (NAN)