A real estate firm, Veritasi Homes & Properties Limited, has registered a N10 billion commercial paper (CP) programme on FMDQ Securities Exchange to raise short-term capital for the development of its real estate portfolio. The CP programme allows Veritasi Homes to raise finance for a tenor up to 270 days from the debt market at a time in the future it deems suitable. The registration of the CP programme underscores FMDQ Exchange’s role as a market organiser and lends credence to its reputation of pioneering innovation within the financial markets. Veritasi Homes is a real estate company providing marketing, advisory and developmental services across the real estate value chain in Nigeria. The firm’s vision is to be a world-class real estate development company driven by value innovation and optimum service to deliver affordable homes. Managing Director, Veritasi Homes & Properties Limited, Mr. Nola Adetola, said the company was delighted with the registration by FMDQ Exchange of the N10 billion CP programme.   Flour Mills appoints Adeeko director     Focus on stocks with strong fundamentals, Futureview advises…     SEC staff protest poor governance   According to him, the approval of the CP programme represents a  milestone in the company’s short- term growth aspirations. “We are delighted that the proceeds from the issuance of the CP will be applied to develop superior real estate projects designed for clients at home and in the diaspora. We want to thank Mega Capital Financial Services Limited, the transaction sponsor, and Pathway Advisors Limited, our financial adviser, for their efforts and professionalism in getting this programme approved. Our commitment as a brand to building a trustworthy business remains, and we look forward to other future engagements with the capital market,” Adetola said. Managing Director, Mega Capital Financial Services Limited, Mr. Emmanuel Egbumokei, noted that Veritasi Homes is a real estate development company with focus on creating homes for the low and middle-income earners. “This approved CP programme will enable Veritasi Homes & Properties Limited access funding from the debt capital markets to actualise its strategic objectives,” Egbumokei said. In accordance with its strategic objectives to provide credible market structures to corporate and commercial businesses with the opportunities to meet their short-term funding requirements, FMDQ reiterated its commitment to key market development initiatives to ensure that growth and development opportunities abound for the markets under its purview.