Napoli, Juventus, and other clubs have been acquitted by Italy’s Federal Court following a widespread investigation into the inflation of transfer fees. The Italian FA (FIGC) said noted in a terse statement: “the reasons (for the acquittal) will be announced in the coming days.” The court cleared all eleven clubs under investigation: Napoli, Juventus, Genoa, Empoli, and Sampdoria from Serie A, Pisa and Parma from Serie B, Pro Vercelli, and Pescara from Lega Pro, and two clubs who are now defunct – Novara and Chievo. Juventus president Andrea Agnelli, current Tottenham Hotspur managing director Fabio Paratici and Napoli chief Aurelio De Laurentii were among the 58 high-ranking football officials cleared by the court. Italian prosecutors had asked for a range of punishments that included a ban from football of 16 months for Paratici, and a fine of £800,000 for Juventus.   Ondo lauds Autosport Group on Rally     Ikoyi Club hails Leadway on tennis clinic     Golfers eagerly await DStv Premium Golf Day   Italian authorities began investigating dozens of transfers, suspecting clubs of applying accounting practices that broke the law. The $81 million dollar transfer of Lille’s Victor Osimhen to Napoli as well as the swap between FC Barcelona’s Arthur Melo and Juventus’ Miralem Pjanic were among the player moves investigated. The deals allowed the clubs involved to improve their annual financial accounts through capital gains, a practice that became common across European football during the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Osimhen is the only Napoli player listed in the Serie A Team of the Week 32 prior to his side’s 1-1 draw at home to Roma on Monday. The Nigerian striker was listed following his display in their 2-3 loss to Fiorentina where he netted a goal and an assist which highlighted how important he will be to Napoli in sustaining their title challenge this season. Also listed is Juventus’ Dutchman Matthjis de Ligt who has continued to grow in confidence and stature at the heart of the Old Lady’s defence. Others are Torino’s Brazilian Bremer, Fiorentina’s Cristiano Biraghi, Inter Milan’s Ivan Perisic, Fiorentina’s Nico Gonzalez, Torino’s Tommaso Pobega, Sassuolo’s Hamad Traore, Bologna’s Marko Arnautovic as well as Lazio’s playmaker Ciro Immobile, who netted a hat-trick against Genoa.