The 10-year concession of and e-ticketing for the Lagos/Ibadan and Warri/Itakpe rail rail services will generate over N140 billion for the Federal Government. The rail services will also create over 3,000 direct and indirect jobs within the period of the concession. Acting Director General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), Michael Ohiani, stated these yesterday in Abuja when he presented two Full Business Case certificates (FBCs) for the concession of Lagos/Ibadan and Warri/Itakpe rail services to Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi. Ohiani also said the projects would be domiciled in the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC). Speaking before presenting the certificates, Ohiani said: “The concession is for 10 years and it is going to generate over N140 billion to the Federal Government. It will also create over 3,000 direct and indirect job opportunities. “Some of the primary objectives of the concession include: to reduce the cost of handling cash and enhance convenience of passengers by making it possible to book tickets from the comfort of their homes. “The next step is to set up a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to deliver the project and the honourable minister will also have to take it to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval before going to the Ministry of Justice to clear it.” The overall scope of the project is to Design, Finance, Build, Operate and Manage a Secure Ticketing Solution system (hardware and software) for the passengers’ station on the Lagos/Ibadan and the Warri/Itakpe Standard Train Service.   Get your NIN ready to board trains from May, says NRC     Fed Govt sets up surveyors’ council     AI Report: Eight years after Chibok school attack, over…   While the Warri/Itakpe service is expected to generate N50,718,109,320, accruals from the Lagos/Ibadan service is put at N90,429,635,939 within the 10-year concession period. Amaechi said the Abuja/Kaduna rail e-ticketing concession was a testament to the fact that such concessions are profitable and generate more money for the government. He stressed that prior to the implementation of the concession, the Federal Government only generated about N189 million monthly from the Abuja/Kaduna service, whereas the figure rose to N400 million after the concession came into effect. The minister said he disagreed with some people who insisted that the service witnessed a lot of ticket racketeering. “Where I think I disagree with the public is where they say that there is still ticket racketeering. “I have spoken with the concessionaire in charge of Abuja/Kaduna e-ticketing and we have agreed that they should take over passenger identification from the NRC. “What the National Assembly told me is that the NRC does not crosscheck the identity with the ticket, and that the concessionaire had always wanted to do it but had not got approval from the NRC. “So, I have directed NRC to allow the concessionaire to do it so that we can match names and faces on the identity documents with those on the tickets. “If we are able to identify all the passengers, we will able to reduce crime, corruption and the dangers of security crisis,” he said.