It happens every year as we should expect from a coastal city. The Lagos State government has put the residents on notice. Expect rainfalls, heavy ones and they will come with all the features and discomfort of a seething sky. It is not new for the most populous state to expect and witness rainfall. Lagos State Commissioner for the Environment, Tunji Bello, made this known while asking citizens not to panic. “However, the Seasonal Climate Prediction for Lagos State generally signifies that the onset dates range between March 17 in earliest and April 6, 2022 at the latest while the cessation dates range between November 30 and December 5, 2022, while the Maximum Annual Rainfall amount is predicted to be 1,750mm.” The volume of downpour is not only because Lagos State is on the coastline but also that the encroachments of climate change are taking their toll. This is not going to be a Lagos State matter alone. We expect this to be the story across the country in varying degrees in such coastal abodes as Warri and Port Harcourt, as well as in states like Ogun, Oyo, Akwa Ibom, Cross River and Bayelsa. Lagos State has taken the lead in anticipating a blustery year and striking a note of guided optimism. “We call for caution as strong winds are expected during the onset and cessation of every rainfall just as envisaged harmattan are predicted which may cause reduction in visibility and bring about flight disruptions and loss of revenue due to delays and cancellations in the aviation sector,” Bello added. There are evidence of indulgent lifestyles among citizens that should be restrained. One of such is the habit of tossing wastes like “pure water” sachets, leftover food items, and other sorts of bottles, cups, stationery on roadsides drains, street corners and other open areas. When the rain falls, they become baggage that clog the flow of water and the result is flood.   Land mines     Curious conviction     Crude thieves   Flood is not just a flow of huge volumes of water. It is a death trap. It is an economic disruptor for evil. It breaks down communications and, in a modern world and a modern city, it is fatal to progress. Bello knows Lagos residents will suffer if disaster happens. But water recognises no political boundaries, and that explains why the Lagos State government is working with its neighbours, especially Ogun State, to streamline their efforts to shoo off any depredations from the skies and the blind-eyed onslaughts of floods. “Therefore, the low-lying areas and neighbourhoods of Agiliti, Agboyi, Itowolo and Ajegunle communities in Lagos State are being closely monitored with respect to the likelihood of Ogun River flooding as well as all other river basins in the state. These places may also be highly vulnerable to heavy flooding this year,” noted Bello. It is also not just lifestyles that exacerbate the problems. In a city ringed by water, the lagoon in its turbulent moment could spell much danger. Hear Bello: “Anytime there is high tidal movement, it may lock up the discharge points of drainage channels and until it recedes, there will be no discharge.” It can engender backflows and disturb the predictability of life on the neighbourhoods. Telecom masts are soft targets of a water tide, and only one mast knocked out can set an area back for a long time. We commend the Lagos State government for looking ahead, safeguarding drainage points and also working on its early warning mechanisms so that residents can know ahead of the downpours what to expect and how to stave off disasters. Upending the life of a city is one of the trap falls of rainfalls. Giving the residents a warning is a win.