The climate for the global oil and natural gas markets can best be described as one of extreme nervousness, uncertainty, and volatility. A plethora of factors are fueling it, including concerns about supply, rising COVID cases in China, and low global inventory levels. Geopolitical events, which are always a factor in oil prices, are probably a well-above-average influence given the crisis in Ukraine. In this report, S&P Global Ratings responds to frequently asked questions on the topic.  Driving force Before addressing this question, it’s important to understand the state of oil markets before the Ukrainian invasion. Prior to the invasion, oil prices had steadily increased owing to global economic reopenings as well as continued supply discipline from OPEC and North American producers. The latter, seemingly having found fiscal religion at the hands of investors, remained disciplined with regards to capital expenditures and focused on improving the balance sheets and distributing cash flow to shareholders. Many of them targeted a total debt/EBITDA of under twice at a mid-cycle price that was somewhere around $50/barrel. Moreover, OPEC was measured in bringing back the 10 million barrels of production it removed from the market during the pandemic to stabilise falling oil prices. According to the EIA, oil consumption since mid-2020 has persistently outstripped oil production, contributing to a decline in global oil inventories in all but one month from June 2020 through February 2022. As a result, total commercial oil inventories in the OECD have fallen to their lowest levels since mid-2014. When inventories are this tight, disruptions to supply can cause severe price swings. Hence, the invasion of Ukraine sent oil prices skyrocketing and added a high degree of angst amongst traders and buyers. Also, many commercial end users stopped buying Russian oil because of concerns about getting paid, or sanctions, or reputational reasons. This in effect, created a de-facto ban on Russian crude and resulted in Russia discounting its crude by $25/barrel to find a buyer. At one point, according to some reports, approximately 70 percent of Russian oil exports was having difficulty finding buyers. Russia remains one of the world’s top three producers of oil and accounts for about 10-11 percent of the world’s oil supply. Following a spike in prices earlier in March, oil prices plummeted more than 20 percent as a result of a surge in COVID cases in China, raising concerns about oil demand. Similar to oil, gas prices, especially the TTF in Europe, increased as well. Economic reopenings and producer discipline helped buoy the Henry Hub in U.S. The TTF price increase in Europe resulted from unseasonable weather patterns, a lack of wind in the North Sea and western Europe, insufficient wind and solar build-out, competitive liquid natural gas (LNG) markets in Asia and Latin America, and the retirement of coal-fired utilities at a pace that was not sufficiently replaced by renewables.  U.S. sanction of Russian crude The Energy Information Agency reports that the U.S. imported approximately eight percent of its total imported oil and petroleum products from Russia, which includes three percdent of total U.S. imported crude oil last year. Russian Ural crude is a heavy sour crude and the U.S. can replace these barrels rather easily. The U.S., U.K., Canada, and Australia have all banned Russian oil, impacting approximately 13 percent of Russia’s exports.  Possible EU sanctions A European sanction on Russian oil and gas is a far more complicated matter. Unlike the U.S., Europe has a heavy reliance on imported oil and natural gas. Dependency on Russian oil varies by each EU country, but overall, EU reliance on imported oil and gas has grown over the last decade as a result of declining investment and production of hydrocarbons. The EU imports 90 percent of its natural gas demand. In addition, according to Eurostat, its net import dependency for imported oil and petroleum products reached 96 percent in 2020. Moreover, according to the International Energy Agency, 40 percent of the EU’s natural gas consumption and approximately 26 percent of its crude oil needs are supplied from Russia, and approximately two-thirds of its petroleum product imports came from Russia. Russia exports approximately five million bpd of crude, with approximately half finding its way to Europe. .   Coleman set for local GAP production, repays N3.804b…     UN Women project to boost women farmers     ‘Earning respect in a male dominated industry has been a…   Over the longer term, it’s likely easier for Europe to wean itself off Russian oil versus Russian gas. Most of the natural gas supplied from Russia comes into Europe through pipelines. Replacing that infrastructure would mean importing LNG into coastal facilities and require significant build-out of new pipelines that reach deep into Europe, whereas the oil markets are more liquid and would not require such expenditures. Moreover, according to Platts Analytics, the U.S. is already supplying roughly two-thirds of its LNG exports to Europe and, despite the potential of U.S. producers drilling for more natural gas, its export facilities are operating near full capacity. Expanding those facilities would take years and billions of dollars of investment.  Additional supply Typically in periods of supply shortages the market has looked to OPEC to make up the deficit, primarily Saudi Arabia, which we believe has approximately 2.5 million barrels of spare capacity. So far, OPEC has been reluctant to produce more oil, preferring to stick to its targets to sustain high prices. OPEC also prefers to have spare capacity as a safety cushion in case of a serious crisis. To complicate matters, several OPEC members have been unable to increase production in line with previously agreed-on targets. However, oil field service (OFS) companies may not be able to respond so quickly this time around due to severe logistical hurdles. These include labour and drilling equipment shortages. The previous downturns in the industry led to broad retirement of pressure pumping and other OFS equipment, with much of this equipment being utilised for spare parts. Also, many OFS workers who were let go in the previous downturn have found other employment and it will take time to bring any new employees up to speed. Lastly, there continues to be supply chain issues that  have resulted in shortages of equipment, parts, and pipes.  Iranian/Venezuela production The on-again, off-again talks with Iran have only added to the oil price volatility. With the goal of lifting sanctions imposed by the Trump administration in 2019, the Biden administration has been trying to get Iran back into compliance with its 2015 nuclear disarmament deal. If Iranian production were to come back, Platts Analytics is forecasting 750,000 bpd of production by August plus 300,000 of exports from storage. However, negotiations have been made more difficult due to Russian involvement, and apparently Russia must sign off on any agreement with Iran. If sanctions were lifted against Venezuela, approximately 500,000 bpd could find its way back on the market.  Implications due to withdrawal For the Nigerian economy, experts agree that a higher oil price will favour oil-producing countries such as Nigeria as this guarantees her higher revenues which can further buoy the country’s income and also increase national reserves as well as budgetary spending. They argued that the development can further strengthen its foreign exchange earnings. These earnings can be used to finance investments in critical sectors of the national economy such as healthcare and education, as well as for infrastructure projects such as roads, rail lines, and ports to facilitate trade. Investment in infrastructure will improve quality of life, create jobs and opportunities, and help build more robust economies. This will also reduce the burden associated with borrowing and financing loans. Speaking on the rising crude oil prices in an interview with Bloomberg Television earlier, the Minister of state for Petroleum, Resources, Timipre Sylva, maintained that Nigeria’s comfort zone in terms of oil prices was between $70 and $80 per barrel. By implication, any price above this threshold may not be too good for the country. Slyva’s unspoken words could center on the subsidy regime on petrol which the country may have to bear. Recently, the National Assembly approved President Muhammadu Buhari’s request of N4 trillion to service subsidy payment in the current fiscal year. Yet, concerns remain on the country’s inability to meet its allocated oil production quota as approved by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). These factors have combined to limit the gains from the rising oil price. Other limiting factors include the of the country to activate the oil wells it shut down when OPEC instructed producing countries to cut production as well as the lack of investment in the upstream sector for the country’s inability to increase production. Slyva noted that a lot of additional investments would be needed to ramp up production, but regrets that foreign funding was drying out for the industry. “It’s not very easy these days to get the investments in. We really are not able to meet up our quota now. But I believe that we’re working so very hard to ensure that, because we are not happy at all, I mean, with the kind of prices we are seeing. We are obviously not happy about it. So we would like to definitely be back on track by later this year. It’s not been very easy to get investments. A lot of people can’t get investments into the sector,  the minister told Bloomberg in the interview. For now, Nigeria can only hope and pray for a quick turnaround in the circumstance.