Actress Nkechi Blessing Sunday and her husband Opeyemi Falegan have opened a can of worms on social media amid a messy breakup. They spoke on Wednesday on Instagram live, confirming they were breaking up just one year after they tied the knot. Falegan threw the first salvo on Instagram live video where he noted he couldn’t be the husband of a lesbian. The Ekiti-born politician said he has built a reputation and would guide it jealousy against be tainted by anyone. “I am not what you guys think. What I want to be known for is someone who has added value to the people, who will keep doing the good work for the people. “I don’t want to be known with any notoriety or anything controversial. I have a name which I am trying to protect here. “Put some respect on my name please. Where did you guys husband? Whose husband? I can’t be husband to a lesbian,” he said. Blessing also proceeded to Instagram live video on Wednesday night where she spoke about her relationship with the politician ex-lover. She also spoke on why she walked away from the relationship. In her video, the actress describing her estranged ‘husband’ as ‘jobless and penniless honourable’ debunked the rumour that he built her a bungalow. She also accused Falegan of being lazy, living off her and using her name to seek favours from colleagues and others. “I can hit my chest with my mother in the grave that all the money I made from influencing was what I used in building that bungalow. You went to use fake page to DM a blogger than you built house for me. Do you have money?   Davido gives Israel DMW’s fiancée N500,000 for…     Actress Nkechi Blessing owns up, says I’m lesbian     Grammy can’t know African music better than Africans-…   “Have you built a house for your mother? Your mother doesn’t have a house yet you couldn’t buy her one. You that do not have a kobo now claim you built my house. Jobless man like you without a dime. “Which reasonable man spends time on Instagram live video every day? And you call yourself an honourable. Jobless and penniless ‘honourable’. “Morning and night, you are on live video. I kept complaining as a lot of people kept asking what kind of man I was dating that does nothing but stay on live video. “Opeyemi I tried to talk but you say I’m trying to separate you from people that I didn’t want you to associate with my colleagues. Same colleagues you’ve spoilt my name in their presence, saying they all want to sleep with you like you’re the only man in this world. “The one I won’t like is if you claim to have left me. Leave me? No one leaves me. You can’t have an Nkechi and leave me alone. I’ll leave when I’m done or I’ll leave when I’m tired. “In the number of years we dated, I could only squeeze out N500,000 from you just once. Taking to her insta stories, Nkechi Blessing posted receipt of an economy flight ticket as wrote: “Weyey dey buy economy ticket, wait make flight empty then rush go snap for business class, give tip to hostess to serve am champagne….ofe ku sha? She continued: “A lot of you are stuck in wuru wuru relationship because of what people will say..Ko ni da fun people! You can love someone and still let dem go..Uncle weyre enjoy the last fame for few days and go back to the nobody you were… “You think say you been catch big fish? Me wey still dey beg God..want to turn me beggar for Instagram cus of useless foundation….who begsmoney from people to help others? If you no get, you no go rest? Ashiere!!! “If dem ask me wetin my so called boyfriend does for a living, wahai I don’t have an answer. 3 weeks in London, you no wake up go work. Sleep and wake up for live video. “If joblessness was a person…TUEH!!! Your brother give you 5k each for few people giveaway, you gave dem 3k instead. Weyre elebi….”