SIR: On Friday, April 22, the whole of Southwest was thrown into a somber and forlorn mood over the demise of the great king of Oyo Kingdom, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi lll, the 46th Alaafin of Oyo. Alaafin’s death at 83 still shocked like one at a tender age. Stumbling on a clip where he was doing boxing exercise, his agility and stamina were more like someone at 40. He punched the bag with vim and vigour, with a mixture of road walk exercise. His fitness corroborated his eulogy as one that death cannot kill or one that cannot be captured by diseases.  Amidst other eulogies, these two remain an emblem of strength, virility, and stronghold. History will never forget a king who turns his subject into a gold mine. Alaafin engraved his name on the pages of history where those who made change possible can never be forgotten. He accommodated all and sundry, the medieval and geriatrics, men and women and will never rush to make jabberwocky headlines in the media. His relentless efforts at peaceful coexistence among Yorubas, Southwest, and Nigeria are conspicuous, visible to the blind, and audible to the deaf. He came, he saw, he conquered as long-serving Alaafin…the iku baba yeye of Oyo Kingdom. The vacuum of Oba Adeyemi’s passing will not only be huge but tedious to be filled. As a top-notch and respected monarch, he knew the value of peace and harmony and handled controversial issues with the touch of diplomacy and pragmatism. He strove to unite the Yoruba race and attempted to settle discord capable of tearing Yorubas apart.   BREAKING: FG declares May 2, 3 public holidays     UPDATED: AGF Malami joins Kebbi Gov race     2023: Umahi picks APC presidential form   Throughout his reign, Oba Adeyemi never fanned the ember of discord and disunity. He watched his public utterances on matters of national interest, not as a coward, but as a custodian of peace. He knew where to talk tough and where to administer calmness. He loved his people, his subjects, and the Yoruba race under his watch. What a loving king. Southwest and particularly, Oyo State in less than six months has witnessed the unpalatable death of royal fathers of notable ancient towns. It is as if the ‘creme de la creme’ monarchs in Yoruba land had a conclave to bid their subjects farewell intermittently. The rhythm of death is unfriendly. Its gong sounds painful and not sonorous to the ears. It is a pity. December 2021, the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade lll joined his ancestors at age of 95 years after reigning for 48 years and 22 days. Then in January,  Oba Olubadan followed suit, and a few months later, the Alaafin joined. The rampage of death of top-notch monarchs in the southwest, Oyo State will create a great vacuum; their gourd of deep rooted knowledge, wisdom, understanding of rich history, culture, the landmass of Yoruba kingdoms will be missed. Olubadan, Soun, and Alaafin have tried their best and left the rest; they should inform Awolowo, Akintola, and others that their children are still at loggerheads for the presidential ticket… Tell Baba Awo that Yorubas are still in caucus; not in unity. May your souls continue to rest in peace…The tree irokos of the Yoruba kingdom.