Chief David Victor Dimka, from Kabwir in Kanke Local Government Area of Plateau state, served in the Nigeria Customs Service between 1988 and 2020 when he retired as Controller in-charge of Enforcement, at the Service headquarters in Abuja, after serving at different capacities in various formations across the country. In this interview with KOLADE ADEYEMI, the All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship aspirant said without the support of godfathers, he has all it takes to tackle the security, economic and socio-political challenges facing the state. He expressed optimism to succeed Governor Lalong come 2023. Excerpts: You are a retired Customs Officer. Why are you delving into politics? The discipline and result-oriented outlook, proactive problem-solving strategy, with meticulous modern management methods of the Nigeria Customs, groomed me to not only be a  chain-value multiplier, but a prudent product of  transparent economy and security expert that  humbly served  and  solved the problems of my dear  country. With that vast experience, the summative policy thrust of my political aspiration is to purposefully fashion a united, peaceful and prosperous Plateau state, anchored on the fear of God. The slogan of my political party is Progress. As such, we intend to consolidate on the legacies of our beloved Governor, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Barr. Simon Bako Lalong and make significant progress in ensuring: sustainable Sensible Security; good governance, based on accountable, accessible, equitable, frugal, and all-inclusive governance. My team is also ready to ensure economic expansion and revolutionary reforms in the area of agriculture, education, health Care delivery, housing, tourism, environment, ICT, science, transportation and the Reformation of the civil service. We are also mindful of capital and human development through meaningful empowerment, employment of the youths, women and the vulnerable in our state. We are ready to improve upon massive modernization of urban infrastructure, industrial expansion and rural development. The solid minerals will be positioned into tangible economic exploration. Through massive employment, we would be able to conquer the menace of youth restiveness and security challenges facing the state. When all these are done, Plateau state will take its position as one of the state sitting on the front pew of peaceful co-existence, unity, prosperity and dignity of man irrespective of your tribe and religious background. All persons on the Plateau shall live under the fear of God. You are aware of the socio-economic and security challenges facing Plateau State. As a first-timer in politics, do you think you have all it takes to govern a complex state like Plateau? I believe I have answered this question. However, to the glory of God, I am a Fellow of the renowned Security Institute of Nigeria. I understand the rudiments of law enforcement and keenly have studied the dynamics of the security problems facing Plateau State.  I am running for Governor to offer and implement security solutions that are pro-people, post-modern and permanent in nature. Our Plateau security plan will be a template for the country to emulate. We will make Plateau a Home of Peace and Tourism, indeed.   Delineation: Delta leaders petition INEC, NASS over plot to…     Navy, NNPC unveil special campaign to fight maritime crimes     Enugu politics and the travails of Ike Ekweremadu   How strong is your structure within the All Progressive Congress (APC) here in Plateau? The APC, our great party, is completely in control of the state as evidenced in the last Local Government elections during which we convincingly swept the 17 Councils in the state. My contributions to the development of the APC in Plateau are well noted. The party is fair to all aspirants vying for political offices.  Accordingly, I am optimistic that the party will produce a credible aspirant like me to be the flag bearers in all the political offices to be contested. Party stalwarts know that I am a very popular, thoroughbred politician and man of the people that will lead APC to a resounding victory at the next gubernatorial election in the state. In today’s politics in Nigeria, people like you who are stepping in for the first time must have a godfather.  Who is your godfather and how truly have you been assured of the gubernatorial ticket? It is most unfortunate that “godfatherism” has taken a strong hold on our politics in Nigeria today. As a devout Christian, I do absolutely believe that all power belongs to God and He chooses to entrust power to whosoever He so wishes. On that note, I confidently will say that God is my God Father. Hence, this explains why my policy thrust is anchored on the fear of God. How is your relationship with Governor Simon Lalong? Governor Lalong is an amiable leader that has made tremendous achievements particularly in entrenching peace and progress on the Plateau.  I share with majority of Plateau people in admiring his relentless developmental strides and leadership legacy. My relationship with my Governor is cordial and I hope to continually consolidate on the positive gains he has made when given the opportunity to serve. The governorship ticket has been zoned to Plateau Central. And from all indications, it has been further micro-zoned to the two major ethnic groups in the Zone, which are the Ngas and the Mwaghavul where you hail from.  But in your area, there are quite a lot of aspirants. What are the elders doing to avoid bickering? Please, permit me to reset the premise of this question on zoning to the effect that there is gen eral tacit consensus on zoning on the basis of senatorial zones but not on tribal leanings.   As such, Plateau Central Senatorial Zone to which I belong is largely most favored to produce the next Governor. The Mwaghavul and Ngas tribes are predominantly the major tribes in the Senatorial zone but they or the Party have not precluded other tribes from contesting. Consensus as an instrument of political negotiation has earned its place of pride in this dispensation in dispersing bickering. Consequently, our elders have been playing crucial roles in ensuring that the game is played according to the rules. The trajectory of past performances of aspirants are clearly recalled, capacity to win elections of an aspirant is measured and capability to deliver on governance is reckoned with. The elders, men, women and youths constituting the good people of Plateau vastly see the opportunity in the DVD Movement for: Qualitative and Frugal Good Governance; Improved Internally Generated Revenues tied to Capital Projects with yielding back capacities; Massive Infrastructural Development and Expansion through Public Private Partnership Schemes and BOT Arrangements; Transparency and Accountability in Financial Dealings; Opportunity to Create Government Apparatus for comprehensive administrative coordination  at an institutional level with through pragmatic policies and concrete internal controls; adequate supervision and meticulous oversight; enforced transparency and accountability; responsibility and resourcefulness.