The judgment of Justice Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court, Abuja, acquitting the former Minister of Interior, Abba Morro, leaves a sour taste in the mouth of many Nigerians, who feel the minister should be held responsible for the tragedy that befell applicants during the 2014 Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) recruitment. Despite paying fees for the exercise, it was shoddily organised by his ministry, and consequently some of our youths searching for job lost their lives in the shambolic exercise. Many others were wounded, and we consider it another tragedy that it took eight years for the court to render justice to the victims. In his judgment, Justice Dimgba convicted the permanent secretary, Mrs Anastasia Daniel-Nwobia, on one charge and has reserved April 27 for sentencing, in accordance with the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA). The judge held that the proposal to conduct an e-recruitment was in national security interest due to allegations of nepotism and job racketeering in the previous exercise. While we agree that e-recruitment is good to address the challenges mentioned, we are however surprised that the judge further held that the prosecution failed to show that the failure to advertise the contract gave undue advantage to the company, Drexel. How non-advertisement would not confer an advantage beats our imagination. Again, the judge dismissed the allegation of abuse of office against the former minister, despite inadequate arrangement and safeguards for the exercise after 667, 000 applicants paid N1, 000 each. During the trial, the former NIS Controller-General gave evidence that the exercise was not well funded, and we wonder why, when the candidates were made to pay for the exercise. Justice Dimgba had harsh words for the former Controller-General David Paradang, who was a prosecution witness in the trial. We recall that there was a public spat between the ministry officials and the NIS officers over the control of the recruitment exercise.   Gloomy at Easter     Youth unemployment and urgency of action     War of the realms   While we await the sentencing of the permanent secretary, we doubt if that isolated punishment is enough deterrent for the tragedy visited on young Nigerians involved in the recruitment . As laymen, we feel that more top officials of the ministry who conducted the shabby exercise which inflicted heavy casualties and severe pains on the victims of their misadventure ought to pay some price. But perhaps our criminal justice system saw it differently. We however hope that appropriate lessons have been learnt by ministries, departments and agencies of government from the tragedy. In conducting a recruitment exercise, government institutions should rely on reputable examination agencies with the requisite skills for such exercise. It does not do the government any good when corruption is seen as the driving force, with respect to choices made. Again, the supervisory authorities should be concerned about the decisions of those under their care, as the huge number of applicants should have drawn attention to the exercise. It is also important that our criminal justice system begins to take into consideration those directly affected by the offence in question. Otherwise called restorative justice system, we believe such consideration should be paramount in the administration of our criminal justice. In the instant case, it is important that the losses incurred by the victims of that tragedy are assuaged. The criminal justice system should make provisions for the families that lost their loved ones, or those impacted one way or another by the tragedy. The botched 2014 NIS recruitment was a tragedy for the country and for the families directly impacted. Every effort should be made to avoid similar tragedy again, and measures should be taken to heal the wound for the families.