The Lagos Free Zone (LFZ) has said about $3.5 billion would have been invested into the project by the end of 2024. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Lagos Free Zone (LFZ), Dinesh Rathi, said this, at a media parley held at the zone in Ibeju-Lekki, stressing that the project will reach 35 per cent completion by the end of 2024. According to Rathi, the goal of the project is to strengthen Nigeria’s position as a commercial centre and preferred industrial hub in West Africa with world-class infrastructure, facilities and services. “We understand how important the project is for the Nigerian economy and the country needs more projects to unleash its potential. With the Lekki port completion, the real benefit of what we have been building, in the next five years, will put Ibeju-Lekki as one of the communities contributing largely to the gross domestic product (GDP) of the economy,” he said. He said the port-based industrial zone in Lagos services about 26 companies with infrastructure such as warehouses, standard factories, police stations, truck parks, compressed natural gas, medical facility, residential apartments and retail banks among others. Rathi said LFZ has created a seamless environment where business entities will operate without hassles and that it has partnered with other private investors to bring foreign direct investment (FDI) into the country. According to him, the project is a free-incentive zone that would ensure that residents of the community and other investors operate their businesses seamlessly.   Allow third party use gas pipelines, govt urges Shell,…     Elon Musk acquires 9.2% stake in Twitter     ‘Access Bank, supporter of women-led businesses’   He said significant benefits of the zone include exemption from all taxes, levies and rates and import duties applicable on raw materials imported for finished goods that are sold locally. Rathi said work was ongoing on the road network infrastructure to increase accessibility to/from the zone, which is strategically located in proximity to major trade gateways and demand centres. He listed multiple evacuation channels undergoing work to include expansion of the four kilometres Eleko Road from its junction to Eleko Town, dualisation of Lekki-Epe Road from Ibeju-Agbe to T-Junction and the upgrading of the 34km Epe Road to ljebu Ode Expressway. The Lagos Free Zone was established in 2012 as a unique and award winning port – based industrial zone in Lagos with over $2billion committed to foreign direct investment to date. Promoted by Tokaram , a Singaporean enterprise with over four decades of experience in Nigeria located in Lekki , the sunrise development corridor in Lagos. The Lagos Free Zone is open to business and has readily available infrastructure for warehouse and standard factory . The free Zone has over 20 registered companies.