A popular Catholic priest, Rev. Father Hyacinth Alia, has declared his ambition to contest the 2023 governorship election in Benue state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said his divine mission is to wake the state from coma and alleviate the sufferings of people. Senior Correspondent FANEN IHYONGO reports that the cleric is one of the mainstream contenders likely to emerge as the APC flag bearer. His convoy was long. It had posh vehicles blaring sirens, rickety cars exuding smoke and open trucks packed with supporters chanting APC songs. Yet, there were those who preferred to trek distances. The Makurdi Wurukum roundabout carrying the Benue Foodbasket statue came under gridlock. Whichever means, meeting point was the party’s secretariat. Father Hyacinth Alia’s declaration for the governorship contest few days ago, took the form of a cultural carnival, religious crusade and political rally combined. “What is going on there?” Travelers returning in the state capital en route Northbank, held in traffic congestion in Wurukun because of the occasion were asking. It is Father Hyacinth Alia, declaring ambition to steer Benue, they were told. At the venue, the crowd was mammoth, but not the type politicians usually rent to grace their shows. Soon the venue was filled up. Many guests were just milling around and exchanging pleasantries. Some were taking selfies and uploading pictures on the new media. One fanatic of the aspirant acted Zacchaeus. He couldn’t defy the crowd to feed his eyes, so he climbed a tree -the way it is said the wee tax collector did when Jesus was passing through Jericho. “Alia is not the type to lie that God told him he would be governor. But since ‘the voice of the people is the voice of God,’ his mission is a divine call. We don’t want money from him; we are only waiting for him to be given the APC ticket. If he gets the ticket, he would be the next governor,” Elder Tyohuna, a devoted Catholic and big fan of Alia said. “When people kept calling for me to run, I had no choice than to answer the clarion call,” Alia says. He says he had dedicated his life to serve God and humanity. At the declaration, when he mounted the podium, Father Alia solicited support and told the gathering that his vision, mission and divine hope were to liberate the people and build a greater Benue. Alia said he has declared because he has what it takes to wake the state from its present state of coma. He said he was saddened the way the children of God in Benue state were suffering under the PDP led government in the state. “Something necessary must be done to rescue God’s people from the deliberate and man-made atrocities of the present leadership,” he said. “After preaching the gospel on the pulpit for 32 years, I decided to extend it to governance,” he told the state working committee of the APC during his declaration in Makurdi. He listed his priority areas to include; Security; Agriculture, Rural Development, Human and Social Development; Education and ICT and Commerce and Industry. He said he is prepared for the task and intellectually well equipped to actualise the mandate, adding that his main focus is to change the leadership narrative in the State. According to him, for positive change to be effected in the state, injecting new blood in the system to set a workable agenda for the people has become a necessity.   Need to stop political thuggery, intimidation in Enugu     2023: PDP and politics of consensus     Tinubu prepared for leadership, says Olu of Warri   “We need a Daniel who will serve in Government House, as  Daniel served under four Babylonian Governments. There is no corrupt government in the history of mankind that is as corrupt as the Babylonian’s. The Bible even stated that ‘Oh Babylon, Woe Before You.’ It was so corrupt but Daniel was a Vice President across four different governments all with the aim of correcting and reshaping the system. “I have all my life worked with the grassroot. I have a firsthand idea of the developmental challenges of most of the areas in the state. I have worked overtime to see the upliftment of the downtrodden and the suppressed. I am ready for God through the wonderful people of Benue to be used as a tool of liberation for the state. “My desire in the area of Agriculture, is to revamp some critical agencies including BENTHA, BNARDA amongst others to propel the independence of the state as an agrarian society with capacity for food security and self sufficiency,” he said. State Deputy Chairman of APC, Steven Tsav, who represented the party chairman, Austin Agada, received the aspirant. Tsav gave him the go ahead to continue with his consultation and campaign. He assured Alia that the party would be just to all its aspirants and would provide a level playing field during the primaries. “One thing we will not do as state working committee members is to take side with an aspirant. No! We wouldn’t do that. But what we can assure you is that we shall ensure all aspirants are treated equally. So, go out there and convince our members about your candidacy,” Tsav said. Before his declaration, Father Alia had gone to his local government area, Vandeikya, to consult his kinsmen concerning his political step. There, his people, led by the APC chairman of Vandeikya, Simon Yongo, prayed for his success. Yongo said the huge support Alia is getting is a clear indication of good fortune to APC in Benue state. “Further your political journey with the grace of God,” Yongo told the man of God. It was gathered Alia was born on May 14, 1966. He attended St. Francis Primary school, Gboko, from where he proceeded to St. James Minor Seminary, Makurdi and then St. Augustine Major Seminary, Jos. He also went to Fordham University, USA for a Master of Arts Degree in Religious Education (Psychology and Counseling). He also schooled in Duquesne University, Pittsburgh, USA for another Masters and Doctorate Degree in Biomedical Ethics. His supporters say “there are men of God and there are true men of God. Alia belongs to the latter.” They are crooning that the cleric has not sired kids that would tempt him to loot funds in pursuance of their desires. “No First Lady to frequent USA, UK and Dubai for shopping expedition with funds scooped from our common till. No profligacy on worldly things,” his fans said. Speaking recently on his chances at the governorship election, Reverend Father Alia has disclosed that no man born of woman has what it takes to rig or change his election results in the 2023 governorship race. He dared anybody to try such when the race begins. According to him, he was in the race to redeem the State at its trying times which is God’s work as well taking away the sufferings of Benue people and giving them hope in God’s work just like preaching the gospel. “I am not coming to fit in, no man born of a woman has what it takes to rig or change my election result. If they like, let them try it,” Alia warned.