The Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, has raised the alarm over the impact of crude oil thieves on the nation’s economy. The oil thieves, according to the CNS “are making Nigeria to bleed.” This is as the Commander, Central Naval Command, Idi Abbas, says the country lost over $3.2 billion to oil theft in one year. The duo spoke at the flag off of a special joint security operations with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in Rivers State codenamed “Operation Dakarta Da Barawo”. Gambo revealed that the last six months had witnessed an increased rate in oil theft, adding that the situation calls for grave concern. Represented at the event by the Chief, Policy and Planning, Rear Admiral Suleuman Garuba, Gambo said, “over the past six months there have been reports of massive theft of our petrol products through the pipelines, through filtering away of our products by vessels which has resulted in a lot of bleeding of the nation. “We have lost so much in terms of revenue and from the reports we’re getting, Nigeria is actually bleeding and there is a need for us to bring these things to a halt. That is why in collaboration with the NNPC, the Nigerian Navy has engaged in this operation.” Operation Dakarta Da Barawo is a Hausa language meaning ‘stop the thief.’   Why Kwara APC is in crisis – Oyabambi     APC convention: Buni returns home to rousing welcome     Appeal Court dismisses suit challenging defection of Umahi,…   It is aimed at checkmating the rising trend in crude oil theft in the Nigerian Maritime domain, particularly in the Gulf of Guinea. The CNS further disclosed that no fewer than 40 Naval ships, over 150 boats, five helicopters among others would be involved in the operation, adding that it would last for three months. “In these three months, we will intensify all efforts, we will bring to bear all our assets, we will bring all our special forces, we will bring all our helicopters, to make sure that the impact of the operation is felt across the nation with proven results and Nigeria will come back to a steady platform. “We are bringing not at least 40 ships,  between 100 and 200 Navy boats, also we’re deploying between four and five helicopters, some of which will be coming and going throughout the period and all Navy special forces and units will also be involved,” he said. Speaking earlier, Abbas said the illegal activities   have affected crude oil production below OPEC approved local price as well as benchmark of Nigeria’s 2022 budget. He urged officers drafted to the campaign to maintain professionalism, remain focused and resilient while executing the task of ridding the nation of illegal oil bunkering. Explaining reasons for partnering with the Navy, the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Abba Kyiari, said the huge loss the country has suffered as a result of oil criminals’ activities is drastically affecting the economy of the nation, and can no longer be tolerated. Represented by the  Managing Director, Port Harcourt refining Company, Ahmed Dikko,, Kyari expressed commitments in supporting the Navy to rid the country of all forms of maritime crimes and criminality to save the country from bankruptcy. “The situation we have today with the crude oil theft, and illegal activities of maritime criminals is impacting seriously on NNPC operations. “So NNPC is really worried and reached out to the Nigerian Navy and we are ready to support the Nigerian Navy anyway we can so we can conduct special operations and make sure that we bring this menace to the barest minimum,” he said.