For a famously mild-mannered preacher, last Sunday’s pre-sermon remarks of the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, couldn’t have had a more hard-hitting effect on the nationwide audience they were addressed to. First, he dealt with insinuations that the church’s establishment of a Directorate of Politics and Governance was essentially a mobilisation platform to back the suspected political aspirations of one of its pastors, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Even the most cynical of his auditors would’ve found it hard to dismiss his robust disavowal of any such agenda. The cleric would go on to suggest that those squabbling over the 2023 general elections were getting ahead of themselves in the light of more troubling national issues. He spoke in horrified tones about the magnitude of oil theft. He talked about a country teetering on the verge of bankruptcy with more than 90 per cent of money from crude oil sales being used to pay interest accruing on foreign debt. Adeboye then pivoted to Kaduna which has been in the news since the attack on a train headed there. He said: “You cannot go to Kaduna by road, air or train. Why Kaduna? Who is trying to isolate Kaduna? Why? After Kaduna, which next?” Before you dismiss him as another excitable clergyman trying to heat up the polity, consider the fact that with the exception of Maiduguri, Kaduna is the northern metropolis that has been targeted by terror more than any other. And the attacks are not limited to the capital. The state is a complex tinderbox where religious and ethnic tension regularly boil over between the largely Muslim north and the mostly Christian south. Those historically bloody conflicts have now been exacerbated by the rise of banditry and infiltration by elements of the insurgency hitherto limited to the Northeast. Aside being the historical capital of the old Northern Region and the gathering place of its political and intellectual elite, Kaduna also hosts the cream of Nigeria’s military and security institutions. One of the most celebrated of them all, the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), was breached several months ago with loss of lives. The sorties into what should ordinarily be a fortress city/state look like a deliberate effort at demystifying the military establishment and breaking the morale of those who people it. Last year also, Bethel Baptist Secondary School, Greenfield University among others, were overrun by bandits with students and staff taken hostage. The Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation at Afaka was attacked and over 40 of its students taken hostage. Next, the bandits would invade the airport on a number of occasions, the latest being the incident several days ago that led to the death of a security staff and disruption of flights. The main artery linking the state to the Abuja has been the subject of regular attacks by bandits, forcing many to adopt rail as a safer travel option. That was until last week’s attack that shocked the nation. With all modes of transportation now subject to deadly attacks it’s hard not to believe there’s a coordinated plan to isolate the city, using incremental attacks that make it unsafe to travel. If that were the case, who could the enemy be and what is their agenda? Such a scheme would be too sophisticated and ambitious for ragtag bands of bandits who are more interested in stuffing their pockets with easy millions. Are we to assume that ISWAP insurgents in the Northeast are altering their strategy and making common cause with local hoodlums? Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has suggested that the reckless abandon with which terrorists were operating they could very soon overrun the country. It bears pointing out that Abuja is three hours from Kaduna. Niger State which has been complaining about the takeover of several of its local government areas by Boko Haram fighters is two and a half hours from the federal capital. In military terms those are not very comforting distances when dealing with a motivated foe.   2023 Presidency: Early predictions and scenarios     When Bianca slapped Ebelechukwu     Wike versus Obaseki: Battle of the bruisers   If these terrorists are operating so freely close to the nation’s capital, how much longer before we are back in the days when IEDs were going off regularly in Abuja? Part of the problem is that we can’t even agree on who the foe is. That dilemma is captured in Adeboye’s ‘Kaduna questions.’ It is also evident in the seemingly academic debate whether to call the gunmen sowing death and destruction across large swathes of the Northwest ‘bandits’ or ‘terrorists.’ Long after proponents of the latter tag won the debate and had it speedily gazetted, not much has changed. That legal manoeuvre was supposed to help government get around the restrictions of use that came with the purchase agreement of the Super Tucano jets. Several months after, the magic wand remains grounded, while murderous gunmen carry on business as usual. Incorrect identification of the enemy has been compounded by confused prescriptions as to how to deal with them. I have long argued that jets, however sophisticated, are in themselves not enough to deal with targets that quickly disappear under forest cover with the aid of motorcycles. In the aftermath of the train attack, President Muhammadu Buhari, issued another of his “marching orders.” Part of it was a reminder to the military to “deal decisively” with anyone illegally carrying AK47s in forests. This was amusing because the so-called order has had zero effect since it was first issued eons ago. Reiterating it can only be explained as an attempt to be seen to be acting in some form. But it also confirms confusion in government ranks as to who they are dealing with. Bandits or terrorists, these fellows have long gone beyond AK47s to add shoulder-held rocket and grenade launchers, recoilless guns and others to their arsenal. Surely, they didn’t bring down a military jet last year with a rifle! Another wrong prescription was El-Rufai’s vow that if the president failed to crush the terrorists quickly, he and his colleague governors in the Northwest would bring in foreign mercenaries to deal with the problem. Casting aside the fact that as subnational actors they lack the legal and financial power to embark on such an adventure, the suggestion is a nonstarter. I can understand the governor spoke out of frustration, but he only has to look at the records of these dogs of war to appreciate it’s not the way to go. His proposal is also a less-than-subtle vote of no-confidence on the Nigerian armed forces. It isn’t novel, but rather springs from desperation as the performance of mercenaries across Africa is far from stellar. From the Nigerian Civil War to similar conflicts across the continent, such contractors have fought side by side with the local military – albeit with a patchy record of success. The Goodluck Jonathan administration patronised them – especially during the six-week window the then Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government procured ostensibly to drive back insurgents so the 2015 general elections could hold undisrupted across the Northeast. As I have argued is a previous piece, mercenaries are a quick but not-so-sure-fire fix, given that their motivation is mainly pecuniary, whereas our military would be driven by patriotism to defend and die for their country. If it seems as if our troops are having difficulties containing the adversary it most certainly can’t just be a question of lack of capacity or zeal. What we’re seeing is diminishing returns setting in for a military that is overstretched between the demands of maintaining the country’s territorial integrity and being sucked into myriads of internal security operations. Many of these local conflicts should ordinarily be handled by the police. But that organisation looks light one that hasn’t truly recovered from the trauma of the #EndSARS protests. The reality is that the security challenges confronting Nigeria in 2022 cannot be resolved by an architecture that was designed several decades ago. Our military, police and related agencies need all the help they can get or they would soon find themselves outgunned. Everything that’s happening now exposes the myopia of those who opposed initiatives like the state police. Someone like El-Rufai who condemned the creation of security outfits like Amotekun looking through the jaundiced prism of regional rivalry is now, without irony, seeking deliverance from foreign mercenaries. But for a fraction of what they would cost, states could collaborate on such local initiatives that help them police their communities better and push back against the bad guys threatening to take over the entire country. Even if there’s no grand conspiracy, even if recent attacks are the work of freelancers, the ‘Kaduna posers’ raised by Adeboye can help us refocus discourse on Nigeria’s security crisis.