The leadership of the House of Representatives is holding a closed-door meeting with Security Chief over the recent upsurge in insecurity across the country, especially the recent terror attacks on the Kaduna/Abuja train and Kaduna International Airport. The Chief of Defence Staff Gen Lucky Irabor; Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo; Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Isiaka Amao; Director-General National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar; Director-General Department of State Services (DSS) Yusuf Magaji Bichi and Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba are at the meeting. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Director-General Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) Capt. Fola Akinkuotu and Director-General Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Musa Nuhu are also part of the meeting presided over by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. The meeting scheduled to hold last week was shifted when the Service Chiefs and other invitees sent representatives.   Alleged N5.2b fraud: How ex-JAMB Registrar Ojerinde funded…     I’ve never considered leaving APC- Lai Mohammed     You are not son but ‘goat’, Adeboye’s son…   Gbajabiamiala said the meeting was to review what has happened and steps being taken by the Security Chiefs as well as what the House can do to help in achieving their mandate. He said: “There is no one in this room that does not mean well for this country. We must first get that. We are trying to figure out what can be done, where we have fallen short of what we are supposed to do. “It is important to put our heads together to rescue our country from where we are today. We must also acknowledge what our men in uniforms have been able to do. But what are you doing and not doing well or what you are supposed to do that you are not doing. “We read about contract for surveillance on the Kaduna/Abuja train line and the number of passengers on the train. We don’t want twisted records. We want to get the best out of this.” Details Shortly…