TeamApt,  Nigeria’s Fintechs firm is relaunching its product, Moniepoint, as a business bank. Since 2019, Moniepoint has enabled 162,000 small business owners to process over a billion transactions worth N23 trillion. While solving the payment problem, they realised many of Nigeria’s 41 million small businesses struggle with managing operations, taxes, insurance, and staff welfare. To solve for that and power the dreams of SMEs, Moniepoint has evolved into a business bank. In addition to their already solid payments solution, this expansion of Moniepoint enables Nigerians to grow their business with access to quick loans, manage operations, payroll, and staff welfare, and protect the business with affordable premiums. Small businesses are referred to as the bedrock of the economy for a reason. SMEs employ 84 per cent of the country’s entire workforce and contribute 48 per cent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Their success is critical to the economic progress of the nation.   Ecobank sustains 24-hour digital banking services to…     World Bank: poverty to rise in 2022     Knox Wire to integrate 20 banks on dollar settlement network   ‘’As Nigerians, we feel the challenges of the economy acutely, in real-time. This is why we have worked hard to evolve into a business bank that truly works for the everyday Nigerian business owner. Moniepoint in addition to being a tech-enabled all-in-one business solution, is also able to provide much needed last-mile service delivery. This is in line with our mission to power the business dreams of Africa’s real economy, and provide financial happiness to all.” says TeamApt founder and CEO, Tosin Eniolorunda. “Moniepoint has become everything to me. It has brought me actual freedom. Since using the service, I have transformed the lives of many,” says Abubakar Ibrahim, a businessman using Moniepoint. Fully licensed by Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCIDSS) certified, TeamApt’s business bank, Moniepoint is poised to empower Nigerians to manage, protect, and grow their businesses. TeamApt is a financial technology company that provides a financial platform for SMEs through its business bank, Moniepoint, and payment gateway, Monnify. Currently enabling transactions north of $6 billion monthly, TeamApt provides multi-channel payment, credit, insurance and other financial solutions to businesses, including agents and banks. The company acts on-ramp for the ongoing digital transformation by providing a full-stack solution that combines tech with a robust physical distribution network targeted at millions of African businesses and their customers.