The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi yesterday,  reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government  to release its counterpart funding for the Regional Maritime Development Bank (RMDB) to start operation. Speaking when he received Dr Paul Adalikwu, Secretary-General of Maritime Organisation of West and Central Africa (MOWCA) in Abuja, Amaechi said the Federal Government will gladly identify with the maritime project. The minister assured guest that efforts would be activated to secure an official accommodation space for the bank in the capital city of Abuja. The minister promised to reach out to the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and urged other member states to come forward with their financial contributions to the project He words: “We will be glad to put our resources down for the bank as soon as you are ready. We will just instruct them in Lagos to release the fund for you. “We are also ready to provide accommodation for the bank and we look forward to other states making their contributions. We wouldn’t want our money to be tied down.”   Visa opens first innovation studio in Africa     The search for next Akwa Ibom governor     Peterside urges Amaechi to declare for president   The MOWCA Secretary-General who led an incubation committee comprising Cameroon and Congo Brazzaville representatives, thanked the Nigerian government for supporting his candidacy. He also thanked Nigeria for payment of its arrears which has supported MOWCA in meeting some of its obligations to member states and employees. Adalikwu said eight countries have signed up for the charter with an interim board put in place. He informed the Minister that the mandate for Nigeria to host the bank has been in place for 10 years but activities for its creation were kick-started by Amaechi when he became Minister of Transportation. The MOWCA Secretary-General added that steps have been taken to make the organisation vibrant and fulfil its core mandates. According to him, an organogram has been created with every employee’s schedule of duties duly specified. He disclosed that some of the employees he met on the ground were inexperienced with inadequate education to man the offices they occupy and that communication has been activated with member states to nominate qualified persons that would help the organisation run smoothly and efficiently. Prof Gerard Messina a representative of the Cameroonian Transport Minister said that his country is convinced of the ability of Nigeria and Adalikwu to strengthen the organisation.