EN route to the 2023 general elections, the cult of digital citizenship fosters a supreme theme: that of the maleficently-woke youth. Social media expanded to fill the space life provides, substitutes Nigeria’s bleak moon for digitized dawn. Call it science’s dark revenge or technology’s defiant stand against conservative norms. In the mix, Nigeria incinerates by the speed of blistering terabytes. Two planes of reality collide a la traditional versus new media; conservative ethicist versus deviant liberal. Nigeria erupts in primeval chaos, cyber-activated. The intelligible persistently loses to the unintelligible and citizenship gets redefined as malevolent youths vengefully debase and defy society’s conservative and arrogant hierarchs. The digitally-woke youth is technology’s heroic personae and his cult runs where dissent rebounds. He has a fearless disposition but is afflicted by dewy cowardice. In the cyberspace he inhabits, he personifies spirited narcissism, unfurling wildly to his articulated and unarticulated sinful lusts. The joke persists in contemporary circuits that the battle for Nigeria’s freedom would be fought and won in social space and by the cudgels and blades of such ‘woke’ youth. This notion sprouts from ideological fields at home and abroad, where pasture, copse, and tributary of thought, flourish from sickly seeds of violence and death. Being ‘woke’ is next to being a deity in contemporary youth circuits. It confers on the ‘woke’ a colossal ego, an exaggerated sense of awareness, and idolatry of fawning peers. To such youth, social media becomes theatre, a public agon. Every issue from policy failure, inefficient leadership, distressed economy, electoral fraud, and insecurity, to failing public institutions offer him an opportunity to vent. Unlike the conventional patriot for whom protest functions as a catalyst for positive change, the digitally-woke youth protests for ego, anarchy, and applause. In his element, he courts the admiration of the strolling spectator; he forgets that he is neither king nor god but a manipulable pawn. He is a victim of ignorance’s tyranny over intellect thus his susceptibility to being used by shady, criminally-minded others. He is arsonist, assassin and mugger at election time; he is canon-fodder for disrupting the state, in time of peace. He is the random cyber-rat with multiple monikers, preaching bigotries and a gospel of hate across several social media platforms and news sites as you read. Beneath his radical chants, however, subsists an immoderate hankering for money and safety. Some have traced this hankering to greed, cowardice, and a predilection for slumber. But he is ‘woke’ and ‘woke’ youth mustn’t snooze. Money, fast cars, and dubious acclaim are, however, a deal-breaker hence the morbid race against time to acquire wealth by ‘woke’ young assassins, internet scammers (Yahoo Boys), and prostitutes. Lest we forget the gangs of ‘woke’ political thugs, human rights activists, ‘youth leaders,’ public officers, pen robbers, armed robbers, and thieves comprising the nation’s youth. Due to the perceived trashiness and philosophical harlotry of the journalist, this band of youths would not leave the battle for their freedom from Nigeria’s predatory ruling class to the press. Cowardice is what we should conquer. Cowardice enslaves all to mean and homicidal politicians. It cripples the rage of impoverished youths and binds all to the wiles of dubious political parties and public officers. It takes courage to evolve a humane ideology and sustain it. As Nigerians, in our youth, we haven’t the courage and the will, and this interferes with our ability to accomplish progressive change. More worrisome is our violent attempt to be radical; eventually it resonates too feebly, like a kind of rudderless activism. This was reflective in the attitude of certain youth segments during previous general elections and the  #EndARS protest. Mistaking hooliganism for “higher political awareness” or “being woke,” they harassed their peers and the elderly who voted for President Muhammadu Buhari, among others. They frantically sought for votes for their self-styled messiahs, whose unique selling point (USP) was an exaggerated sense of self-worth. Extravagant sections of the press called the latter, titans. But they were no titans. They were simply merchants of rot, who emerged to clothe dross as gold and filth in newer, fanciful packs.   An embarrassment     Russian-Ukraine War: Over 2,000 Nigerians take refuge in…     Burkina Faso’s ex-president Compaore, others handed life…   Leading a motley pack of rabid followers, they condemned the incumbent ruling class to frantic applause. But soon after they spoke in brilliant, rousing cadences, their platitudes started to trail off in confusion. Today, their language echoes like the battle cries of four-year-olds playing war Generals against an army of hostile corn stalks. Having provoked the citizenry’s dormant passion with deceptive dialectics, as the elections wore on, their passion was shown for what it was, the spunk of beetles kindling wet wood. Most youth candidates failed to shine at the last general elections because their gospel of hope was untranslatable by realistic yardsticks. They spoke the same gibberish as the oligarchs they sought to unseat. Ultimately, they brought nothing new to the table, save a slew of platitudes and tiresome rhetoric. For instance, some dizzy candidate promised to turn marijuana into a national revenue earner and establish an N100, 000 national minimum wage package for the country in a manner reminiscent of the prominent parties’ lifeboat solutions. Another promised to rescue the Chibok girls, eradicate terrorism and entrench gender equality without a practical blueprint for achieving such. Eventually, their desperate rants and promises established them as dangerous daydreamers, who could and would rip apart a nation already fragmented and ruined by bigotries, maladministration, and plunder. Such is the quality of the ‘politically woke” youth. They identify all that is wrong with Nigeria but they are never specific about what must be done to correct them. It is relatively easy to join a picket line and tirelessly castigate our elders and ruling class for everything that is wrong with our lives, but these actions, while they demonstrate frustration, and in some instances, even heroism, deal generally with symptoms of· our problems and not the solutions. All the picket lines in the world would not resolve the maladies of corruption, fraudulent and impatient youth, greed, racism, disillusionment with learning, and substandard education. Yeah, bad news is in the air. We worry and gripe about it. Bloggers and columnists rant about it. We have even learnt to joke about it. But it’s time we do something about it. It is instructive that the Katari-Rijana train bombing was carried out by armed bandits “between 18 and 20” years old, according to the survivors’ accounts. It takes so much effort to be cynical and vengeful, let us channel such efforts into a more profitable enterprise, like visionary politics, honest labour, and reorientation. It’s about time we projected more progressive views of our world. Let us begin to seek the upright amongst us. They are the negligible few we love to haze and deride for being too ‘conservative,’ ‘boring’ and ‘pretentious.’ They believe in justice, equality and the rule of law. They are pious without being self-righteous. They are responsible, tolerant, and in many ways, more evolved. We need such a breed of Nigerians to drive a practicable and all-inclusive plan; a proposal of shared targets and intentions with broad-based support and the moral and political will to implement its mechanisms and ends, with a profound understanding of the law, governance methods, economics and social organisation of humane statehood. Without these, we will continue to flounder in the sea of well-meaning but ineffective good intentions. These are dark days for Nigeria. We are going through a particularly unpleasant form of hell but it’s a hell that we have made for ourselves.