Listed in a 40-man  Flying  Eagles squad  by coach Ladan Bosso  for  screening ahead of next month’s WAFU B U20 Championship taking place in Niamey, capital of Niger Republic, Samson Adeniran Lawal, the enterprising Katsina United midfielder, said  nothing is as sweet as being called upon to represent one’s country. Surely, Lawal  can be forgiven  for being overreached with joy  after  he missed representing the country earlier at the  national U-17  level in some inexplicable circumstances  last year. “I felt   so disheartened  when I was rejected   for the Golden Eaglets in 2021,” the Ibadan-born  midfield grafter told NationSport. “  I understood the coaching team because I went  late  for  the Under 17 trials which I believed they had already seen many players but it never  disturbed my drive and determination because I believed strongly my chance would come again which God has now given me with call up for the U-20  national team. “I feel elated  with the chance to play  for  Nigeria at the U-20 level because nothing is better than representing your country;  I give all the glory to Almighty Allah “I just want to do my best and show the coaching crew and the  whole world my ability and make my family and the whole country proud,” he enthused. Of course, a golden fish has no hidden place  because  following  the failure to  earn a spot  with the Golden Eaglets under coach Fatai Amoo,  Lawal, an upstart with Ibadan Pro Football Academy was offered  a once in a life time chance  of playing in the elite Nigeria Professional Football League(NPFL) with Katsina United. “After I left the U-17  trials,  I was extremely driven and   worked much harder,” he stated. “ The technical director of Katsina United then invited me for trials and they were convinced of my abilities and signed me for the team there and then. “Since I joined Katsina United,  I have been  treated extremely well  and this has helped  my confidence and elevated my performance as this is the biggest football stage within Nigerian domestic league/ “ The coaches and the senior players have  helped me and I have played around 15 matches  so far this season.”   Tottenham held by Brentford to dent top-four hopes     Arsenal beat Man United to boost top-four hopes     Pogba: My career with Man Utd not over   Newly  signed Katsina United coach  Usman Abdallah  is indeed full of praises  for the youngster, adding  he would be  one  of the future stars  if he  keeps his  work rate and humility. “ Samson Lawal  is one of the young players that I met on my arrival at Katsina United  and I’m so much impressed with him,” said the former Enyimba coach who was  recently named  Super Eagles assistant coach. “He is a very good player and I’m impressed  with him; he is a player that would be ready for the NPFL in the next two years. “ He is very humble and ready to work, he’s very mobile on the ball  and importantly, very disciplined  and he doesn’t even talk too much,” added Abdallah. A lover of Nigerian legend Austine  Jay Jay Okocha and  Brazil’s Ronaldinho,  Lawal  squealed  that one of the secrets to his progress  in his chosen football career is  the ability  to imitate some of the wiles and guiles  of notable footballers, adding  is desire is to all so go places as a footballer. “One of the secrets  of my career and top form  is watching the videos of some top players in  the major European football leagues,” he noted. “ Of course, I love Jay Jay Okocha because I have watched many of his videos and I also really admire Mikel Obi  as well as  Gaucho Ronaldinho. “ But given the chance, I would like to play alongside Messi because of his natural talent but Ronaldinho should be respected for his dedication and hard work.” Now, Lawal would have to fight  his way into  the  new Flying Eagles  squad being put in place by  Bosso  who failed the acid test  last time to qualify Nigeria for the  continental  intermediary youth  competition. The biennial West Africa Football Union (WAFU) Zone B tournament, which also serves as the qualification for the Total Energies U20 Africa Cup of Nations, will be held in the capital Niamey from May 7 to May 20, 2022. Title holders Ghana will compete with rivals Nigeria, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, Benin, Togo and hosts Niger for the coveted trophy as they   also are vying for places at the 2023 edition of the U20 AFCON to be held in Egypt. “I believe Nigeria is one of the best footballing countries in Africa and I believe the coaches have the tactical know how to pull together the quality of the players in the camp,” Lawal volunteered. “With determination and courage, we should be able to qualify for the U20 Africa Cup of Nations.”