National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Iyorchia Ayu, yesterday, taunted the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) over lack of developmental projects in states controlled by the party. He said while PDP governors were busy commissioning projects, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had nothing to offer Nigerians other than rising insecurity and a battered economy. Ayu spoke in Asaba, the Delta State  capital during  the inauguration of Ralph Uwechue Road and Storm Drainage projects executed by the state government. His words, “Only in PDP you have the National Chairman going from state to state to inaugurate projects; the other parties have no projects to inaugurate. “All they do is to give us bandits and terrorists that harass our lives and make life unbearable for our people. “It is because of this that the PDP is determined to take control of power at every level in Nigeria in the forthcoming elections.” Ayu, who was accompanied by members of the National Working Committee and Board of Trustees of the party, said only a committed democrat of the PDP family could be as concerned and dedicated to providing welfare for his people as Governor Okowa. He lauded Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for his commitment to the welfare of his people, describing him as a dedicated democrat. He said “let me thank my brother, the governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, for the great work he is doing for our party and for the people of Delta State. “I had planned to visit Delta for a long time; I was salivating because many of these projects I saw them on television. “I am particularly happy that I am inaugurating this road named after my good friend, the late Amb. Ralph Uwechue. He was a great intellectual, a diplomat and journalist and he deserves the honour that Delta has extended to him. “You have done well for honouring citizens that have done well in contributing to the development of Delta and Nigeria. “Delta indigenes have put Nigeria on the map in different ways, including soccer.” Ayu commended Deltans for their massive support for the PDP since 1999 and urged them to remain steadfast in support of the party in the forthcoming general elections. He counseled against disagreements that could jeopardise the fortunes of the party in the elections, saying “since we returned to democratic governance in 1999, Delta has remained a PDP state and I congratulate all our party members in Delta for the unity that has ensured that we remain a PDP state.   2023: SDP restrategises for presidential election     2023: APC yet to decide on zoning, says Adamu     Awujale, tradition and good governance   “Let me counsel that it is normal to have family disagreements within a political party, but whatever the disagreements we may have, let us ensure that it remains a family disagreement. “Nothing whatsoever should be done to damage the unity of purpose which has brought about this great development and our winning streak. “It is said that divided we fall and united we stand. The PDP family in Delta must remain united and I have no doubt in mind that come next year, the governor of this state and all members of the state and National Assembly will all come from the PDP. “We don’t lose elections in Delta and we are not going to, particularly with the performance of Governor Okowa. “Aside from road construction, he has done well in the health and education sectors but even if you do wonderful infrastructural projects and there is no human capital development, then you are not laying a solid foundation. “Luckily for us, we have a cerebral governor who understands that you need an educated and healthy population and you have to protect that population with solid infrastructure.” “Delta is moving forward and Delta will continue to move forward and Delta will always take its pride in Nigeria as one of the shining states of the PDP family.” Okowa said that the project was dear to his heart because it had provided a permanent solution to the hitherto perennial flooding in the state capital. He said that his administration had to undertake the project in spite of huge financial challenges when he came into office. “This particular project is very dear to my heart, not because of the road but because of the storm drainage projects which you are inaugurating today. “Some years ago, when I came into government, precisely in 2016, I slept and when I woke up, my ADC drew my attention that the fences of the Government House had been breached in two points, because the flood water coming from Okpanam had destroyed the fences that we had on either side. And I knew that I had a problem at hand. According to Okowa, Delta prides itself in the health sector as the first state to commence a contributory health insurance scheme for citizens. “In this state, we pride ourselves in the health sector, that we are the first state to actually give life to health insurance. As soon as we came in, in 2016, we had a legislation for compulsory health insurance scheme for our people. “The government undertook to pay the premium of all children under 5 years of age and all women who are pregnant. “As at today, we have over one million people registered in our contributory health insurance scheme and we have become a role model for other states,” he stated.