World Bank Group President David Malpass spoke on Wednesday at a virtual news conference to herald the Meetings 2022. At the conference, he spoke on the need for Nigeria to rethink the fuel subsidy and run a single exchange rate that is market-based among other global developmental issues, reports United States Bureau Chief OLUKOREDE YISHAU. Excerpts: The World Bank had been advising Nigeria to end the petrol subsidy, but the country has budgeted 4 trillion naira for petrol subsidies in 2022. What is your take on that and do you think it will be a drag on the economy? Generalized subsidies have significant negatives. One is, they are expensive because they go to everyone, and they’re often taken–more used by people with upper incomes than by people with lower incomes; they’re not targeted. So, we encourage, when there needs to be a subsidy for either food or for fuel, that it be carefully targeted, well targeted for those most in need. And we have encouraged Nigeria to rethink its subsidy effort. Also, two other things that I’ll mention on Nigeria that are important. It runs a multiple exchange rate system, which is complicated and is not as effective as it would be if there were a single exchange rate. The most useful thing for development is to have a single exchange rate that’s market-based, that is stable over long periods of time. That attracts investment and it also means that there is discipline within the country’s fiscal policies. That would help. And then, Nigeria also has trade barriers that distort trade flows, and that could be improved substantially in order to help the people in Nigeria move forward. I do take note of the complicated situation that they face. There are weapons flowing in through northern Africa that find their way to non-Nigerians that create violence in Nigeria. This is a very challenging situation that the government faces. And I think we, all over the world, people should have an understanding of the fragility that’s facing several parts of the world, but in particular the Sahel and the Sub-Saharan African area where the weapons flow from outside of Africa is putting a grave burden on governments around the continent. Nigeria has huge opportunity because of its natural resources and because of its people, and I think could see its growth accelerate with improvements in policy. Thanks. The food problem is severe. I mentioned the rise year-over-year in prices; that’s one aspect of it. It’s worse than that in a way because the prices crowd out the poorest. And so, it hits people in poor countries and especially in rural areas the hardest. There’s also the tendency to move towards less nutritious food. If other food is not available in the diet, people turn to rice, which often doesn’t have the nutrition that’s needed. This is clearly a severe crisis and it’s added to, or compounded by, the shortage of fertilizer that makes it hard to have a strong growing cycle. On the positive side, markets react quickly, and we are entering this cycle of food insecurity with large global stockpiles. As those are released, I think there can be progress. And also, the supply of food, of fertilizer and of energy can be increased substantially by countries if they choose to do that. I think it’s important to start early. As far as this week’s meetings, there was substantial discussion yesterday. I don’t expect an international agreement on food. What I hope and expect is that many countries will step forward with individual solutions to alleviate the food crisis and the fertilizer crisis. Given the impact of rising food prices due to the Russia-Ukraine War, should Ghana and other countries go for improved revenue mobilization, rather than issuance of euro bonds to correct their deficit position? Countries should put in place policies that are strong and that attract investment by their own citizens and by foreigners. Some of those can be revenue mobilization policies but, very important, they should be growth policies and they should attract private sector investment. There’s been a tendency to have too much emphasis on government-led investment, which doesn’t end up adding to the competitiveness and the productivity as much as it should, if it were less centralized. I think those steps are important. 		 			FCMB offerings meet customer, regulatory requirements…		 		 		 			OPEC: global oil demand to grow by 3.7mb/d in 2022		 		 		 			Flights begin at new Lagos international airport terminal		 		 As far as euro bonds, the challenge is for governments to use the proceeds very effectively now if they borrow. A giant conflict of interest is that sitting governments are able to borrow, and then future governments and the people of their countries have to pay back the borrowing. Remember, when you borrow principle, you only get to do it once, even if you roll over at zero percent interest rates into the future, which isn’t actually available for developing countries–if you roll over at a low interest rate you still are not able to borrow the principle again. It’s only a one-time supply of money, and that has to be used very effectively. And my worry is that hasn’t been the case in certain countries, and they’re left with unsustainable debt. As I mentioned in the opening remarks, it’s important that we have prompt, early resolution processes for unsustainable debt. And we’re working on that with the IMF, collaborating and encouraging the G20 to move quickly in that regard. Thanks. How is the World Bank going to support Ukraine during this challenging time? We wanted to have immediate support to help Ukraine continue some of the government services. We were able to mobilize nearly a billion dollars in emergency financing soon after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and that helped pay hospital workers and pensions and other government services. Last week, we announced another $1.5 billion of support for essential government services. And this week, on Thursday, we’ll have a meeting with Ukraine and supportive countries to look for assistance that will both consider the near term and also the longer-term needs of the people of Ukraine. I was in Poland last week, and Romania, and commended the governments and the people of those countries for their support of refugees coming from Ukraine. And I have been pleased to see some of those refugees going back to Ukraine–as western Ukraine stabilizes some. So, we can be encouraged by that trend, but we can also be aware that the war continues and there are millions and millions of displaced persons in Ukraine that need assistance. We’ll be working on that all this week. What should oil-importing states such as Morocco do at the present time to overcome the repercussions of the war in Ukraine? I was in Morocco a month ago, and it’s a challenging situation because of the suddenness of the increase in world energy prices. Morocco needs energy in order to make fertilizer. It needs fertilizer in order to make crops, including wheat, and that’s critical in the diet–the staples of people living in Morocco. And so, it creates a deep challenge both fiscally and socially to be able to replace the energy sources. The suddenness of this energy shock is hitting countries around the world. Morocco is in no way alone. There are many countries in similar situations. They have reacted quickly and early, and so I think that’s a plus. Countries are looking for contracts that they can use to lock in future energy supplies, even if there is an elevated price. I think the biggest point for the world is to allow the supplies that exist, and that’s supplies of liquified natural gas, for example, to flow to poorer countries, not be taken up by supplies–by stockpiles, but allow it to flow to the poorer countries that need it now. And then, look for new supplies and produce the new supplies going into the future. This needs to be treated as a long-term challenge for the world to increase the supply of energy. I do take note of the SDG 7, the Sustainable Development Goal 7 of the United Nations, which calls for electricity access for people around the world. And we still have 800 million people who don’t have access to electricity. There needs to be a large buildout of baseload capacity and grid capacity in many parts of the world in order to increase electricity access, and that also enables the use of renewable energy sources. There needs to be substantial investment in the backbone of the global electricity system in terms of baseload and grid in order to get through to the other side of this energy crisis. The World Bank announced a $170 billion crisis response package. How will this financing help smaller countries facing debt burdens such as Mongolia? The World Bank operates through country programs and regional programs. They’re built up by Country Directors, by Regional Directors, and by Practice Group Directors in order to have the most effective programs for the countries. So, whether it’s Mongolia or whether it’s Nigeria or Ghana, the countries that we mentioned today, the keystone is to have plans and programs for the country that benefit the people and allow the poverty to be alleviated and the median income to go up. What is it that will cause more investment in the country, that is productive? And we look for those programs and then try to rapidly expand the programs in those countries that are making progress toward beneficial results. Oftentimes, in a crisis like this one, we will be allocating more money to social protection programs; that means these targeted subsidies for the poorest so that they can have a path through the crisis and then have new businesses that start, new jobs that start on the other side of the crisis. That will be the focus around the world. The $170 billion includes money from IDA, which we are grateful to the donors of IDA. It’s one of the world’s–probably the world’s biggest trust fund that’s aimed at the poorest countries. And it’s effective and was just replenished last December and it will be starting–the new replenishment – starting operation on July 1. It will make available some $93 billion in the 12 months–excuse me, in the 3 years starting July 1. Within the $170 billion, we expect to be able to spend $50 billion of that in commitments in the current fiscal quarter, and then to draw on sources from IDA19 and IDA20, and also from IBRD resources, and there’s a big component from IFC, the International Finance Corporation, which is the private sector arm of the World Bank that makes debt and equity investments into companies in developing countries. And MIGA, as well, the guarantee authority of the World Bank, can be useful in the recovery process from these multiple overlapping crises. Thanks.