The Director-General, Debt Management Office (DMO), Ms Patience Oniha, has defended borrowings by the Federal Government, saying the  funds are used to bridge infrastructural deficit, increase job opportunities, enhance trade and attract foreign investors. Oniha stated this during the fourth National Budget Roundtable and Panel Discussion organised by Centre for Economic Policy and Development Research (CEPDeR) at Covenant University (CU), Ogun State. At the event, tagged ‘National budgeting for economic recovery and sustainable development in Nigeria’, she noted that most of the critical infrastructure built by the Federal Government were done from internal and external borrowings. Oniha said borrowings by the government were not necessarily bad as International Monetary Fund (IMF) states  that ‘Borrowing can enable countries to finance important development projects and programmes’. “Governments across the world borrow and debt levels have been on the rise even before the COVID-19 pandemic. “Nigeria is not peculiar in this regard as sustainable development requires a combination of fiscal and monetary policy actions that will, ultimately, involve structural reforms. Examples of such reforms  will be increased national productivity, higher exports, improved infrastructure (physical and social), better security, low to moderate level of inflation and stable to predictable exchange rates,” she said. She highlighted some of the infrastructure built by the Federal Government to include the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Second Niger Bridge, train station, Oddo, Lagos and Enugu Airport changed from Local to International. Oniha further said: ”The Nigerian government has successfully utilised borrowing as a tool for economic recovery to bring the economy out of cycles of recessions, first in 2017 and second in 2021″. “Government borrowing can also support other sectors that attract foreign investors and have multiplier effects on the country”.   Zenith Bank gives N93.33b dividends     CBN fines four banks over crypto transactions     Fed Govt laments $4billion import bill on textile   The DG stated that the nation’s debt profile to GDP ratio is 22 per cent as the maximum debt ration to GDP of any country should be 40 per cent. Oniha noted that the debt profile was fast growing as the country has a huge infrastructural deficit. She, however, said the government was working to diversify revenue sources to reduce pressure on crude oil which is prone to volatility. Oniha said spending on infrastructure by the Federal Government was meant to create job opportunities for teeming youths. Vice-Chancellor of institution, Prof Abiodun Adebayo, said the country’s natural and human resources endowment has placed us in a position to play a prominent role in the global economy. Adebayo stressed the need for the socio-economic potential of the nation to be harnessed to achieve growth. The don said the growth was bedeviled by supply constraints such as a shortage of essential skills and appropriate technology to drive growth, energy, foreign exchange and unfriendly business regulations. Country Director, BudgIT, Nigeria, Mr. Gabriel Okeowo, stressed the need for the Federal Government to put measures in place to meet revenue projection in the nation’s annual budget. Okeowo noted that the country’s revenue shortfall has hindered the implementation of some of the critical infrastructure. “The country needs to fixes its exchange rate because it is adversely impacting on the nation’s debt profile.” he said.