Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Sunday bemoaned the security challenges facing the country, saying they have overwhelmed the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. Obasanjo lamented no where was safe any longer in Nigeria. The elder statesman, who was reacting to the recent attacks on the Kaduna-Abuja train with no fewer than eight persons confirmed dead and 21 other passengers missing, said Nigeria was in a very precarious situation. He spoke at his Penthouse residence within Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library(OOPL) Abeokuta, Ogun State when a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Dr Ugochukwu Williams, and his team visited him. Williams,who was accompanied by House of Representatives aspirants from Plateau and Imo States, was in Obasanjo’s residence for consultation over his presidential aspiration.   Presidency hits PDP Govs for ‘misrepresenting facts…     We won’t allow PDP take back Ebonyi – Southeast…     APC condemns attack on Ondo Assembly spokesman   While calling for concerted actions by all stakeholders against insecurity, the former President noted the administration has been overwhelmed by the situation but urged Nigerians to not allow it overwhelm the country. He said: “Nigerians are no longer safe on the road, on the train and at the airport. “So, if anybody comes to say I want to see you, I want to talk to you, I will say ‘you’re welcome’. This is because I believe very strongly, and I have said it publicly and I will say it again that the situation we are in this country is not a situation where one man will say yes, he has a solution unless we are deceiving ourselves. I believe we need to sit down collectively and look at the situation. “A situation where you are not safe on the road, you are not safe on the train, you are not safe at the airport, shows a very serious situation. “I believe that all right-thinking Nigerians must know that we have a situation that has overwhelmed the present administration, but we should not allow that situation to overwhelm Nigeria.” He wished Williams well in the pursuit of his presidential ambition.