GIRLS should be given the opportunity to exhibit their talents in the arts, an artiste, Seyi Oluyole, has said. She stated this during the unveiling of the hostel of the Dreams Catchers Academy, a subsidiary of the Dream Nurture Initiative (DNI), at Itamaga, Ikorodu, Lagos. Miss Oluyole, who is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Academy, noted that any assistance given to these girls would pay off in the end as entertainment is contributing to the growth of the economy. She said though the government emphasis was supporting on Science, Technology, Engineering Mathematics (STEM), abandoning the arts was not good as it would rob the girls or those who are into that area the chance to boost their talents. Citing herself, Oluyole said when she realised that she was an arts student, she went for it with with the support of others to realise her dream. She described the institution, founded in 2014 and registered two years later, as the first formal free arts school in Nigeria. It kicked off with five pupils, and has grown to 30 with the plan to increase to 60 and have branches in other states,, she added.   LASPARK distributes free tree seedlings at LASU     Kidnap attempt: School assures on security of pupils     Eko Boys’ High School Old Boys gets new exco   She said the pupils were sourced from less privileged homes and well screened before they were admitted. She thanked AfroDroids for supporting her to complete the building, which was about 35 per cent under construction. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Afrodroids, Mr. Owo Anietie, recalled that he knew about the Academy on the social media and since built a relationship with the owner. He said it was his firm’s pleasure to support the school and its products to realise their objectives. He advised the government to encourage the youth to go into the arts. The Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Lagos Governor on Education, Ms Salau Adetola, expressed her satisfaction with Oluyole’s works, especially as they are focused on girls. A parent, Busayo Oyeleke thanked Oluyole for the gesture. ‘’The school has really tried. Since my child joined the school, she has been doing very well. This shows that the school influenced her,’’ she said.