The disclosure by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) that the ongoing construction of the Second Niger Bridge was 91 per cent completed excited many Nigerians who understood the power of infrastructure in sustainable growth. The N206 billion project is one of the three being funded from the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) to strengthen connectivity in the Southeast region and bring development closer to the people, writes COLLINS NWEZE. The dream of every Nigerian, especially those in the Southeast, of a Second Niger Bridge, will become a reality by this October, when it will be completed. As the clock ticks and contractors keep their eyes on the project timeline, many analysts are counting the gains the N206 billion much-talked about bridge will bring to the economy of the Southeast in particular and  that of Nigeria in general. The infrastructure will give strong support to the movement of people, goods and services in the region. According to the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), the ongoing construction of the Second Niger Bridge is  91 per cent completed. However, the total infrastructure of the bridge, which includes road, bridge and interchange, is at 84 per cent completion. The completion date, the authority reiterated, would be this October. The Managing Director, NSIA, Uche Orji, confirmed that the total project cost of about N206 billion, N157 billion had been spent on the infrastructure. “The total project cost is estimated at N206 billion. So far, about N157 billion has been expended on the project. It doesn’t mean that the outstanding sums won’t be utilised. This is just the expenditure to date. “As it stands, the entire stretch of infrastructure i.e. road, bridge and interchange etc is about 84 per cent done at this point while the bridge alone is over 91 per cent done,” he said. According to Orji, while in terms of percentage, the major works have been done, the finishing works are quite extensive and would take a few months, stretching into October. On the funding structure of the project, Orji, noted that the bridge was one of the three projects being funded from the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund. The others, according to him, are the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano Road and the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Orji explained: “The PIDF is a special fund set up by President Muhammadu Buhari and managed by the NSIA. The NSIA brought in some of its capital alongside the capital provided by Federal Government and the capital from the returned Sani Abacha loot. “So, when you said PPP, it is the NSIA and the partnership of the Federal Government; and NSIA is the one coordinating the fund from investors. “So, as it stands, it is purely the NSIA and the Federal Government that is the face of the project. “The NSIA is an investment institution owned by all three tiers of government, including the states and local governments, the Federal Government and the Federal Capital Territory, which make up the shareholders of the NSIA. “In terms of other people that will invest in the project, they will come under the NSIA’s fundraiser activities.” Chairman, Board of Directors, NSIA, Farouk Gumel, said: “The Board is pleased with the quality and pace of work. Undoubtedly, the Second Niger Bridge is a vital piece of national infrastructure. “With the construction over 84 per cent done, it will soon begin to confer on this axis, reduced travel time and minimal traffic which will, in turn, increase economic activities and enhance the connection between northern and southern parts of the country. “A Nigeria that is suitably connected with world-class infrastructure is the Nigeria of our dreams and this road will help in achieving that.” Compensation On the compensation for those, whose land were affected by the project, Orji said a significant portion of the compensation had been settled by the government. He said more assessment was still being made to compensate those that would still be affected as the project progresses. “Regarding compensation, this is an ongoing affair, we had paid significant sums earlier. However, there are still some more compensations to be made. We expect to close these as we continue to work. “As you can see, the bridge itself is 11.9 kilometres, there still remains 17 kilometres of road on this side and the Asaba end of the road that will be paid for.   NIN-SIM linkage: Queues continue at enrolment centres,…     Zenith Bank gives N93.33b dividends     CBN fines four banks over crypto transactions   “Assessment is still being made for compensation. What I can assure you is that the directive we have from the President and  the Minister and our Board is that adequate compensation is to be paid to everyone who is affected,” he noted. On whether the completion date is still feasible based on the progress of work done, the NSIA boss expressed optimism that the project would be completed on schedule. His words: “What we‘ve seen on the ground is very important. April 2 for us marks the end of civil work on the bridge and we needed to leave here. “And as you can see, casting is going on. So, it’s a very iconic period for us and it is unique because of the timing of the Finance Minister who came and witnessed it. “So, this is a day we should remember because after this, in a few hours, people can drive through it. And that marks the completion of the civil works and from here, it remains the finishing touches. So, this is very important.” The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, toured the project accompanied by the  directors of the NSIA and other top government officials. Ahmed had said:  ”Today is a very significant day in the construction circle of the second Niger bridge. This is one of the most iconic projects in the country at an initial contract cost of N206 billion. “We have been able to fund this project with N157 billion so far and I’m here to see where all this money is going. And also, the significance of today is that the two ends of the bridge are being put together and this is the final phase of the work in truly completing the project and the finishing work of the main works of the bridge. “So, technically, I can report to Mr. President that I have seen where all the N157 billion has gone to. This is a project that is very dear to the President and it is designed to uplift the lives and livelihood of the people of the Southeast and other parts of the country and we do hope that when this project comes on stream, it will ease traffic, enhance commercial activities and improve the lives of the people of the state.”   Second Niger Bridge: How it started   The Second Niger Bridge was proposed during the campaigns by the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). In 1987, after warning about the state of the River Niger Bridge by the then Minister for Works and Housing Abubakar Umar, the military President, General Ibrahim Babangida(rtd) challenged Nigerian engineers to design the Second Niger Bridge. The engineers rose to the challenge and through the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) subsequently delivered a masterplan. Unfortunately, the turmoil that precipitated the end of Babangida’s administration in 1993 stalled the plan. Under the subsequent military administrations, the project received little attention. Upon the return to civilian rule on May 29, 1999, President Olusegun Obasanjo promised to deliver a second Niger River bridge. However, Obasanjo’s administration did not carry out any major activity on the project until five days before he handed over in 2007 to the administration of Umaru Musa Yar’ Adua. That was when he kicked off the project in Asaba in Delta State. The handing over of the project by Obasanjo to Yar’Adua made his administration to effectively inherit a N58.6 billion proposed cost for a six-lane, 1.8 km tolled bridge, which was to be completed in three-and-half years. Based on the funding structure then, the bridge was to be financed under a public- private partnership (PPP) with 60 per cent of the funding coming from the contractor, Gitto Group; 20 per cent from the Federal Government and 10 per cent from the Anambra and Delta State governments. Unfortunately, the subsequent death of Yar’ Adua on May 5, 2010 marred the progress of the project. However, in August 2012, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) under the administration of Goodluck Jonathan, approved a contract worth N325 million for the final planning and design of the bridge. Before then, during the 2011 general election in Nigeria, Jonathan had, while campaigning for office of the President, promised that if elected, he would deliver the project before the end of his term in 2015. At an Onitsha town hall meeting on August 30, 2012, Jonathan had sworn to go into exile if he did not deliver the project by 2015. He failed to deliver on his words. Yet, he did not go into exile. The act of rigmarole where the Second Niger Bridge  was used as a major political pawn continued until President Muhammadu Buhari first cancelled the earlier contract in August 2015. The project was subsequently awarded to Julius Berger for N206 billion, to be implemented by the NSIA with funding from the PIDF, a special fund set up by  Buhari.   Views on contractor  Extolling the virtue of Julius Berger, the contractor of the project, Mrs. Ahmed added: “I am happy to see women working at the construction site and not only men. Julius Berger has brought some very unique innovations in the construction of this project and I want to, on behalf of the government and people of Nigeria, applaud the skills of the construction workers that have been working on this site.” She added: “This project has been going on 24/7 all year round with people working in shifts and that the workers are operating from within here and in the surrounding states. Many jobs have been created. So, up to about 20,000 people are working on this project.” The finance minister’s visit came barely three weeks after President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, among other top government officials, inspected the project.