The music industry is highly competitive with consistency a determining factor. Oftentimes, artists achieve stardom and then, just when you think they’re at their peak, they fall off the radar. Richard Chibuzo Orji aka “Faze” is one of the best vocalists of his time. He was a member of the Plantashun Boyz, a defunct music group that also included BlackFace and 2face. After leaving his previous band in 2004, Faze embarked on a solo career. He released hit songs such as “Kolomental and “Kpo Kpo Di Kpo,” which went viral. He was seen as one of the biggest artistes to ever come out of Nigeria but how his career nosedived is still a mystery. The hyperactive musician from Benue state who infested the industry with explosive free madness vibes sprang to prominence in 2006. He became famous when he released the crazy tune “Free madness” which went viral. The Akpako Master as he was nicknamed released some thrilling songs like “Free madness”; “Sangalo”; “Run Mad” and “Akpako”. Unfortunately, the once very famous singer has faded away from the scene like a smoke. Modupe-Oreoluwa Oyeyemi Ola aka Mo’cheddah, was a classic definition of a young girl in the rap industry. She bagged the MTV Africa Music Awards and Channel O Music Video Awards in 2010 despite being in a male dominated industry. She released her debut studio album in 2010 while signed to Knighthouse Entertainment. She parted ways with Knighthouse in February 2012 and established her own label, Cheddah Music. Not much has been heard from her since then.   Five celebrities whose marriages, relationships broke after…     I’m satisfied with growth of comedy industry – Yaw     Femi Otedola reacts to daughter’s engagement to Mr…   Dija’s music career started in 2008 when she released her first official single in 2009. She became a common name in the music Industry after signing with Mavins record in 2014. She released hit singles “Aww” and “Yaro” under the label. In 2017, she released an EP, which has vocals from artistes such as Tiwa Savage and Reekado Banks. Following that, she has released a few singles but has not been very active in the music scene. Wale Adepoju, also known as W4, is from Osun State. Prior to breaking into the spotlight, he provided back-up vocals, collaborations, songwriting, and co-writing for a number of artists. W4 became famous with his hit song Kontrol. He has worked with several artists, including 2face, Sound Sultan, Timaya, among others. However, not much has been heard from the artist in recent times. Afropop singer, Iyanya Onoyom Mbuk, rose to fame after winning the first season of Project Fame West Africa and is best known for his hit single “Kukere”. He was astounding in his prime days churning out irresistible tunes like “Sexy mama”; “Your waist” and “Gift” to name just a few. He even dropped an EP under Mavin records which no one heard of. Let us just say that, the “Kukere” crooner leaving the scene is something we never expected or saw coming.  2007 was basically Olu Maintain’s year as it saw the musician at the pinnacle of his career with his smash hit Yahooze. In 2008, he performed ‘Yahooze’ at the Royal Albert Hall, London and brought on stage Colin Powell to dance to his tune. While the multiple award-winning singer has recorded several albums such as Nawti, Hypnotize and Cinderella over the last 13 years, he has failed to stage a major comeback.