Popular business mogul Obi Cubana has expressed immense gratitude to God on his 47th birthday. The billionaire socialite shared photos and videos to mark the occasion via his Instagram page. He appreciated God for being omnipresent in his life and affairs. Wishing himself another glorious year, Obi Cubana wrote: “I smile through it all…….God’s got me. Destined for Greatness!!! Never shall I lose focus!! “Grateful for EVERYTHING!!! Thank You God for making me see another glorious year…. “In everything, You have been TOO FAITHFUL to me Lord!!! You have proven Yourself in my life!! “Through all the trials and tribulations, You have consistently been there for me Oh Lord!!! Thank You God, for all You are to me! Happy birthday to me!!! Family, friends, associates, celebrities and followers of the nightlife boss have continue to troop to his comment section to felicitate with him. His wife, on her Instagram page, celebrated him, showering him with prayers in a lengthy post.   Woli Agba to parents: let your daughters return home alive,…     Leave if marriage becomes toxic-Dayo Amusa     Airport workers scramble for Portable’s money   Sharing a photo of her ‘dark chocolate mocha’, Mrs Iyiegbu aka Lush eby wrote: “Obi m! Oyi m! Odogwu m! Okpataozueora m ! Nwachinemelu m! The love of my life! I am known for writing epistles but today, words fail me because I honestly don’t know where to begin and where to end. “Your entire life is one big book that needs to be studied. You are a gift to the world! You are the “ Father Theresa “ of our times. A great leader in every sense of the word. Your heart is so pure. You remain my number one in true friendship and leadership. “I know your journey into this life isn’t by chance but by the special grace of our great God. You were created for a purpose and you are living in your purpose. Am glad that I am part of your story and I’ll always be there to support your hand and never let it down. “On this day, all I can say is Thank you Father for giving you the opportunity to see another year and to pray that you will continue to LIVE! You will continue to excel in good health, you will never be weary in doing good. Your hands shall always be blessed. In your going in and out, you shall be protected. “No evil eye shall see you and no fiery darts of the enemy shall overpower you because we have made the lord our God, our shield & our buckler! You will live to see 90 and beyond. You will carry your grand children and they shall call you blessed. I declare that prosperity , goodness, happiness and grace shall reign over you. “My prayers are many today but all I can say is that I am proud of you! Proud to be doing this life with you! Your children shall call you blessed because you’ve written your name in the heart of history. Your name re-echoes , reverberates and resonates across every city in the world because of your good deeds. “You are loved Dim oma and it is not your fault that it is so. It is God that orchestrates everything from the beginning of life. “Keep winning, keep excelling, keep shattering glasses and breaking boundaries! Because God is with you! Have an amazing birthday Obi m! Love you for life my Shuga zaddy!” In another post, she wrote: “I will sing of the goodness of God in your life! In all the battles…the struggles…the wins…the losses…the sleepless nights…the laughters…the parties…the tears…the worries…the victories, God has been more than enough! Celebrating a God made man. “Happy birthday my tall, dark and handsome. My dark chocolate mocha.”