A presidential aspirant on the platform of Accord Party, Prof. Christopher Imumolen, has condemned the recent killings in Plateau State by terrorists. He also condemned the bombing of the Abuja-Kaduna train by terrorists who laid explosives on the rail track on March 28, 2022. While saying the country is no longer safe for Nigerians, Imumolen said that Nigeria’s security challenges appeared to have overwhelmed the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government. Imumolen expressed concern that Nigeria is sliding gradually into a state of anarchy, and called for a concerted effort of stakeholders to stem the tide of insecurity in the country. He said this while reacting to the recent terrorist attacks in the country which saw over 100 people killed and another 140 train passengers abducted in the last few days. Imumolen, who noted that the country is in a precarious security situation, said the development has shown that Nigerians are not safe anywhere – in vehicles, on the train or on the aircraft.   2023 elections: Gombe gov asks political appointees, others…     Tinubu is God’s choice for 2023 presidency – Bishop…     BUKAYO SAKA: Arsenal’s new-found resilience…   The presidential aspirant spoke at the Accord Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja, while picking the expression of interest and nomination form for the 2023 presidential election. According to him, the present administration has been overwhelmed by the situation, saying he was on a mission to “rescue” Nigeria. He said: “Yesterday, many people were killed in Plateau. A few weeks ago several people were killed in the Abuja-Kaduna train attack. Nigeria is no longer safe. “We can no longer pass through the roads, the air, and the railways. Our children can no longer go to school. Just yesterday again, some students in Adamawa were kidnapped in school. “We now live in a society where even the rich are afraid to showcase their wealth. It is so terrible. Those who are poor are getting poorer by the day. “So, there is a need for Nigeria to look beyond just having those whose faces are out there to begin to run the affairs of this country and dwindle the economy. What we need is sincerity of purpose and straightforward leadership to save Nigeria, which I will provide, if I am elected the President.” National Chairman of the party, Mohammed Lawal Nalado, urged the youths to engage more in politics to achieve a new Nigeria.