Transcorp Hotels Plc spent N1.67 billion on energy last year to power its hotels across the country. Chairman of the hotel Mr. Emmanuel Nnorom confirmed this at end of the Transcorp Hotels Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Abuja yesterday. However, he has assured that though they expect to pay more in the year, this will not affect the room rates of the hotels under the group. Despite the huge amount spent to power, Transcorp Hotels recorded a gross revenue of N22 billion up by more than 100 per cent when compared to the N10 billion recorded the previous year. “The pandemic changed the customer behaviour, arrival and departure patterns and the geographical business mix of the hotel. We harnessed all these and dominated the market as we outperformed the industry average and the N10bn revenue recorded in 2020,” the chairman added. Reacting on the hotel chain’s performance, Nnorom said: “Energy is our biggest cost because we have 670 rooms in this hotel and we have to ensure that there’s adequate power not only for the guests but also for other facilities.”   NEPC harps on competition     How to address power outage at Lagos Airport, by Reps, NCAA     Dangote Refinery ‘ll meet 100% Nigeria’s fuel…   According to him, “there are customers and everybody needs power. It is our biggest cost; it’s going to rise because we all know that the price of diesel has gone up. Also, in a way the power cost is also up, but we will continue to do well to have good returns for our shareholders”. On whether Transcorp Hotels is looking at alternative source of energy like solar to power its facilities, Nnorom said such plans were in the offing. “Yes, we have plans for that but it’s not something that will take the whole hotel out completely from the grid. It’s going to be some distributed areas. We have an event centre coming up that could be powered by solar and the Fulani Bar, where we have a standalone unit. But for the main hotel building it’s still on the national grid,” he said. He stressed that the Hotel would continue to maintain reasonable price for its customers, despite the high cost of energy it has incurred. “Not so much in terms of the price of the rooms and other services; we will maintain reasonable prices, the power cost notwithstanding, because there is a limit to what we can peg. We can always make income from other sources. “We have exchange rate issues, inflation, increased cost of diesel, etc. We have looked proactively on how to ensure that we manage the resources of the hotel very well; from such, we are going to make quite a lot of savings. Nnorom said the hotel chain is “also looking at substituting some of the items that hitherto were imported by looking for local, quality, acceptable alternatives, with all that is in place, we will be able to cope with the increase in cost”.