The newly inaugurated Chief of Naval Staff Cup has taken its pride of place as one of the major prizes to be vied for by participating teams during the Lagos International polo tournaments. The management of Nigeria’s premier polo club confirmed this during the recently concluded 2022 international polo festival as the glittering silver trophy was presented for competition. The Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo said the presentation of the trophy was a demonstration of the Nigerian Navy ‘to support and promote the development’ of the noble game in the country. Vice Admiral Gambo, who lauded the leadership strides of Lagos Polo Club in the development of the game of Polo in Nigeria, stated the game will help Nigerian Navy officers build camaraderie capable of strengthening the nation’s defense. “I’m delighted to be here today. I appreciate the president of the club, Ayo Olashoju and the management for the honour done and let me also acknowledge the support of other naval staff.” The naval boss declared. He added: “I am happy to state that the Nigerian Navy remains committed and will continue to nurture the relationship with Lagos Polo Club for our mutual benefits. “It is on good authority that British naval officers introduced the game of polo to Nigeria on the turf of the Lagos Polo Club. 		 			Feyenoord gets Genk’s transfer deadline for Dessers		 		 		 			Makinde to commission building donated to IGC		 		 		 			Revealed: How El Rufai turned around Kaduna cricket		 		 So, the Lagos Polo Club and the navy family have come a long way and the relationship will only get better.” Lagos Polo President, who thanked the Chief of Naval Staff for his commitment to partner the club in the promotion of the king of games locally and internationally, urged other corporate organizations and sports loving individuals to continue to partner with the club in all its activities. Lagos Caverton (2) team wrote their names in gold as the first ever winners of the prestigious cup, defeating Bobtrack Tractor team from Port Harcourt 7-2 to clinch the coveted cup at the 2022 NPA/GTCO Lagos Polo International Tournament nears conclusion. Argentine Diego Whyte was influential to the home team’s success scoring two goals in the opening chukka which ended 21 as Hamisu Buba reduced the deficit to a goal for the team from the Garden City. A host of dignitaries – led by Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo – were thrilled with high class polo as Whyte, got one more goal in the second chukka but Buba, a four goaler, had his second goal to keep the scores just marginal for Bobtrack Tractor who also fielded Jamilu Isiaku, Nonso Onochie and Fernando Muniz. Five-goaler, Whyte was on fire as he extended Caverton lead to 4-2 in the early stage of the penultimate third chukka. Rotimi Makanjuola, who had his brother Bode and Muyiwa Oni on the Caverton side, scored the Lagos’ side’s fifth goal as clocks wind down. Though Whyte scored another goal to put the game safe, there was still time for Rotimi Makanjuola to break away from the middle of the field to score again, sealing victory for the Lagos side.