The newly listed Access Holdings Plc has the potential to grow its businesses and generate double-digit returns for investors. Analysts at Coronation Asset Management in their latest review on the new holding company said Access Holdings’ business antecedents, new opportunities and experienced board and management make it an attractive stock to buy. According to analysts, at the stock market, Access Holdings’ share price could rise by some 28 per cent capital gains. This implies more than 30 per cent total returns based on the group’s average dividend yields over the years. Access Bank paid N35.5 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2021, representing a total dividend per share of N1 for the year, an average of 10 per cent yield. Analysts noted that the transition from a commercial banking group structure by the former Access Bank Plc to a holding company structure was aimed at creating strategic flexibility to adapt to future business opportunities and diversify the group’s revenue. Coronation Asset Management outlined that Access Holdings consists of four subsidiaries designed to tap into the market opportunities with Access Bank playing in regulated banking, Grow Microfinance Bank Limited playing in consumer lending, The Payment Services Company Limited operating in digital payment services and Access Insurance Brokers Limited playing in retail insurance. “We welcome this development at a time when competitive pressures are intensifying in the traditional banking space, and banks need to find new revenue streams and value in new opportunities.’’ “A holding company model in this environment is a tried and tested route for Nigerian banks to explore earnings growth outside of the challenging banking sector. It also provides scope for investors to value the group on a sum-of-the-parts basis and give management room to explore cross-selling opportunities across a large group,” Coronation Asset Management stated. Analysts also commended the leadership structures for the now flagship subsidiary, Access Bank and the holding company noting that the fell in line with precedent created in recent years. “Overall, we are encouraged by the new appointments, given their many years of experience across key positions within the bank and financial services at large,” Coronation Asset Management stated. Access Bank Plc had on Monday March 28, 2022 formally completed its transition from a commercial banking group to a holding company (holdco) with the delisting of Access Bank and listing of Access Holdings Plc at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX). Dr Herbert Wigwe, the former Group Managing Director of Access Bank, was announced as the Group Managing Director of Access Holdings Plc. The board of directors of the Access Holdings also immediately announced key management positions for its new flagship subsidiary, Access Bank Plc, with the appointment of Mr Roosevelt Ogbonna as the Managing Director of Access Bank. Mr. Victor Etuokwu was appointed as the Deputy Managing Director, Retail North for Access Bank, while Mrs. Chizoma Okoli was appointed Deputy Managing Director, Retail South of the bank.   Shareholders approve new capital raising for Custodian…     Cordros woos investors with halal fund     Notore to raise new equity, bonds to strengthen growth   A total of 35.545 billion shares of Access Bank was delisted and relisted in the name of Access Holdings, after same duly credited to shareholders in proportion to their holdings, as sanctioned by the scheme of arrangement for the transition. With its new status, Access Holdings, which already has well-established subsidiaries in not less than 12 African markets and also in United Kingdom, will be able to expand into other financial services and non-finance businesses, in addition to its known commercial banking franchise. Access Bank, the precursor of Access Holdings, is known for its deft acquisition deals and many analysts see the new holdco playing major roles in shaping the African economic landscape. The group has already hinted it intends to play leading roles in retail payment, financial technologies (fintechs) and specialised financial vehicles among others. The immediate members of the holdco include the flagship Access Bank Plc and its former subsidiaries including Access Bank (Gambia) Limited; Access Bank (Sierra Leone) Limited; Access Bank (Rwanda) Plc; Access Bank (Zambia) Limited; Access Bank (R.D Congo) S.A.R.L; Access Bank (Ghana) Plc; Access Bank (Guinea) S.A; The Access Bank (UK )Limited; Access Bank (Mozambique) S.A; Access Bank Kenya Plc; Access Bank (South Africa) Limited; and African Banking Corporation of Botswana Limited. Wigwe said the transition to holdco was in order to realign the group for growth and create strategic flexibility and diversification of its revenues. According to him, the non-operating financial holding company would enable the group to hold investment in banking and non-banking subsidiaries as well as benefit from available market opportunities and grow scale in the regulated consumer lending market, African electronic payments industry and Nigerian retail insurance market. Wigwe expressed optimism that the group would do well as its planned strategies in 2022 are intended to unlock opportunities for its stakeholders as well as its shareholders. “We plan to do this by building a dynamic, efficient and agile bank with a digital-first mindset, capable of providing best in class service with strong returns,” Wigwe said. Chairman, Board of Directors, Access Bank, Dr Ajoritsedere Awosika, said the bank will continue to pursue its strategies while building on its strengths and foundations to overcome the challenges the year will present. Chairman, Access Holdings Plc, Mr. Bababode Osunkoya,  said the new appointments reflected the robustness of the leadership succession plan and the decision to considerably strengthen the  retail business while harnessing the potentials of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and financial inclusion towards the attainment of group’s strategy. According to him, the appointees were selected based on their exceptionally rich, professional, academic, and corporate board experiences, which are all relevant to the needs of the board. “We are deeply convinced that their skills will no doubt continue to add significant value to our bank’s quest to become Africa’s Gateway to the World,” Osunkoya said