The Board of Governors for the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts & Sciences has voted to ban embattled Hollywood star, Will Smith from all Academy events, including the Oscars for 10 years. The decision was part of the consequences for Smith after he slapped comedian Chris Rock during the 94th Oscars telecast. Smith slapped comedian and actor, Rock, for making jokes about his wife during the live broadcast live of the Oscars award ceremony. Shortly after the incident, which had already sparked reactions around the world, Smith won the most coveted prize of the night, Best Actor, for his role in the biopic, King Richard. After the slap, Rock said: “Will Smith just smacked the s—t out of me.”   Buhari assents to Police Academy Establishment Act     I’m waiting for anyone to sue over Omisore, says Soyinka     Akeredolu’s wife: Why I’m contesting Imo East…   As Smith returned to his seat beside his wife, he yelled back at the comedian to “keep my wife’s name out your f—king mouth.” The Academy of Motion Picture Art and Sciences condemned the actor’s actions stating that it had launched a review into the incident and then apologised to Rock. Smith, who resigned from the Academy last week, apologised for his action. In its decision on Friday, the Academy said: “Today, the Board of Governors convened a meeting to discuss how best to respond to Will Smith’s actions at the Oscars, in addition to accepting his resignation. The Board has decided, for a period of 10 years from April 8, 2022, Mr. Smith shall not be permitted to attend any Academy events or programs, in person or virtually, including but not limited to the Academy Awards. “We want to express our deep gratitude to Mr. Rock for maintaining his composure under extraordinary circumstances. We also want to thank our hosts, nominees, presenters and winners for their poise and grace during our telecast. “This action we are taking today in response to Will Smith’s behavior is a step toward a larger goal of protecting the safety of our performers and guests, and restoring trust in the Academy. We also hope this can begin a time of healing and restoration for all involved and impacted.”