THE desired marriage is not complete without an adequate plan for a better and fulfilled s3x life. S3x remains a potent tool to forge last ing relationships among couples and a good s3x life, no doubt, will certainly help prepare couples to face challenges. For couples whose s3x lives have taken a dip, this article presents another opportunity to rediscover the magic that once kept your hearts fluttering with joy. The cheery news is that great s3x is still attainable, as always. In addition, in order to make this possible, you will need to consider the following tips: Make it hot Do you know that the hotter the passion, the better the s3x, there are different ways to tell your partner how much you enjoy sleeping with him or her? Sometimes the way you talk about s3x or demand it; the way you respond to your partner’s advances or the things you do to your body in order to look good could go a long way toward keeping the passion in your relationship hot and sizzling. When there is a mutual desire to jump into each other’s arms and roll together in the hay, a couple would always be willing to go the extra mile to see to ensure that they both had the best of s3x. Therefore, flirting with your spouse will not hurt. There is nothing wrong with flirting with your spouse. If anything, flirting could spice up your s3x life a little. If you are the wife, you should form a habit of flirting with your husband all the time. When you put on your alluring airs, you are indirectly telling your husband that you are always interested in his s3xual prowess. I tell you, men often react positively to this kind of attitude. The way you look at your partner is also very important. This is because glances could generate an exchange of s3xual energy. Dressing seductively could eventually get your husband fired up s3xually, even though he would pretend initially not to notice. Any woman that is serious about winning the attention of her husband ought to keep a s3xy kit handy and make sure that all the items are available anytime, anywhere and at strategic points in the car, kitchen, and bedsides. Most men are frequently under s3xual pressure and an average man thinks about s3x at least five times in a day. It does not matter whether you are newlywed, you are a nursing mother, or you are a menopausal bride. What matters is that you must treat the nuptial bed like a bona fide business or make it one. You can even be a little mysterious s3xually. The fact is that if a wife arouses her husband’s curiosity, it is guaranteed that the man will always be back against all odds. Statistically, an average man gets bored easily s3xually. Voice your s3xual fantasy; practice it with your spouse. It is not strange to create s3xual scenarios in your mind. However, the best way to relive these scenarios is to share them with your spouse and practice them with her. Experts say all living beings have s3xual fantasies, in which an individual imagines himself enjoying erotic moments with his or her spouse in strange places at strange times and so on. Sharing s3xual fantasies with your partners is a way of heightening and intensifying erotic potential by showing your spouse possibilities that he or she has never considered before. In turn, this will open the door to a lifetime of s3xual ecstasy. Most times, spouses underestimate how powerful they become if they can fulfil their partner’s unrequited fantasy. The point is that if your partner has been dreaming about something all of his/her life, and then you help make it a reality for him, the chances are that you will definitely inspire him to display incredible loyalty and devotion to you. The advantage of these fantasies is that they give room to aggression, assertiveness, unpredictability, and impulsiveness that creates fun, excitement, and expectations; which in turn eliminates boredom. Bear in mind that an average human being loves changes and dislikes monotony, even in marriage. Giving your spouse great s3x is important Great s3x is like a basic chemical reaction between two married lovers. Love and great s3x are like chips and ketchup. Giving your spouse great s3x is like pledging your eternal allegiance to him or her. It is like vowing to make sure that he or she experiences orgasm for the rest of your life, to create a lasting s3xual atmosphere and environment, and to ensure that his or her desire comes first. Although most men dislike longish foreplay, they are aware of the fact that control is essential during lovemaking and that most women think wonderful s3x should be full of slow foreplay and should last long. Remember that the best s3x lasts between seven and thirteen minutes. According to a study published in a journal, medical researchers who surveyed people’s bedroom preferences say two minutes is too short, three to seven minutes is adequate and 30 minutes is too long. Good s3x frees couples from stress; s3x will be sweeter when stress is out of the way. How well you sleep will determine whether you will enjoy stress-free s3x or not. Bad sleep plus bad mood equals poor s3x. That is the equation. The best thing is to go to bed at the same time every day and to avoid watching the TV or listening to the radio just before bedtime, as they stimulate your brain and will keep you awake. It is not advisable to eat heavily before going to bed at night or your digestive system will do overtime work that will keep you awake for a longer time than necessary. Take a good bath. Everyone knows that a cold shower starts you off to good sleep and even in the morning, for good s3x. When couples are smelly and repulsive it is, actually, the sticky sweat that produces such and the simple antidote is a good bath.   ‘Abacha inflicted injury on me twice’     Buhari to Oba of Benin: We’ll continue to work for return of…     Eid-el-Fitr: After two-year break, Buhari to receive guests…   It is advisable to dim the light when you are about to sleep because it will help put your eyes to rest and put your body on wind-down mode for better s3x, hours after. Then stay off s3x for a while, in order to create freshness and sparkle in your relationship, both of you can decide to stay off s3x for a period of time. Indeed, a ‘s3x-fast’ could be helpful, in terms of preserving the warmth in the bedroom and affection. Besides, it will revitalize, restore and create a reconnecting s3xual experience. Exploring partner’s body turn marriage around Recently I met a certain gentleman named Mr. Collins who told me that he was having a little problem satisfying his wife in bed and could not help sharing it with me. He said, “I love my wife very much. My problem with her is that she hardly enjoys s3x with me, except it involves oral foreplay. When I refuse to do it, she accuses me of being selfish. I have observed that without oral foreplay, she would not reach her s3xual peak. “Although I have done this in the past, I won’t say that I liked it. I am afraid that if I continue, it might affect my health. What is the likely effect on me and what do you recommend? This whole thing is threatening to tear my marriage apart if l fails to find an urgent solution to it. “Secondly, I am in my early Fifties and I hardly stay up to thirty seconds before ejaculating. Most of the time, I would have finished having mine before my wife began to enjoy the act. This is another problem that is threatening my marriage. What type of drugs or cream would you recommend that can enable me to stay long enough to satisfy her in bed?” Since Mr. Collins seemed quite anxious to find a solution to this problem and he did not appear to be in a hurry to leave until I had sorted him out, l had no other choice than to lead him to an eatery nearby where we spent some time talking about it. Most married men often make the error of assuming that as long as they can ejaculate within 30 seconds of penetrative s3x, they have performed the extraordinary feat. What they do not know is that 30 seconds is too short a time to give a normal woman the pleasure that she deserves in bed. Certainly, no sincere and genuine woman will tell you that she is able to achieve or gasm in just half a minute of s3xual intercourse. It was obvious that Collins sincerely wished to please his wife and his inability to stay long enough to guide her to climax was no fault of his own. However, I had to let him know that it was the root of his marital crisis. Every woman needs her man to hang on tight until she achieves climax, that is the way a woman is made. The truth is that, like most men, Collins did not know enough about his s3xual responsibilities. He was ignorant of the fact that it was a man’s duty to please his wife in bed and men who fail to do this stand the risk of being treated with disrespect by their wives. I had to explain to him that the reason why his wife’s organ was unusually tight was that she was not properly lubricated before penetration. All that he needed to do to get her wet and ready for actual penetration was to indulge in extensive foreplay. Of course, the real problem was not that Mrs. Collins’ organ was too tight for her husband; it was because he had become too sensitive and easily aroused by the prospect of having s3xual intercourse. By the thrusting in and out of the woman in this condition, any man would most certainly ejaculate within a very short time. Such a condition is called Premature Ejaculation, which is usually a sequel to CPR. CPR normally causes ejaculation within 30 seconds and women need more than 30 seconds of action to climax. Although he did not know it, like most other average people, Collins was actually afflicted by Chronic Prostatitis (CPR). The bitter truth is that Collins and others who suffer from this ailment are literally denying their wives the best s3x that is due to them. The reason why Mrs. Collins is reacting negatively is that her man leaves her s3xually unfulfilled after each bout of lovemaking. Since she hardly understands what is happening to him, she thinks that he is deliberately denying her s3xual enjoyment. Considering the fact that Mrs. Collins even went further to teach her husband what to do, it won’t be out of point to conclude that she has done her best to find a solution to the problem. However, it seems that her husband, obviously dulled by the fear of contracting a disease, is slow to appreciate her sacrifice. I have said before that married couples that are keen on saving their marriages ought to take pleasure in exploring each other’s bodies extensively before launching off into penetrative s3x. Since men naturally respond faster to s3xual stimuli than women do, not many of them know how to satisfy their wives in bed. Such men will have to learn to slow down a bit. Secondly, they must understand that indulging in foreplay is a fundamental prerequisite for a fulfilled marital life. Unfortunately, most men do not feel any need for foreplay. However, their women do and they need it as they would need a life jacket while at sea. Regarding oral s3x, the truth is that nobody will be hurt if a man decides to tickle his wife’s s3x glands by performing oral s3x on her. If both of them are faithful to each other and do not indulge in extramarital affairs, there is no cause for alarm. However, when they both keep other lovers, they stand the risk of contracting syphilis and herpes or just any other s3xually transmitted disease. Apart from that, couples need to decide if they would introduce oral s3x as part of the menu or not. My final words to Mr. Collins and other men afflicted by chronic prostatis: get treated so you can last longer, discuss things with your wife and apologise for your s3xual inadequacy. Since you, both need to fully understand the dynamics of s3x, see a counsellor/ therapist, doctor or s3xologist.