Barely few weeks after losing out in the race for chairmanship, a former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari has opted to defect from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He is likely to move to the opposition party with Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa. It was gathered that the terms of the defection have been perfected. According to Ibrahim Birnin Magaji, the Publicity Secretary of a group within Zamfara APC loyal to the former governor, Yari and Marafa were set to defect to PDP. He said: “It is true, Yari and Sen. Marafa will soon move from APC to PDP.” Asked how soon the defection would take place, he said: “Very, very soon.” He was not forthcoming on why the two leaders have decided to dump the APC for the PDP. But Marafa, in a telephone interview, said he can move out of APC. He said: “Let those people that are afraid of us come out and say they want to see us out and we can go out anytime now.   2023: Bello ready for open contest, says Campaign DG     Nigeria is broken, Kukah insists     At ‘Easter of War’ Pope seeks peace   “As far as I am concerned, I am not a fulfilled person as far as this project called APC. If there is anything left, I am waiting to see how the architect of this cruelty meted out to the people of Zamfara State, and how they are going to fare in politics. “But for now, I am happy, I told them to their faces in Kaduna that they will never benefit from the machinations they were doing at that time that is Mai Mala Buni and his co-travellers (former Caretaker Committee members of the party). And I’m happy that they have lost out and they have lost out disgracefully. “So, I don’t have any business, I can move out of APC anytime I so desire now, anytime I want, I can move out. APC is not Islam. It is only my religion that I cannot leave for whatever reason, but a political party, I can leave and join anyone of my choice anytime I feel like.” But when asked why they (Marafa and Yari) will want to dump the party they built from the foundation, Marafa said: “APC has treated me unjustly and I have two options: either to forgive the party or I can move out if I want. Some people are too desperate to see us out and they should rest assured that we will move out at our own pace. He said his group may rescind its decision if the new leadership of the party chose the path of justice. “It depends on what the new leadership desires to do. If they choose to toe the line of Mai Mala, we are going out, politics is about winning the election and everything, so we cannot stay in a house that we are not needed,” he added. The Chairman of the state chapter of the PDP, Col. Bala Mande (rtd) confirmed yesterday on that Yari and Marafa will soon dump the APC. He spoke after a stakeholders’ meeting in Gusau, the state capital. The PDP leader said the meeting finalised the defection terms and reached an agreement to work for the development of the party. Col Bande said: “We have all agreed to work for the development of the party and the PDP in the state has welcomed them to its fold. “We will ensure justice and fairness to all members even after we have won elections in 2023. The date for their grand reception to our party will be announced later but we are going to implement all the agreements reached during the stakeholders meeting.”