The first batch of 50 Umrah (lesser Hajj) pilgrims under Lagos State government last night departed Nigeria for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Others will depart today and return home after the Eid-il-Fitr.The state government enjoined the pilgrims to pray for the country. Commissioner for Home Affairs Prince Anofiu Olanrewaju Elegushi, said this during a seminar organised by the Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board for the pilgrims at the Shamsi Adisa Thomas (SAT) Mosque, GRA, Ikeja, Lagos. Represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mr. Whenu Sewedo Oluseyi, Elegushi said Nigeria needs prayers against all the challenges bedeviling the nation, such as insecurity, kidnapping, banditry, incessant killings and economic downturn, amongst others.   Redundancy leads to crime, says cleric     ‘Digital assets don’t guarantee returns’     ‘What Edevbie will bring to Delta as governor’   He expressed hope that the challenges facing the nation would be surmounted due to the fact that Ramadan is synonymous with Allah’s mercy, blessings and forgiveness. The commissioner appealed to the pilgrims to be good ambassadors of the country, obey all the rules and regulations guiding their stay in the Holy land and avoid involving themselves in any illegal dealings. The Board Chairman, Alhaji Shakir Gafar assured the pilgrims that they would not regret their action, as the board is poised to offer them the best of service. He presented the travel documents to each of the intending pilgrims, urging them to get to the airport, at least five hours for check-in before departure time. Speaking on the topic, Procedures and processes of Umrah and its benefits to Muslims, the Chairman of Ulamah (Muslim Clerics) of the Board, Alhaji Muhsin Ajagbemokeferi, enlightened the pilgrims to the nitty-gritty and all they needed to know about the exercise as prescribed by Prophet Muhammad. He urged them to follow the instructions of the board in their conducts while in the Kingdom and not to be involved in any act inimical to Islamic teachings.