Osun Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has said emergence of Senator Iyiola Omisore as the National Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) will force some politicians in the State to abandon politics. Oyetola spoke during the reception programme organised by the State Government and APC to celebrate Omisore’s emergence as national scribe of the party on Thursday. Oyetola said: “When I was member of the National Caretaker Committee of the party some politicians in the State were afraid of my person. Now that Iyiola Omisore emerged party National Secretary, some of them will abandon politics. “Omisore is not just in charge of the Secretariat but also a member of the National Working Committee of the party. This is the first time a politician from Osun will be getting such responsibility apart from just being given party ex-Official. “Osun and Southwest now have big stake in the party. I urge you all to start the task of my re-election in earnest, let us work toward getting 450,000 votes to win the governorship landslide.”   Police arrest man for allegedly smashing daughter’s head     Buhari inaugurates 68 housing units in Edo     We’ll overcome uncertainty, insecurity – Buhari   Osun APC chairman, Prince Gboyega Famodun said: “Some people in our party calling themselves ‘Progressives’ positioned themselves as opposition. “They acted as if they are greater than our party. The emergence of Omisore has shut them off and we will lay them finally to rest with the victory of Oyetola in July 16th 2022.” Omisore said: “My emergence as the National Secretary of All Progressives Congress portends greatness, victory for Osun in all elections. “You know that Osun is APC State so we are overwhelmed by this privilege to serve as the national secretary of APC. “I admonish every member of APC and citizen of Osun State to appreciate the party for the privilege given to me by voting massively for Governor Oyetola in July 2022. APC is united in Osun and we will do all our best to sustain this.”