A former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, has called for more stakeholders’ support to sustain the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Gowon, who is the founding father of the NYSC, stated this at the official inauguration of the scheme’s ultra-modern radio and television stations at its headquarters yesterday in Abuja. The former military leader noted that despite initial resistance at its formative year, the NYSC has fulfilled its purpose of integration and nation-building. He said: “There is no gainsaying the fact that the scheme has, in almost five decades of its existence, successfully harnessed the potentials of our graduate youths as models for defining patriotism, credible and quality leadership as well as economic regeneration.” Gowon said the establishment of the two media outfits was among the greatest achievements of the NYSC in recent times. While praising the NYSC management, the former Head of State urged them to sustain the tempo of its ongoing strides, saying these have kept the scheme in the national and global limelight. “These media outfits will no doubt contribute towards enhancing and sustaining the capacity of the scheme to consolidate its achievements as well as reach out to its global audience. In particular, they will serve as veritable tools for driving our quest for national unity, cohesion and purposeful development.   Fed Govt creates unified platform for unemployed youths     Get your NIN ready to board trains from May, says NRC     Veteran highlife singer Orlando Julius dies   “I am always delighted to note that corps members have continued to render patriotic and selfless services to our dear country, especially as active participants in the implementation of national programmes, such as elections, immunisation, population census, advocacy programmes on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers and HIV/AIDS campaign, amongst others. “While commending the scheme for sustaining its intervention in these critical areas, it is my sincere hope that these and other achievements would be given the widest publicity by the NYSC radio and television stations in order to elicit increased support from the general public,” he said. NYSC Director General, Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim said the NYSC Radio is on Channel 88.3 FM in Abuja while the NYSC TV runs on TStv Channel 365. He said: “The philosophy behind the establishment of these stations is multifaceted. They will educate and entertain, give the scheme a stronger voice to propagate the programmes and sensitise Nigerians on the policies of government, in addition to the promotion of national unity, national ethos, as well as values re orientation. “Thus, they will contribute in redirecting the mindsets of Nigerians, especially the youth, towards things that are noble.” The director general said the stations are primarily run by corps members under the supervision of relevant NYSC staff members. He said the programmes are meant to provide an avenue to train and hone the skills of successive batches of corps members interested in pursuing careers in the broadcast industry, particularly in production, TV/Radio engineering, programme presentation, graphic design and content development, among others.