Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has officially declared his decision to contest the 2023 presidential election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The development comes after months of speculations over whether or not he would run for president. In a video shared on his timeline, he said: “I am today, with utmost humility formally declaring my intention to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the platform of APC.” He further said: “For the past seven (7) years, I have served as Vice President under a true Nigerian patriot, President Muhammadu Buhari. “In these 7 years, while on the train of duty and service, I traversed every part of our country, meeting Nigerians of every cadre, class, tribe and walks of life, both young and old; I MET YOU.  “I’ve stood where you stand and sat where you sit. I know and I understand our hopes, aspirations and fears from a place of relatable proximity; and I believe that in those hopes and aspirations are the seeds for the great Nigeria that we all desire.   2023: Tinubu, Amaechi, five others seeking APC presidential…     Ukraine’s economy to shrink by 45 per cent, says World…     Gunmen kill Miyetti Allah chairman, four others in Abuja   “I believe that the very reason why the Almighty God gave me these experiences, these insights, and these opportunities, is that they must be put to the use of our country and its great peoples. “This is why today, with utmost humility, I formally declare my intention to run for the office of the President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, on the platform of our great party, the All Progressives Congress. “I also most solemnly and respectfully seek your support as fellow Nigerians everywhere in this land and the diaspora, as we embark on this great and exciting journey that lies ahead of us.” It was observed that the ‘declaration video’ was distributed across Osinbajo’s social media handles. With this announcement, Osinbajo will be gunning for the APC ticket against presidential hopefuls including former Lagos Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Ebonyi Governor Dave Umahi; Senator Rochas Okorocha; Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello and Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi. Osinbajo, who turned 65 last month, is a senior advocate of Nigeria and former lecturer at the University of Lagos. He is also a senior pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God(RCCG). Details Shortly…