Taxation has been a contentious issue in many developing countries like Nigeria, where the populace are convinced that the right formula has not been adopted. Yet, it is believed that there are several people outside the tax net that should be captured.The President, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), Adesina Adedayo, sheds light on what can be done for the country to improve on its tax revenue and expand the tax net. Adedayo, in this interview with TOFUNMI SANUSI, also touched on knotty issues like tax compliance, evasion and avoidance, among others.  What is your reaction to the International Monetary Fund’s (IMF’s) call for new increase of Value Added Tax (VAT)? You see, my reaction anytime we are discussing issues that bother on economic intervention has to with: what are the facts? What are the fictions? What are the perceptions and what are our cultural orientation towards it? There is nothing new about increase or review or even downward review but the next question will be: What are the justifications, the principles behind what you applied before? What are the gaps we need to close that we did not envisage? That’s my challenge. Now let me put it in perspective, which is, we have a population that is growing, we have a government that requires resources and we have a demand from those who are governed that desires accountability. So, where do we mix it up so that at the end of the day, what comes out is a finished product? We want to increase resources, so we need to review our tax system, we also want to ensure that there is accountability about those resources so the government should do more relating to accounting for what they have been collecting. So, what the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said is a recommendation. Our decision as to what we need to do is to address our peculiar problem. Who knows where the shoe pinches and who is aware that we are having a situation where the issue of the growing population, of aging population, all these are the challenges we want our government to deal with. So, I will say this is a subject for further decision making. What can be done to increase rate of tax collection and compliance ? Let us first of all ask ourselves, what are the data that support our tax system? Who are those paying these taxes? Who are those not paying  either ignorantly or by virtue of the fact that our system is weak and has not addressed those who are evading and escaping taxes because they are not really accessible. All these are the areas we need to really take as a study for us to improve and block the loopholes, because the truth of the matter is that for you to say that you want to catch a big fish, you don’t stay in the ponds, you go to the ocean, and when you go to the ocean, you don’t use the same type of net you use to catch the small fish to catch the big one, you need to use a technologically sophisticated one for you to catch a whale. But we need to expand our resource base and generate more. There is this notion that Nigerians are tax averse. Is there anything that can be done to enhance self-compliance? The notion that Nigerians are tax averse is not peculiar to Nigeria.The truth is that nobody loves paying taxes but the system creates a situation where tax payment becomes compliance and mandatory.Therefore, you cannot escape it. Whether you rush this way, you will meet what you dodged at the other side. So, because a system has been created that makes it clear, you cannot evade. These are areas we need to work on as a country. Strengthen the system, tax evasion becomes very challenging, in fact, the cost of tax evasion will be far more than the benefit you think you are going to derive. What are the roles of tax incentives in economic development, especially infrastructure? Tax incentives are meant to stimulate productive capacity. When you give people incentives, you want them to focus less on the tax that is applicable to them and more on the productive impact on their effort; so, if that is the case, then it is clear. Tax incentives should be given to those who are vulnerable, those who are likely to become economically sensitive from the adverse side, if anything happens. A lockdown for three days, some people will find themselves on the receiving end. So, what should be done relating to this is to create more incentives that will stimulate the productive part of the system and in doing this, it means, check it out, those who are earning low income, it’s a challenge to them. We are not paying meaningful wages,  that is clear because when you look at the cost of living viz-a-viz the income we are paying, it is  adverse. Give them the incentives so they can use the money to buy more products which automatically stimulate consumption and, ultimately, increase VAT. If we have those who are in the ultra-rich category, buying private jet because they can eat three square meals, tax them a little more because for someone who can afford a private jet, a little more tax will not stop those things. So, that is the way we need to structure our system in such a way that for those who love luxury, let them pay for luxury tax. For those who are under the area where they are closer to poverty, relax the noose on their neck, in that way, we have a system that is work-friendly and also not adverse to you being rich. What is your view of macroeconomic outlook? I will say my view is cautious in the sense that our macroeconomic outlook from the perspective of fact, is not looking good. If you look at it from the perspective of faith, it can be better. Now coming back to specifics, the macroeconomic outlook is becoming a little more bearish because the challenge in terms of day-to-day living and ability to even be able to meet other issues require us to pay more attention on the way we structure our wages, our health intervention, do educational support – so these are areas we need to start watching the more and coming up with something better that will, at the end of the day, make it clear that people, no matter where they find themselves, are sure that their health will become compromised. A healthy nation is a wealthy nation in the making. They will also be sure that education is what they can easily get access to even if the system allows them to access a loan to finish their educational objective because it is clear, you cannot be thriving on ignorance and expecting a growing nation; so ignorance must be dealt with. Deal with health and ignorance aspect and you will find out that gradually you are changing the outlook of the country by having educated, well-informed healthy nation and, then, for our growth, it is just going to be a question of time and when we grow, our economy will thrive. The tax we are talking about, this people become more productive, they are not lying there in the hospital or the IDP camp, they are not just roaming the street looking for the next work they are going to get. This thing always have a spiral effect. What can be done to enhance inflow of foreign direct and portfolio investments ?   ‘We need innovative financial products to close informal…     ‘Right policies will attract much-needed support for…     Mayo Fadipe: Energetic coach helping young minds occupy…   Let us address the trust deficit. Do people trust us enough for us to have a system that can protect their investment. For example, when you are peeling groundnut for the blind, you keep whistling because the blind will not know if you are eating the groundnut or not. A man  who puts money in your company is a blind man, the only way he will get to see what you are doing is for you to talk about annual report, financial statements and showing that you are transparent with the money he gave to you. Trust deficit is the starting point we need to address and it has to do with accountability and transparency and a little bit of addressing the corruption effect rather than reacting to what has happened. Corruption can be prevented by having a good system in place but reacting to corruption in a system when the judicial system takes so long before you get to know who is guilty or not is a problem. All I’m saying in summary is: let us address the systemic effect, once we address this, the trust factor keeps rising and then we find out that we do not really have problem, we just have a decision to make. The Federal Government is increasingly turning to tax revenue to meet its financial obligation and fund infrastructure. How can Nigeria avoid heavy taxation that can stifle productivity ? Any taxation that stifle productivity is not proper because it is meant to enhance it. Taxes stifle productivity when you tax a productive company out of existence or an individual into  poverty. Coming back to the model of tax, you are productive, the government takes its portion and provide some necessities for you – good roads, good infrastructure, your life becomes more convenient, you become more productive, that is the way it should be. So, the way to go is to have a progressive model of tax where taxes you put on those who can afford those taxes is used to lift up those that are in the position of poverty so that you are not taxing poverty, because when you are taxing poverty, you are taxing people who are finding it difficult already to live and when you do that, there is a problem but at the level of productivity, which is companies, when you are taxing a company that is barely making ends meet and the financial policies are not helping the company to survive, the trade policy is actually inhibiting the growth of the company and your monetary policy is  detrimental to the company in terms of interest rate, you are gradually taxing the country out of prosperity and when the companies die, the individual will be sacked, when this happens you have problem of social crisis like crime, health issues, etc. The model of tax is meant to be the backbone of development. So, we need to ensure our tax system is progressive and the proceeds from that is used to develop infrastructure. Some Nigerians, especially private operators, favour widening the tax net rather than increasing taxes. What’s your take on this? I agree with that popular opinion. The two are not necessarily mutually exclusive. You can widen, and increase, if necessary but what Nigerians need, which I agree with, is to widen the tax net. The question should be this: If we have the data, how many people are supposed to be paying taxes? How many are actually paying? These are the only questions for widening. Talking about 200 million Nigerians, how many are dependent; that is, those of school age? How many are also dependent; that is, those who have retired and have become social security issue? And then the question will be: How many of those people who are supposed to be working are working? Then if you take away those who are jobless from those who are working, the proportion of the people that are paying taxes is very low. So, what we should do first is to go after those who are not paying taxes, that is widen the tax base issue so those who are not paying tax are brought into light to pay. Let’s deal with that first. If there is the need for increment and increasing taxes is not an easy decision, you must ask if it will have a boomerang effect. If the answer is yes, then you should be careful and rather focus more on creating the productive base, so that a lot of jobless people can have a job and they become part of tax payers. This is my view. There has been complaints over tax evasion and avoidance by the public. How can Nigeria get round this problem? Let me start with this quote: “The best of men is an ordinary man at his best.” No matter the policies you have, the tax legislative mode you create will be read by people and they will see the fine print. It is that fine print that they will try. For example, a law says do not smoke by noon, then you decide to smoke by 11am or 1pm, you have avoided the law, when you do it by 12, you have contravened the law. No matter the tax legislative worldwide, avoidance is an acceptable thing. What does the law say ? What should I do not to go against the law ? Avoidance is legal as long as it doesn’t follow an aggressive tone that shows you are trying to cover up something while it appears to an outsider that you are complying, so that becomes evasive tactics. Evasion is illegal, avoidance is legal but as much as possible in a progressive system of tax, you keep reviewing the law to make sure that mischief makers do not disguise evasion in form of avoidance. That is why legislative process is a continuous thing and you can imagine the issue of where we have a legislature, which is the National Assembly, laws are being made regularly because it requires thinking. Yesterday’s law may not be good enough for today; today’s law may not be suitable for tomorrow’s economy. So, it keeps changing. If Nigeria gets her tax system and administration right, how much do you think the country can realise from taxation yearly ? The word ‘how much’ is subjective and you can only say that if you have an omnipotent outlook on the whole economy. But I can go the aspect of a professional and tell you the impact of the right administrative system on the economy. This will give us an impression where people who are in Nigeria will be known, those who are working will be known in public and private sector, those who are in the former sector will be known, the administrative sector will know those who are selling goods at any of these markets, they will know the tailors and hairdressers amongst us. That is a good tax administrative system, knowledge comes first and if knowledge comes first, then it means that it is on basis of this knowledge that you can now be talking about a system working to get a desired impact. So I can say as a professional, the right administrative system will lead to a magnificent jump in our tax revenue but in terms of Naira and Kobo figure, that may be difficult for me to say. What advise will you give the government generally on economic growth and development? My advice is, let’s look at Nigeria from a broad perspective, not a North-South divide. Let’s look at it that as at today, Nigeria operates from six geopolitical zones. If it is now pursued from infrastructural and productive development, it means we are going to have six economic power base, then there will be less pressure on Lagos, Port Harcourt and Kano because these three critical areas are looking like the pressure point of our economy. Therefore any prospective candidate for employment now knows that he/she can go anywhere out of these six. Our security situation also makes it even worse in case of Kano. These are areas that it is only government that can do that not what any individual can do. An individual’s money can only go to where it is considered safe. You won’t work for your money and want to put it in a place where you lose it the following day so these are areas we need to address and I can tell you things will fall in place.