Gunmen yesterday attacked villages in Kanam council of Plateau State, killing an uncertain number of residents and setting their homes on fire. Sources said the assailants invaded Kukawa, Gyanbahu, Dungur and Keram villages about 1pm. There were unconfirmed reports, before the attacks, that bandits had infiltrated Jos, and could attack any moment. Adam Musa, a resident of Kukawa village, who confirmed the assault, said that many were killed, while a lot more sustained injuries, and hundreds fleeing their homes. Musa said security personnel were yet to arrive at the villages, adding that the gunmen invaded the villages in batches and in broad daylight when the residents were going about their normal activities. He said they burnt down many houses. Security was stepped up around Jos, the state capital. Roads were blocked to forestall any eventuality. The police command dispelled rumours of any imminent attack. Spokesman Ubah Ogaba said the command had adopted new strategies to curb insecurity in the state. “The police command wishes to state clearly that Plateau State, especially Jos, its capital, is very peaceful. The command has adopted a new security strategy in line with our normal routine patrol and check. Also, the command would be proactive on any intelligent report at our disposal, as it is our core mandate to protect life and property,” he said.   Akeredolu’s wife seeks senatorial ticket in Imo     Group plans protest over killing of Osun businessman     101 cocaine parcels found in children’s duvets   Information officer of Operations Safe Haven, Major Ishaku Takwa, however, said they were informed of the Kanam attacks. “We have been informed and troops have been drafted there,” he said in a WhatsApp message. Also, there has been an attack on Ohaogelode community in Izzi local government area of Ebonyi State. An unspecified number of people have been killed and houses razed. The community is close to Effium, in Ohaukwu local government area, which has been involved in communal crisis. The crisis in Effium, which is between Effium and Ezza-Effium has claimed many lives and forced many Ezza-Effium people from their homes. Police spokesperson Loveth Odah said she was not aware of the incident but a video footage of the incident circulating online appears to show at least two persons killed. In the video, one of the victims was burnt to death. Chairman of Ohaukwu council Clement Odah condemned the attack. His statement reads: “Ohaukwu Local Government Council has received with concern a report of the unfortunate incident at Ohaogelode Village, in Ishieke community. “The Council condemns the incident in strong terms and reassures all that no stone will be left unturned to unravel the circumstances that led to such avoidable loss of lives and properties. “The Council has initiated a spirited and discreet investigation to unveil the perpetrators of the act and ensure that justice is done.”