The People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in Ondo State has criticized the decision taken by the Ondo state government to demolish structures at the Trade Fair Complex, located along Igbatoro road in Akure, the state capital The opposition party said the demolition has brought wailing and tears to entrepreneurs doing business within the premises. A spokesman for the Ondo PDP, Kennedy Peretei, in a press statement, said the owners of the structures were the few individuals providing employment and helping to energise the economy. Paretei said owners of the structures claimed to spend over N70m to upgrade the entire premises to its present state. He said the funds invested were converted to rents in which some investors have over three years of unexpired rents. The statement reads:  “Did Mr. Governor give any consideration to the families of those who own businesses in the place? Are the people behind this illegality aware of the economic implications of their actions to the state? If indeed, the government is desirous of establishing a Business District, is the Trade Fair the most suitable place in Akure? “Why does Governor Akeredolu always take joy in making people cry? What is really urgent about establishing a Business District that, your tenants of over fifteen years have to quit within 14 days?” Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, however, said the move to turn ‘the moribund Trade Fair Complex which had since transmuted to a criminals’ hideout to a fruit-bearing business hub remains unwavering.’   Ondo monarchs fault Attorney General’s legal advice on…     LASG diverts traffic at Abule Nla, Brewery, Gaskiya as FG…     Police order removal of abandoned vehicles   Ojogo said there was no plan to demolish Shoprite but would be given a more befitting ambiance beef-up. He explained that the building housing Shoprite served as the precursor to the planned Central Business District which hosts a ‘proposed Five Star Hotel, the novel Entrepreneurs’ Village, Revenue House, the envisaged Business Hub with varying degrees of luxuries, development comforts, and others in the pipeline along that strait.’ “Our plans for development, especially through credible investment drives shall remain on an enviable cruise throughout the tenure of the Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN)-led administration. No amount of falsehood and blackmail will be given a chance to play any role. “It is, therefore, unfortunate that PDP has again, offered itself to remain the undertaker scavenging for permanent rots.” Meanwhile, the Ondo State government has commenced demolition of structures within the Trade Fair Complex. Ondo Commissioner for Lands and Infrastructure, Mr. Raimi Aminu told journalists the demolition began after a court order. Meanwhile, an Ondo State High Court sitting in Akure, on Friday, restrained the state government from demolishing structures at the state’s trade fair complex. Defendants in the case include the Ondo State government, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice as well as the Commissioner for Commerce, Investment, and Corporative Services. Justice Adegboyega Adebusoye, granted the application restraining the defendants from continuing further demolition pending the hearing of an application for an interlocutory injunction on April 25, 2022.