Preline Limited, the new majority shareholder in Eterna Pl, yesterday announced that it has concluded arrangements to proceed with a mandatory tender offer to acquire some 1.3 million shares held by minority shareholders. Preline had last November acquired  794.97 million or 60.98 per cent equity stake in Eterna, making it the largest and majority shareholder in the company. In a regulatory filing yesterday, Eterna stated that Preline has received regulatory approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission  to proceed with the mandatory tender offer (MTO) “We wish to announce to Nigerian Exchange Limited and the  public that following the granting of the ‘‘Authority to proceed’’ by SEC, Preline Limited has notified the company of its intention to proceed with the takeover bid to acquire 1,300,000 ordinary shares equivalent to 0.10 per cent equity stake in Eterna Plc from other shareholders at a price of N13.50 per share,” Eterna stated. The MTO was triggered by the provisions of Section 131, Part XII of the Investment and Securities Act, No. 29, 2007 and Rule 445 of SEC Rules and Regulations, 2013. Section 131 of the Investment and Securities Act (ISA) and Rule 445 of SEC make it mandatory for any institution or person that acquires at least 30 per cent of a company to make an MTO to other minority shareholders. There are, however, exemptions in few instances. Some major shareholders of Eterna had decided  to sell their equity stakes in the oil and gas company to Preline. Incorporated as a limited liability company in 1989, Eterna became a public limited liability company in 1997 and had its shares listed on the NGX in August 1998. Many analysts have, however, been  raising  concerns that companies may be taking undue advantage of loopholes in the provisions of the MTO rules to circumvent the intendment of the rules. Citing the percentage of the MTO by Eterna, they noted that the intendment of the MTO rules was to prevent abuse of corporate  valuation and protect minority shareholders. 		 			United Capital grows Q1 profit by 39%		 		 		 			‘Poor climate change compliance may lead to dearth of…		 		 		 			‘Dangote Cement has 20% capital gain potential’		 		 They criticised the offer size  noting that the offer size undermined the letter and intent of the provisions of the ISA, which were aimed at protecting minority investors from arbitrary transactions by core investors. They argued that the new core investor should launch a full tender offer for the shares being held by minority shareholders and leave the minority shareholders to take up or reject the offer. A full tender offer will be up to N22.42 billion. Market sources, who preferred anonymity because of potential conflict of interests, said rules make it mandatory for the new core investor to make a full tender offer to all minority shareholders at the transaction price for the acquisition that triggered the MTO. They insisted that this was the position of the law and intent, which was to protect minority shareholders from bogus acquisition deals. The sources said the transaction price is taken as a fair value for the company, and it takes precedence over current market value which may not reflect the true value and worth of the company. Heineken had recently undertaken a N3.11 billion takeover bid of minority shares in Akwa Ibom-based Champion Breweries Heineken, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Raysun Nigeria Limited, sought to acquire about 1.197 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each or about 15.3 per cent additional stake in Champion Breweries under a mandatory takeover bid (MTO). The transaction price was N2.60 per share. Heineken holds the majority equity stake in both Nigerian Breweries and Champion Breweries, which are both quoted on the NGX. Heineken, through Raysun Nigeria Limited, held 60.7 per cent majority equity stake in Champion Breweries.  Akwa Ibom State held 10 per cent equity stake while other Nigerian shareholders held 29.3 per cent equity stake. Champion Breweries’ shareholding base of 7.83 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each included 4.75 billion for Raysun Nigeria, 782.9 million ordinary shares for Akwa Ibom State and 2.29 billion ordinary shares for other investors. Under the plan, the acquisition of the full MTO target of 1.197 billion ordinary shares would increase Heineken’s Raysun Nigeria’s shareholding from 4.752 billion shares or 60.7 per cent to 5.949 billion ordinary shares or about 75.99 per cent equity stake.