International charity organisation, Oxfam, has cautioned International Monetary Fund (IMF) against pushing developing countries into austerity measures. It wondered why rich countries are warned against austerity yet poorer ones are forced into it, saying it epitomises double standard. Oxfam noted that 87 per cent of IMF COVID-19 loans are requiring developing countries that have been denied equal access to vaccines and are facing some of the world’s worst humanitarian crises, to adopt tough, new austerity measures that will further exacerbate poverty and inequality. It advised that to help Nigeria, and the majority of Nigerians who are daily finding it more difficult to meet their basic human needs, the IMF should lead the conversation on how Nigeria will suspend its huge debt servicing costs. “New analysis by Oxfam finds that 13 out of the 15 IMF loan programmes negotiated during the second year of the pandemic require new austerity measures such as taxes on food and fuel or spending cuts that could put vital public services at risk. The IMF is also encouraging six additional countries to adopt similar measures. 		 			Polaris Bank donates to Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic		 		 		 			Emefiele lists conditions for stable exchange rate		 		 		 			FCMB offerings meet customer, regulatory requirements…		 		 “In 2020, the IMF deployed billions in emergency loans to help developing countries cope with COVID-19, often with few conditions or none at all. Recently, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva urged Europe not to endanger its economic recovery with “the suffocating force of austerity”. Yet, over the past year, the IMF has gone back to imposing austerity measures on lower-income countries.” “This epitomizes the IMF’s double standard: it is warning rich countries against austerity while forcing poorer ones into it. The pandemic is not over for most of the world. Rising energy bills and food prices are hurting poor countries most. They need help boosting access to basic services and social protection, not harsh conditions that kick people when they are down”, said Nabil Abdo, Oxfam International’s Senior Policy Advisor Oxfam in Nigeria’s Country Director, Dr. Vincent Ahonsi said Nigeria is a country of spectacular inequality and astounding level of poverty which cannot afford the IMF’s austerity pill, as that could further worsen inequality and plunge more Nigerians deeper into poverty. “Instead, the IMF needs to stop selling it’s austerity ideas to Nigeria and facilitate an easier access to emergency financing for socio-economic infrastructure and human capacity development. The agency also needs to encourage Nigeria Government to lessen the burden on 99% of the people who happen to be at the bottom of the pyramid, and tax the super-rich 1% more appropriately through progressive tax regimen,” “To help Nigeria, and the majority of Nigerians who are daily finding it more difficult to meet their basic human needs, the IMF should lead the conversation on how Nigeria will suspend its huge debt servicing costs, as a pathway towards a comprehensive debt relief for the country. That way the IMF will be working for a fairer today and a better tomorrow for Nigeria and Nigerians,” Ahonsi said.