A coalition of youth networks has stated that young people are central to Nigeria’s economic development as a nation and the attainment of the sustainable development goals (SDGs). The coalition under the aegis of Nigeria Youth SDGs Network which is made up of over 200 civil society groups and youth leaders in Nigeria, noted that investing in the social and economic well – being of young women was crucial to sustainable development. The group stated this in a briefing jointly addressed by, Community Engagement Officer, Nigeria Youth SDGs Network, Taofeekat Adigun, Programs Intern for Nigerian Youth SDGs Network, Diezani Ototo, Africa Policy and Advocacy Manager, One Campaign, Razaq Fatai and Executive Secretary, Junior Chambers International, Nigeria, Adeyemo Adeonipekun. Adigun called on the government at all levels and development partners to prioritise women’s economic empowerment.   Cheating is forbidden in Islam, says cleric     Firm offers nutrition support to Muslims     Why moral decadence is increasing, by cleric   She said: “As an organisation, we believe that young women are central to our economic development as a nation and the attainment of the sustainable development goals. “The Nigeria Youth Network SDGs believes that involving young people in the design and implementation of policies and programs is the best thing to do and this is why we are calling on the government and development partners to prioritise women’s economic empowerment.” She said the group developed a policy brief which highlighted the challenges young women face in the country. “This is why we as a consortium created an issue brief which highlights the challenges that young women face in Nigeria and our recommendations to the government that will help transform the life – experiences of millions of young women especially those in rural communities with little or no educational qualifications. “We reached out to MDAs with a special focus on women’s issues to share the issue brief and explore ways to support their work. We had a productive discussion on how to strengthen engagement and centre a gender lens approach with the works done by MDAs.”