The sudden and untimely death of gospel singer and songwriter, Osinachi Nwachukwu, came as a rude shock to many. She was the twin sister of Amarachi Grace Eze who is also a famous gospel singer. Shockingly, Osinachi’s demise crept in quietly and became the subject of various news outlets with different accounts of what the deceased went through. While some persons claimed she died of throat cancer, others said she died as a result of domestic abuse by her husband. Her death left many fans heartbroken and elicited nationwide outrage especially from her colleagues, friends, members of her church — Dunamis International Gospel Centre. While calling for probe and investigation into her death, the catchphrase ‘Justice for Osinachi’, trended on social media. Osinachi’s angelic voice and songs which brought relief and joy to many always make the list of top Nigerian gospel music hits. The 42-year-old artiste who died after spending days at an undisclosed hospital in Abuja, was a lead singer at her spiritual father – Pastor Paul Enenche’s Dunamis Headquarters, Glory Dome, Abuja. She shot into the limelight with the hit song “Ekwueme” – meaning ‘the God who says and does’, which has been watched over 72 million times on YouTube. The mesmerizing lines of the chorus of this hit song, have become an anthem among many gospel music lovers in Nigeria and beyond. The deceased’s older sister, Favour Made, in an interview disclosed that the singer sang her verse in the Ekueme hit song from a place of pain. But sadly, the acclaimed gospel singer was alleged to have been a silent victim of domestic assault by her now-embattled husband, Peter Nwachukwu. Peter was immediately arrested after Osinachi’s death was attributed to physical abuse. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for the Federal Capital Territory Abuja, Josephine Adeh, disclosed he was still being investigated.   Temi Otedola’s unusual love story     Orlando Julius: Curtains fall on legendary showman at 78     Umar to FG: forget census, secure Nigeria   But in his reaction, he told investigators he was not responsible for his wife’s death. Denying allegations of battery, assault and other domestic violence levied against him by family members and close associates of the popular artist, Peter said the truth was that his wife had been sick for a long time (since November last year) and he had been moving her from one hospital to another in a bid to get her treated. Late Osinachi and Peter met during one of her ministrations. Their union produced four children. Meanwhile, Eneche, speaking about the controversies surrounding Osinachi’s death said he decided to set the record straight by disclosing what he knew regarding the circumstances surrounding the late singer’s demise. He said that he could not tell if complications from alleged domestic violence contributed to Osinachi’s death, but was only aware of her respiratory health challenge, for which he helped her secure medical assistance. Enenche further said he had asked Osinachi’s first son what transpired between his mom and dad and he confirmed the stories. He quoted the son as saying that he refused to speak up in order not to attract his father’s anger. The pastor insisted that all he knew about the deceased’s plight at the hands of her husband came after her death. Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, in a statement stated that the husband would be prosecuted. According to the minister, Peter, brutalised his late wife and her four kids, adding that the late gospel artiste had no bank account of her own as all her proceeds were usurped by her husband. Senate President Ahmad Lawan also called on relevant authorities to probe the singer’s death. Osinachi’s family and associates disclosed that the late singer’s husband allegedly alienated her from them, her colleagues and fans. She lived a quiet life. Her unfulfilled dreams of giving her kids the best of motherly care, winning more souls for Christ and staying strong in the vanguard of dishing out spirit-filled songs have sadly been cut short.