The Muslim Sisters Association, Abuja Chapter, appealed to wealthy individuals not to grow weary in assisting orphans and other less-privileged in the society. The association, which also owns Halal Children’s Home made the call at its 2022 Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Abuja. President of the association, Mrs Ramatu Abubakar, said the vision of the association was to ensure that every child in the society, especially the less privileged was productive. She called on affluent members of the society to support the association in its drive to make Nigeria a productive society by identifying orphans living in their neighbourhoods and assisting them. According to her, there are children who need help; the rich should regard this as an opportunity to give back to society by showing such children love and by sponsoring their education. Mrs Abubakar also called on well-meaning individuals to identify with organisations whose major focus is orphans and vulnerable people with the aim of sponsoring and inspiring the children to become self-reliant. “Halal Children’s Home started eight years ago because we realised that there was no home catering to less privileged Muslims. “It started after a Boko Haram attack and there were so many children on the streets. “We looked around and saw that there was nobody taking care of these children, so we gathered a group of sisters and started the home,’’ she said.   Ramadan attracts divine blessings, says NASFAT Imam     Zamfara distributes relief materials to needy     Gombe orders distribution of food items   She also said there were children from well-to-do backgrounds who joined home after they lost both parents. She added that the home was also caring for some children whose parents were going through tough times. “This is a reflection of our society; these children are our future; we need to provide for them so that they become productive citizens,’’ she stressed. The Guest Speaker, Mr Jameel Labaran, said it was pertinent to cater to orphans as neglecting them could pave way for more insecurity in the society. According to him, promoting love and care for the less-privileged will surely bring rewards from God. He commended the Halal Children’s Home for promoting the spirit of brotherhood among Nigerians and urged it to continue to sensitise the society on the need to care for orphans and vulnerable people. Vice Adm. Jubrilla Ayinla (retd) commended the association and recalled that the prophet of Islam, Prophet Mohammed was also an orphan who was brought up by his uncle. Ayinla enjoined every rich Nigerian to assist orphans in whatever way they could to improve their wellbeing. “We thank God who has made this possible, and in this month of Ramadan, we must try to do the best we can for the society. This is especially in the lives of the orphan and many others who need to be taken out of the streets. We pray to God Almighty to reward the sisters as everything they are doing is not for them to show off, but to improve the lot of the Nigerian child,’’ Ayinla said.