Unlike the last general elections in 2019, next year’s contestation for the governorship seat in Kaduna State is certainly going to be a lot different; as it is not going to be a repeat of the opposition candidate versus the incumbent. That incumbent Governor Nasir El-Rufai will no longer be in the race, which will make a big difference and more like a test of popularity between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). El-Rufai, a one-time Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT) defeated the then sitting Governor Mukhtar Ramalan Yero of the PDP to emerge the governor in 2015, on the platform of the then newly formed APC. El-Rufai retained the exalted seat at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim House in 2019, after defeating former Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Finance, Isa Mohammed Ashiru, who contested the seat on the platform of the PDP. The 2019 governorship poll was more like a bigger testing ground for El-Rufai and Ashiru’s popularity. They both contested for the APC governorship ticket ahead of the 2015 election and the former picked it. Though many tied El-Rufai’s success at that primary election to the open support he got from then General Muhammadu Buhari, the 2019 poll however vindicated those who believed that El-Rufai was naturally more popular. PDP: So far, the key aspirants that have indicated an interest in governing Kaduna State under the platform of PDP include former Governor Yero; the party’s 2019 governorship candidate (Ashiru); former Director-General of National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Sani Sidi; Senator Shehu Sani who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th National Assembly; and lawyer and businessman, Mohammed Sani Abbas. Others may yet declare their interest in days to come, but the aforementioned at the major contenders that will be battling for the opposition party’s ticket. Ashiru and Yero appear to have the upper hand, due to the fact that both have been loyal party members who had not only stayed with PDP through thick and thin. They have also believed to be the major financiers of the party. Sani Abbas on the other hand has also been around for a long time but has not been as visible as either Yero or Ashiru in party activities. Abbas’s chance is however brighter than that of Senator Sani who just defected to the opposition party from the Peoples’ Redemption Party (PRP). For Sani Sidi, who has the grassroots popularity and the financial muscle like Ashiru, he belongs to a camp of the party which seems not to have strong support from the party leadership. APC:   13 aspirants eyeing Niger Government House     ‘COVID-19 a blessing in disguise’     Lagos pays over N38b pension in 4 years   Just like the opposition party, the ruling APC also has five candidates including those that have publicly declared their interest in the race and those at the consultation stages. Topmost among them are Governor El-Rufai’s ally and senator representing Kaduna Central in the upper chamber of the National Assembly, Malam Uba Sani and the immediate past Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mohammed Sani Abdullahi, popularly known as Dattijo. Others are the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh; a commissioner at the National Population Commission (NPC) and pioneer executive secretary of Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Dr. AbdulMalik Durungwa; and former chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Mukhtar Abdullahi Muhammad. At present, the contest for the APC flag seems to be between the duo of Sen. Uba Sani and Mohammed Sani Dattijo who is also the commissioner for Planning and Budget, because both have worked closely with El-Rufai and have a full understanding of the governor’s programmes and policies. For Dr. Jamoh, Dr. Durungwa and Mukhtar, who had been at the federal agencies, the race for the party’s ticket might be a bit tougher. Major issues: Among the major issues that will shape the 2023 governorship election is the parties’ primaries. Irrespective of the mode of primary adopted by each of the political parties, if the poll is not free, fair and credible or it is not seen to be so, it might lead to a crisis that will consume the party concerned and give an upper hand to political opponents. Aside from party primaries, Governor El-Rufai’s developmental strides, especially in the area of infrastructure under the urban renewal projects will no doubt shape the 2023 governorship poll. All aspirants who have declared for the race under the platform of the APC are already linking themselves to the achievements and campaigning to consolidate on the governor’s achievements. While the APC might be confident of retaining power beyond 2023, due to the Kaduna urban renewal project, the opposition party is set to capitalise on and amplify the pains inflicted on citizens whose property had to give way to the projects. The opposition will also leverage the fact that Governor El-Rufai, who is the key driver of the facelift witnessed in Kaduna, is no longer in the contest. But, the governor naturally will want to hand over the state to a loyal successor from his party. Money will also play a prominent role in this election for the major aspirants, both in the primary and general elections. Senator Uba Sani, for instance, declared his intention at the APC secretariat and promptly donated 59 vehicles to the party officials at state and local government levels. This has given a clear indication that the party delegates may be going for those with the financial war chests. The situation will not be very different in the general election, because there is poverty in the land and the politicians will definitely exploit that to secure victory for themselves and their respective political parties.