Singer and music executive, Banky W has said his former signee, Grammy award-winning singer, Wizkid might still be owing his record label three albums. The singer-turned-politician in an interview with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu Bounce Networks with his wife, spoke about his contract with Wizkid and how they parted ways. The EME boss stated although Wizkid had only done two albums out of the five as stipulated in his contract, he wanted to leave so he let him go. According to him, he could see that the “Made in Lagos” hit maker at the time had his mind set for other things and he wasn’t ready to stop him because such would amounted to resentment. “How many albums was he supposed to have a done?” Ebuka asked. 		 			Top five Nollywood movies on Netflix in 2022		 		 		 			Don Jazzy signs young man who sang Wizkid, Davido’s…		 		 		 			African men don’t abuse women, children – Seun…		 		 Banky W responded: “You know, the details escape me now. But I think it was a 5-album deal in the beginning and he had done 2 solo albums. He’d done the “Super Star” album and the “Ayo” album. “So, I think he still owed 3 more albums. But he wanted to leave and for me that was enough. Because, I don’t want anybody to stay where they don’t want to be. It would just create animosity, resentment.” When Ebuka asked if Banky W tried to talk Wizkid out of leaving, he said: “No, because I could tell that mentally he was ready to do other things. “And for me, I just felt like some things are just meant to happen for a season. And that was the season that we were meant to work together.” Speaking further, the “Yes/No” singer said: “And at the end of the day, one thing that has always been mostly true in my life and EME’s life is most of the people who ever worked with us, when they eventually leave and go on, they are better than when we first found them. “And for me, that’s enough. It’s enough of a testimony to just be that great stone to say, “Hey! I did what I could. I tried, now you’re of doing greater things and I couldn’t be happier.”