A retired Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Sikiru Smith has likened Nigeria’s insecurity to the situation in Liberia and Sierra Leone year back. AVM Smith said he couldn’t believe the country will be in the present condition. He called on Muslim faithful to use the Holy Month of Ramadan to pray to Allah to end insecurity in the country. AVM Smith, who is the President of Ansar-ud-Deen College, Isolo Old Student Association (ADCIOSA), said the Holy month as come to teach Muslims to believe in Allah and to seek His mercy. He spoke during the Ramadan Lecture organised by ADCIOSA at the school hall, Isolo. AVM Smith said: “Nigeria has never been like this before, I have been to Liberia, Sierra Leone and Sudan. When I was there, I thank God Nigeria is not like those countries but shortly after I returned in 2012, things changed and I couldn’t believe what I’m seeing. The issues of insecurity will be a thing of the past if we have a standard structure on ground. Nigerians should be prayerful and patient with one another. Those engaging in the evil actions have a change of mind. We are created to be our neighbors’ keeper. It is unexpected for people to turn to banditry for no just cause. What they are fighting for is of no consequence as far as I’m concerned and it shouldn’t be like that. It is not a political game. And I believe God will change their hearts and Nigeria will be a great country again,” he said. He advised the government to use the carrot and stick approach in relating with insurgents.   Court to hear Ibeto’s suit against EFCC May 11     627 get agric processing equipment in Kogi     Lagos presents death benefits to deceased workers’…   “There are two ways to do it; the government should negotiate with them and find out what their problem is. Though, the way they are going is beyond negotiation, the government needs to be hard on those who are killing people unnecessarily because there is no point for that. He added that the missing link is the fear of God. “We must believe in oneness of God and one Nigeria. We have to see ourselves as one irrespective of where we come from,” he said. First Vice President of ADCIOSA Dr. Afolabi Tajudeen, said with the state of insecurities in the country, Nigerians need to intensify more prayers and the government should proactively tackle the security challenges. He urged parents to ensure that their children are well equipped with both western and Islamic education. “Parents should endeavour to monitor their children’s mode of dressing. Likewise, parents should lead a good example when it comes to dressing as the correction starts from home. I’m always an advocate of not allowing your children to get loose. You need to be firm with them and teach them to be God fearing as this will stop them from going inimical or doing something devilish,” he said. He advised parents to desist from bartering or using abusive words with one another.