A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adamu Garuba, on Saturday formally declared his intention to contest for the 2023 presidency. Garuba, who is the Chief Executive Officer of IPI Solutions Nigeria Limited, made the declaration in Abuja. He promised to establish 10 geo-economic zones as opposed to the current six geo-political zones in the country. He said his vision was to transform Nigeria from a politically divided unit to an economically integrated unit. He also said one of his plans is to reduce inflation by granting true independence to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to ensure that inflation drops by six per cent. Garuba said: “At independence in 1960, Nigeria was divided into three major regions of North, West and East. And that is where we found the problem that is affecting us up till this very moment because from that very moment, we had a division that there were agitations that pushed us into 12 other regions. Then to 19. Then to 24. Then to 30. And currently, the 37 regions that we called the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT)   Ngige declares for 2023 presidency Tuesday     Osinachi Nwachukwu: Domestic violence martyr?     Is Elon Musk really going to buy Twitter for $43 billion?   “What was the results of this division? The results of this division is that so many children cannot go to school. So many mothers cannot go to hospitals. Our roads are now blocked. “We cannot be able to travel. Our businesses are closed. Our youths are becoming restive; carrying arms. They are killing fellow Nigerians. “This is not the country we wished for. Why have we found ourselves in this situation today? We did that simply because we missed the foundation of establishing a state and the foundation of a state is building a united, prosperous, greater society that will benefit the children that are born today and the person that is being buried today. “That is why I, Adamu Garuba, do solemnly stand in front of you here, at the center of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to declare my solemn oath to you, in the holy month of Ramadan, while I am fasting. In the holy month where we have the sacramental resurrection of Jesus Christ, to declare my intention to run for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the coming 2023 election.” Speaking further, he said, “Our vision is to transform Nigeria from the politically divided unit to an economically integrated unit by building a very big, massive economic blueprint that will see the emergence of nine geo-economic zones as opposed to the current six geo-political zones where we will make Lagos the exclusive geo-economic zone which is the tenth economically integrated unit that we may have in this country, based on our plan.” He added: “We intend to ensure that we pay serious attention to our political divisions because the political divisions that we see today are our realities. And that is why we intend to build two major developmental objectives.”