The race for the 2023 general elections is gathering momentum. In Osun State, all eyes are on the Osun West senatorial seat currently occupied by Senator Adelere Oriolowo of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Though chieftains of the two leading political parties in the state, the APC and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are currently more interested in prosecuting and winning the 2022 governorship election in the state slated for July 16, 2022, the recent release of a time table for the 2023 general elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has gingered the race for the senatorial seat. Some observers are of the opinion that the internal crises that rocked both the APC and the PDP in the state may have affected the preparations for the 2023 general elections as not many activities are being carried out by aspirants of the two parties as regards the forthcoming elections. But others insist the lull in political activities is actually occasioned by the 2022 governorship election. “More attention is on the governorship contest between the two parties. But I can tell you concerned aspirants are also working hard to position themselves for the 2023 elections,” a source explained. APC and the PDP in the state have continued to grapple with internal crises. The crises bedevilling the parties, which have cast a hazy atmosphere on their chances in future elections, are of concern to many followers of the political trend in the state. Expectedly, the political atmosphere in the state is fraught with avoidable tension. This, some pundits claim, may be responsible for the few numbers of aspirants currently showing interest in the 2023 general elections. In the APC, ‘The Osun Progressives’, a group backed by the Interior Minister and former governor, Rauf Aregbesola, has been at war with the leadership of the party in the state, perceived to be loyal to Governor Gboyega Oyetola. TOP had gone ahead to produce factional party executives from ward to state level As well as declared opposition to the second term aspiration of the governor. The Aregbesola backed group is also in court challenging the emergence of the governor as the governorship candidate of the party for the 2022 guber election. The PDP in Osun relapsed into fight over who leads it in the state almost immediately after the Supreme Court had affirmed Oyetola’s victory at the 2018 governorship election. The party soon became factionalised. The situation continued despite several peace moves by stakeholders within and outside the state, leading to the emergence of two parallel 2022 governorship candidate for the party. The two claimants to the ticket, Senator Ademola Adeleke and Prince Dotun Babayemi, are currently before the court on the matter. The Senator representing Osun West Senatorial District, Engr. Adelere Oriolowo, from all indications, is seeking a return to the National Assembly for a second term. The APC federal lawmaker, according to sources within the party, is already putting structures in place to ensure the actualization of this re-election. He is however not mindful of the negative impact of the division within the party on the chances of the APC in future elections. Recently, Oriolowo enjoined members of the ruling APC in Osun State to bury their ego with a view to ensuring the party’s success in the July 2022 governorship election in the state. The Iwo-born Senator appealed to different factions and groups within the party, to jettison their selfish interest for the interest of the masses, saying current happenings in the party need for members to sheath their swords to strengthen it. According to the Senator, “I wish to call on aggrieved members to keep confidence with the party, while I explore all peaceful means for amicable solution. I want to state that it is very normal for any member or faction to feel some kind of way, but we must allow for various reconciliation strategies to make the party stronger. The wisest action from all members is to strengthen the party and work with everyone to achieve the common goal of a successful outing in July 2022.” The Nation gathered that supporters of Oriolowo, who has been an advocate of unity within the party while the crisis lasted, see his return to the senate as well deserved. “They believe he is one of the factors uniting Osun APC and as such, should be allowed to continue in office. He did not take side in the crisis and this helped to curtail the escalation of the matter. He had initiated several peace moves that also helped to mitigate the crisis. Now, he is busying himself with ensuring all hands are on deck to ensure APC wins the governorship election,” a source said.   JUST IN: Makinde arrives Alaafin’s palace for…     Buhari orders man-haunt for sponsors of Imo illegal refinery     2023: APC vows to record 70% success in Southeast   Speaking to The Nation on Thursday, an official of the party from the zone expressed optimism that Oriolowo will clinch the party’s ticket. “But that depends on how everything plays out. As we speak, there is so much distrust within the party among the many stakeholders. So, when the game eventually started, we may see a lot of surprises happening. But going by his performance and dedication to the party, he is looking good,” he explained. But it appears Oriolowo will have to fight hard o retain his job at the senate. Already, Gbenga Salawu, a medical doctor and chieftain of APC, has declared interest in representing Osun west senatorial district in the 2023 general election. Salawu said he is offering to serve the people of the district because they deserve quality representation. According to the Iwo-born medical doctor, also known as IweOkari, he is qualified to lead the people and would deploy his international exposure to attract development to the district. Hinting that he is ready for a political showdown with Oriolowo, Salawu said “Well, when it comes to the primary elections of our party, I’m sure you are aware that it could be by consensus, direct or indirect primary. So, I may or may not be contesting against my kinsman but I am definitely in the ring for the primaries whatever may be the modus operandi. We don’t want our community denied of this advantage of adequate and proper representation. “As for the allusion to the performance of the incumbent senator or his acceptability by the people and the party, I won’t be dwelling on that but will rather concentrate on what I have to offer and what my people want, which has prompted me to decide to run. I am eminently qualified. I am widely accepted and well loved by the people for various reasons. I have been unflinchingly loyal to the party in spite of my past experience in the politics of the party. I am neither an impromptu nor opportunistic aspirant.” Salawu may not be the only chieftains of the ruling party eyeing Oriolowo’s seat. Recently, a group within the party, Osun West Youths and Women Forum (OWYWF) insisted that there is a need for stakeholders within the ruling APC to give a female the opportunity to represent Osun West Senatorial District in the 2023 General Elections. Convener of the group, Lekan Ojasope, revealed that with the current political situation in Osun West Senatorial District, there is need for a woman to represent the senatorial zone. Ojasope, who held that they were optimistic that a woman would bring resounding development to the people of the constituency, added that their decision to root for a female Senator was borne out of their desire to bring Osun West Senatorial District out of the woods. “I want to say emphatically that, our Senatorial District, which is Osun West Senatorial District, needs a woman this time around, who can adopt a distinctly different approach to legislating,’ Ojasope said in Osogbo. “We don’t want a Senator who would be flexing muscle with the incumbent Governor, Gboyega Oyetola because of the position he occupies. In the history of the State, there has never been a time a woman has been given the opportunity to occupy such an elevated position. We want a Senator who would bring the people of the constituency out of total penury through the provision of jobs, both at the State and the federal level. We found out that female Senate members always represent their constituents’ interests and needs when participating in the legislative process,’ he added. Also expected to join the race for the Osun West senatorial seat on the platform of the PDP is the party’s senatorial candidate in the 2019 general election, Akogun Lere Oyewunmi. He lost to Oriolowo during the 2019 election and close aides say he is getting ready for a rematch with the incumbent Senator and or the ruling party next year. Party sources say he is still the only visible aspirant in the race for the PDP senatorial ticket at the moment. During the 2019 election, eventual winner, Senator Oriolowo of the APC had received 41.38% of the votes, while Lere Oyewunmi, who was PDP candidate, received 39.40%. Analysts say the margin between the votes scored by the two isn’t much. As such, many observers of the politics of the zone believe the PDP should throw Oyewunmi into the contest again if it is desirous of victory in the 2023 senatorial election. Working with several support groups like Akogun Front-liners, Irewolede Pathfinders and others, Oyewunmi has been moving round the nooks and crannies of the senatorial district to canvass for the support of the electorates. Speaking on the aspiration of Oyewunmi, a chieftain of the PDP, Bello Akintunde, said “the Senate of the Federal Republic is not Crèche or a trial and error venture. It requires sending the most eminent amongst us. He is a revered veteran whose politics does not start today. If politics were a career job like in the military, he is qualified to be called a General in politics.”