There is growing disquiet in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over what method to adopt in choosing the party’s presidential flag bearer for the 2023 election. The issue has pitted the pro-zoning aspirants against those pushing for a consensus candidate. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, who took his consultation to Cross River State, restated his opposition to the consensus idea. He also said his declaration to run for president was not to end up as a running mate on the PDP ticket. But the two groups are stepping up their consultations, selling their preferred options to the various power blocks and stakeholders. The quartet of former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and former banker Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, took their consensus campaign to Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who told them to ensure equity and justice. Those pushing for zoning of the ticket to the South are: former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Pius Anyim; one-time Anambra State Governor Peter Obi; industrialist Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa and a United States (U.S.)-based doctor, Nwachukwu Anakwenze. Obi, who took his consultation to Edo State yesterday, called for sacrifice to move the country forward. The aspirants have extended their campaigns to the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT), the National Assembly Caucus, ex-ministers and the party’s Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu. Saraki, who is the spokesman for the consensus group, has continued to hinge the preference for the mode on the need to enthrone unity in the party. However, there has been suspicion that the group might be pursuing a Northern agenda, based on the ethnic origin of its members. Dismissing such insinuation, Saraki clarified that all the aspirants in the race at the point the group was formed were all from the North. According to him, the group will be expanded to accommodate aspirants from other zones. The group has focused consultations primarily on PDP governors. There was a mild drama during the consensus campaigners’ stopover in Enugu State. Saraki had announced to reporters that Ugwuanyi had given his support to the consensus option before the governor clarified that he would only welcome the idea if it is based on justice equity and fairness. Ugwuanyi said: “I welcome consensus based on justice, equity and fairness.” When asked if he was making an inference to zoning with his demand for justice, equity, and fairness, Ugwuanyi retorted: “If that is what you think it is, so be it.” The Enugu helmsman was one of the six PDP governors who insisted on the zoning of the PDP presidential ticket at a meeting in Abuja last Friday. Despite Saraki’s explanations, the division between proponents of consensus and those campaigning for zoning has given ethnic colouration to the contest. The Southeast aspirants, mindful of their obvious disadvantaged position in terms of delegate numbers, are fighting to have the ticket zoned to their region. On the other hand, aspirants from the North, including the four pushing for consensus, are scrambling individually to grab the ticket. They have been taking turns to meet with members of the BoT, the National Assembly Caucus, former cabinet Ministers and the leadership of the party. Those that have met with these groups include Saraki, Tambuwal, Mohammed, Anyim, Obi, Governor Wike, Governor Udom Emmanuel, and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, among others. During a meeting with the National Assembly Caucus last week, Wike promised to foot litigation bills for every member that might have legal challenges with their elections. He told the lawmakers that he will engage the services of no fewer than 15 Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) to handle legal services for those of them that support his aspiration. Anyim, who met with the PDP leadership yesterday after he submitted his nomination documents, complained of unfair treatment of the Southeast and charged the party to address the situation. PDP chair Iyorchia Ayu urged Anyim to intensify consultations among the various party stakeholders across the six geopolitical zones. The party chair clarified that he and other members of the National Working Committee (NWC) are only umpires in the nomination process. He urged Anyim and other aspirants to focus their consultations on those that will be delegates at the presidential primary. I’m not for consensus, says Wike The Rivers governor told an enthusiastic crowd of party supporters in Calabar not to take his presidential bid as a joke. He said: “You may be hearing stories, but today I am coming here in person to tell you that I am running to be President of Nigeria. “I am not running to negotiate for the vice presidency or for anything. I’m running to be the President of Nigeria. “I’m not running for running’s sake; I do not want to be recognised as a former presidential candidate, but to win and become the president of Nigeria.” Those who listened to Wike included former governors Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke; PDP national assembly Caucus leader and members from Cross River State and a host of others down to the party leaders in the local government areas in the state. Referencing the pro-consensus group, Wike said: “Some people are moving for consensus. I’m not part of that. If you want to run an election, come and run an election.   Tinubu canvasses drastic, courageous changes as way forward     Opadokun, others urge Yoruba group to mobilise youths for…     Govt security investment will soon yield fruit, says…   “When they came to me, I told them I’m not a party to this one. What I don’t like in my life is deceiving people. What I will not do, I will not do. What I will do, I will do. “I hear yesterday (Tuesday) what was credited to the former Senate President, Olusola Saraki, that the North came out first, so the South should concede to them; that is a lie and it is not correct; with due respect to our former Senate President. “You can only know those who have come out for election at the close of nomination; or the close of picking of forms. I like what the Governor of Enugu State told them, he said consensus based on equity, fairness and justice.” Stating that he was too experienced in politics to be deceived, Wike said: “If you can’t run again, say it out. Don’t hide under what you call consensus and come to me. Get on and run for the election; to be President of Nigeria is not by ‘dash’, you will sweat it out.” “If PDP wants to win this election, look around, who has that capacity, who has that courage that can withstand this government, that can tell APC, enough is enough? I am the one. “Give me the ticket. Give me the ticket and the election is over. PDP needs a candidate who is fearless and courageous. I will win the election for PDP.” On his track record when he held the forth as Minister of State for Education, the governor said: “I toured every state. I addressed many issues of basic education and I got to ensure libraries and laboratories were built in secondary schools.” Saraki: consensus candidate can come from South Saraki told reporters after the meeting with Ugwuanyi that they discussed how to strengthen Nigeria’s unity. He added that they also deliberated on the future of the PDP and the possibility of a consensus presidential candidate. Saraki said the push by some PDP presidential aspirants for a consensus candidate for the 2023 polls was not a northern agenda. He said: “When we started about three weeks ago, most of the aspirants we had then were mainly in the North. We were talking to the aspirants across the country. Now, more people have come out in the South and we are all going to meet. “We are talking about Nigeria. We are not talking about the northern aspirants or southern aspirants. “I have good news that already that moves are being made by the aspirants in the South to meet and produce a candidate through consensus that represents all the groups. “So, I just want to be clear about that. Be reassured it is not about just the issue of a northern consensus, not at all. It’s a consensus for the PDP and one Nigeria. “The most important ambition now is how to begin to fix Nigeria and put Nigeria on the right course.” Obi: We must make sacrifices for better Nigeria A PDP presidential aspirant, Peter Obi, said Nigerians must make sacrifices to overcome the nation’s current challenges. He spoke at the Government House, Benin, while being hosted by Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki. The former Anambra governor told the leaders and members of the party in the state that he was the best man for the job. He said: “My aspiration is borne out of the fact that our country is going through a lot of challenges. We will need to all make sacrifices in building a better nation for our children. “We need somebody who is conversant with the realities, because of the enormity of the problems besieging this country today. “If the issues are not aggressively tackled from 2023, this country will not be there for all of us.” Obi believes the foundation of development in a multi-ethnic and diverse society like Nigeria must be based on unity, fairness, love, respect, and inclusiveness. Obaseki said Edo, as the heartbeat of Nigeria, would not be part of any arrangement that was not inclusive and equitable, stressing that the Southsouth state was interested in achieving a united and progressive Nigeria. He said: “For us in Edo, it is about Nigeria first. Whatever we are doing politically must be one that will strengthen and preserve our country. Our view is that this country cannot be preserved and sustained if there is no fairness and equity.” Remove me if I fail, says Anyim  Another presidential aspirant, Anyim Pius Anyim, urged Nigerians to remove him if he fails to perform after one year. He spoke while addressing the party’s National Working Committee (NEC) after submitting his nomination form. According to him, his vision is to build a Nigeria everyone would be proud of as he has the experience to make it happen having served as a Senate President and as Secretary to the Government of the Federation. “The only request I am placing on the table today is that if you give me the ticket of PDP to fly the flag of this party for the general election of 2023, I will go ahead to win the election. “I will return to government as president of Nigeria and if I run this country for one year, and you don’t see the difference between light and darkness, you can recall me. “From the vantage positions I have held, I understand the challenges confronting our nation today and I have clarity of what the solutions could be,” he said. Senator Ayu said as of yesterday afternoon, 17 aspirants comprising 16 males and one female had obtained PDP nomination and expression of interest forms. Ayu said that this showed the strength and popularity of the PDP as well as its acceptance among Nigerians ahead of the 2023 general elections. He assured all the aspirants that the NWC would be transparent and neutral as an umpire, adding that the decision of who would emerge as flag bearer would be determined by ordinary members of the party. Ayu enjoined all aspirants to work together for PDP to emerge victorious in 2023.