President Muhammadu Buhari, Friday, said his administration would not stop fighting for the repatriation of Nigeria’s artefacts looted from during colonial era, including 1,130 Benin Bronzes, currently on display in Germany’s public museums. The President gave the assurance on Friday in Abuja while receiving the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, accompanied by members of the Royal Court of Benin and the Board of Trustees of the Benin Royal Museum. His Royal Majesty was at the State House to thank the President on the recent return of two important Benin Bronzes to its original place of abode by the University of Cambridge and the University of Aberdeen, both in the United Kingdom, after 125 years. According to a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, while speaking on the return of the artefacts, President Buhari expressed delight that it has brought immense goodwill and acclaim to Nigeria, the ancient Benin Kingdom as well as happiness to the Oba of Benin. The President noted that while it is widely acknowledged around the world that some of the best ancient arts belong to Nigeria, including those from Benin, Ife, Nok and Igbo-Ukwu, many of these beautiful works were illicitly taken away, particularly during the colonial period. Affirming that these great cultural and artistic works are records of history, the President vowed that Nigeria cannot permit these great works to become properties of others, adding that this administration had made it an important task to ensure the return of the artefacts. The President, therefore, assured the first-class traditional ruler that the Federal Government would continue in this great cause with his support and that of other traditional rulers. ‘‘In furtherance to these efforts, an agreement between Nigeria and Germany is currently being prepared. When concluded, it will signify the return to Nigeria by Germany of all the 1,130 Benin Bronzes in Germany’s public museums. This will be a monumental achievement.   Eid-el-Fitr: After two-year break, Buhari to receive guests…     Ayu blasts APC over insecurity, economy     2023: SDP restrategises for presidential election   ‘‘Furthermore, on the 7th of this month, the Glasgow City Council agreed to return 17 Benin Bronzes to Nigeria. The legal issues are in the process of being sorted out. ‘‘Other success stories include the return by the Netherlands in October 2020 of a 600-year-old Ife Terracotta; the return in April 2021 of a bronze piece from Mexico; as well as the repatriation, in November 2021, of two Benin Bronzes and an Ife Bronze head from the Metropolitan Museum, New York,’’ the President said. President Buhari announced that because of the determined efforts of this administration, Nigeria is now regarded to be in the forefront globally in the struggle to repatriate illicitly-exported artefacts back to their countries of origin. The Oba of Benin informed the President that his Royal Court had concluded plans with the NCMM to establish an ultra-modern international standard Benin Royal Museum to house the Benin Bronzes and other artefacts for the purpose of preserving history, tourism and education. ‘‘We want to reassure Mr President that the Royal Court of Benin and NCMM are working closely to ensure safe custody, preservation and enhancement of these Benin bronzes and artefacts not only for their cultural and economic benefits, but more importantly towards the promotion of the tourism industry in Nigeria,’’ he said. The Royal Majesty reassured Nigerians that the Benin Bronzes and artefacts represent the country’s cultural heritage in particular and Africa in general, saying ‘‘we hold these objects in trust as the original owners in conjunction with NCMM for the benefit of all.’’ The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, affirmed that Nigeria would continue to assert its rights over all its antiquities around the world. He added that the country would not hesitate to implore nations, institutions, men and women of goodwill to see the unfairness in the affairs of one body holding on to the cultural property fashioned by the genius of another.