Intending railway passengers should get their National Identity Number (NIN) ready as it will be a requirement from May. Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) Managing Director Fidet Okhiria said this yesterday in Abuja. He emphasised that the NIN would be needed to enhance profiling of passengers. This, he explained, would also enhance safety and security of rail users. “The process of linking passengers to their NIN for improved profiling is ongoing. This layer of passenger screening will commence by May. “The Abuja-Kaduna Train Service (AKTS) will resume as soon as possible with additional security measures put in place,” Okhiria said. The NRC suspended the Abuja-Kaduna route following the March 28 attack by assailants who injured some passengers and abducted many others. Okhiria said the security agencies were working tirelessly to rescue and release all abducted passengers.   Fed Govt sets up surveyors’ council     AI Report: Eight years after Chibok school attack, over…     Buhari backs judgment on 35% affirmation for women   The NRC boss stressed that 362 passengers and 20 crew members were on board the train when it was attacked. “While we continue to sympathise with families of those who lost or have not seen their loved ones, we encourage anyone still looking for a loved one to please call us. “The numbers to call are: 08033546208, 08060044600 and 07066700150. “The corporation will continue to update the general public of latest developments,” he said. Okhiria stressed that the NRC had re-railed the last rolling stock affected in the attack. “This means that all the 14 derailed rolling stock (11 coaches, two rescue coaches and one locomotive engine on the Rescue Train) have all been re-railed from the incident site to our stations at Idu, Abuja and Rigasa, Kaduna State,” Okhiria said. “Intensive track repair work continues at site. An advanced level of track repairs has been achieved and, hopefully, it will be rounded off in 10 days. “The NRC expresses its profound gratitude to security agencies for the continued support, especially for the security cover availed our officials and workers at the incident site,” Okhiria said.