The eagerly- anticipated UEFA Champions League trophy tour courtesy of international premium brand Heineken kicks off today. With Dutch football legend Clarence Seedorf headlining this year’s trophy tour, fun-filled activities for the two cities of Lagos and Abuja have been unveiled by Heineken. The prestigious UEFA Champions League trophy regarded as one of the most coveted sports silverware arrived yesterday along with the iconic football star, Seedorf and his entourage also touched down for the loaded two-day run of activities. According to the itinerary, the trophy tour activities will begin today with Seedorf’s visit first to the SuperSport studio and then to the Nigerian Breweries Plc Headquarters where there will be interactions with employees and the UCL trophy available for photo ops. Seedorf while at the Nigeria Breweries headquarters will be meeting with some prominent Nigerian football legends that would be confronting him and his teammates in the Heineken Face-Off football challenge later today.   Leicester 2-1 Crystal Palace: Lookman dedicates Foxes’ win…     UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE: Real won’t underrate beaten Chelsea,…     Joshua, Usyk rematch set for major setback   The Nigerian team to face the Seedorf-led five-a-side team includes the former Super Eagles duo of Austin Okocha and Daniel Amokachi as well as superstar music artistes Davido and Reekado Banks at the Landmark Events Centre . After the visit to Nigeria Breweries, the next point of call for Seedorf is the Brewery bar where a press parley will be held and the unveiling of the UEFA Champions League Trophy, the international legend and the home-grown legends will be conducted. Activities on the first day of the trophy tour will climax with the match viewing experience as Bayern Munich attempts to cancel the lone goal defeat to Samuel Chukwueze’s Villarreal FC at Allianz Arena just as Real Madrid hope to end FC Chelsea’s reign at Santiago Bernabeu after a 3-1 advantage from last week first leg win. The excitement at the viewing experience will climax with after-party entertainment. Heineken’s 2021/22 UEFA Champions League campaign entitled, “Cheers to All Fans”, highlights the inclusive nature of the game of football, communicating that football belongs to all passionate fans; regardless of gender, age, or tribe. To follow the UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour presented by Heineken on social media, visit @Heinekenng and use #CheerstoAllFans.