Singer-cum-politician, Olubankole Wellington aka Banky W has officially joined the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) as he gears up to run for a seat in the House of Representatives. Banky W took to his social media pages last Friday to declare his intention to contest for the seat of Eti-Osa Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. In the 2019 general elections, he contested for the same seat under the Modern Democratic Party, a political party founded in 2017 by some youth associations but lost out after the poll. The 41-year-old said the race then, was not just about winning a seat but about planting a seed. Banky W made this known in a video shared on his Twitter handle where he announced his intentions while he recounted how he’s been actively involved in community service over the years as a way of planting a seed which he hoped to harvest in the 2023 general elections. He said: “We can no longer settle for candidates who feel entitled to their place in government. We need candidate who will earn and treasure their right to serve. “As a nation, we need innovation and reform. But reform will happen when enough of us with like minds, who have the best interest of the nation at heart are in government.   Uche Maduagwu slams Kpokpogiri over Tonto Dikeh     Cardi B absent at Grammys, deletes Twitter account over…     Real housewives of Atlanta star, Porsha Williams spotted in…   Officially declaring his intention and choice of platform, Banky W said: “I will to announce that I will once again be answering the call to serve by attempting to secure the ticket to represent Eti-Osa Federal Constituency of Lagos State in the House of Representatives on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). “Some may not agree or understand my decision to run or my choice of the platform but I have learnt that we must engage with Nigeria where it is not where we hope that it should be. “We must no longer be content to shout from the sidelines, we must get into the system and fix it. “The problems in Nigeria are from the top down but the solutions are from the bottom up and so some of us must infiltrate the major platforms that exist in order to build an army of like minds who will enter government with the same agenda. “In 2019, we planted the seed. In 2023 by the grace of God and with the support of our people, we will win the seat. The time for talking about problems is over, it’s time to talk and do.” Banky W captioned the video: “We must engage with Nigeria where it is, not where we prefer for it to be. In 2019, we planted the seed. In 2023, by the grace of God, and with your support, we will win the seat. The time for just talking is over. It’s time to #TalkAndDo. I hope I can count on you. We move.”