The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has said there will be no resumption in public universities until the re-negotiated 2009 agreement is implemented and the University Transparency and Accountability Solution deployed. The University of Abuja Zonal Coordinator, Dr Salawu Lawal, made this known during a briefing at the University of Abuja in Gwagwalada on Monday. Lawal said ASUU members are ready to return to their duty posts as soon as their demands are met by the Federal Government. The zone comprises the Federal University of Lafia, Federal University of Technology Minna, Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai and the University of Abuja. He said: “You would recall that the Academic Staff Union of Universities declared a four week rolling strike at the University of Lagos National Executive Council meeting held on Feb. 14. “Owing to the failure of the Federal Government to act within that period, the national action was rolled over for another eight weeks following the resolution taken at an emergency NEC meeting at the Festus Iyayi National Secretariat on March 14.   Four prominent Nigerians who died in April 2022     Tinubu, others to attend ‘Last Man Standing’ premiere April…     Alleged contempt: Consumers ask Tribunal to commit…   “The action as you are probably aware is to, among other things, compel the Federal Government to sign and implement the draft renegotiated 2009 ASUU-FGN Agreement submitted to it by the Prof. Munzali Committee in May 2021. “Deploy for use in the Nigerian university system, was the home-grown payment and personnel solution called UTAS developed by ASUU as replacement for the failed IPPIS. “As usual, the Federal Government has ignored ASUU’s call for full implementation of that famous agreement and other memoranda signed with the union. “No meeting has been held between the two parties since the commencement of the ongoing strike. The only exception is our union’s re-submission of UTAS for a retest. “The summary is that unless and until the renegotiated 2009 agreement is signed and implemented and UTAS deployed, there will be no work in public universities.”