The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has released a ‘revised regulation on the administration of retirement benefits’, in other to make pension fund administration more efficient. Amongst the new regulations is that “a PFA that fails, neglects or refuses to enlighten the retiree on the features of Programmed Withdrawal and Retiree Life Annuity to enable the retiree to make an informed decision shall be liable for an administrative sanction of N500,000”. The concern raised by the commission is a welcome development, as some of the Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) are becoming tardy in their responsibilities to pensioners. So, every legitimate step should be taken to ensure that the contributory pension scheme does not regress into distress like the erstwhile government pension scheme. It was the inability to pay pensions to retirees that culminated in the reforms that threw up the PFAs, under which pensioners and their employees save in advance of retirement. Having saved for the restful period, it is unacceptable that poor management of the savings is allowed to generate restlessness in old age. The PFAs must be made to realise that the pension funds in their custody are private savings, and not government money, which tragically is treated with carefree attitude by public officials. So, there should be no excuse for the delays that are being experienced in the payment of entitlements to pensioners. The commission listed sanctions against delays in the submission of request to the commission for payment of benefits to retirees beyond 10 working days. There is also penalty where an administrator pays a benefit without first obtaining a no-objection from the commission, or the administrator pays an amount either lower or higher than the sum on the no-objection approval by the commission. Furthermore, any PFA that negligently submits a request with incorrect information that may deplete the RSA balance of a retiree, will pay an administrative fine.   United by insecurity     Structured poverty?     36 minus 24= investment blues   The commission also listed various sums as penalty for the infringements, and provided that “any violation of any provision of this regulation for which no sanction has been prescribed shall attract an administrative sanction of not more than N2m.” It also stated that “all sanctions in this regulation shall be charged to the operator’s profit and loss account and the burden shall not be transferred to the employees of the operators.” We commend the commission for the pro-active measures it has put in place to check-mate the unacceptable practices by some PFAs in the payment of pensions to beneficiaries. We hope the various penalties put in place will deter the PFAs showing tardiness in dealing with requests from their customers. Of course, not all PFAs have been tardy in their operations, as some are living up to the idea behind the pension scheme. We therefore urge PenCom to separate the wheat from the chaff, so that prospective  pensioners would know which PFAs are safe for their investment. It will be a monumental tragedy for a pensioner to wake up at the vulnerable time of his/her life, and be told that he cannot access his savings for one reason or another. It was bad when federal and state governments blamed the lack of resources to pay pensions, and we note that such heartless treatment of the aged contributes to corrupt practices. Now that pensions are saved monies, there should be no reason why saved pensions should be allowed to stymie in such mess as the old pension scheme. If the commission does not live up to its responsibility, the relevant government agencies should apply due process to deal with the creeping decay. Nothing should be spared to ensure that pensions in the custody of PFAs are safe and available to the beneficiaries when they fall due.