We often meet people in a place, at a time and under conditions that are nothing short of an augury perfectly arranged by divine providence. As we go on in life, we get to fully appreciate the impact these people made in our lives while they were around. They play different roles – some as mentors or models, some partners, some friends, and some become fathers. I consider it a huge honour to be writing about one of such men who became a father. I am happy to be celebrating Professor Akinjide Idowu Oladepo Osuntokun (born April 26, 1942) – a man whom I admired first from a distance and even more so from the privilege of a personal relationship. The fine points of prof’s life – his background, sterling accomplishments in academia as a first-rate scholar of history and international relations, as well as the details of his time in public service are well known. This is a celebration of the professor that I know personally on this very special milestone he has attained by the grace of God. My first personal interaction with Professor Osuntokun was divine. At the time, I was in my final year and had the unique opportunity of serving as president of the Redeemer’s University Students’ Association (RUNSA). I had cause to pay a courtesy visit to prof at his office in the company of the RUNSA vice president who was his student. That meeting did two things. First, it afforded me the opportunity to meet a man about whom I had heard so much since my first year in school. I had also watched him speak at a number of events in the university. He was, to me, the kind of professor anybody would want to be like  – easy going, warm, humble and accessible and refined (both in speech and style). I remember this really nice shirt he had on with his name beautifully inscribed on the cuff. I really thought that was suave! There were not so many with this level of panache. There is a sense in which one would tell that most of his students truly admired him. And why not? They knew him. He had no airs.  Like many, I was in awe of prof’s personality and credentials. He was the kind of person a young student would be happy to be seen with. I had always looked forward to the opportunity of meeting with him. And there was my opportunity. Second, it was the beginning of my relationship with him. It is important to say this here, that in my final-year leadership engagements at the Redeemer’s University, there was no one whose company I found more stimulating than prof’s. In many ways, he was a father to a great many students. But to me, he was more. He was a friend, and I truly enjoy the life experiences, advice, and even jokes he has shared over the years. There was something about our meetings. If I had only a two-hour break between classes and I stopped by prof’s office, there was the likelihood that I would be late for the next class. I was often caught in a dilemma where I had a class in a few minutes but didn’t want to leave. There was always something to talk about, and there was so much I was learning. These conversations shaped me, and through the years, I’ve been more than grateful for them. I remember in 2016. I developed a very strong interest in Chief Obafemi Awolowo. I informed him about this interest, and I could tell he was quite interested. He shared some history and insights, and suggested that I visit Booksellers in Ibadan to get a copy of Awo’s autobiography. He also wanted me to speak with the owner of the bookshop whom I must thank, once again, for warmly receiving me and for suggesting that I also pick up a copy of Chief S.L Akintola’s biography which, coincidentally, prof authored. I got the two books with my first National Youth Service Corps allowance. Pages into Chief Akintola’s biography, I remember calling prof to disagree with how he had described Chief Awolowo, as “aloof and uncommunicative.” What did I know? I was speaking from a place of bias, but we had a good conversation about it.   The Jonathan bubble     Needless buckpassing     Does coconut oil offer promise of glaucoma cure?   In April 2017, prof. called to extend an invitation to attend his birthday/retirement celebration party. I was moved by the thought and was very happy to attend. The quality of people in attendance to honour prof was truly phenomenal. And to be in the midst of these people, as a much younger person, was a big deal. As I found the opportunity to ‘greet’ prof on that evening, he found the time to introduce me to some of his guests seated at the same table. That gesture was truly humbling. Prof and I are generations apart but that hasn’t detracted from the warmth and convenience in engaging with him. I truly enjoy his company. I often get a sense that I become a better man with each encounter. One of my best Christmases was spent with prof. I would never forget that evening of December 25, 2017. The things he said that night would remain with me. There have been many beautiful highlights since then. The stories and jokes are quite something. There is this one of a picture with Her Majesty, The Queen hung on the wall of his Redemption Camp home. One of his grandsons asked: “Oh, grandpa, you know the Queen!” Of course, prof knows the Queen. Then he asks: “Does the Queen know you?” Prof was a member of a delegation visiting the palace. It’s very likely that’s all she knows! I also remember the stories of the troubles he went through to get the attention of the young lady who became his wife. He has shared some experience of his time in public service, as ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Germany (1991-1995), and as a member of the five-man Presidential Advisory Council on International Relations (1999-2015). Every now and then, he would make reference to his six-month detention by the Abacha regime. We talk a lot about everything – my plans, a relationship that didn’t work out, a lecture he is to give somewhere, his concerns about travelling, his views on the leadership crisis – everything.  A call would often go on for more than 30 minutes. On at least four occasions, we have spoken for over an hour discussing Nigeria, his frustrations at the sordid state of affairs, and how we can get back up. It would seem that he has given up but he continues to write about these issues in his column in The Nation. There is still hope. Since 2018, I have had the honour of reading his writing, each week, before it is published. Twice, last year, prof was kind enough to yield his page to me as Guest Writer. The gestures are really encouraging and I can’t thank prof enough for the support through the years. Thanks to prof’s direct nudge, I have had the privilege of meeting some very distinguished Nigerians. Reading these people is one thing, but meeting them is altogether different. It often leaves a profound impression, particularly on those who are both public-spirited and passionate about the power of personal example. Prof is now an octogenarian. I believe I can be excused for not having any words of ‘advice’. Interestingly, I wish that prof would do more TV interviews to share insights on the emerging dynamics in global affairs. I also hope that he is able to finish that updated biography in good time. We have talked about his intention to write one; one that would capture his years at the Redeemer’s University and post-retirement. I wish him the very best in this effort. He deserves all the celebration for the exemplary life he has led, gratitude for his service, and praises for the inspiration he continues to provide. He is, without any hesitation, one of the biggest influences in my life, and someday when my story is written, prof’s special place would be reserved. I’m proud to say that I know prof, and even prouder that prof knows me. This pride, I’m sure, is one that many who have met prof in their journey can relate to. Prof has paid his dues. He has inspired many. He has served his country and his God. I have all the joy in the world in wishing prof a happy 80th birthday, with the very best wishes and prayers of renewed strength and sustenance by God’s excellent spirit.