NATIONAL Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) has said farmers in Nigeria and African countries cannot attain the yield potential of legumes and grains compared to other parts of the world. It said while farmers in America and Asia get over 10 tons per hectare for maize, farmers in Africa struggle to attain four tons per hectare. Agency’s Director-General Dr Abdullahi Mustapha, who spoke yesterday in Abuja at the exchange programme on agricultural biotechnology between Nigeria and Ghana, said biotechnology was helping to overcome agricultural productivity challenges. This, he said, leads to more yield and addresses breeding limitations conventional breeding methods cannot address. Mustapha noted that the future of the continent’s food security lies in its ability to adopt technologies to make farming a profitable business, an employer of labour to attract youths and ensure abundance of quality food, while being an engine of economic growth. He said: “Considering our challenge and the desire to feed our people to ensure food and nutritional security, we must make technology the engine room for our agricultural development. That way, we can ensure that no African goes to bed hungry.   Cleric joins Delta governorship race     Agency chief declares for Reps     ‘Ojo APC should be repositioned for success’   “The Pod Borer Resistant (PBR) cowpea is a classic example of how technology can provide solutions to one of the major challenges confronting cowpea farming.” Executive Director of African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) Dr Canisius Kanangiri said the continent has been regarded as the region with the biggest potential to benefit from biotech, but the progress is hampered by misinformation about biotechnology. Kanangiri, represented by the AATF representative for West Africa, Dr Francis Onyekachi, said Nigeria has advanced in biotechnology and biosafety in Africa, which made it a focal point. He said: “Everyone in Africa comes to see what’s going on in Nigeria. Ghana is advancing in that area and we must continue to engage and bring together stakeholders to share experiences and chart the future together on communicating agricultural biotechnology on the continent”. Chairman of Parliamentary Committee on Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation in Ghana Dr Emmanuel Marfo, while commending Nigeria for the commercialisation of cowpea, said it would aid food security. “This means Nigeria is producing what it will eat and reducing reliance on importation. Also, the balance of trade  will improve, the currency will become stronger and the country will move forward. “As a continent, we have not been able to take advantage of the knowledge we have, we have not interacted enough, if we choose to learn from ourselves and share knowledge, we will move faster than we have moved,” he said.