Ahead of next year’s governorship election in Enugu State, major contenders for the Lion Building seat of power have started hitting up the political space in their bid to succeed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. DAMIAN DURUIHEOMA reports Enugu State is among the states where a change of leadership must take place. This is because the outgoing Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is serving his last term of four years at the helms, having assumed office on May 19, 2015. To this end, the traditional and social media are already awash with images of possible candidates for next year’s governorship election in the state. While it is likely that some of the said aspirations are mere speculations, only the former deputy Senate President and member currently representing Enugu West in the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu and former member representing Enugu East, Senator Gil Nnaji, have declared their intentions to contest for the seat. Other contenders are still intensifying subterranean consultations across the state. Since late last year, there have been speculations and underground moves by many politicians over the governorship race. Ekweremadu’s recent declaration suggests that the race to succeed Ugwuanyi in 2023 is going to be a tough one. It elicited more reactions from a wide array of stakeholders, particularly some of those eyeing the ticket but waiting for the governor to anoint them. There are indications that many people are interested in the race on the platform of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). However, those that could be considered serious contenders are the aspirants on the platform of the ruling PDP. Most of the aspirants, it is said, are well qualified to lead the state, which is regarded as the capital of the Southeast region. The contenders are:   Ekweremadu: Senator Ike Ekweremadu needs no introduction in Nigeria, Southeast and particularly in Enugu State. Since Ekweremadu declared his intention to run, he has received a lot of support from the grassroots. However, his ambition is being threatened by the zoning conundrum being propagated by major stakeholders who insist that it is the turn of the Enugu East senatorial district to produce the governor. He began his political journey as the chairman of Aninri Local Government Area and later served as Chief of Staff to the governor and later, the secretary to Enugu State government. He got elected into the Senate in 2003 and ever since represented Enugu West at the National Assembly; the people have continued to re-elect him. He is now in his fifth tenure, which will elapse next year.   Nnaji: Captain Everest Nnaji, popularly known by his chieftain title, Odengene, is a businessman and aviator. As a pioneer aviator in the country and an ardent believer in the industry, he founded Odengene Air-Shuttle Services Limited, (OAS Helicopters), which has grown to become one of the major players in the oil and gas helicopter service industry. He hails from Nkanu East Local Government Area in Enugu East senatorial district. He ventured into politics four years ago when he ran for the senatorial seat of the district. Many believe that he will bring his business acumen to bear in the running of the affairs of the state if given the chance.   Ogenyi: Dr. Godwin Ogenyi hails from the Isi-Uzo Local Government Area in Enugu East senatorial zone. He is a former commissioner for Poverty Reduction and Human Development. He served as commissioner during the tenure of Sullivan Chime as the governor. Ogenyi is said to be a man of innovation who initiated the idea that empowered thousands of youths and lifted others out of poverty through his ministry then. He made the Ministry of Poverty Reduction and Human Development so viable that many politicians wanted to take over from him. He is the president/founder of the Youth Resource Development Education and Leadership Centre for Africa (YORDEL Africa), a youth-focused non-profit organization that guarantees tomorrow’s world on today’s initiatives for the youths. If given the opportunity to govern the state, it is believed that Ogenyi will deploy his expertise in human development, as well infrastructure to lift Enugu State.   Ohaa: Sir Chienyeaka Ohaa, who is known around Enugu State as Osukwu Odalije, is a bureaucrat. He hails from Nkanu West Local Government Area in the Enugu East district. He has served both the state and the country at large in different capacities, including as the Accountant General of Enugu State and permanent secretary of many ministries at the federal level.  His experiences are hands-on and cut across different strata of the civil service.   Mbah:   Emmanuel’s choice of successor confounds stakeholders     Tinubu’s excellent footprints in Lagos     Oladejo promises quality representation for Mushin Federal…   Peter Mbah is a lawyer and businessman from Nkanu East Local Government, which is in Enugu East senatorial zone. He is the chairman and chief executive officer of Pinnacle Oil and Gas Limited. He has a track record of entrepreneurship, characterized by iconoclasm, which has driven him to continually question the status quo in every industry he has found himself. Mbah’s experience cuts across various sectors and activities, including, import trade, oil and gas sales and distribution and maritime logistics. He also has his footprints on the sands of public service, having served as the Chief of Staff to the Governor and Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development of the Enugu State Government.   Edeoga:  A former member of the House of Representatives and current Commissioner for Environment, Chijioke Edeoga started his political career in 1992 when he was appointed the Press Secretary by former Governor Okwesilieze Nwodo. The aspirant who hails from Isi-Uzo Local Government, Enugu East senatorial zone was later elected as the Chairman of the local government. He later got elected to the House of Representatives where he became the Chairman of the House Committee on Information and thus spokesman for the House. He also served as an adviser on legislative matters to the then Deputy President, Senator Ekweremadu from where he was appointed as the Special Assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan on National Assembly Matters from 2011 to 2015. He has also served in various positions as a commissioner under the current administration since 2015. Though he is yet to make his intentions known, it is generally believed across the state that Edeoga is Governor Ugwuanyi’s anointed candidate for the 2023 governorship election.   Chukwuegbo: The youngest but one of the most experienced politicians in Enugu State who rose through ranks from the grassroots to the House of Representatives, Offor Chukwuegbo hails from Enugu South Local Government, Enugu East zone. He started his public service by serving as the executive assistant to Governor Chimaraoke Nnamani. He was later elected a member of the Enugu State House of Assembly and he served between 2003 and 2007. After just four years in the House of Assembly, Chukwuegbo was elected to represent Enugu North/South at the House of Representatives in 2007. Since then, he has found favour in his people who have re-elected him to the House of Representatives for three consecutive terms.   Ubosi: Edward Ubosi is the current Speaker of Enugu State House of Assembly and an indigene of Enugu East Local Government, Enugu East senatorial zone.   Nnaji  Senator Gilbert Nnaji began his career in politics when he became the Chairman of Enugu East Local Government from 1997 to 1998. He was again re-elected from 1999 to 2002. Nnaji contested for the House of Representatives and won in 2003. He was at the House for two tenures and became the Deputy House Leader while at the House. He contested to represent Enugu East senatorial district at the Senate on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015 and won. Though most political watchers in the state do not take his aspirations seriously, he has shown his seriousness by openly declaring to contest.