Barracks FC and Lakeside Queens have emerged winners for the male and female category respectively at the just-concluded tournament organised by The Helper’s House Church. At The Helper’s House Unity Cup 2022 final which returned 12 years after the first edition, Barracks FC edged Galacticos FC to clinch the N400,000 grand prize. The female side, Lakeside Queens defeated Eletu FC for the N250,000 grand prize.   Anthony Village Recreation Centre was a beehive of activities throughout the tournament which kicked off March 28 as male teams of 16 club sides grouped into four with female teams of eight club sides grouped into two contended for the winning prize. Confirming the tournament has come to stay, the church’s Senior Pastor, Niyi Adekunle, noted the organisers have identified areas to improve upon in subsequent editions while hinting on future partnership including Lagos State Government. “The Lagos State Government, through the Ministry of Youth and Social Development, has requested for partnership in bringing other programmes to the Sports complex when they saw what we were able to do with the second edition of the tournament.   Haaland close to Man City move     Fury vows to give Whyte ‘real war’     Pogba out for rest of the season   “We have a vocational training programme called The HIVE (The Helpers Intensive Vocational Education) Program. “We do that at our church facility but they want us to bring it to their premises,” he said. For the cleric, football is one of the veritable tools to help the youths become useful for themselves and the society. He emphasised the church will continue to combine football with other means to keep the youths away from vices. Four matches including a single female match occurred everyday till the final on April 18. Consolation prizes included N300,000 and N200,000 respectively for male teams in second and third places while the female team in second place secured N150,000. The organisers gifted finalists of the male and female teams jerseys. Baale of Anthony Village, Chief Yusuf Ayoola Oseni and Gbagada Football Club Coach Olajide Akinyelu were among the dignitaries who graced the final matches.