Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has threatened to sue the Federal Government over continued multiple entries granted to foreign airlines. The body also declared that for any foreign airline or investors to invest in the new national carrier, it must deposit at least $200 billion with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to be sure of their seriousness. This is as the Federal Government has said that the multiple entries to airlines was a good economics to the foreign airlines, but regretted that it put pressure on the foreign exchange for Nigeria. Speaking at the Q1 2022 Breakfast Business Meeting organised by the Aviation Round Table (ART) with the theme: ‘Economic Implications of Multiple Entry Points by Foreign Airlines Into Nigeria,” Alhaji Yunusa  Abdulmunaf, President of AON, said the body has decided to challenge the government in the court of law of the current policy on multiple entries to airlines is not addressed. Abdulmunaf, who was represented at the occasion by Mr. Allen Onyema, the Vice President of AON, said that the body would in the next few days meet with Sen. Hadi Sirika, the Minister of Aviation to deliberate on the issue. He expressed confidence that the government would address the issue in the next 21 days, but said the body was not giving the government an ultimatum. The AON President lamented that billions of naira are being lost annually to multiple designations granted the foreign carriers and warned that if the policy continued unabated, the domestic airlines would die, while the foreign airlines would eventually take over the domestic market. He insisted that the multiple designations is one of the greatest disservice to the Nigerian economy and its people. The AON said: “All the foreign airlines that come into Nigeria, everyday the Central Bank Govenor cries about the amount of money being repatriated abroad.   Nigeria, others to import $110b worth of food by 2025     Visa partners firm on financial inclusion     Ajaokuta steel project: COVID-19, Russia-Ukraine conflict…   We are talking about the scarcity of foreign exchange in the country, but the foreign airlines are removing billions of dollars every year from this country, and airlines in Nigerians have been hassled with lots of requests on how to repatriate dollars into the system. Where am I going to get it from? “Yet we are creating more avenues for these things to happen by giving multiple destinations to these foreign airlines. All the foreign airlines that come to this country, maybe about 20 or 30 of them have not been able to employ more than 150,000 Nigerians. “We keep on badmouthing Nigerian airlines, forgetting that we are the architects of our own undoing. Air Peace alone employs over 4,000 people directly. It would take foreign airlines another 60 years to generate 4,000 jobs. Yet Air Peace has to beg to be given rights to build a hangar in its own country, it has no land in its own country. No land for its assets and passengers. It didn’t start today. ” Besides, Sirika has said multiple entries approval to foreign airlines is a capital flight against the country. He said that this prevents the indigenous airlines from generating much revenues, rather grows the economics of foreign airlines. “Technically, it creates capital flight from Nigeria,” he said. Also, Dr. Gabriel Olowo, the President of ART, decried that foreign airlines are gradually taking over the domestic market with continuous approvals for multiple entries for foreign airlines. “The damages of multiple entries into Nigeria are huge. Britain for instance has 21 flights into Nigeria weekly. European Unions have 43 frequencies every week into Nigeria. Also the Middle East has 56 flights weekly into multiple entries into Nigeria. “As it is today, we have zero participation in the international sector as an industry and the domestic sector is eroded through multiple entries into Nigeria.”