Two senior secondary school pupils were last week reported to have developed a technology that, when deployed, could alert officials of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to any threat to rail tracks across the country. SitoAbasi Akpabot and Freda Anoetie Akpaffiong, Senior Secondary 3 students of Noble International Secondary School, Uyo in Akwa Ibom State, invented what they called Rail line Threat Detection System (RTDS), which according to them could save government a lot of money that goes into repairs of rail tracks due to frequent vandalism. Their invention came against the backdrop of terrorist attack, March 28, on an Abuja–Kaduna rail service in which no fewer than eight persons died on the scene and nearly 200 unaccounted for, with many of these believed to presently be in the terrorists’ captivity. That attack was preceded by vandalisation of the rail track by the terrorists. Speaking at the Innovation and Technology Expo organised by the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology in Abuja, SitoAbasi and Freda explained that their invention was borne out of their concern over recurrent vandalism of rail lines in the country. “There has been rampant rail track vandalism, and the country is spending a lot of money to repair the damages. In order to reduce the cost of repairs to government, we have developed this technology (which) when in use would keep the rail transportation system on the path of sustainable growth,” they reportedly said, adding that the innovation would increase passengers’ confidence in safety on the rails.   APCON hits Sterling Bank over ‘distasteful’…     Musician killed as security operatives, bandits clash in Imo     Kukah, NEF: Those who divided Nigeria blaming Buhari –…   Explaining how the invention works, Coordinator of the Junior Engineers, Technicians and Scientists (JETS) scheme, Adegboye Olaoluwa Ayodeji, was reported saying the young inventors applied the voltage divider theory of Physics whereby “when you have parallel connection of resistors in series with nominal resistors, there is a way voltage is divided across such connection.” According to him, the technology uses the rolling steel of rail lines in place of resistors, and the steel is connected in such a way that any time there is a short-circuit or an open circuit, there would be a change in the output of voltage and connection. “The only thing we have to do is lay two wires across rail tracks all through the country (that) will serve as communication wires. Anytime someone tampers with the tracks, the resistance of the rail line will change. And when the resistance changes, there will be change in output of the voltage on our system. This change in output of the voltage will trigger an alarm, which will alert officials that there is a problem somewhere, and when they look at the monitor screen they will see the exact location of the affected rail track,” he said. The RTDS invention again highlights how local ingenuity goes largely untapped in this country, whereas we hanker after imported technology that may offer little in value addition, yet at huge costs in scarce foreign exchange. Following the Abuja–Kaduna train attack, there was recrimination in government over the stalling of a multi-billion proposal to import foreign security technology. From the trend of arguments, you knew there wasn’t the slightest thought of exploring local potential that could serve the same end. Meanwhile, over time, Nigerian inventors who have gone largely ignored by their home country have been eagerly harvested by other countries. Among others, there was 22-year-old Ignatus Asabor who used local materials in making drones, and who was lapped up into employment by a Finnish company that announced his arrival in Finland, August, last year, with lavish relish. There was also Musa Sani, who became an online celebrity after building a replica of the Kano overhead bridge, upon which a construction firm swiftly took him on board and gave him scholarship to study in the United States. There are many more. And by the way, the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology should be a special purpose vehicle for cultivating and promoting local scientific and technological ingenuity. It isn’t enough to organise expos as it did with the RTDS invention, it should rather work at developing those inventions for deployment on industrial scale.