The whereabouts of Instagram celebrity, Pascal Okechukwu aka Cubana Chief Priest have created tension among his fans. Many of his fans expressed concerns about his whereabouts due to his days-long silence on Instagram. The Nation observed that the Cubana Chief Priest had failed to return birthday wishes which kept flowing in on his Instagram page on Saturday (April 2nd). Last week, the socialite was reportedly apprehended by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The Nation learnt EFCC operatives arrested Cubana Chief Priest at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja last Wednesday. He was trailed and monitored by a team of EFCC detectives at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium in Abuja last Tuesday. Although EFCC is yet to make details of his arrest public, it was learnt that the 41-year-old socialite is being quizzed for alleged money laundering and tax evasion.   Why I am not accepted, as a successful singer, by Davido     Wizkid’s ‘Essence’ deserved Grammys, says…     Annie Idibia’s brother apologies, blames depression…   His arrest came months after his close associate Obinna Iyiegbu, popularly known as Obi Cubana, was arrested by EFCC operatives over a case of alleged money laundering and tax fraud. Cubana Chief Priest was last seen in public when he was caught on camera at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja, during a FIFA World Cup qualifier match between Ghana and Nigeria last Tuesday His last post on Instagram as seen by The Nation was six days ago after Nigeria’s match with Ghana. His silent birthday on April 2nd had further deepened his fans’ concerns about his whereabouts. Many fans had taken to his Instagram page to comment on his older posts to celebrate with him and also ask the anti-graft agency to release him. Although The Nation learnt that he may be granted administrative bail this week. Cubana Chief Priest was recently appointed as the special adviser to the governor of Imo State on social media influence and social events management. The socialite is known for displaying opulence on social media.