The prosperity and progress of any nation are tied to the level of security citizens, visitors and investors enjoy. No meaningful progress can take place when lives and property are not secured.  The value of governments is therefore tied to the ability of such governments to secure the lives and property of the citizens. As a matter of fact, the welfare of citizens is the reason governments exist. In the light of the above, the perennial and escalating insecurity in Nigeria in the last few years has seriously affected the socio-economic status of the nation. The reign of terror that started with the activities of Boko Haram in the North East of the country has since been expanded by different groups with varied tags, but with the same violence and devastating effects on citizens across the nation. The social lexicon in Nigeria has since found words like killer-herdsmen, bandits, kidnappers, unknown gunmen, ISWAP, IPOB and varied cult groups as  tags for the different groups that have seemingly turned the country into a Hobbesian state where life is nasty, short and brutish. Thousands of lives have been lost, many citizens have been kidnapped, including children; millions displaced from their homes and communities, economic activities affected and the people living in fear and distrust of all tiers and arms of government.The various civil society organisations and other human rights groups in the country have been expressing their displeasure with the situation in different ways. However, we find the fact that some religious groups and leadership like the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria (CBCN), the apex Islamic body in Nigeria, the Jama’atu Nasir Islam (JNI) headed by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, have called on the Federal Government to be more proactive in solving the problem of insecurity in the country.   Transportation Varsity to begin academic activities in…     NFF may rename Peseiro for Super Eagles     Transporters clash in Lagos   The JNI recently berated the government for not being proactive in securing the lives of the people and for not doing enough to stem the tide of violence. It wonders why there seems to be no determination to wipe out the perpetrators of the violence, given the huge amounts appropriated for security consistently. The group believes that a serious clampdown on the terrorists would discourage their actions. It believes that the terrorists are acting with too much bravado because there seems to be no determination by the Federal Government to take the fight to them wherever they are hiding and operating from. We commend the leadership of the various religious bodies across creeds who have spoken out against the insecurity in the land. This shows that they are aware that their adherents desire the same things beyond the spiritual. The humanity in all desires the same things like security, socio-economic and political freedom that give them the opportunity to be productive citizens. For a country that has experienced a lot of religious disharmony, this is an opportunity to have the much needed conversations that can foster unity and better understanding. We however join the religious bodies and other groups to appeal to the government to expedite action on tackling the insecurity problem as it is an ill-wind that only spells retrogression for the country. Given that some citizens like Sheik Ahmad Gumi and Professor Usman Yusuf have had some contact with some of the bandits, it is not difficult to locate them. The government must stop acting as though it is handicapped or inferior to the perpetrators of violence in the country because lives are being lost and the country’s image is at stake. The sacking of Abuja Imam, Sheik Nuru Khalid by Apo Quarters Mosque Committee for criticising the security situation in the country to us sends the wrong message of intolerance about the government. Even though we do not approve of his alleged statement about boycotting of elections, we believe giving him a warning might have been enough punishment. Sacking him reeks of institutional intolerance in a democracy that guarantees freedom of expression. We see his sack as throwing the baby away with the bath water. Security is everyone’s business and it is the basic function of all governments in the world.