President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his support for the judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja on the 35 per cent affirmative action. Women Affairs Minister Pauline Tallen conveyed the President’s message yesterday in Abuja at a media briefing organised by the Nigerian Women Trust Funds (NWTF), Women Radio 91.7FM, Women in Politics Forum, among others. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Justice Donatus Okorowo had, on April 6, delivered judgment in favour of some women groups asking the Federal Government to implement the 35 per cent affirmative action. Tallen, who spoke at the event, with the theme: The Landmark Judgment on 35 Per Cent Affirmative Action for Women on April 6, 2022, said President Buhari congratulated the Nigerian women on the victory. The minister said the President restated his commitment to ensure that the victory would not only be sustained but also ensure that the policy is implemented. “The April 6, 2022, has gone in history as a day Nigeria women made history on 35 per cent Affirmative. I thank Mr. President for his support. Mr. President sends his congratulatory message to Nigerian women. “He was happy with the judgment and when I told him this morning that I am coming to join you at this world press conference, he was happy. “Mr. President is happy with us. I know very soon, the implementation will not only be 35 per cent but 50/50. So, on behalf of Mr. President, I congratulate Nigerian women,” she said. Tallen said the victory was already being witnessed as a number of women were inaugurated into two boards of federal agencies during the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting on Wednesday. The minister also said the last congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC) witnessed an increase in the number of women elected into its National Executive Committee (NEC).   AI Report: Eight years after Chibok school attack, over…     Sokoto Assembly Speaker dumps APC for PDP     Europa: Frankfurt stun Barcelona to reach semi-finals   She said prior to the congress, the ruling party had only National Women leader in the NEC but now, the Deputy Woman Leader and the Deputy Treasurer, a woman, are now members. “We will be pushing and pushing, and Mr. President has always given us audience. We are seeing significant changes and we know we shall get there. “President Buhari has demonstrated that he is ‘He-for-She’ and he is in support of the women. “We will join you to sustain the victory. I want to assure you of Mr. President’s commitment to the course of Nigerian women,” Tallen said. The minister, who said the victory came at the time women’s spirit was low as a result of the National Assembly’s rejection of the five gender Bills, added that the development was a game changer. “We are already changing the minds of National Assembly members. Just three days ago, their wives visited me and they have also leant their support to women’s course. “A journey of a thousand miles begins with a step,” she said. NWTF’s Chief Executive Officer Mufuliat Fijabi said the journey to the victory was both challenging and successful The trust fund’s chief said the history made on April 6 was being documented, adding that upon completion, it would be widely disseminated as a learning point for other strategies and other countries of the world to emulate and learn from. She said as soon as the certified true copy (CTC) of the judgment is received, the women groups would build a database of qualified Nigerian women, mapping of existing vacancies and several more. Representative of Open Society Initiative for West Africa, Peter Ocheikwu, said the organisation took pride in the court victory because it would set precedence.