PAUL Obazele is one of the many Nollywood veterans who often express displeasure at the quality of content being churned out from the industry in recent times, save for a few good productions. The actor, who has explored many facets of the film/television industry, recently spoke to SAMPSON UNAMKA on the industry, experiences and success tips. YOU are a veteran and have been working on different productions, which is your most recent movie? Right now, I have about four movies that are supposed to be breaking with Deep End entertainment, situated in Edo state run by a society based in the United State. They’re all international standard film, they’re running Black Entertainment film in the US and some Caribbean countries, they’ve been able to set it up and we thought as at December they should be able to bring out two of the movies we have ‘Abudu’ and three others. The movie industries are seen as glamorous making many want to get into it for fame. What do you say is the other side of fame? For fame if they come into the movie industry for fame you would fall, you come into the movie industry for the fact that you want to rescue the nation from the quagmire we have, you’ll grow. The people, who come to seek the money, they lose it, the people who come for them to discover their talent they stay, in a process of wanting to seek the money, you do the odd thing and the odd thing means you’re going to go outside what the norms of Nollywood are and the norms of Nollywood is talent before money so the moment you come in that you’re seeking money you become a ritualist and that is not our tradition. Many of your colleagues have delved into movie directing and movie production and these days actors are cast based on their large followership on social media. What’s your take on that? It’s a simple thing. There’s growth, there’s what we call growth in life. If you come in as an actor and you want to grow and you feel that okay it’s not only acting that is my calling, I could write, I could produce, I could direct why not pursue it. Footballers grow from being footballers into coaches am I right? Writers like you grow from being writers in newspapers and become publishers, so if you grow to that extent the first thing you do is to pitch your tent and look at, look for who will grow your production house so you look for it to pick one or two A or B or C list actors you take that person and look for up-comers because they looked for you and you get them to do, that’s the tradition of Nollywood. Nollywood is not a static organization or an industry. We all grow so we see the prowess we have, we see the trait, we have the moment we see some people take you to nature you, a cock from day one is known because it comes to mount the mother even to stay even as small as it so you now know that this is a cockerel so we see people who display such prowess vis a vis interpretation. You don’t seem to be aging with your young and smart looks. What’s the secret? A very simple thing, the DNA of God runs in me. He created me in his image and his likeness and because God cannot grow old I cannot grow old. Can this be ascribed to your daily exercise? I do that every day of my life except Sunday and when I do that I do an average of two and half hours every day of my life. And how long have you been doing it? Since, the year 2000, this is 22 years of my life of doing it (exercise) every day except Sunday. So, how old are you?   It’s my turn to shutdown 02 Arena – Uzo     Kemi Oyedeji speaks on new book, ushering     I’m happy to be back after 10 years, says Shan George   I’m old but hitting 60 very soon but I try as much as possible not to look my age. You see, age should not stop us, age is just a number, the moment you start feeling you are old, you destroy yourself. So, I tell myself constantly and always that because God cannot grow old, I can’t grow old, because he created me in his image and his likeness you know. I said it, this is the second time I said and that’s been my principle. Some have claimed that online skits will someday take the place of movies because people now have a short attention span. Do you agree? It’s not possible. It’s a lie, jesters cannot. It’s not possible, it’s just a short thing and they’re doing it because of the fact that NEPA does not give us light. It is natural you will see the likes of Charlie Champlin and co. Did they take the life form of the life of Hollywood? There are so many jesters that are there they cannot. Unlike your time, display of wealth amongst other things are what your younger colleagues engage in using social media, what is your take? The truth is spoken, if you cannot separate yourself from the character, you play. Like you said, it’s fake, so the moment you leave that stage, be yourself. It’s a very simple thing. So, who do you consider a good actor? To you, what are the qualities of a good actor? The quality of a good actor is a realist. They come in, imbibe whatever story that has been given to you or whatever character it is you know you play it out, finish playing it and come back to the reality of the society to stay. Do not forget that every movie is a reflection of what society is. So, you should be able to mirror yourself into playing that character and getting a conviction and password for people who watch you. I’ve heard people call me a police officer, have heard people call me an Oba, have heard people call me a pastor, have heard people call me there’s so many names a killer I do it I finish and I comeback and I fall back and I stay, I am me you know it is the same me that would go into a place where you think a superstar would not go in but I try not to leave that realm I get into where an average person stays where we call a National Theatre ábegi (under a tree) I go still chop the ponmo and aganyin beans wey we dey chop we are all real as we used to do it you understand, and I am still that same guy that when the traffic is jammed I come down from the vehicle yeah I’m a personality I come down from the vehicle and because I know they’ll respect me I take over the traffic situation deal with it I still get. It does not take anything away from me because I know there’s somebody that is looking up to me. Okay if this guy fits, I’ll do this thing. So the moment you refuse to do that you are fake, so an actor is that person who finishes from that film and that stage thing he is doing comes back to the reality of life. Comparing Nollywood now to when it started many years ago, which would you say is better in terms of storytelling and a lot of things? Storytelling then is better because of what is happening in our society. We have lost our culture and heritage because they took history away from the system, we lost our cultural heritage. All of a sudden we are a nation competing with the white man, we have what I call a dislocated culture where an average man who has not traveled in his life before speaks from his nose, “I gana wana,” what’s the meaning of that. The Britain you hear about they did their thing and shot their movies and told their stories. The Americans you hear today did the same thing how many Nigerian stories have we told but Nollywood became Nollywood because an American came into this place and looked at it from nothing to something and called it Nollywood because we told our stories for us by us. We did that all of a sudden, a group of people now start telling you about love and telling you ‘VGC wives’ and others what rubbish have they shot ‘Madam Tinubu’ in this country, have they shot ‘Kosoko,’ the greatest merchant in Africa. they’ve not shot it. Have they shot Herbert Macaulay? They have not shot about the family that owns the largest landmass in Lagos, they’ve not shot it, have they shot Ikorodu? they have not shot it, we have so many things they’ve not shut so many. What change would you like to see in Nollywood generally? Nollywood is the backbone of this nation because we’ve had drug pushers and whatever drug people mess up this country. We’ve had 419 people mess up this country but always at the rescue Nollywood comes in and rescues the nation even in the eye of the storm, creates succor for our people, engages us and grows the GDP of this nation so we don’t treat it with disdain. So I tell the people in the green chamber and the red chamber to open up, wake up and live up to expectations. Often we see Nollywood actors fall ill and resort to the public for funds? Very simple thing because we allow mediocrity to strive in this nation. When you give power to pirates, go and look at our laws fighting piracy in this country obnoxious, why? I asked you a question sir, a premium pack of HMO in this country max is 2million Naira, we are roughly a hundred, and how many millions in this country? Let me assume that we are 150 million does it mean that the federal government cannot bring out 400million, 600million and insure your life HMO, now the moment they do it, it means that hospitals will come in, it means that pharmaceuticals will come in, international and local am I right so it means that the moment we engaged them we have created a portal to engage these people and create medics for us, they have refused to do it yet they go out to go and treat themselves so who is fooling who. What’s your take on streaming platforms like Netflix? Excellent but I want to ask you one question: NTA being the largest Network in Africa what did the green chamber and red chamber do to it? They killed it, the largest in Africa before South Africa came out and did Ego— in 1996 South Africa never had anything Nigeria was excelling but today NTA is a mortuary.