Director-General, David Edevbie Campaign Organisation, Clement Ofuani, has applauded the Urhobo people of Delta Central for adopting the governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), David Edevbie, as their preferred candidate for the 2023 governorship election. The campaign DG told The Nation that the choice of Edevbie by UPU would bring development to Delta. Ofuani believes the governorship aspirant’s public sector experience at the state, federal and international levels makes him a credible candidate who can be trusted with the position. He also appealed to other aspirants to support Edevbie for the interest of the Urhobo Nation, adding that stakeholders, including royal fathers, political and opinion leaders should support power rotation for peace and progress of Delta. The statement reads: “It gladdens our heart to know that the decision of the UPU was based not only on the need for Urhobo Nation to present a common front to ensure that Delta Central produces the next governor of the state but that the candidate is the best positioned to drive Delta’s development for the benefit of all Deltans.   Fed Govt promises early repair of burnt Apongbon bridge     ‘Tackle insecurity to protect women, children’     Group to politicians: fear God   “The UPU’s choice of Olorogun Edevbie as the best after a rigorous engagement with all Delta Central PDP guber aspirants, confirms our stand that Olorogun Edevbie is the best person for the job of Governor at this critical time of Delta State, as he has the requisite public sector experience at the State, Federal and international levels. “Olorogun Edevbie’s campaign team supports the UPU in its appeal to other Urhobo Guber aspirants that they should accept the UPU’s consensus choice for the collective interest of Urhobo Nation. “We believe that the action of the UPU will also help to defend, protect and safeguard the interest of the Urhobo Nation, and also promote unity and good relations with other ethnic groups in Delta State. “We thank Urhobo people for their readiness to act as sureties for Olorogun David Edevbie while in office if he becomes Governor in 2023. “This is an eloquent testimony to their conviction that Olorogun Edevbie is a credible candidate who can be trusted to keep his promises. “We also appreciate the UPU for their commitment to the principle and practice of rotation of power among our Senatorial Districts. “We thank all stakeholders in the state, royal fathers, political and opinion leaders for their commitment to the rotational policy on a senatorial basis which has brought peace and progress to our state and mutual respect among our peoples.”