Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has debunked reports and insinuations he is contesting for the presidential ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to negotiate to be a running mate. The race for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party took Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers Speaking to enthusiastic crowd of party supporters in Calabar, Wike said: “You may be hearing stories but today I am coming here in person to tell you that I am running to be President of Nigeria. “I am not running to negotiate for vice presidency or for anything. I’m running to be the President of Nigeria.” He added he” is not running for running sake; and that he does not want to be recognised as former presidential candidate but to win and become the president of Nigeria.” Wike addressed the delegates, which included former Governors Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke, the PDP National Assembly caucus leader , members from Cross River and a host of others down to the party leaders in the local government areas.   Rivers PDP, 32 aspirants clash over non-issuance of…     Immigration arrests passenger with firearms at Lagos airport     I’m still consulting over 2023 presidential ambition…   Referencing the group of presidential aspirants led by the former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal suggesting the option of consensus candidate for the PDP, Wike said: “Some people are moving for consensus. I’m not part of that. If you want to run election, come and run election. “When they came to me, I told them I’m not a party to this one. What I don’t like in my life is to deceive people. What I will not do, I will not do. What I will do, I will do.” He added: “I hear yesterday what was credited to the former Senate President, Olushola Saraki, that the North came out first so the south should concede to them,; that is a lie and its not correct, with due respect to our former Senate President. “You can only know those who have come out for election at the close of nomination or the close of picking of forms. I like what the Governor of Enugu state told them, he said consensus based on equity, fairness and justice.“ He said he is too experienced in politic to be deceived, adding: “If you can’t run again, say it out. Don’t hide under what you call consensus and come to me. “Get on and run the election; To be President of Nigeria is not by dash, you will sweat it out.”