Ahead of the 2023 general elections, the three Senatorial zones of Plateau state have become the main theater of politicking where politicians of various political parties are struggling to impress the voters. The state secretariats of the two leading parties, All Progressive Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been busy as aspirants take turn to visit the leadership of their parties to announce their resolve to join the races and explaining the motivating factor for his political ambitions. Same way, the party offices at the wards, local government and zonal offices have become busy as aspirants parade with their nomination forms as if to convince the people of their seriousness and commitment to the contest. The two parties have been engaging in a war of words over who is better prepared to win the next general elections. While the ruling APC currently occupy two of the three senate seats in the state, the opposition PDP occupies one seat, the Plateau North Senate seat. Confidently, Chairman, Senate Committee on Defense and the Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang said the (PDP is ready to take over the government of the state in 2023. According to him, the PDP will collaborate with critical stakeholders across the three senatorial zones to produce a better government for the state. The Senator expressed satisfaction with the preparedness of the party to take over governance for the prosperity of the people in 2023. “We know that Plateau North is one and we will join with our brothers in Central and Southern Plateau to give the state the leadership that it deserves. Plateau State has never been this unfortunate to have the kind of leader and Governor that we have now. God has given us a good leadership in the party after many years of battles, we have stabilized. In the process of proceeding to 2023 election, Plateau people have been very supportive and that is why we want to strengthen the structure of the party at the grassroots level to enable us produce the people oriented government,” he said. But the Chairman of APC in the state, Hon. Rufus Bature, said the party is prepared to retained power beyond 2023. He said the party will have a smooth sail to victory across the state in 2023 given the many developmental strides of the rescue administration of Governor Simon Lalong. He insisted that the PDP lacks the capacity to defeat the APC in the state. Speaker Plateau State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Sanda said APC has come to stay in the Plateau and everything within the ambit of the law will be done to retain power. Since the sales of nomination forms commenced in some of the political parties, all eyes has been on Plateau South Senatorial Zone where Governor Simon Lalong hails from. In December 2020, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the then candidate of APC, Prof. Nora Dadu’ut, as the winner of Plateau South Senatorial bye-election conducted on Saturday, December 5, 2020. The election was held in the six local councils that comprise the zone due to the death of the senator representing the zone in February 2020, Senator Ignatius Longjan. According to the results announced by INEC, Dadu’ut polled 83,141 votes while George Daika, the then PDP senatorial candidate, secured 70,838 votes. While Dadu’ut defeated her opponent in four local councils in the senatorial district, the PDP candidate won in two local councils. It is a widespread expectation that Lalong will run for the Senate like all other governors of the state did after their second term in office. However, it is not clear yet whether the governor will pick the nomination forms of his political party, the APC. Sales of the party’s nomination forms commenced yesterday as directed by its national secretariat after last week’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting.   JUST IN: Makinde arrives Alaafin’s palace for…     Buhari orders man-haunt for sponsors of Imo illegal refinery     2023: APC vows to record 70% success in Southeast   At the same time, it is not also clear if the incumbent Senator Nora Daduut will seek another term in the Senate. Sources close to her told The Nation that the Senator will be guided by the directive of the party. “Senator Daduut is a team player and a dedicated party chieftain. It is for this purpose that she is yet to take a decision on her political future as regards 2023. For her, the party is supreme and she will be guided by the directives of her party, the APC,” a source claimed. It could not be confirmed whether Daduut has obtained the nomination forms of the party as at the time of filing this report. This is just as talks about Governor Lalong joining the race for the senatorial ticket intensified at the weekend. Analysts have predicted that the eventual senatorial candidate of the ruling party in Plateau South will surely be either Governor Lalong who is rounding up his second term as governor or Dadu’ut, a serving one term senator. Meanwhile, not fewer than five persons have been listed on the platform of the opposition PDP to have indicated interest to contest the Senate seat in Plateau South. The party says it is ready to retake the seat which they lost to the APC in 2020. Among those being touted in the race are retired Air Vice Marshall Napoleon Bali; a former House of Representative member, Hon. Johnbul Shakarau; a former local government Chairman, Hon Isaac Kwallu and Hon. Kemi Nshe. In Plateau North, the incumbent Senator Istifanus Gyang will slug it out with Hon. Simon Mwadkwon at the PDP primaries. Hon Mwadkwon is the incumbent House of Representatives member from Barkin Ladi/Riyom Federal Constituency in Plateau state. He has made up his mind to drag the Senate seat with incumbent Senator Gyang. Meanwhile Senator Gyang has also declared his readiness to go to the senate for second term. In 2019, Gyang, who was then the representative of Riyom/Barkin Ladi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, emerged winner of the Plateau North Senatorial election. He scored 269,555 votes to win the seat. His closest opponent, Rufus Bature of the APC, secured 171,233 votes. He is currently the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Defence. According to party sources, he has commenced the campaign for his re-election bid. While some names are being mentioned as possible senatorial hopefuls on the platform of the ruling APC in the zone, it is still unclear which of them will join the race eventually. “The party will contest the senatorial seat of course. The APC in Plateau state is a very orderly party and very soon, you will start to see the results of our orderliness when consensus candidates start picking their nomination forms,” a former state chairman of the party told The Nation. In Plateau Central Senatorial Zone, the senatorial seat is practically vacant and open for aspirants to struggle for freely as the incumbent Senator, Hezekiah Dimka of the APC, has indicated interest to run for governorship of Plateau state. Already, Dimka’s opponent during the 2019 contest for the senate seat, and the then PDP flagbearer, David Paradang, a retired Comptroller General of Immigration, has indicated interest in the seat. Dimka, running on the platform of the ruling APC, had defeated the former Nigerian Immigration Service boss, Paradang in the election for the Plateau Central Senatorial District. Dimka garnered 149,457 votes against Paradang, while the PDP candidate scored I45048 in the election held across the five local governments of the district comprising Mangu, Bokkos, Pankshin, Kanke and Kanam. While it is still unclear who the APC will field for the race, it is certain that the race for the seat will be between the ruling party and the opposition PDP, just like it will be in the other two senatorial districts of the state..