The Director-General of Tinubu Support Group (TSO), Aminu Suleiman, yesterday said he purchased the Nomination and Expression of Interest forms for the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in the national interest. “I am a businessman. I mean well for my country. Asiwaju Tinubu’s ambition is in national interest. We are doing this for Nigeria, ” he said in an interview with The Nation. Suleiman described the former governor of Lagos State as the best aspirant in the party, stressing that he is endowed with an uncanny capacity, wisdom, experience and competence. Suleiman said many Nigerians were rooting for Tinubu because he is a bridge builder,  patriot and believer in national unity. He said Tinubu is acceptable to most Nigerians because of what he has to offer in terms of leading the country to the horizon of progress. Suleiman recalled that he threatened to sue Tinubu, if he refused to throw his hat in the ring. He said:”Asiwaju is a man of immense capacity. He is the best aspirant. He has exposure. He performed as governor of Lagos State.  He will not disappoint the party and the people of Nigeria. All these problems we are having will be resolved, if he becomes the president. 		 			Obiano’s wife must be a Senator		 		 		 			Emefiele lists conditions for stable exchange rate		 		 		 			Katsina deputy governor Yakubu resigns as agric commissioner		 		 “Our problems are insecurity, economy, fiscal policy. He will rebuild Nigeria. He will continue from where President Muhammadu Buhari will stop.” Suleiman hailed the President and the national leadership of the ruling party for promising a level playing field for aspirants. He also hailed the decision to choose the standard bearer through indirect mode at the primary. The TSO Director General said more Nigerians have enlisted in the vanguard for progress because Tinubu is the symbol. He said the former governor is acceptable to the North because he has build an enduring bridge of understanding across tribes. Suleiman said: “We from the North appreciate what Tinubu has done for Buhari. We need to pay him back. He has done so much. We need to pay him back.” Urging the Southwest to unite behind Tibubu, he added: “Southwest should wake up. You lost Awo. Abiola also lost. Osinbajo should not divide the Southwest.  He should support his leader. You don’t bite the finger that has fed you.” Suleiman applauded Tinubu’s temperament, particularly his forgiving spirit and sense of accommodation and tolerance, stressing that he is accessible, loyal, generous and prepared for betrayal.