President of Anwar-ul Islam Movement of Nigeria, Alhaji Mubashir Ojelade, has stressed the need to bridge the gap of disunity among Muslims. This, Alhaji Ojelade said, will put an end to doctrinal disagreements and brings unity to the Muslim community. He made this known during the Ramadan lecture and Prayer for the Nation at at Anwar-ul Islam Model College, Agege, Lagos. According to him, the prayer for the nation was meant to seek Allah’s assistance over the insecurity challenges in the country. Alhaji Ojelade described the attack on Kaduna-bound train from Abuja as callous, saying that he could have been one of the victims. “I have travelled through train along that route on a number of occasions recently. I could have been one of the victims. The country is in a state of helplessness because nowhere is safe. We should all pray for Nigeria, the attack is becoming rampant. I have boarded the train twice before the attack,” he said. Chairman on the occasion, Alhaji Surajudeen Lawal, commended the effort of the organization for continuity and creating platform where issues pertaining to Islam can be discussed.   Centre seeks end banditry, terrorism     Apongbon fire: ‘we’ll relocate traders soon’     Insecurity: Fintiri reviews curfew for Ramadan lectures   “May Allah continue to strengthen you to achieve more success,” he prayed. Alhaji Lawal described the theme of the event as apt due to socio-religious conflict in the country. The guest speaker, Prof. Ismail Musa, called for unity among the Muslims. “There is no better way of laying foundation than using the Holy Quran to lay foundation, we Muslim are just one single community, we may have been divided into several groups but we remain one as enjoined by Allah,” he said. Prof Musa, who is the Chief Imam University of Lagos, added that early Muslims were united without any discrimination. He noted that religious organisations were established as an avenue to propagate and educate people about Islam. He said that there is a dire need to curb the incessant disunity among Nigerian Muslims.