Nigerians have been urged to pray hard  to get over their security challenges. A House of Assembly aspirant for Ado Ekiti Constituency I, Deji Adesina Adarabierin,  said Nigerians, irrespective of religion, must pray for the peace of the nation. Adarabierin, who is vying for the position on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), said the people should use the Lenten and Ramadan periods to seek the face of the Almighty on insecurity. He spoke yesterday in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State capital while distributing food items, milk and beverages to Muslim APC members in the constituency. Adarabierin gave megaphones to the party to carry out  morning house-to-house campaign in the seven wards for Mr Biodun Oyebanji, APC flagbearer for June 18 governorship poll. “I greet Muslims and Nigerians for another Ramadan. I want to enjoin them to pray for the nation, particularly on the security situation. I believe  that God Almighty will consider our plight and supplication in this holy period and return peace to our land”.   2023: APC declares nomination forms free for women aspirants     JNI queries Fed Govt’s inability to wipe out bandits,…     Botched 2014 NIS recruitment: Court convicts ex-Perm Sec…   The Assembly hopeful, who is from Ward l (Idofin), noted that no lawmaker has ever come from the ward since 22 years of democracy, urging the people and party to give the ward a chance. “We are using this sentiment to tell the party that we have qualified people and sellable candidate to do it better”. Speaking on the poaching of the APC and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) members by the Social Democratic Party (SDP) he said it was not true that such happening to his party. He said, ” If you are following the political trends in the state, you will know that it is PDP that is being depleted not APC. “The records are there, that APC defeated PDP, SDP combined in 2018. Now that APC is doing better in governance through Governor Kayode Fayemi who is doing well in terms of infrastructure, regular payment of salaries, social security, health, education and putting a whole lots of other things in place, with the pedigree of BAO, we are confident that APC will coast to victory in the June 18 polls”. Adarabierin advised APC members in Ado Ekiti and the state at large to be steadfast, focused and belief that better days are ahead. “We are having it better now, but the  better and best days are still ahead of us when BAO wins the election and start building on the legacies of Dr Fayemi”.