All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu yesterday said Nigeria needed a courageous leader who can make drastic changes. He described himself as that man Nigeria needs to take charge of the wheel of progress. Tinubu spoke at a one-day parley between current speakers and deputy speakers of the APC-controlled states. The theme was: ‘The legislature, changing times and Nigeria’s democratic journey’. It was hosted by Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa in Ikeja. Tinubu stressed that development was about thinking and doing, which he had demonstrated. The presidential aspirant said: “Nigeria needs me even as I need Nigeria. Nigeria needs drastic courageous changes that will bring revenue and I am that courageous one it needs. “I was raised to be courageous and this has been working for me. I want to bring same to bear as president of Nigeria. “Accelerated development of our nation is about thinking and doing, and I am ready to do that again because I am a thinker and doer. “I want to become president legitimately through the ballot but I reserve the right to brag. “I started my teething age of politics in the Senate; I was the youngest and I did well. “I am well educated, sound, brilliant, vibrant, and one of the best alumni of the Chicago State University. “I was a student-tutor and one of the most sought-after graduates after school as I had five job offers even before graduation. “In the face of tyranny and all odds, I have survived, stood and fought for democracy, survived the exile, lived without family, while financing other pro-democracy groups. “I have contributed to sustaining Nigeria’s democracy more than any other person. I am a very passionate being. “I have contributed immensely more than any other person contesting today. I equally have it better when it comes to legislative experience. “I am married to a senator, and have allowed her practice her religion well.” Tinubu, who begged the lawmakers to spread the news of his ambition, added: “I am pushing and requesting for your support to be elected president of Nigeria in 2023. “I am begging you to do me a favour so I can do Nigeria a favour. No one should leave here without a commitment to vote for me as a delegate. “It is a very challenging time and we need to decide it right. How many of my fellow contenders have my experience as governor, even of a governor of my calibre? “I am the first governor to grant autonomy to the House of Assembly even as I am knowledgeable in legislative duties. “I survived the non-allocation of local government funds in Lagos, functioned and created jobs. We made progress out of adversity.   Cracks over zoning, consensus deepen in PDP     Opadokun, others urge Yoruba group to mobilise youths for…     Govt security investment will soon yield fruit, says…   “Revenue generation, not allocation, has made Lagos the number one economy in Africa. “Nigeria should not be an index of poverty, frustration, banditry, hooliganism, and the likes, but a country that we will all be proud of. We need to get it right. “Nigeria needs me even as I need Nigeria. I will be a good example. I have a can-do spirit. I am confident, and I have never lost an election. I was raised to be courageous and this has been working for me. “We can change the fortune of this country without giving excuses. I have demonstrated it in Lagos, and though people talk about traffic, I tell you that if there is no good economy, there won’t be traffic. “We can rebuild this nation, reverse the carnage, but you need the visioner. I am the best visioner available and so I plead with you to decide well on who the APC candidate will be. “Please decide well and I promise I will not let you down.” Fifteen serving Speakers from APC-controlled states attended the consultative forum, which also had serving Deputy Speakers, serving state legislators and all former members of the Conference of Speakers in attendance. They unanimously expressed support for Tinubu in his bid to get the party’s nomination to contest for president. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said Tinubu’s leadership capacity had been sufficiently demonstrated, given the tenacity with which he rolled out vision and ideas that transformed Lagos into a flourishing economy. The governor said the forum was held as part of wide consultations embarked on by the APC leader in his bid to win the support of the party members across various backgrounds and camps. Sanwo-Olu said: “It is not by chance that you all are gathered here today. It is because we agree totally that you all are important stakeholders that need to be engaged and identified with separately from others. “You are the real foot soldiers who can go back to the hallowed chambers and pass the message to all members of your respective Houses of Assembly and your former colleagues in the legislature across States. “Tell them that the man, Asiwaju Tinubu, whom we all look forward to, has reached out and identified with them as important stakeholders in the journey to next political dispensation. We need a fresh breath of leadership at this critical moment in our country. “Asiwaju is qualified and competent to provide the leadership we desire to see. He has the spirit, capacity, tenacity and experience to do that for us. “As stakeholders, legislators, both current and former, are the critical component that can make this happen for us.” The governor said a better and greater Nigeria could be achieved if a detribalised candidate that had been tested with the right leadership capacity was given collective support to succeed President Buhari and build on the progress recorded by the current administration. Chairman of the Conference of Speakers and Bauchi State Speaker, Abubakar Suleiman, described Tinubu as ‘a great leader with character and sacrifices’. He added: “We are well abreast of Tinubu’s aspirations, and members of the state Houses of Assembly will be part of his aspirations.” Lagos State Chairman of the APC Cornelius Ojelabi said Tinubu has the Midas touch to turn Nigeria around having done so in Lagos. “Tinubu turned Lagos into a land of Gold, and well should support him to replicate his Lagos feat in the national. We must not miss the opportunity to make him president,” he added. The lawmaker representing Epe I, Abiodun Tobun, noted that the message was for everyone to go back home and canvass vote for Tinubu. “Canvass vote for good governance, prosperity security, enablement, determination and confidence, courage to lead this country to the promised land,” he said.