Karim Benzema is having a standout season for Real Madrid and the campaign for him to win this year’s Ballon d’Or award keeps ramping up. The French striker did his case no harm on Tuesday night in Manchester when his brace helped keep Los Blancos in the tie against Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City, who won 4-3 on the night. Benzema made sure that Real Madrid will have something to build on in the second leg and only have a one goal deficit to overcome in front of their own fans at the Bernabeu. In all competitions for club and country this season, the 34-year-old has 46 goals and 14 assists in 48 games, which is a phenomenal haul. He’s beating the competition, too, as he’s the top scorer in LaLiga Santander and the Champions League, as well as being the player in Spain with most assists. Age is not slowing Benzema down and once again we are seeing how he has flourished and even grown since stepping out of Cristiano Ronaldo’s shadow, becoming a true talisman and leader for Los Merengues. The Frenchman is stepping up on the big stage, not just scoring goals but scoring important goals and playing an absolutely vital role in Real Madrid’s Champions League run. He also played a key role in Real Madrid’s Supercopa de Espana win and France’s Nations League title. And it won’t be long until he’s champion of Spain again. Yet Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp believed  the Champions League glory will help forward Sadio Mane win this year’s Ballon d’Or. The Senegalese star is said to be in contention for the best player of the year award having played an instrumental role in the Reds’ quest for an unprecedented quadruple this season, as well as helping his country to a first-ever Africa Cup of Nations title. Mane, 30, was also on target in Liverpool’s 2-0 win over Villarreal in the first leg of the Champions League semi-final at Anfield, scoring his 20th goal in all competitions for the club this campaign. Asked after the game if his player deserves the award, Klopp said  he was unclear of the criteria for winning but noted claiming Europe’s top prize should help Mane’s chances. “He’s played an outstanding season,” Klopp told reporters. “Sadio is an outstanding player. “I have nothing to do with the Ballon d’Or nominations. I don’t understand it 100 percent.   King Klopp: Well-loved Reds’ manager aims for dynasty at…     Power, merit and Nigerian leadership choices     No tears for Orji Uzor Kalu   “He is world class. He again played a really good game for us but I have no idea, I don’t know how you come with that question with the season not even over. “Historically you have to win something to win the Ballon d’Or, most of the time it was like this. If you’re not (Lionel) Messi or (Cristiano) Ronaldo you have to probably win the Champions League, which we haven’t done yet. “Give us a few more weeks and we will see where we end up. Sadio wants to contribute, Sadio wants to help the team and that’s what I love most about it.” Following their victory over the Spanish side at Anfield, the Reds are just 90 minutes away from the May 28 final in Paris. Mane’s brace in the FA Cup semi-final victory over Manchester City also means Klopp’s side are in the final of the FA Cup where they face Chelsea on May 14. Having beaten the Blues in the Carabao Cup final earlier in the season, Liverpool also sit just one point behind City in the Premier League with five matches to play. In a related development, Liverpool could offer to extend Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mane’s stays at Anfield beyond the end of next season, according to journalist Ian Doyle. The Reds announced on Thursday that manager Jurgen Klopp has signed a new two-year deal at the club to stay until 2026, while negotiations are also ongoing with Mohamed Salah. Firmino and Mane are due to become free agents in 2023 alongside Salah, but Liverpool Echo reporter Doyle is expecting the Reds to offer to extend the attackers’ contracts for at least another year. When asked during a Q&A if there was any update on Mane and Firmino’s contract situations, Doyle responded: “Nothing yet. In fact, I doubt there’ll be much on contracts now until the season has finished. It isn’t a priority right now as the focus is now completely on winning games and winning trophies. “Mind you, the potential last game is only a month away, so not long to wait. I’d be surprised if Firmino or Mane leave in the summer, although certainly with the latter his stock is extremely high right now. I’d imagine Liverpool will at the very least offer them something to extend their stay.” Mane has registered 20 goals and provided three assists in 44 matches this term, while the injury-hit Firmino has banked 11 strikes and four assists in 31 games across all tournaments. The latter is currently dealing with a foot injury, and Klopp revealed on Friday that he will miss out against Newcastle United in the weekend’s Premier League contest.