Anambra State parades top women politicians. They are many. In the state that prides itself as the Light of the Nation, there are powerful female politicians that have really made name in Nigeria and internationally. Some of them are Senator Joy Emodi, Dame Virgy Etiaba, Senator Uche Ekwunife, Senator Stella Oduah and Senator Margery Okadigbo Others are Dame Bianca Ojukwu and the immediate past First Lady,  Dr Mrs Ebelechukwu Obiano among others. If not for  the death of the former Military Head of State, General Sani Abacha, the state would have produced the first democratically elected female governor in Nigeria. She is  Senator Joy Emodi These women have not only excelled in politics, but in different endeavours, including banking, law, teaching, oil and gas among others. They are feared and respected everywhere not only in Anambra, but beyond. Also, they have enormous wealth to challenge men in all ramifications. Their constituents are feeling their impacts in Anambra Northcentral and South. There are other up-coming ones, who are still aspiring to climb the political  ladder, but their names ring bells in Anambra State. They are, the three women Speakers of Anambra State House of Assembly, Eucharia Azodo, who also, represented Aguata Constituency in the House of Representatives. Also, the two women lawyers, Hon Chinwe Nwebili and Rita Maduagwu, whose tenures as Anambra State speakers were remarkable . To complete the list of amazons in the State, is Mrs Joy Ngozi Mbachi. The people will not forget Hon Lynda Ikpeazu, a three time House of Representatives member, who represented Onitsha North and South Federal Constituency. However, the main focus should be on the six.   Senator Joy Emodi  Political analysts refer to her as Philippines Corazon Aquino of Nigeria Politics or Merkel of Germany. Emodi is a teacher, a lawyer and politician. Currently, she takes care of her big school in Abuja and temporarily, out of politics. She represented Anambra North zone in the third Senate where she distinguished herself. One time Board of Trustees (BoT) member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) before she moved to the All Progressive Congress APC in 2021. Emodi’s grass roots mobilisation, earned her the sobriquet of political bulldozer in Anambra North. She hardly fails in election in the area unless through foul means. When she left the Senate, she was made Special Adviser on Legislative Matters, by former President, Goodluck Jonathan. She served meritoriously. The Agulu, Anaocha-born politician is married to an Onitsha man, she is solid, articulate, calm and go-getter. She is a lover of widows, less privileged and gives hope to the hopeless. At over 65, her political bones are becoming weak and may not contest any other elective position, unless a good appointment at the Presidency.   Margery Okadigbo  The Chairman, Board of Directors of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Senator Margery came into limelight in politics immediately after the death of her husband, late Senate President Dr Chuba Okadigbo Since then, she has not looked back. She had been at the red chambers, but failed in her bid to go for second term. Quiet and unassuming, the wife of Oyi of Oyi, was recently pronounced the mother of the All Progressive Congress APC in Anambra State by Sir Basil Ejidike, before her new appointment. Though, the husband was one time Senate President and she was sent to the Senate after the death of Okadigbo, Margery has never been a political force in the State.   Senator Stella Oduah One time Minister of Aviation has become a political bulldozer in Anambra North senatorial zone after the era of Emodi. Senator Stella Adaeze Oduah, a two term Senator from the zone, also want to return in 2023. Before joining APC, she was a staunch member of the PDP.   Three shot dead, homes razed in Plateau attack     Three kidnap victims freed in Lagos     BEDC’s disputed debt suit adjourned till May 30   She is loved by their people because of what she has been able to do for them through her Foundation. Despite facing challenges in the hands of the graft agencies, Oduah is someone who gets whatever she wants at any particular time. The death of her son few years ago, slowed her down a  bit, but in politics, she is unmatched.   Senator Uche Ekwunife  They call her the lioness in the Anambra State. Another plywood and mahogany in Nigeria’s political scene. She served Anaocha, Njikoka, Dunukofia Federal Constituency in Anambra State two tenures before graduating to the Senate. She had tried unsuccessfully, to be Anambra State governor, and her focus has gone back to the Senate again in 2023 for Anambra Central. She crushes anyone that stays on her way when it comes to elective positions in her area. Senator Uche Ekwunife, is a name that every politician talks in Anambra State. She equally, she helps the poor. However, it will be a titanic battle between him and Senator Victor Umeh of the All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA in the Central. Ekwunife, was one time zonal Manager in one of the Banks in the Country before she veered into politics. It will be difficult for her to win the governorship of the State because of the male dominance here. Besides, Anambra people will not want a woman to lead them politically because of pride.   Dame Bianca Ojukwu  She became popular in 1988 when she won Miss Nigeria beauty pageant. But, her popularity soared when she got married to the Biafra war lord, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, in 1989. Bianca is the daughter of former governor of old Anambra State, the late Chief Christian Chukwuma Onoh, popularly, known as C C Onoh. The husband was the leader of APGA before his death. The party denied her senatorial ticket in 2019, despite being a member of the Board of Trustees BoT. The former Nigeria’s Ambassador to Spain has become one of the known names in APGA since Ojukwu died. Last week, she had an altercation with former First Lady, Mrs Ebelechukwu Obiano, that shook the world during the swearing-in Governor, Prof Chukwuma Soludo.   Ebelechukwu Obiano  Apart from being the wife of Anambra State former governor, Chief Willie Obiano, she is not known politically in the country. Ebelechukwu Obiano was busy with her Caring Family Enhancement Initiative programme (CAFE), where she distinguished herself. She built homes for the aged, widows and the less privileged in virtually all the communities in Anambra and received many awards at home and outside. Politically, she is a neophyte and not in the league of the heavyweights in Anambra. But, she wants to contest for Anambra North senatorial seat come 2023. But, her brawl with Bianca Ojukwu in the slapping saga last week during Soludo’s inauguration, seems to have spoilt the fun for her.   Joy Ngozi Mbachi  The beautiful woman hails from Enugu State, but married to the popular Mbachi family in Enugwu -Ukwu, Njikoka local government area of the State. Mrs Ngozi Joy Mbachi, a graduate of political science and a Master Degree holder in Public Administration, was President of Rotary Club of Awka Metropolis, Rotary International, District 9142. Tough, strong and a go-getter more powerful than some of those mentioned. She is one time Secretary General of Enugwu-Ukwu Community Development Union,Lagos, a Human Rights activist and President Aboatulu women meeting. Many politicians in Anambra State call her iron lady because of her mobilization strength. She is also the Secretary General Ugosimba Sisters Association of Nigeria, amongst others. Mbachi is a woman who speaks for the voiceless and stands for empowerment of women and is regarded as the most powerful in the State If you know you are a strong politician and without her on your side, count your dream dead on arrival. She is likely to get one of the powerful appointments at the federal level any time soon.