A Pro-All Progressives Congress (APC) group under the aegis of the Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard (ESV) on Monday said no amount of campaign of calumny can stop Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Dr Godwin Emefiele from succeeding President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Advising sponsors and promoters of the anti-Emefiele campaign against further attacks, the group maintained that the governor of the apex bank has what it takes to lead the country, whenever he eventually declares his intention to run for the forthcoming election. Addressing newsmen on Monday in Abuja, the group led by Patriot Daniel Enyi, said the CBN Governor has nothing to do with hundreds of branded vehicles aimed at dragging him into the race for the exalted seat of the presidency in the 2023 poll. The group called on those behind the circulation of the pictures of the branded vehicles to join hands with the progressives to convince Emefiele to contest the 2023 Presidential elections for a consolidated Nigeria. “We are confident that if he makes up his mind to contest, he will declare in the open as political office seeking cannot be done in a closed-door, especially in the office of the President, of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “The images been circulated on social media have nothing to do with the CBN directly, the blackmail is an attempt to box Emefiele to the corner. It is outright blackmail against his person to link the agitation directly to him.   Politics not a do or die affair, says Abia Speaker     Adeboye: Admonition from pulpit     2023: Group urges Osinbajo to run, donates N500,000   “It is a norm that whenever he accepts to contest, it would be made public, he will answer the clarion call in the open. As Nigerians, the truth is, nobody can stop us from expressing our opinion on whom we feel should govern the country after 2023. “There is no doubt that Nigerians from all quarters the North, the South, East and West are calling on the CBN Governor to run as President in 2023. “We are convinced that, if he does, he will win, this is the threat where some do or die political office seekers are trying to blackmail him. “Remember this is a man who was appointed by the PDP administration of Dr Goodluck Jonathan and was reappointed by President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term based on his dedicated service to the Nation. “We wish to make bold that, the 2023 Presidential elections are far beyond an individual as Nigeria belongs to all of us. We firmly believed that the economy needs a seasoned technocrat, an economist of all standards who understands the monetary policy, diversification of the economy as well, a patriotic Nigerian who shall improve the security situation and consolidate the gains of Buhari’s administration. This we have found in Dr Godwin Emefiele. “Nigeria needs a President who thinks beyond 2023, a man or woman who understands the economic situation of the country and is poised to improve on it.”