Chelsea boss Thomas Tuchel has split from his wife of thirteen years – with pals saying they have “exhausted” all avenues of staying together. The Blues manager and his wife Sissi, 46, started divorce proceedings last week after many attempts to keep the family together. Ex-journalist Mrs Tuchel moved to the UK in August, seven months after the former PSG manager joined Chelsea. He initially made his home in a hotel near the training ground in Cobham, Surrey, before setting up a family home close by. A source told the Mail on Sunday: “Sissi and Thomas have tried to avoid splitting but in the end there was no other way,” said a source.“It is very sad and now it is all about making sure their daughters are the top priority. Papers were lodged last week to get the divorce under way.” Tuchel, who is understood to be paid at least £7million a year, could now face a multi-million-pound divorce deal. His wife reportedly quit her job at German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung to bring up their family.   Tiger Woods will make ‘game-time decision’ on playing the…     Pitch Awards organizers tip Super Eagles to bounce back     NBBofC pledges support to WBO Champion Okolie   She might be entitled to a chunk of his future earnings, as well as up to half of his current fortune, with sources close to the couple saying they want to keep the situation “amicable.” Mrs Tuchel celebrated with her husband after running across the pitch at Porto’s Estadio do Dragao when Chelsea secured a 1-0 Champions League victory over Manchester City. She has also been praised for helping her husband to excel in his managerial career, which has seen him win a swathe of trophies in England, France and Germany. A source added: “Sissi is no fool, she isn’t your archetypal footballer’s wife, and she is a clever woman.” News of the couples split comes after the Blues suffered a shock loss after losing 4 – 1 to Brentford yesterday. Tuchel has been praised for his response to the restrictions place on the club after Abramovich was sanctioned following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine