To improve learning outcomes, experts have underscored the need to review school curriculum, de-emphasise certificate and examination and engage in regular training of teachers, among others. This was the consensus at an educational seminar and training workshop for teachers in Lagos organised by educators at the Lagos State Ministry of Education to honour one of their own, Mrs. Rita Udoh, the late proprietress of Manifest Hall School, Akute, Ogun State. Dr. Olufunke Lucas, an Assistant Chief Education Officer in the Education District IV of the Lagos State Ministry of Education, said it was imperative to focus on the three domains of learning, cognitive, affective and psychomotor. She noted that it was vital to de-emphasise certificates and traditional type of examination. She canvassed development of learners’ skills. “There is need to blend other domains of learning to produce well -developed learners. We place too much emphasis on the cognitive domain of learning that is why we keep having problems in the education sector. We should shift attention from acquiring certificates. Pupils skills should be developed,” she said. Lucas,  who holds a doctorate degree in Measurement and Evaluation,  called  on teachers to be technology-compliant, well-grounded and proactive, urged them to motivate learners. She sought a change in the way learners’ are evaluated, stressing the need for oral examination and ability test. Her words:” The way we assess learners should change. In Nigeria, we believe too much in certificate and written examination. Hence, learners struggle to pass examination by hook or by crook. They engage in various forms of malpractice. We can assess learners by administering oral examination and skill test.These are other ways of evaluation instead of the regular written examination.” Health Education Specialist, Dr. Toluwalase Ogunlade, stressed the need for schools to have uniform curriculum that addresses the need of the nation.   World Book Day: Lagos digitises 243 public school libraries     LAUTECH debunks vote of no confidence in institution’s…     FCTA threatens to shut down schools contravening rules   She said: “If you have 10 schools on a street, they operate with 10 different curricular. We need to reshape our curriculum to align with our current realities as a country. “The Lagos State Government and other stakeholders need to look into aligning our curriculum to fit into the nation’s vision. Schools should not be allowed to use international curriculum which is irrelevant to the country. Sadly, some schools have stopped teaching subjects like Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa languages all in the name of international curriculum.” Another education  expert, Hajia Damilare Sulaiman, wants teachers to bring out the creativity in learners. She urged them to go beyond asking polar questions, instead teachers should ask questions that make learners think outside the box. She also underscored the importance of using technology to aid learners’ power of recall. Director of Studies, Manifest Hall School, Uwam Abasi Udoh said it was important to engage pupils in early sex education. She also urged parents to closely guard their phones and laptops from their wards. An educationist, Mrs. Obioma Nwadiuto, said dearth of competent teachers should be addressed. According to her, many people go into teaching because of unemployment, thereby denying the profession of quality professionals. She also urged parents to complement the efforts of teachers in building well-rounded learners. A participant, Rev. Emmanuel Osiyemi, advised teachers to regularly upgrade themselves  to meet up with the demands of 21st century teaching. Other participants said the seminar had exposed them to new ways of teaching. They were all given certificate of participation.