The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step, but it is very important to examine all other steps taken and various encounters along the path that led to the completion of that journey. Team Kaduna Cricket team popularly known as the ‘Crocodiles’, have been on the news lately following their recent conquest of the Uganda under-19 team in Kampala in an international friendly series that saw them as a run-away champions with a 100% win ratio. Daniel Gim led the Crocodiles stellar performances with a total of 136 runs in four matches with the best figures of 53 runs in the opening match while Sylvester Okpe emerged as best bowler. In the last six years, Kaduna State Cricket has made headlines on both the domestic and international scenes as the Crocodiles won Gold and Silver in the boys’ category at National Youth Games as well as winning the National Men’s championship in 2018, Silver medal in the 2018 National Sports Festival Men’s category, Gold Medal in the T20 format in the Men’s category and Bronze Medal in the Women’s category of the 2021 National Sports Festival in Benin City. Observers considered this as the most productive six years in the history of Kaduna Cricket aside their consistency in producing players in all categories of Nigeria’s national teams. As a matter of fact, the current captain of the senior men’s national team , Sylvester Okpe, is from Kaduna State and he was the captain that led Nigeria in 2020 to historic performance by qualifying for the Under-19 World Cup for the first time in over 100 years of cricket in the country. The manifestation of this successful enterprise as per cricket in Kaduna State is a clear reflection of the level and quality of investment under the watch of the Executive Governor of Kaduna State, His Excellency, Mallam Nasir Ahmed El-Rufai. 		 			Feyenoord gets Genk’s transfer deadline for Dessers		 		 		 			Makinde to commission building donated to IGC		 		 		 			Lagos Polo upgrades Chief of Naval Staff Cup		 		 Some of the strategic things put in place since the Crocodiles won Silver at the 2019 NSF in Abuja to the 2021 NSF Benin City include : Cash prizes and sponsored a tour to Uganda for the boys in 2019 as a reward for their performance and also preparation for future tournaments. Kaduna State won that series. • Reconstruction of the Cricket Oval in Murtala Square to a world class standard turf wicket which is at par with international standards anywhere in the world, having a private club house, fully equipped gym, pavilion, offices and changing rooms. • A Parcel of land each and cash price for all medallists including Cricket after the 2020 National Sports Festival in Benin City. • Sponsored the most recent tour to Uganda in September 2021, where Kaduna State also won the series against the Uganda National Under-19 team. • Approved another tour to Uganda where the Kaduna Team will have the chance to defend their title and also tours to other countries in 2022. These preparatory programmes and reward system deployed by Kaduna State government , has no doubt propelled cricket in the state to the enviable height she currently enjoys today. It is safe to say for now that Mallam El-Rufai, arguably is the only governor in the Northern hemisphere in Nigeria that is passionately committed to the development of cricket with a structure and blueprint in place to ensure that the Crocodiles sustain its steady progress. As the first citizen of Kaduna State, he can modestly say, ‘I am just doing my Job’ but what His Excellency may not understand is that, the ripple effect of this simple gesture of developing and promoting the game of Cricket in Kaduna will save the next generation of teenagers and youths for a minimum of 40 years to come.