With a pledge to advance food security, a non-governmental organisation Foodclique Support Initiative in conjunction with PepsiCo have disclosed plans to provide 500,000 meals for people across Lagos and other neighbouring states. At a briefing, Vice-President, Foodclique Support Initiative, Ibrahim Onilegbale said the initiative was to help those who suffer from hunger – especially the homeless, elderly, physically challenged, low income and those below poverty level. He said: “We assist the less-privileged with food; one of such programmes is family meals. We’ve different packages for families depending on their size. “We’ve a school meal programme to cater for children across schools. We also have Yuletide feeding to assist Christians during Christmas. We give raw food that will last for 3-5 days during the festive season. This is a big way to allow us to assist the less-privileged.” Akinsanya Olugbenga of PepsiCo said: “We are honoured to be partnering with Foodclique Support Initiative; we are honoured to be showing our contributions to the less-privileged via this initiative. PepsiCo is a global company. Working with the Foodclique Support Initiative is strategic to our CSR initiative in Nigeria.   Ashiru rounds off consultations in Ogun     ‘Political will needed to tackle insecurity’     ‘MC Oluomo didn’t sack secretariat workers’   He stated that the firm’s collaboration is also hinged towards providing financial support, and advocating in a particular cause. The project manager Olasunkami Oladejo, said the project is a timely one especially at a time the country is faced with food inflation/crisis. He explained: “The project serves as intervention for people in Lagos and other neighbouring states. We’ve planned to share food boxes; it contains nine items which can serve 40 meals. Our plan is to serve 500,000 meals across the next few months. We are going to distribute 12,500 boxes in the next few months. We’ll be disturbing 500 boxes every week to different communities from April 14th. Food tickets will be shared at various locations to persons especially those who need them. “The process will follow in Lagos, and outside Lagos. Every Thursday will be used for distribution in Lagos.” The CEO/Founder Foodclique Support Initiative, Bolajoko Fadipe, described the initiative as a strategic partnership, and it would go a long way in solving food crisis. He thanked and appreciated PepsiCo for staying committed to making more meaningful impacts, and also disclosed that food items such as Rice, Garri, Semo, Wheat and other food items have been packaged in the food boxes.