Delta Airlines has released its financial results for the first quarter of the year, which indicated that the carrier has returned to profitability. The profitability, the carrier said, was  triggered by strong rebound in air travel demand and fading away of the Omicron virus. The carrier said it would unveil its outlook in June 2022,  latching on demand growth. In a statement, Delta Airlines Chief Executive Officer, Ed Bastian said: “With a strong rebound in demand as omicron faded, we returned to profitability in March, producing a solid adjusted operating margin of almost 10 per cent. “As our brand preference and demand momentum grow, we are successfully recapturing higher fuel prices, driving our outlook for a 12 to 14 per cent adjusted operating margin and strong free cash flow in the quarter. “I would like to thank the Delta people, who once again enabled our best-in-class operational performance, provided an unmatched customer experience and continue to power our industry leadership each and every day.”   Scaling airlines’ certification hurdles     Raising local content bar in aircraft maintenance     Oneworld Alliance key to our operations, says Royal Air…   According to the official, the airline recorded an  adjusted operating loss of $793 million excluding a net gain of $9 million. The further  reads:  “The airline generated $1.8 billion of operating cash flow and $197 million of free cash flow, after investing $1.6 billion into the business, primarily related to aircraft purchases and modifications. “At the end of the first quarter, the company had $12.8 billion in liquidity, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and undrawn revolving credit facilities.” “Delta is well-positioned to capitalize on robust consumer demand and an accelerating return of business and international travel. The strength of Delta’s brand has never been more evident with record-setting performance for co-brand card acquisitions, co-brand spend and SkyMiles acquisitions in March,” said Glen Hauenstein, Delta’s president. “In the June quarter, we are successfully recapturing higher fuel prices and expect our revenue recovery to accelerate to 93 to 97 percent with unit revenue up double digits compared to 2019.” He went on : ” Adjusted operating revenue of $8.2 billion for the March quarter 2022 was 79 percent restored to March quarter 2019 levels,  five  points ahead of the mid-point of the company’s initial guidance. Compared to the March quarter 2019, total passenger revenue was 75 percent recovered on system capacity that was 83 percent restored.  Domestic passenger revenue was 83 percent recovered, and international passenger revenue was 54 percent restored in the March quarter.”