SIR Michael Agbolade Otedola’s dynasty is an example of three fulfilled  generations. This is evident in the success and landmark achievements of the three-generation led by the late former Governor of Lagos state. And eight years after the death of the dynasty’s patriarch, the offsprings, who have their roots in Odoragunsin, near Epe, Lagos State, have continued to fly the flag high in three major fields – oil and gas, energy, and entertainment. While Femi Otdeola, the second son of late Sir Otedola, continues to hold sway in the oil, gas, and energy sectors – stamping his feet as one of Nigeria’s many billionaires – other members of the dynasty have made a mark for themselves in the world of entertainment. Unknown to many, Florence Otedola aka DJ Cuppy wasn’t the first in the Otedola family to venture into the world of entertainment. 58-year-old Rotimi Otedola, the third son of late Sir Otedola, had previously made a stride in the world of music. Rotimi had performed with his Afrinero band to the delight of many people, who didn’t know he is one of the illustrious sons of the Otedola dynasty. Those close to the Otedolas believe the dynasty houses an embodiment of talents led by Rotimi. Little wonder billionaire Femi Otedola gave not only his blessings but massive support to his three daughters, DJ Cuppy, Tolani, and Temi when they decided to tow the showbiz path.   BREAKING: Will Smith gets 10-year ban from attending Oscars     Former Miss World Agbani Darego celebrates wedding…     I was never married to Falegan, Nkechi Blessing confesses   On April 3, when the dynasty’s matriarch Lady Doja Otedola turned 90, in Epe, Lagos, the Otedola house of entertainment was revealed to the world in class and panache. 58-year-old Rotimi Otedola and his nieces, Tolani and DJ Cuppy left esteemed guests and dignitaries in awe with their performances. On the bandstand was Rotimi, who serenaded guests and dignitaries alongside his Afrinero sound band. Rotimi unfurled the talent imbued in the Otedola when he gave a special rendition for his mum. Setting the pace for his nieces, globally acclaimed Disc Jockey DJ Cuppy took over the stage. Though she had been away from Nigeria – studying in Oxford for a degree course – for two years, she didn’t fail to get dignitaries and guests on their feet with her performance. Not even the 90-year-old matriarch could resit Cuppy’d dexterity on the wheels of steel as the octogenarian danced lightly in encouragement to her granddaughter’s brilliance. Speaking on her performance, Cuppy said “imagine the honor of being able to perform to your grandma at her 90th birthday in your hometown? I can only for this unforgettable moment and special blessing,” she gushed. “To be honest, I was a bit reluctant to perform when it was requested because most of the year I’ve been so focused on Uni and been hiding in Oxford plus I haven’t been to Nigeria in years. I had so much anxiety! But I’m so happy I was able to make it to Epe in time. The last time I performed here was at my Grandad’s funeral 7-years ago but today reminded me that we must celebrate our grandparents as life can be so short.” Tolani, a seemingly reserved but equally talented artist was next sd she performed two of her songs. Her heartwarming performance didn’t just get guests dancing but got her father swinging to the rhythm blaring out of the speakers.