The All Progressives Congress (APC)  has dissociated itself from a timetable indicating that its primaries for the 2023 general elections will commence on May 30. It said the public would be kept abreast of the dates for the primaries and other activities once it completed consultations with   President Muhammadu Buhari,   governors and other critical stakeholders. National Publicity Secretary of the ruling party,   Felix Morka, told reporters after the National  Working Committee(NWC) maiden meeting in Abuja that the leadership of the party only began a conversation on the timetable/primaries yesterday. Morka said: “Today (yesterday)  , the NWC of the APC met. Among other topics covered was the programme for our party’s primaries looking at the schedule of activities that is to come. “I am unable to give you a rundown of the details of that schedule because that is still in discussion and we are yet to conclude on a definite plan or timetable or schedule for our primaries. “I can confirm that we began a conversation on that today.  But we have not concluded or made any decision.   Kachikwu seeks ADC presidential ticket     Odinkalu, Charley Boy, Onwenu, Bianca for talks with IPOB,…     Two die in ex-President Jonathan’s convoy crash   “I can say that very shortly, the details and information will be made available to the public. “I am not aware of anything that is trending because we have not put out any information on the schedule of our primaries.  Our discussion on that   is still in progress.” A source close to the meeting also corroborated Morka’s disclosure that the NWC resolved to consult widely before arriving on a date for the timetable/primaries. “A draft copy was discussed and the NWC resolved to consult other stakeholders to get their input in line with our new chairman’s all-inclusive policy,” he told The Nation. “The committee intends to discuss with Mr President,  APC governors and some critical stakeholders before the timetable and other activities will be released,” he added. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had directed all political parties to conduct their primaries between April 3 and June 3, 2022.