GOVERNOR Hope Uzodinma is set to host the 14th edition of the Best of Nollywood (BON) Awards, in Owerri, Imo State. Governor Uzodinma accepted to host the movie awards after a visit by the organising team led by the awards ceremony founder, Seun Oloketuyi. The event, according to Oloketuyi, is billed to hold on Saturday, December 3, 2022, in Imo State. Unveiling the 2022 calendar of activities following the presentation of hosting rights to the Imo State Government earlier in the week, Oloketuyi stated that it’s an honour to have Uzodinma accept to host the traveling award this December. “It’s an honour to have His Excellency, Senator Uzodinma accept to host the traveling award that takes industry practitioners to different places in the federation every December. This year is no different as we will be visiting the beautiful city of Owerri after having gone to states like Ogun, Kano, Kogi, Abia, Rivers, and others in previous years.   Cooking show Sokoyokoto returns     MI Abaga, Chigul, Waje join forces to advocate gender…     BBNaija star Yousef says fans’ pressure is a major…   “The history and story of Nollywood will not be complete without mention of Imo State because there are lots of Imo indigenes who have done well in the industry.” He added that “the presentation of the hosting rights is the first of the four major events for the year. Next is the submission of entries from May 1 when filmmakers from all over the country will send in their entries. “Children in the host state are not left out of the BON Awards package as come May 27, there will be a book reading for children in Imo with the first lady, Her Excellency, Chioma Uzodinma. On September 7, the nominee list for the 2022 edition of the awards will be unveiled after which the awards will hold on December 3. At the presentation, which took place at the New Executive Council Chamber, Government House, Owerri, Imo State, Gov Uzodinma, alongside his deputy, Placid Njoku expressed his pleasure to the BON Awards organisers for choosing Imo State as the venue for the 14th edition of the awards. The presenting delegation, led by Seun Oloketuyi, founder of BON Awards, had Mobimpe Oyebade Adedimeji, Lateef Adedimeji, Shushu Abubakar, Onyinye Okafor, Tracy Okechukwu in attendance.