WITH Lagos State digitising 243 public school libraries across the state, pupils have been urged to make reading a continuous exercise to enable them solve future leadership challenges. Special Adviser to the Governor on Education Tokunbo Philip Wahab gave the advice at the celebration of Year 2022 World Book Day by his office in collaboration with the state library board. The event was under theme: “You’re a reader”. Wahab, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in his office, Mr. Adeniran Waheed Kasali, underscored the importance of reading. He said: “The World Book Day is a global event initiated by UNESCO to celebrate readers. This event is, therefore, unique as it further encourages youths to develop their intellectual knowledge through books.” Noting that the 21st Century is technology-driven, Wahab said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration priortises education as a tool for development, which is why the third pillar of the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda focuses on Education and Technology. According to him, 243 public school libraries have been digitalised across the three senatorial districts to enhance reading culture. The OSAE, through the Lagos State Library Board, recently organised the Lagosreads Inter-Schools Quiz Competition geared towards promoting reading culture. He urged pupils to read continuously to proffer solutions to leadership challenges.   LAUTECH debunks vote of no confidence in institution’s…     FCTA threatens to shut down schools contravening rules     Six in final lap for Africa’s math champion   Director, Lagos State Library Board, Mr. Oyadipe Asimiyu Amoo, noted that books are capable of changing the world as readers are leaders. “Reading is an intellectual activity that is driven by knowledge and we’ve all gathered to celebrate ourselves as readers. “Today, students from 12 selected public schools will interact and share knowledge to mark the World Book Day. “Reading must, therefore, be taken seriously as it helps actualises dreams,” he said. President, Network of Book Clubs and Reading Promoters in Nigeria, Mr. Richard Mammah stated that readers can fix problems in the country and the goal is to establish reading clubs in the 774 local government councils in the country. “To achieve this, reading spaces must be readily available and we’ve identified 39 of such in Lagos with a view to discovering more,” Mammah added. He noted that Lagos has also been selected as the National Book Club City for 2023 with various activities lined up. Other highpoints of the event include rendition of poems, drama presentation by pupils and reading of a book title, ” You have a brain”, by Ben Carson by guests and top government officials including Director, Administration and Human Resource, Mrs. Oluranti Fadipe, Director, Finance and Accounts, Office of Special Adviser on Education, Mrs. Lola Akinsola, Mr. Richard Mammah, Mrs. Funmi Ilori of iRead Mobile, selected authors and publishers among others. The World Book Day was first observed by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) on April 23, 1995, as a worldwide celebration of books and reading and holds special significance as it marks the anniversaries of the death of two world’s greatest writers, Inca Garcilaso de la Vega and William Shakespeare.