Association of Igbo Maritime Practitioners in Nigeria (ASIMPIN) has raised alarm over alleged attempts by some disgruntled persons to cause disaffection among members. Its President-General, Eze Damian Obianigwe, in a statement by his media assistant, Godfrey Nwosu, dismissed claims of the constitution of the council of elders. Obianigwe was accused of perpetuating himself in power and refusing to conduct elections, among other allegations. The president general noted that COVID-19, as well as the death of two prominent members of the association, were part of the reasons elections into the executive had been delayed, adding that genuine members were aware of these facts. He said: “I wonder who constituted the council. Elders in Igbo cosmology are men of wisdom whose predominant attention is peace, rectitude and prudence.   NNPC subsidiary NETCO posts N4.31b profit     Fed Govt begins distribution of 40,000mt grains     Stakeholders urge Okowa to join presidential race   “These attributes are deficient in the proponents of the meeting and their spurious claim of belonging to council of elders. “Eze Obianigwe does not give a whimper over such grandstanding with a phantom group of self-glorifying persons masquerading as elders. “It is noteworthy to state that he has since taken bold steps towards constituting a committee to organise elections but for the effects of COVID-19 and unfortunate demise of two members of the association namely: Chief Dom Obi, Secretary-General of the association and the former first electoral committee Chairman, Chief Achike Molokwu.” He said the so-called elders might have been too late to intervene and were making erroneous statements over genuine and pragmatic steps taken to move the association forward. “Genuine members of the association are advised not to be cajoled into chasing shadows. “It would come to those who know the stand of the founder of NAGAFF and ASIMPIN as a shock over the sudden interest being shown by this group of faceless elders and disgruntled elements,” he said.