The imagination of the Nigerian politician is unbelievably fertile. Only he could have come up with a scheme in 2022 to make former president Goodluck Jonathan consensus presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Let’s put things in context. That that APC pulled off the near-impossible in 2015 – toppling an incumbent president and a party that had confidently boasted it would rule for 60 years – is down to his failings. Before then it was taken for granted that it would be easier to move a mountain than to oust Aso Rock incumbents. But the Jonathan administration turned out to be serial bunglers who provided a treasure trove of ammunition which the opposition utilised successfully to define it as incompetent. Many Nigerians became familiar with the word ‘clueless’ because of the regularity with which the opposition attached it to the then president. They went from familiarity to believability and voted in sufficiently large numbers to give the young opposition party a comfortable margin of victory. It therefore gives the phrase ‘mind-boggling’ a new definition to think that in political circles the prospect of Jonathan becoming President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor is being discussed seriously. What has made a man who was humiliated out of power become suddenly attractive to new-found promoters? What makes the long line of loyal APC members who have declared interest in the race so unattractive, that influential elements within the party are trying to conscript a flagbearer from enemy ranks? If the former president felt he had unfinished business in Aso Villa, why isn’t he launching his comeback on the PDP platform that took him from near anonymity in Bayelsa to national limelight in Abuja? It’s a measure of how much those in the opposition party rate him that they are not beating down his door, begging him to lead them back to power. Who knows, perhaps if he was considered a credible option the likes of Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, Akwa Ibom Governor, Udom Emmanuel, former Anambra State Governor, Ben Obi, former Senate President, Anyim Pius Anyim, among others, may not be on the field today. Maybe they know something the ruling party doesn’t. This isn’t to dismiss the Jonathan scheme as I believe there’s actually something afoot, even if its promoters don’t manage to deliver an end product. For one thing, rumours of the plan have been floating around for almost two years. They received fresh fuel when a delegation of largely Northern APC governors visited him in his Otuoke, Bayelsa country home a while back. Secondly, rather than firmly dismissing the notion that he was contemplating another presidential bid, he gave a pregnantly-ambiguous response to campaigners who called at his residence last weekend. He told them he couldn’t declare ‘yet’ because ‘the process was ongoing.’ Note the words ‘yet’ and ‘process ongoing.’ That leaves the distinct possibility that within the next 30 days, Jonathan could actually launch a bid to return to power in a party which, at this point, he’s not a member of. But that’s no big deal in Nigerian politics because by agency of the almighty waiver a day-old member could contest the most powerful position. So far, the reaction from opposition ranks has been one of bemusement – with a few voices warning the former president he’s walking into disaster with eyes wide open. But all of that seems lost in translation for a man who has committed himself to a ‘process’ and is only waiting for its conclusion. I suspect that many APC members are equal stunned at the prospect that the erstwhile butt of their jokes may soon be rubbing shoulders with them. So what sort of marriage would this be? Not a very convenient one for all sides I hazard. For instance, why does Jonathan think he would be at home in a party he once painted as a den of terror sponsors and religious extremists? Beyond ambition, what is the ideological meeting point between him and APC’s leading lights? What has happened within the ruling party in the last seven years to make it his new comfort zone?   Bandits kill APC ward chair, one other in Kaduna     Police, NSCDC disagree over attack, shooting in Imo     Yobe police mammy market shut over bomb threat   In the run-up to the 2015 polls, the then opposition identified the economy, corruption and insecurity as Jonathan and the PDP government’s weakest points. They made these the focus of campaign attacks to great effect. Seven years after, these problems have metastasized. If he wasn’t good enough to deal with them back them, resulting in voters rejecting him, what makes him the solution now that these challenges have become monsters? Beyond playing statesman, there’s no evidence the former president took a refresher course at any School of Competence since losing power. Those who are pushing the project are probably too consumed by their motivations to think it through. But if they would reflect they would quickly see a line-up of roadblocks between the dream and its actualisation. The first challenge has to do with interests and internal party cohesion. Consider the case of Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi who is currently darting around the country courting delegates, after dashing around the Port Harcourt stadium to prove his fitness for the presidency. He was virtually hounded out of the PDP by Jonathan and his wife Patience. He so desperate for an APC victory in 2015 because he knew what awaited him had the former president been re-elected. I dare say he’s not jumping for joy at the prospect of the former First Couple becoming lord and master over him again. The minister is one of those who would like the world to believe that he’s Buhari’s preferred successor. Therefore, this sudden insertion of an interloper into the succession equation could deal a fatal blow to his dreams. There are other powerful aspirants and stakeholders who wouldn’t just roll over and swallow the imposition of the former president on APC in the name of some so-called consensus. Even if they don’t take up arms there would be consequences for a party that, ideally, should have all hands pulling in the same direction. There is also the question of perception. The Jonathan agenda has long been identified as the strategic project of some Northern elements – especially governors – within the ruling party who want power back in their region as quickly as possible because he would only serve one term. So while it would appear like a clever manoeuvre in the internal race for the party ticket, it may well turn out to be too clever by half in the larger context of a general election as voters down South see it as an attempt to cheat them of a clear eight-year run at governance. Beyond serving the purpose of being a stop-gap arrangement to keep the throne warm for his boosters, the question has to be asked what real electoral advantage Jonathan offers. Will he make APC more electable in the South-South zone? Is he going to seize Rivers from Wike because he picks the presidential ticket? The Southeast has been making an aggressive play for the presidency in this electoral cycle. Does his winning the ticket mean the zone suddenly develops an appetite for a party it has long spurned? I suspect that not even his middle names – Ebele Azikiwe – would help. Chibuike Amaechi got there first this time; reminding everyone of his Igbo heritage – only to receive a decidedly lukewarm and suspicious reception. Would his candidacy spark voter enthusiasm and high turnout in the Southwest? But it gets really interesting in the context of a general election as Jonathan on the APC ticket would be a once-in-a-lifetime gift to PDP. It would be fun as they dust up all the destructive campaign materials deployed so effectively by Lai Mohammed and the opposition in 2015. We’ve been here before. Two years ago, after losing his bid to win a second term ticket, Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, defected to PDP. His replacement was Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who was that party’s candidate four years earlier and was attacked with great relish by then APC chairman Adams Oshiomhole. In the ensuing campaign, PDP simply went back and dug up all the derogatory things Oshiomhole had said about Ize-Iyamu. It turned out to be an awkward and embarrassing time at the hustings as the APC team found themselves permanently on the defensive. Jonathan remains a high risk venture for those pushing him, but they are welcome to try. However, APC would be making the same arrogant mistakes PDP made, thinking they could get away with anything. If the ruling party can seriously be thinking of rewarding a late defector with its most prized ticket, it should have suitable answers ready for its loyalists who have stuck with it through thick and thin.