By Adeniyi Adewonyin Group Managing Director of Murphy Ben International (IBM), which is the parent company of AFOREVO, Ben Murphy Anawana has said that the high demand for creative and thrilling multimedia content is what prompted the company to provide a platform for content creators, television producers, seasoned filmmakers, and many other creatives. Anawana noted that the Pan-African digital company, headquartered in Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria with several operational offices sited across the African continent, is bringing revolutionary ideas to every aspect of creative content, from ideation, conceptualization, production, promotion, marketing, and distribution, not just to Nigerian digital content consumers, but to Africans as a whole.   Chrisland: 10-year-old not raped, says Wizkid’s…     Flaunting relationships on social media hastens breakup…     Best way to dispose used sanitary pads, by Halima Abubakar   He said: “ We did not just stop at providing the AFOREVO digital platform for global access to Nollywood film content, but positioned the platform as a one-stop place for everything African entertainment. We pride ourselves on being the premium youth-centric and family-friendly TV channel that displays the best of African film content of all genres, shown to you in various African languages, marketing and promoting the best of African entertainment to the world. We believe that at the core of every digital ecosystem is a platform business model, and AFOREVO has created an extremely robust tech platform to drive this digital content marketing revolution in Africa.” Speaking on the company’s new digital voice and visual radio station, the General Manager of VYBZ 94.5 FM, Mr Mark Redguard, stated that “Through our sister company, VYBZ 94.5 FM, is currently on the verge of being launched officially on the Nigeria digital radio space. VYBZ 94.5 FM is not just your regular digital radio platform, it’s a Nigerian 360 digital voice and visual radio station with a website, www.vybz945fm.com, where Afrobeats music lovers from any part of the world can stream live our programs; and Nigerians in the Diaspora (London, Atlanta, Houston, Chicago, and New York, among others) can stream Morning, Lunch and Evening drives our Afrobeats mixes with the latest songs. Our target listeners are young people between the ages of 14 and 45. Nollywood actor, Mr. Lawrence Onuzulike, who also serves as AFOREVO’s Content Sourcing and Film Production Lead, tasked with the responsibility of sourcing movie content and talents, as well as overseeing AFOREVO’s movie production segment, recently announced to the general public the new scriptwriting competition initiated by him and powered by AFOREVO. According to Mr. Onuzulike, the Nollywood Screenwriting Contest (NSWC) is endowed with a two-million-naira prize and an offer of a contract to work on a blockbuster Nollywood movie, including a one-year scriptwriting contract with AFOREVO.