Minister of Youth & Sport Development, Sunday Dare, has yet again recalled Nigeria’s finest moments in the money-spinning UEFA Champions League as the most-sought after trophy berths in the nation’s capital along with  Dutch legend Clarence Seedorf. After a successful Heineken-sponsored Trophy Tour of Lagos on Tuesday , the Seedorf’s entourage  landed  in Abuja  yesterday for the second leg  of the event and  paid a courtesy call on the  minister at his office. In the milieu were Nigerian legends including Daniel Amokachi, Austin Jay Jay Okocha  amongst others. “ The UEFA champions League trophy is one of the most important  in world’s football and perhaps only second in importance to the FIFA World Cup . Nigeria is undoubtedly a football –loving nation; our people loves football and they do have a strong attachment to the UEFA Champions League ,” Dare remarked. “Nigerians have indeed played significant role in the UCL over the years  and we can go down memory lane. Finidi George, Nwankwo Kanu who were teammates with  their friend Clarence Seedorf (who is here today) in Ajax ; and they were the first Nigerians  to win the trophy with ‘the big ears’ as the UCL trophy is often called in 1995.”   UCL: Chukwueze hailed for historic goal against Bayern     Mali shortlist  Rohr for Eagles coaching job     Paris 2024: Amusan, Quadri, six others  get IOC scholarship   The minister went further to highlight  other Nigerian impacts in the tournament :  “ Again in 2012, John Obi Mikel  won the trophy with Chelsea  and earlier  in November 1992, it is also on record that the first goal ever  scored under the present format  was scored by a Nigerian, (Amokachi )who is also right here with us. “ Only on Tuesday, our player Samuel Chukwueze  scored the goal that helped his club  Villarreal  to beat favourites Bayern Munich on 2-1 aggregate to qualify for the semi-final  of this current campaign. Austin Jay Jay Okocha, Daniel  Amokachi and together with Finidi and Kanu  still represents the golden generation of Nigerian  football till date,” he added. Seedorf in his remarks stressed the importance of sport in the development of any county,  even as he praised the organisers for the  Champions League Trophy Tour.