More than 15 million decent jobs must be created for Africa by 2025 if governments are serious about tackling the continent’s unemployment crisis, according to a new charter launched yesterday. The People’s Charter on Jobs in Africa – created by the Jobs Now Africa Coalition as part of its new #JobsNowAfrica Campaign – is an interactive tool designed to outline the scale of the urgent crisis where the public is encouraged to sign a petition to urge governments and non-state partners to prioritise this pressing issue. Following a six-month-long consultation process across seven African countries that account for a third of the jobs in the continent, the 40 organisations behind the coalition warned that the continent is at the tipping point of what could be the economic breakthrough from the pandemic, but only if investments are made now to prioritise jobs creation and harness the potential of youth.   MTN Chairman Ndukwe loses mother     My plans for Delta South, by aspirant     Constituents buy Senate forms for lawmaker   This was done through consultations and consensus with 70 youth networks, think tanks, CSOs, businesses and industry experts across seven African countries, which are responsible for a third of jobs in the continent. These include South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Togo, Tunisia and Senegal. With Africa’s population expected to double and reach 2.5 billion people by 2050, Africa’s jobless youth risks casting a shadow over its economic growth. Recent figures from the African Development Bank Group show that while 10 to 12 million youth enter the workforce each year, only three million formal jobs are created, leaving more than half of the new entrants into the labour market unemployed. Without a commitment to effectively tackle the unemployment crisis – such as investing in the tech and digital industries and green jobs opportunities, modernizing agriculture to increase productivity and ensuring the successful implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) – the organisations behind the coalition warned that the continent risk losing out on the next generation of leaders. Executive Director for Africa at the ONE Campaign, Edwin Ikhuoria, said: “The African continent is facing an unprecedented unemployment crisis that has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. We cannot afford to keep turning a blind eye to this pressing issue that has fueled the rising instability and insecurity across the region. Many of our youth are discouraged and slowly losing their spark and excitement for the future, and it’s shameful that not more is done to support them. Too much is at stake for us to continue with the current business-as-usual approach. Job creation must not be an afterthought but rather, tackled alongside other priorities such as pandemic recovery, healthcare and education.”