Companies that are unable to adapt to the sustainable climate agenda and fail to provide adequate climate disclosures may experience difficulty in accessing long-term sustainable capital. Chief Executive Officer, NGX Regulation (NGX RegCo), Ms. Tinuade Awe, said transition to climate-compliant status is becoming important factor for economies and companies. Awe spoke yesterday at a training on climate disclosures organised by the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), NGX RegCo, UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). She noted that globally, there are increasing policy pressures for companies and governments to address climate change. “For us in Nigeria, these policy pressures emanate from the recently signed Climate Change Act in as well as Nigeria’s vision to be a low-carbon, climate-resilient, high growth circular economy that reduces its current level of emissions by 50 per cent by 2050 as captured in the 2025 long-term vision for the Nigerian economy which was issued by the Department of Climate Change, Federal Ministry of Environment in November 2021. 		 			Tinubu gets Diaspora support for presidential bid		 		 		 			Buhari persistently sad over terror attacks – Monguno		 		 		 			Ayu knocks APC over N100m presidential nomination for		 		 “These policy advances have significant implications for business and the investment community, as companies that do not effectively navigate the climate transition and provide adequate disclosure may experience increased friction in accessing long-term sustainable capital,” Awe said. According to her, as a leading capital market infrastructure group, the NGX recognises the important role it plays in helping its markets navigate the transition and that explains why it is hosting training as part of its climate awareness initiative to help market stakeholders not only make sense of the global and local trends in climate disclosure but to also help them navigate the net-zero transition and align with increasing demands from policy makers and providers of finance. Divisional Head, Business Support Services, Nigerian Exchange (NGX), Mrs. Irene Robinson-Ayanwale, highlighted the need for companies to be ahead of the requirements of the recently signed Climate Change Act. “This training is timely, particularly due to increasing policy requirements from the Climate Change Act which was signed into law by the National Assembly in November 2021. Under the Act, entities, including bodies registered under the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) are required to put in place measures to achieve annual carbon emission reduction targets in line with the National Climate Change Action Plan. To help listed companies get ahead of these policy advances, we are pleased to host this training in as part of our Climate Awareness Initiative,” Robinson-Ayanwale said. The free climate disclosure training programme, which was certified by the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Certification Service, presented issuers and companies listed on NGX with best practices on climate disclosure in line with the Financial Standards Board (FSB) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. The course, themed TCFD 101 provided an overview of climate-related reporting and its importance in the global fight against climate change while also sharing critical information with participants on the initial steps to address the TCFD recommendations. The training was hosted as part of a two- part CPD-Certified training on the TCFD in collaboration with UN Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) Initiative, International Finance Corporation (IFC) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).