AS much as it is more difficult and requires greater efforts to fix a wagon of train on the track, once the train is on its track, it becomes easy to move it. The prospect of disintegration in Oyo Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) looms large except all of us urgently rise up to prevent it. If indeed we are true members of PDP and lover of Governor Seyi Makinde’s return for second term, then we must do everything possible to save the party from avoidable collapse. It will be conceited of anyone to say all is well with PDP primaries. In restropect, Makinde was a consensus candidate and other aspirants willingly stepped down for him. That was why his victory was smooth. The same cannot be said in the run-off to the 2023 elections. The party is torn apart by division and acrimony. There is a popular saying that a house built with saliva, mere dew will destroy it. That is what obtains in Oyo PDP across board. For example, in my federal constituency, there is tension and division among stakeholders over the plan to impose an unpopular aspirant for the Iseyin, Itesiwaju, Kajola and Iwajowa House of Reps ticket of the party. It is time to reward the steadfastness and perseverance of Barr. Abiola Kazeem, since 2007. In 2007, he was asked to step down for Hon.Abass Olopoeyan, which he did. He worked with him in all the four Local Governments to win the election. In 2019, he was also asked to step down for Hon. Sina Oyedeji, which he did. He worked with him though many believed the candidate was not popular and acceptable enough to win. Knowing the political value of Kazeem as a grassroots mobiliser, leaders in the constituency asked him to pick the House of Representative Expression of Interest and Nomination Form. They were convinced he is the only one that can win the general election.   2023: Tinubu, Sanwoolu have done enough to win for APC…     Arewa group knocks Tambuwal for denying northern PDP…     Delta 2023: Omo-Agege’s mother of all declarations   But a few elements have kicked against his aspiration. They consider Kazeem’s belief in party supremacy as a sign of weakness. While it is within their right not to support him, trying to impose an aspirant against his popular acceptance will spell doom for the party. The right thing is to allow the aspirants to test their popularity in a free and fair primary. The division caused by the primary of the Local Government election still lingers. Creating another division may lead to catastrophic situation that would make centre not to hold again. We can’t afford to dash the hope of the masses in PDP because of personal selfishness and pride. We all know that a house divided against itself, can’t stand. United we stand, divided we fall. Let us sincerely join hands to build a united PDP now. It’s easier to destroy than to build. We should not do anything to further divide the party through imposition of unpopular, unmarketable and unacceptable aspirants. A free and fair primary is the only option that can unite the party. We are somebody in political field only when we are in government. We are nobody when we are not there. Let us bury our pride if truly we love PDP and believe in PDP as the only party that can save this nation. I’m appealing to Governor Makinde to revisit all the 33 Local Government Areas to correct the division created by primaries. Consensus can only be possible if other aspirants agree to step down willingly. *Adeagbo writes from Ilaji-Ile in Iwajowa Local Government Area of Oyo State.