Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola has declared that those writing petitions against the re-election bid of Ogun Governor Dapo Abiodun will fail. He said even if such petitions originate from deep water or air, they will fail. The All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership recently received a petition, which seeks to disqualify Abiodun from participating in the forthcoming governorship primaries. The petition alleged that there are discrepancies in his Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) forms CF001 submitted in 2015 and 2019. The April 12 petition also alleged that the Governor was convicted for an offence in 1986. The petitioners alleged that he bear Shawn Michael Davis in addition to Dapo Abiodun. But the Governor, in a letter to the APC National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, through his lawyers Afe Babalola & Co, urged the party to disregard the petition. The law firm, in an April 19 letter to Adamu, described the petition as full of spurious and unfounded allegations meant to mislead the party into disqualifying the Governor from participating in the 2023 gubernatorial election. Adeola, who noted the petitioners were on time-wasting venture, said Abiodun’s second term ambition will succeed. He assured that he and Ogun West senatorial district wre solidly behind him to coast home to victory come 2023.   Canada plans to reopen embassy in Ukraine     IPMAN urges clamp down on illegal refineries     Adeyemi’s death colossal loss to Nigeria, says Saki…   “No amount of petitions will stop the Governor’s second term ambition. He will return. Those writing petitions are wasting their time. “They will fail and they have failed. Let them write it inside water or anywhere, they will fail and they have failed,” Adeola declared. The Senate Committee Chairman on Finance spoke at his hometown in Ilaro, headquarters of Yewa South Local Government Area while fielding questions from news men some minutes after announcing that he had fully relocated to Ogun State for politics. He also disclosed that he had moved his Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) registration documentations from Lagos to Ogun State for full participation in Ogun West 2023 senatorial seat race. The Lagos West Senator explained that poor representation at the National Assembly and clarion calls by his people to come back home informed why he set aside “all the comforts” which politicking afforded him in Lagos State and returned home. Aside from re-registering his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, Adeola said he has also swapped his INEC’s Permanent Voters’ Card (PVC) to Ogun State. He informed he would be casting his votes at the Ward 01, Polling Unit 009 in Ilaro, declaring “and no going back”. “I have chosen to take this bold step because I believe that at a point in time of every man’s life, you must chose what you want to do and take a bold decision. “This is however one of the bold decisions that I have to take if truly I want to do politics in Ogun State”. Speaking in the legality, as well as the moral implication of his action, the Senator declared that his action has neither violated any known section of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria nor that of the APC as a political party. “There is no question of moral deficiency here. My senatorial seat in Lagos State is never threatened, even if I choose to contest again in Lagos State, I will still win. “While I was representing Lagos State, I was equally contributing my quotas to Ogun West politics. Lagos platform was a training ground for me and the time for me is now, to put all my trainings into practice. I am bringing to the table, representation per excellence; to continue from where I will be dropping the Lagos banner on June 6, 2023”.