About 500 bandits invaded our tomato farms/process factory in Kebbi state 2 weeks ago, killing 5 policemen and 1 local security man. How all our employees, local and expatriate, got evacuated to safety could only be the special grace of God. Those boys came with all kinds of lethal weaponry, including RPGs, which they used to take out most of our armored security vans. We have since suspended operations. We have invested about $54m in the farm and factory to date. We are empowering over 5000 local tomato out – growers. Farm and factory have generated over 5000 good, paying jobs and we are developing the entire Yauri communities by the bank of the river Niger: clean water, electricity etc.  Now all these investments are at a serious risk. Tomorrow if these our Spaniards pull their investments and go back home, folks will start complaining. They won’t understand that this country is very unfriendly to business. And that the country is gone!” – Quoting a staff of GBFoods Africa, in Gafara Village, Kebbi State – an attack that was reported by the Daily Trust newspaper of 15 March, 2022. “We knew what the problem would be. We knew we needed to have digital security equipment. We applied for it. “Because if we had those equipment, you will see everybody on that track. And I warned that lives will be lost. Now, lives are lost. Eight persons dead, 25 persons in the hospital. We don’t know how many persons have been kidnapped. And the cost of that equipment is just N3 billion. The cost of what we’ve lost is more than N3 billion. We’ve lost tracks, we’ve lost locomotives and coaches. We’ve lost human beings. And the equipment is only N3 billion. “To fix all the things on that track now will cost more than N3 billion. When you come with sincerity to government, and your colleagues and people are stopping you, it is annoying.” – Rotimi Amaechi, Hon. Minister for Transportation. “We have enough intelligence for us to take action. The Air Force undertakes enough ISR (Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) and the DSS  has informants all over the place. “We know what they (terrorists) are planning. We get the reports. The problem is for the agencies to take action. Don’t wait until they attack before you respond. The Army should go after their enclaves to wipe them out. Let the Air Force bomb them”. If you bombed them before they were categorised as terrorists, you would have had issues with human rights organisations and international criminal courts and so on. “But, now that they have been so declared by the court, they can be legally killed without any consequences from international human rights organisations.” – Governor El Rufai of Kaduna state. The three epigrams above represent my thoughts on how far President Muhammadu Buhari has fulfilled his 2015 campaign promise to Nigerians to fight insecurity to a standstill. Before  delving into that, however, my heartfelt condolences go to the families of those who were killed in the bombed Abuja – bound train, as well as to those who were injured or kidnapped. I also commiserate with President Muhammadu Buhari whose government’s major achievement in seven years, that is, railway transportation infrastructure procurement, is now so compromised, travel by train has been rendered no safer than on our dangerous roads. The Kaduna-Abuja attack throws up many questions about the essence of government, and more specifically, about the incumbent Buhari administration.  It showed, for instance, the total ineffectiveness of the government.  There is no other thing to call it, if it can happen this close to the seat of power, which reminds one that only a few months ago, the Niger state governor warned federal authorities that his own besieged state was only one or two hours away from Abuja. There is hardly any country in the world today that is immune to these unfortunate happenings, the difference in Nigeria being that here, killings and kidnappings are not occasional, but daily occurrences; a fact that is, unfortunately, being hid from the one person, that is, the President, from whom we can expect to get a reprieve. This is what the likes of the minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, and several top functionaries of this government do with such consummate perspicacity, just so the President, according to them, would not hear bad news. I am lost as to what exactly they are afraid of. Or is it that they are that awe – struck once with the President? God help us. Take this for an example: only a few hours before that major security breach on that very expensive railway infrastructure which led to loss of lives and much more, Lai Mohammed was gloating about how life is daily becoming safer under the Buhari government.  That, in spite,  of the daily terrorist killings, kidnaps, ritual killings etc, everywhere, like we were in one time Afghanistan. Reeling out the many ways in which he said government has strengthened the capacity of the security forces, he lounged, illogically, into the conclusion that this has easily translated into the level of security Nigerians yearn for, in spite of how the security forces have been, unlike elsewhere, uncharacteristically, spread thin, over the entire country, with the army severally being called upon to do police work; a police that is, meanwhile, not itself adequately equipped. So protected from hearing bad news is the president that I have no doubt that some of the several condolences we read as coming from him, actually started and ended with his spokespersons. Also in the sad circumstances of our country today, there is this one event that clearly demonstrates the obvious lack of synergy in the Buhari government.  Rotimi Amaechi, the Transport minister has, since the tragic incident, been bellyaching about how he was let down by some government functionaries who refused to approve funds for the technology he believes would have ensured that the bombing never happened. That is buying a technology that would have revealed any illegal human activity on the rail line. The first question to ask the ‘annoyed’ minister is whether this could ever have happened in a serious government or, if rather than politicking about, he had put his mind on the job for which he is being paid.   Niger 2023: The race for guber tickets     Kano: PDP takes on APC without Kwankwaso     Baba Buhari: That APC will not self–destruct!   Given the fact that Nigeria is borrowing heavily for the railway infrastructure which he overlooks, should such technology not have been an integral part of the China – funded project right from the beginning and, certainly, not an afterthought? And by the way, did he report this to the president, his boss? I can wager he did not, because for most of them, President Buhari just must not be disturbed. We must remember, however, that lack of synergy in the government is as old as the government itself. Or who could have forgotten that once when the President was recommending the confirmation of the Acting Head of the EFCC to Senate, an agency of the same government was submitting to the same red chamber, a thoroughly scathing report which audaciously countered the President. May be somebody would be punished for that effrontery tomorrow. Finally, going by our epigrams, let us take a deeper look at the intervention of Governor El Rufai. Like him or not, this is one man you cannot stop from saying his own. According to him, he has long recommended that these terrorists be carpet – bombed out of those forests.  Supporting this, he says that his own Kaduna state is at war.  Happily, he said, government knows the terrorists’ whereabouts and also that the security agencies do eavesdrop on their discussions. What then, he asks, stops government from deploying simultaneously, a combined air and ground attack to flush them out? Here is what I consider to be the crux of our security problem as it speaks to our ethno-religious diversities. It was in recognition of this fact that Nigerians heavily criticised President Buhari for so cavalierly handing over the Nigerian security apparatti to Northerners at the very start of his administration. Even when he was pressured, and had to change his first set of security chiefs, nothing really changed. The result, as well as the consequences, have been sobering. It is worth recalling that when President Obasanjo was in office, he ordered that unruly members of OPC (a Yoruba group) be shot at sight while President Buhari , through his utter silence, gave Fulani herders, many of them complete foreigners, the belief that they can roam, kill, destroy farms and do whatever it is that pleases them such that today, according to a trending WhatsApp post, we have the following realities on ground: Many villages and communities forcefully taken over by Fulani herdsmen in many parts of the North, especially in the Middle Belt, with the indigenes now living in IDP camps. It also says that in Kaduna south, the indigenes are being killed on a daily basis, with most of the people, especially women, children, and old people now living in primary schools as IDPs. It has also been suggested that the herdsmen have changed the names of such communities and that INEC has, in fact, gone ahead to capture the new names for the purpose of the 2023 elections, to which I say, God forbid. Worse is the fact that security agents look askance as all these happen. Indeed, when President Buhari went to Benue state to commiserate with them on the killing of about 70 indigenes who were mass buried, his words of condolence to them was to learn to live in harmony with their ‘neighbours’. It, therefore, cannot be too much to assume that El Rufai’s patriotic suggestions have been treated with benign disregard by a security people that choose to act according to the President’s body language and, therefore, spared these “18 – 20 year olds”, who are already very conversant with operating sophisticated weapons, and may actually be needed in the very near future. To further lay the foundation for this suggestion, of the about 500 terrorists that attacked GBFoods Africa, in Kebbi State, and killed 5 policemen, and a local, not a single one of that huge number of terrorists was reported killed. The summary of what we are going through in Nigeria today is that as long as the raison detre of government, which is the protection of life and property, all anchored on equity and mutual trust, are observed only in breach, so long will Nigeria remain a beleaguered and thoroughly unsafe country.