As a young child growing up in Lagos, Adebisi Peters saw how everyday disappointments obscured many people’s ambitions and resolved to alter people’s perspectives on life. Now a multi-talented filmmaker with a wide range of cinematic skills, he is passionate about telling social and corporate stories to inspire people. In 2021, after his recovery from depression, Adebisi posted “My Story,” a social documentary on mental health that addressed failure, intimidation, and despair, on his YouTube channel, The Kreativo. He interviewed Twyse Ereme, Michael Sanni (MC Lively), Kie Kie, Edem Victor, and Adebayo Ridwan (IsbaeU) during the first season of the self-financed “Failure isn’t Final” of My Story. He now has over 2.7 million impressions and over 200,000 views in Nigeria, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada, with several impressive testimonials about how the documentary saved lives. Adebisi was the 2021 winner of the British Council’s Climate Story Pitch “The Wrong Battle”. He was one of the top five best film/DSLR workshop students at AFRIFF, Africa’s international film festival, in 2020. He is the Director of Photography for “For the Love of Dance,” an Amazon Prime Video dance documentary. As a Foley Artist in 2018, Adebisi took part in the British Council’s Nigeria Creative Enterprise Support Programme. He was one of 25 entrepreneurs whose business ideas the council chose for the incubation phase of the programme. In 2017, Canon certified him as a filmmaker. Ever since, Adebisi has done a lot of creative works.   Mr Macaroni announces ‘engagement’ to colleague…     It’s my turn to shutdown 02 Arena – Uzo     Kemi Oyedeji speaks on new book, ushering   As a freelancer, he has managed various campaigns that met client demands and creative ideas, created high-impact creative trailers for organisations, and cooperated with international agencies to help them accomplish their goals. When he is not in the field, Adebisi lectures undergraduates as a practical broadcast production lecturer at Yaba College of Technology, his alma mater. Through thick and thin, Adebisi has self-financed and produced Season 2 of My Story, which will premiere on May 22, 2022.    Tagged as ‘The Push‘, the documentary will assist individuals in comprehending how failure can be a catalyst for stupendous achievements. The Push focuses on how notable personalities pushed their way through stumbling blocks and defied the odds against them to reach the prize of their high calling. It features the stories of prominent figures such as Taaoma, Abula, Mr. Macaroni, Nasboi, Father DMW, and Dikeh. Adebisi appeals for further support and collaboration to expand Season 2’s reach and influence to more people.