Tech start-ups will jostle for the N12million prize by ARM for the pitch of the Deji Alli ARM Young Talent Award (DAAYTA) slated for April 8, 2022. According to the organisers of the event, this year’s will be the fourth. The winner will get N12 million to develop their business plan; complete an entrepreneurial education at the Pan Atlantic University’s Enterprise Development Centre (EDC), Lagos; and receive a five-month acceleration support for development of their venture through a reputable entrepreneurial hub in Lagos. ARM Group Chief Executive Officer, Jumoke Ogundare, appealed to well-wishers to  support the companies by giving them access to new markets.   How tech, e-commerce are redefining Nigeria’s…     Technology solving informal retail problems – Alerzo…     B2B e-Commerce boosting the manufacturing, distribution…   The virtual event is scheduled to hold by 6:00 PM via Zoom. The programme, a youth awards initiative, was founded in 2015 by ARM in honour of its founding CEO, Deji Alli. Its has produced  winners Wesabi (2019) (Murtala Sanni); www.wesabi.com; The Paper Packaging Company (2020) (Eferobosa Oguegbu); www.tppcng.com; and Scrapays Technologies Limited (2021) (Tope Sulaimon); www.scrapays.com. The objective of the award is to support  young entrepreneurs with innovative ideas that have a positive impact on people’s lives and the communities that surround them. DAAYTA 2022 focuses on identifying start-ups with a minimum viable product (MVP) and at least one customer. Having received over 1,027 applications from start-up entrepreneurs nationwide, the organisers have selected the top seven outstanding companies. They include D-Olivette Enterprise, Arone, myStash Technologies Limited, Vinsighte Limited, Celloop Limited, Gamp Technology Limited and Arleegreens Renewable Enterprise. After some pre-pitch to prepare the finalists, the seven will present their pitches virtually to a panel. They include Ndidi Nnoli-Edozien, Victor Asemota, Sadiq Mohammed, Folasade Olusanya, Kola Aina, Ina Alogwu, and Tomi Davies.