T Pumpy Estates have announced a promo for all its lands across the country. The new promo, tagged 50% Discount Mega Promo, is adjudged to be the biggest promo in real estate business in the country that would afford Nigerians both home and abroad to own land at a very cheap rate. Announcing the development while addressing newsmen on Saturday, the MD/CEO of T Pumpy, Mr. Akintayo Adaralegbe, said the promo would kick off April 4, 2022. Mr. Adaralegbe said the promo is part of T Pumpy Estates’ vision to make sure every Nigerian citizen has a roof over his/her. He said, “The promo is the biggest of its kind. It will make more Nigerians own land and build houses and it will complement the government’s effort in creating affordable housing for Nigerians “This promo is available at all our estate land in Lugbe, Idu, Jikwoyi, Kpeyegi, Kurudu, Kuje, Kyami, Katampe Extension and Karasana. “The promo is also available for our lands in Ibadan and Ekiti.” T.Pumpy Concept is a progressive property developer that prides itself on its proven track records, passion and commitment to deliver superior value in design, quality and services in our developments to our customers. We aim to be a globally recognized, preferred and respectable property developer in Nigeria. Our expertise in building to the highest-quality standards is evident throughout our complete line of Estates.   Why Players Use Credit Card Payment Option     MOSES (GamStop Alternative): How Does It Work?     THE DIABETES DRUG THAT SAVED ME FROM CUTTING MY LEG   Our Estates are constructed in a factory environment and our building materials are never exposed to the elements and every aspect of the building process is closely monitored to ensure high quality standards. The T-Pumpy Concept team has decades of providing industry-acclaimed off-site home design and construction. Whether you’re interested in a manufactured home or an innovative modular design, the T-Pumpy Concept team continues to deliver what home buyers are looking for in their new homes along with the quality construction they expect and deserve. Head Office: 12 Monrovia Street, Off Aminu Kano Crescent, Wuse II, Abuja, Nigeria. Instagram: T.pumpy_estates Facebook: Tpumpy Estates YouTube: T.pumpy Estates WhatsApp/call: 09054545468 or 09023333380