Lack of trained workers is one of the major factors affecting the economies of developing countries. This is the reason such countries are introducing technical and vocational education and training (TVET) programmes for their workers. Empowerment organisations are also helping by providing training in some trades. These include traditional artisan crafts, shipping/logistics, building trades, health services, and tourism. One of the organisations is Universal Learn Direct Academia (ULDA). Its objective is to produce an effective workforce. Raising productivity for the Dean of School, ULDA, Babatunde Faleye, is the only viable route for Nigeria, if the construction industry is to raise its game. He noted that construction must be transformed into an efficient and more integrated industry, led by progressive firms and supported by a higher-skilled workforce.With youth unemployment on the rise, ULDA’s efforts to promote entrepreneurship and job creation among youth continue. For Faleye, the industry is the barometer of the country’s development.Therefore, there is the need to step up efforts to train its workforce. In line with this, in the last two years, ULDA has trained about 300 graduates in domestic electrical, plumbing/pipe fitting,  steel works/welding, carpentry/cabinet making, masonry/tiling and site supervision.   Making a living from cassava farming     AGEA kicks off training     Morocco launches programme for young entrepreneurs   Combining theory and practice, the academy offers young construction workers the opportunity to learn how to apply solutions to extend the life of buildings and infrastructure. So far, the government has been incentivising private players to train the construction workers. ULDA has provided free training to qualified candidates, sponsored partners such as Lagos State Employability Training Fund (LSETF), United States Africa Development Fund (USADF), Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Ishk Tolaram Foundation, the Federal Government of Nigeria (NPower), among others. Faleye said: “Last year, we partnered Grohe, a leading plumbing fixture producing German company.They would be training our staff in the installation, maintenance and repairs. A training suite at the facility had been customised by them. This is an addition to our previous partnership with Bosch, another leading manufacturer of high-tech equipment and instruments.” During the COVID-19 lockdown, ULDA launched an online educational training to help youths. The school trains site engineers for a year and they are certified. He said ULDA plans to roll-out new courses in areas of high demand in the global construction industry this year, such as digital draughting in AutoCAD training, and painting/artwork. His words: “Our ultimate goal is to be a leading institution with outstanding international ranking in technical educational training.” Also, the company has been training workers to explore the booming construction sector in the Gulf countries, and route them through an institutional framework.