The Alaafin Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, 83years old, has ‘joined his ancestors’ after a 53-year reign following a youth spent in Iseyin, Abeokuta, Obalende and a career in boxing, winning 54 of 56 bouts. His was a Gregorian and a clerk at Royal Exchange Assurance, Marina Lagos. May he rest in peace. Amen.  Google his reign and history. He beat nine contestants four different times 1968-1970 before receiving the staff of office. The orderly world of time-honoured history, tradition and timed-release of news, good and sad, from the traditional palaces to the town criers have been unceremoniously upturned by the rapid-fire Q &A tsunami and transmission of  fact-fake knowledge through social media messages in seconds. The mountains of conflicting messages about a 1-3 word fact, ‘joined his ancestors’ testifies to social media run-wild. Many of us received hundreds of tit-for-tat, ‘you message me – I message you’ messages related to ‘fact or fake?’ all day. What a loss of human and media time. Time proved it fact! Should the traditional institutions fight modernity and remain tenaciously traditional, allowing the historic, but now pointless, timeframe for messengers to carry mournful messages by mouth, message, letter,  foot, horse, dirge drum and bell, in the IT age? Or should traditional institutional time and custom keepers climb down from their customary high galloping horses to solve this problem. ‘Announcement Delay’ may be a traditional rite but it causes an embarrassing ‘media run riot’ wrong of denial and counter-denial poisoning the atmosphere of traditionally monumentally solemn moment in time. Everyone in a traditional institution now uses modern social media so there is modernity preceding traditional and customary practice. We must introduce such modern tools of communication into the ‘Traditional Rites Command Structure’. It takes less than five minutes to inform the traditional council about events affecting a traditional ruler and order printing of ‘The Letter’ which is always ready in advance and only awaiting dating and signing. The Official Biography/Obituary would similarly have been prepared with the CV updated for quick release. This would have saved terabytes of data and billions of even abusive fake/fact speculative messages and enhance the traditional institutions’ prestige and transition into 2022+. Yesterday marked Professor Emeritus Akinjide Osuntokun @80, distinguished emeritus professor of History and who followed into pastorship,  his pastor wife, Abiodun – now sadly late, devastatingly passing at 53years, to found and build the Redeemed Church of God, Jesus Chancery, Awolowo Road, Ibadan. He is internationally acclaimed academic, lecturing at the University of Maiduguri, University of Lagos and Redeemer’s University, an expert in History, Diplomacy and International Affairs, receiving honours in Canada and Equatorial Guinea and elsewhere. His ‘The Nation’ and other newspaper columns have for many decades brought the weight of soundly researched relevant historical placement to the political and social fermenting events, constantly hoping that both leaders and followers reading the articles yesterday will somehow change direction and practices today, thus producing a better tomorrow. Sadly, we see no such positive change in our society in spite of the enormous but ignored sharpest intellectual academic and morally-driven articles written by the very best of nationalistic, socially-driven, morally upright and academically incisive minds, with six month military detention traumatised bodies, like our revered Professor Akinjide Osuntokun on the entire spectrum of mostly self-inflicted problems facing the country.   20 years after, Eco currency yet to take off     Coronation Merchant Bank posts N2.8b profit     Keeping PFAs on their toes   Such articles always concluding with practical solutions to those problems. He became an ambassador to Germany, meeting government and NADECO supporters and fell victim to spy networks of politics and the military, eventually suffered six months imprisonment by Abacha. He rose above the loss of his wife and bitterness of imprisonment to continue to contribute, far exceeding his quota. Personally, I have had the privilege of the ‘Osuntokun Encounter’. I was taught neurology by his late brother, the genius Professor Benjamin Oluwakayode Osuntokun and ophthalmology by BOO’s wife, the distinguished and humane Professor Bopo Osuntokun. I became brother to his late brother Captain Abiodun Osuntokun’s children B,N,T, when, following his untimely death,  my father, now late, Dr Abayomi Marinho met and later married their mother, now late, Mrs Grace Ebunoluwa Osuntokun, nee Fadojutimi and they also had Y,F,L. I was most honoured twice by the Osuntokun family. Firstly, when Professor Osuntokun put my name forward for a weekly column in The Nation. I eagerly said yes after many years of frequent writing for The Guardian, Tribune, Sketch etc. Secondly was the honour of receiving an invitation by Professor Emeritus Akinjide Osuntokun and Professor Bobo Osuntokun to give The Professor B.O. Osuntokun 20th Memorial Lecture which coincided with my 70th birthday the following day. Nigeria would have been better off if the politicians had acted upon the advice delivered by a generation of many including first class school and university teachers of whom Professor Akinjide Osuntokun is an iconic example. We toast Professor Akinjide Osuntokun @80 and wish him many more years of health and happiness with the family he cherishes so much and friends and legion of grateful students. We suffer our CINS-Corruption, Incompetence, Negligence, Selfishness. Professor Akinjide Osuntokun’s articles point a way forward. He is playing his part, suffering agonisingly in the process. Will you and Nigeria play your part? Indonesia bans export of palm oil effective April 28 due to the ongoing war involving two major sunflower oil producers resulting in high prices and rebound high prices of palm oil worldwide. Beware Nigeria.