Legendary singer 2Baba has been billed to perform alongside Rema, Cavemen at the New Afrika Shrine, Lagos. The concert, scheduled for Easter break, will air live on Afrikashrine.tv as the channel is expanding its services into a global live-streaming platform. Subscribers to the live channel on www.afrikashrine.tv between April 15 and April 17, 2022, will have opportunities to watch incredible performances of their favourite artistes.   Why I returned to school, by Zaaki Azzay     Kizz Daniel secures double deal     Nkechi Blessing, husband fight dirty amid breakup   According to a statement from the organisers, the platform will offer varied activities and programmes led by late Fela Anikulapo Kuti’s documentaries. “This transformation of the Shrine into a live-stream venue will cater to a full programme of live events, featuring many of Nigeria’s most in-demand artistes, available to subscribers on this platform. In addition to the addictive sounds from the shrine, there will be sprinkles of comedy, dance and drama — a package where subscribers will have unfettered access to Fela documentaries, historical recordings and concerts, including never-before-seen footage, from anywhere in the world. “The original Shrine was created in the 70s by Abami Eda himself, Fela Anikulapo Kuti. Following his death in 1997, his eldest children, Femi and Yeni, lovingly built the New Afrika Shrine in his honour. The entertainment centre located in Ikeja, Lagos, which serves as the host location of the annual Felabration music festival is set to take the magic that is Afrobeat to every nook and cranny of the world through this exciting new direction. “From May 1, 2022, www.afrikashrine.tv will broadcast live,  everything that takes place in the iconic, 2,500 capacity venue. With a monthly payment of just $5, subscribers will gain full access to the programme which is packed full to the brim with outstanding live performances from Aramide, Chike, Falana, Discovery Night, Ayra Starr, Peruzzi, Femi Kuti,  Seun Kuti, Made Kuti, and many more! All live-streamed performances are available for a further seven days.”