Last week, I wrote about the rise of destructive tendencies amongst some Nigerians, under the rubric of a national quagmire. In this piece we draw attention to the emergence of a bandit economy, arising from, as well as fuelling the instability assailing Nigeria. Last week, the respected Christian cleric, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, refuelled the news item that huge quantities of Nigeria’s crude oil are being stolen. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) also affirmed the sad development. The cleric raised two fundamental questions: “Who is stealing the oil?” and “Where is the money going?” While stealing of national assets is not new, the audacity to steal 90 per cent of harnessed crude oil for export, over a period of time, without an alarm from the managers of the crude oil, or security agencies arresting the bandits, shows that an alternate national economy may have been sanctioned without ordinary Nigerians knowing about it. A report released by the newly created agencies under the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Ltd (NNPC), confirmed that between January 2021 and February 2022, Nigeria lost about $3.2 billion to crude oil theft. The report confirmed that in January, about 90 per cent of total crude oil produced at the Bonny Terminal was stolen. In the words of the NNPC helmsman, Mele Kyari, “activities of oil thieves have got to a limit we haven’t seen before, almost bringing down this industry to its knees.” Understandably, the man whose alarm rang the farthest Pastor Adeboye, warned: “It is an open secret and not denied that more than 90 per cent of our income from the leftover of the oil stolen is being used to pay interest on the money we borrow. We are borrowing more, meaning we are moving steadily into bankruptcy.” As if on cue, President Muhammadu Buhari, the same week sent a letter to the National Assembly, seeking approval to borrow more money to fund the huge deficit budget, approved for his government few months ago. So, it means that while the Nigerian economy is going into bankruptcy, the bandit economy is booming. This development should worry our leaders. Another arm of the bandit economy that is ‘doing well’ is the kidnap and outlawry sector. While kidnapping for ransom was initially restricted to one or few individuals at a time, it has since metamorphosed into a huge rogue industry. Previously, Evans was considered the poster boy of the kidnappers; but not anymore. Presently, Boko Haram, ISIS West Africa, and sundry northern based terrorist organisations have turned kidnapping into a huge economic racket. They initially started with kidnapping students in isolated schools who were considered vulnerable, but has since ricocheted into storming a train and carting away prime targets. And as parents of the Bethel Baptist College, Kaduna, and several other students who have been ransomed would confirm, it doesn’t come cheap, to free a loved one from the den of armed kidnappers. But the likely huge gap between what was paid to free a student and what was paid to free a top bank executive kidnapped from the train may be worth the malevolent bravado of storming a train, to kidnap. So, the security agents must rise up to the challenge that the bandits operating the kidnapping racket, may henceforth go for bigger targets, regardless of the huge risk that may be involved.   National quagmire     Tinubu as potentate – 2     Hope amidst hopelessness   If I may again paraphrase Pastor Adeboye: “Who is organising these high profile kidnappings?” and, “Where is the money going?” This column urges the security agencies to worry about the potential uses the proprietors of this emergent bandit economy can put their illicit gains into. While the president has lamented about the inflow of light weapons from the Maghreb, following the fall of Muammar Gaddafi, they should note that the thriving bandit economy is sustaining the inflow. Most likely, these nefarious activities provide resources used by even the lesser bandits who have foresworn to make our nation space ungovernable. Whether as armed robbers, armed insurrectionists, or armed herders, the bandit economy that has been allowed to thrive fuels more insecurity. So, merely lamenting that weapons from the Maghreb are destabilizing our nation is not enough; urgent action must be taken to stem these national challenges, if the nation will have peace. This column wonders what the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) has been up to, in the face of these gruelling challenges facing our country. It is strange that the office of the NSA would wait for the president to give directives, to deal with those stealing 90 per cent of the oil in Bonny Terminal. This column considers it a wry joke that the president need to give directives before the security chiefs would mobilize to the Niger Delta to deal with the massive oil theft going on there. Again, it is strange that the Group Managing Director of NNPC would wait for public outcry over the huge quantities of the crude oil being stolen, before he would ask the so-called critical stakeholders to join forces to stop the theft. In his words: “We currently produce an average of 1.2 to 1.3million barrels of crude oil daily from a capacity of about two million barrels of crude oil per day.” He went on: “Reconciliation/Fiscalisation at Bonny terminal shows that between five and 10 percent of crude oil metered from the operators gets to the terminals.” What a tragedy! If I were the alter ego of his employer, I would query him on why it took public outcry before he raised alarm. And if he had raised alarm as soon as the banditry started, and no action was taken by the relevant security agencies, I would query the security chiefs for dereliction of duty. It is strange that all we have got from the public outcry so far is a belated directive to the security agencies to take action, and a lukewarm press release from the GMD of NNPC. Perhaps, the president needs to read some of the scurrilous allegations against his government and security agencies with regards to some of these challenges. There are many who believe that the crude oil theft going on is a deliberate ploy by government connected officials to steal enough resources to fund the upcoming 2023 general elections. There are also those who believe that allowing the terrorist a free rein in the northern part of the country is deliberate, and is geared towards a bigger agenda to destabilize and overrun the entire country. While the conspiracy theories may be farfetched, it is totally strange that while the bandit economy is booming, the national economy is contracting, and those in charge appears to be clueless about how to stem our nation’s slide into socio-economic chaos and anarchy.