There are indications that a female passenger died at the Nnamdi Azikwe International Abuja airport on Wednesday morning. The passenger was at the boarding gate area waiting for flight when she collapsed. According to a post on social media, the woman allegedly died due to the absence of medical team. The woman was also seen being taken out of the boarding gate area of the airport in a wheelchair. A lawyer, Felix Ashimole, who goes by the alias Che Oyinatumba on Facebook posted the incident. Ashimole, publisher of kubwaexpress.com, is believed to be a member of the Abuja branch of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA). The post reads: “Death in an airport! Where is the money they claim was sunk into renovating the airport to world standard? “For 13 minutes, no FAA medical personnel. She died in my hands and a few others. A medical doctor on his way to Kano tried but he finally said “We lost her.”   BREAKING:. Buhari, Osinbajo, Govs attend APC NEC     Nigerian begins 25-day bike ride from London to Lagos for…     Police confirm abduction of clergyman in A’Ibom   “But she would’ve been saved had FAA provided basic insulin. She was diabetic. Her sugar went high; She entered a coma; No medical attention; She saw the light and moved towards it “We kept calling her, Mama Tobi, Mama Tobi, don’t leave us, wake up, Good morning but saliva trickled down, foams bubbled and I knew she had seen a better place and wouldn’t be coming back! “FAA and the entire airline staff on ground were …acting as if è no concern them. “They kept announcing boarding and never used their speaker to ask if there is any medical personnel on ground. “Some passengers that went to their sickbay reported that there was nobody in there! “Finally they brought an ambulance from their fire fighting department, to take her corpse away!” Reacting to the development, a source at the airport said: “I cannot confirm that a passenger died. I am not a medical doctor but I know that a passenger was unconscious and she was attended to and taken to the hospital. “So, I am not a medical doctor to confirm whether the passenger is dead or not dead.”