Ondo State Government has suspended a worker in its employment for allegedly spreading fake news about Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The affected civil servant (names withheld) was said to have spread news about the death of Akeredolu. The fake news was reportedly posted on the Facebook account of the worker. Ondo Head of Service, Pastor John Adeyemo, who stated this in an interview, confirmed that the disciplinary measure was based on the death rumour being peddled about the Governor. Adeyemo said name of the affected worker has been forwarded to the Civil Service Commission for appropriate punishment. The HOS stated that such bad behavior would not be condoned ,adding that the punishment was to serve as deterrent to other purveyors of fake news. According to him: “Incidentally, I called Mr. Governor a day before the rumour and we spoke and chatted. ” So, when I heard the fake news I was disturbed and was like who is this fellow carrying this terrible rumour because I knew Mr Governor was alive and with vigour? So, I never believed it.”   NAF to investigate trainer aircraft crash     Diri condemns courtroom invasion     BREAKING: APC NWC assumes NEC powers for 90 days   Akeredolu, who returned to the State 24 hours after his rumoured death went viral on the social media, described the development as wicked and politically motivated. He said he was back to give his best for the development of the state. “I left the shores of this country on the March 27, 2022. I was with my party, I was physically present, I was there until the early hours of 27th March, 2022. “Throughout 26th, I was at the convention of the APC in Abuja and everybody saw me there. I even sat with delegates from Ondo State. I never left them except when I left to greet delegates from South West and other areas. And it was a successful outing for us in Ondo State and for South West as well. “And the second day, I left for Dubai, we had the annual investment meeting, which is Dubai Annual meeting and we were all there. “So many Governors, about 13 of us were there. I went principally in respect of our Port Ondo because it was during the previous year that we had relationship, and with the relationship with Dubai Port, I wanted to solidify. “It was not a pleasure vacation, my vacation started on first but from 27th March, 2022 it was working visit to Dubai, I was still working, so my first 14 days did not start until 1st of April, 2022. ” So, I was in Dubai working about the State. About 14 States participated and each State has its stand and I displayed what we have in Ondo State, our Bitumen, our Mineral resources. I attended other fora to discuss and project the image of Ondo State”.