Soft drink giants, Pepsi, have announced sponsorship support for the second edition of the DStv Premium Golf Day to be held at the Ikeja Golf Club on 23 April. This was disclosed in a statement released in Lagos yesterday by the organisers. According to Flykite Productions, the event organisers, over a hundred golfers from golf clubs across the country to be selected from over 500 registrants, will participate at the event, where golfers will play with only four clubs and a putter and winners will emerge via a stroke play format. Flykite Productions also disclosed that the first prize at the event is a business class flight ticket to Dubai for a weekend stay at a five-star hotel, while the second prize is a business class ticket to Kigali, Rwanda, for a weekend stay at five-star hotel. The third prize is a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Lagos. Akin Areola, Chairman, 2nd edition of DStv Premium Golf Day Organising Committee, expressed delight on the sponsorship by DStv and Pepsi, saying it marked them out as genuine supporters of sports particularly golf as well as healthy living in the country.   Heineken UEFA Trophy Tour begins in Lagos     Leicester 2-1 Crystal Palace: Lookman dedicates Foxes’ win…     UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE: Real won’t underrate beaten Chelsea,…    “We especially delighted that these corporate giants, DStv and Pepsi, are supporting this event. It is a bold sign that they are committed to the development of sports in general and golf in particular,” said Areola, who is also a former captain of Ikeja Golf Club. “ It also indicates that they are committed to the promotion of healthy living and are shining examples that other corporate organisations should follow. “ and Pepsi, it is important to say, have always been prominent supporters of various sports in the country,” he added. Giving reasons for DStv’s sponsorship of the event, Tope Osunkeye, Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, said golf is a sport that is popular among DStv Premium subscribers, who have access to the world’s most glamourous golf tournaments via a dedicated channel. “We are delighted to be involved in this event with Ikeja Golf Club and we believe that our involvement will further strengthen our relationship with our Premium subscribers as well as those who love and play the game. We understand that golf tournaments provide enormous thrill for our DStv Premium subscribers through some of the most important games. It is the reason we are providing this sponsorship support. Meanwhile, the General Manager, Marketing (Beverages), Seven-Up Bottling Company. Segun Ogunleye, described Pepsi’s involvement in the DStv Premium Golf Day as another step in the company’s contribution to sports in Nigeria.  “Pepsi is proud to partner with DStv on the DStv Premium Golf Day and happy to refresh the many golfers participating in the competition,” Ogunleye said. The DStv Premium Golf Day debuted in November 2020 at Ikeja Golf Club and featured 99 golfers from golf clubs across the country. Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo of Ikeja Golf Club won the first prize, while Messrs. Remi Olukoya and Rasheed Adebisi won the second and third prizes respectively.