In the face of public outrage over the terror attack on a train on the Abuja-Kaduna route on March 28, Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi offered a self-righteous defence.  He exculpated himself, and implicated co-members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in the tragedy. It was intriguing that his self-exculpatory defence went against the concept of collective responsibility. Perhaps this explains why a document on the FEC meeting of September 24, 2021, appeared in the public domain. The leaked minutes of the meeting suggest that Amaechi may well be implicated in the tragedy, and not FEC co-members. The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) said 362 people were on board the train when evil men struck. Eight passengers were killed, 41 injured, and the whereabouts of 136 are unknown. Amaechi lamented to journalists: “We knew what the problem would be. We knew we needed to have digital security equipment, we told them that’s what we needed, we applied for it… “If we had that equipment, you’ll see nobody on that track for Christ’s sake. And I warned that lives would be lost, now lives are lost… we don’t know how many people have been kidnapped, and the cost of that equipment is just N3bn. “The cost of what we’ve lost is more than N3 billion, we’ve lost track, we’ve lost locomotive and coaching, we’ve lost human beings, and the equipment that would’ve prevented that is just N3bn. “To fix that equipment now, to fix all the things on that track would cost us more than N3bn. And now even the things we wanted to buy and we said give us approval to buy, we didn’t say give us money; at the time we asked for it dollar was N400, now if we’re going to buy we’re going to buy it at N500.” Then he added self-praise and attacked FEC co-members, saying, “When you come with sincerity to the government and your colleagues and people around you are stopping you it is annoying.” In his long lamentation, he conveniently avoided details of how his proposal had failed the integrity test. The leaked minutes exposed him. Amaechi had asked the council to “approve the award of contract for the procurement and installation of electronic surveillance system and interrogation unit on the Abuja (Idu)-Kaduna (Rigasa) 200km railway monitoring rail intrusion detection system and emergency response system in favour of Messrs Mogjan Nigeria Limited/Cagewox Dot Net Limited in the sum of N3, 780,827,410.66 inclusive of 7.5 per cent VAT with a completion period of four months.”   Presidency attacks PDP governors for twisting facts about…     Bola Ige murder: Omisore replies Soyinka     Why I won’t endorse any presidential candidate, by Adeboye   According to the minutes, “Some members expressed concern about the quality of the memorandum as there was no description of the surveillance system concept note, brand name, country of manufacture or review by the previous user to enable them to make informed decisions. “They stated that as sophisticated as the surveillance system was touted to be, there were no indications that it had been demonstrated and tested by the security technology agencies. They equally observed that all the projects were lumped together under one budget line, which they noted was not good enough as each rail line project was supposed to be captured in its individual budget line.” Amaechi was quoted as saying in his response that it was a pilot programme, which would be replicated across the country if it worked. If he wasn’t sure it would work, why did he propose it? He also explained that if the rail was tampered with, the system would send signals to an observation platform. His explanation seemed speculative. Importantly, Mogjan Nigeria Limited, which he had recommended for the contract worth N3.7bn, had a deficient profile. It was incorporated on August 6, 2019, by Prince Godwin Momoh, Chioma Momoh and George Momoh, and had a turnover of N84.9m. Who are these people? Not surprisingly, available information about the company attracted suspicion. A “top Presidency official” was quoted as saying “We had doubts about the capability of a company, which was formed less than two years prior and had no track record of handling a contract of N3.7bn or a contract on surveillance systems. The company was also to be paid up front. Our investigation pointed to a conflict of interest.” The mention of a possible conflict of interest is significant because it suggests that Amaechi’s proposal may well have been monkey business.  An article by Paul Catchick in Fraud magazine titled ‘Conflict of interest – Gateway to Corruption’ is illuminating. He explained: “A conflict of interest exists where an official could abuse his or her position for private gain, whereas corruption exists where an official does abuse his or her position for private gain. Thus while a conflict of interest doesn’t always lead to corruption, corruption always requires a conflict of interest.” Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo chaired the FEC meeting in which Amaechi’s proposal failed. The minutes said he “directed that in view of the observation raised by members, there was a need for the ministry to provide further description of the equipment, its brand name, manufacturer and how it worked.” Amaechi had obviously presented a low-quality proposal.  Did he expect automatic FEC approval? It is inexcusable that he presented such a flawed proposal, considering his background and experience. He became Minister of Transportation in 2015, and was re-appointed in 2019. He was Rivers State governor for two terms, from 2007 to 2015. He was speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly twice, from 1999 to 2007. The horrific train attack happened more than six months after FEC rejected Amaechi’s bad proposal. Did he present an improved proposal on the same security matter in the period between the rejection of the initial proposal and the terror attack?  It seems he didn’t. If he didn’t, how much time did he need to improve the rejected proposal and present a better one?  It was easy for him to lament alleged non-cooperation of FEC co-members, and give the impression that he had a greater sense of urgency about the security issue than they did. Since the leaked minutes hit the headlines on April 1, Amaechi has not responded to the damaging implications. He certainly has a lot of explaining to do.