Two-time African footballer of the Year Nwankwo Kanu  is offering prayers  for former  Ajax coach Louis van Gaal following revelation  that  the Dutch coach was receiving treatment for prostate cancer. It was Van Gaal that gave both   Finidi George  and Kanu  their breakthrough in European  football  at Ajax as the two Nigerians  among the club’s  1995  European Champions   League winner following that famous  1-0 win over  AC Milan at the Ernst-Happel-Stadion in  Vienna on 24th May 1995. The 70-year-old Van Gaal  reportedly told RTL television on Sunday  that he had been  battling  with the ailment since  2020, adding he has undergone 25 bouts of radiotherapy, including during training camps with the Dutch national team. The players “think I’m in good health, but I’m not”, the former Barcelona, Manchester United and Bayern Munich coach was quoted as saying. “It’s part of my life.  “I’ve been through so much in my life, sickness and death, I’ve probably become richer as a person because of all those experiences,” ” he added in an interview marking the upcoming release of a film about his life, entitled LOUIS.   Usyk vs Joshua: Organisers to finalise plans within…     EPL: Arsenal suffer 3-0 defeat at Crystal Palace     Chelsea‘s Tuchel splits from ex journalist wife   As  messages of support  pour in  for the  Amsterdam-born manager from around the wall, Kanu who had a storied career  at Ajax  under Van Gaal between 1993 and 1996  yesterday told NationSport. “ We are praying for him(Louis Van Gaal),” Kanu who scored 25 goals  in 54 appearances for Ajax , said matter-of-factly. Meanwhile,  van Gaal has equally received messages of support from his former clubs Manchester United, Barcelona and Bayern Munich after revealing he has prostate cancer.  “Everybody at Manchester United is fully behind our former manager, Louis van Gaal, in his battle against cancer. Sending you strength and courage, Louis,” the English giants tweeted. Barcelona, where he was twice manager and twice won La Liga, said on Twitter: “Our thoughts and prayers go out to former Barca manager Louis van Gaal… Stay strong, Louis, and get well soon.”