Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Fintiri has reviewed the curfew imposed on Yola North, Yola South and Girei Local Councils. Press Secretary to the governor, Humwashi Wonosikou, in a statement in Yola, said the curfew was imposed due to continued activities of hoodlums and other miscreants using tricycles and motorcycles to terrorise residents. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalled that state government had in February 2021 imposed a night curfew on the affected Councils through the Adamawa State Restriction of Movement of Tricycles/Motorcycles Executive Order No.1 of 2021. The restriction order had also prescribed a sentence of six months imprisonment, with an option of fine, or both, in addition to forfeiting tricycles or motorcycles caught in the act. According to the statement, the curfew, which was from 10pm to 5am, is now to begin from 11pm to 5am daily during the period of Ramadan Fasting.   Thought Pyramid hosts art exhibition     ‘Restriction of homeowners unlawful’     Aspirant: pray against insecurity   “The development is to enable the Muslim faithful to partake in tafsir sessions during the period. Governor Fintiri, however, directed security agencies to beef up security across the state, especially in the three councils of Yola North, Yola South and Girei, by deploying more service personnel to keep watch. “They are also to ensure the security of lives and property of residents of the state,” the statement said. He warned that anyone found wanting during the period would be made to face the wrath of the law. “The governor added that security agencies will continue to discharge their duties and residents are urged to cooperate with them to maintain the status of Adamawa State as one of the most peaceful,” he said. Wonosikou said the governor urged residents to maintain the hard earned peace restored by the administration. He appealed to residents not to encourage any action that might turn back the clock, but to keep living in harmony and strengthen the unity and peaceful co-existence the people were known for.