United Nigeria Airlines has integrated with Wakanow, Africa’s leading travel tech firm, to provide greater value to its customers by delivering real-time inventory and flight schedules. Under the partnership, Wakanow is the only online travel agency with United Nigeria’s Live Inventory bookable in real-time enabling the delivery of booking experience for Wakanow customers and United Nigeria passengers. Speaking during a visit to United Nigeria, Chief Executive Officer, Wakanow, Mr. Adebayo Adedeji said the partnership will deliver best in-class booking experience. Adedeji said: “We are excited to commence this partnership with United Nigeria. With the support of Wakanow, the airline will concentrate on her core mandate which is moving travelers across the country while we will ensure that travelers have the best-in-class booking experience.”   ‘Afreximbank’s $4b to support Nigeria, others on food, fuel…     IMF, World Bank, WTO seek action on food security     Customs gets N3.02tr revenue target, N369.04b budget   “We have promised our customers that we are the best plug for their local and international travels. We will continue to deliver on this promise and with this partnership, we have gone a step further to delight African travellers.” Also, Wakanow Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Adenike Macaulay, noted that with the  integration, Nigerians should be rest assured of a seamless booking experience for domestic flights with United Nigeria. She said: “Our expertise as an innovative travel tech company is a great value addition to the airline which will be leveraged extensively as we deepen our partnership. We will be upping the ante of the booking experience of United Nigeria airlines as a partner.” Chairman and CEO High Chief Obiora Okonkwo said: “United Nigeria is glad to have Wakanow as a partner to provide this bespoke service to us in delivering best-in-class booking services. We are sure that their support for United Nigeria will aid our growth and overall success in the aviation industry.”