Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi’s presidential ambition is on course, Information and Orientation Commissioner Uchenna Orji said yesterday. Orji chided opposition forces for peddling rumours. The commissioner said they are scared of the governor’s soaring popularity. In a statement in Abakaliki, the state capital, orji said Umahi’s performance in the last seven years has made him a competent person who can successfully govern the country. The commissioner advised social media propagandists to desist from what he called their cowardly fabrications against the well thought and nationally accepted bid. He said: “We restate for the pleasure of progressive Nigerians home and in the Diaspora, that the falsehood trending currently in the social media that Governor Umahi has dropped his ambition for Senate is nothing but empty and vaunting architecture of political charlatans who are intimidated by the tall and admirable hallmarks of leadership excellence recorded by the governor.”   Nigeria about to acquire more territory in Gulf of Guinea,…     Lawan warns MultiChoice against tariff hike     Agip line sabotage cuts gas export   Orji maintained that Umahi’s ambition is unwavering and alive in the hearts of Nigerians. He added: “We advise the opposition forces and their agents to desist from all these fruitless and bizarre orchestrations against God’s servant and accomplished leader, for that is bringing more ostracism to their own organisms. “We assure them that no matter the secrecy and potency of their plots, God will bring it to naught as we come in the name of God. “We shall not hesitate in exposing the identities of the paid jobbers and their principals who have taken to social media to escalate fake news and false information aimed at undermining the presidential ambition of Governor Umahi. “We are tracking and rounding up some of the paid political jobbers who are spreading this falsehood in notable WhatsApp platforms.” “We thank the public, especially all those who have called our attention to this criminal falsehood against our dear governor, particularly journalists who have spontaneously discountenanced fake news as the handiwork of enemies of good work. “Together we shall build Nigeria of our pride under Governor Umahi as President of Nigeria come 2023.”