Ex-Cross River governor, Mr Liyel Imoke, said in Calabar on Sunday that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) would reclaim the state from the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the 2023 general election. He told newsmen at the end of a PDP caucus meeting that the party’s confidence stemmed from the fact that it had never lost election in the state. Sitting Gov. Ben Ayade won the governorship seat on the platform of the PDP, but defected to the APC on May 20, 2021. Imoke said the caucus meeting was summoned to strategise for the 2023 elections. “We have never lost election in Cross River since 1999 when Nigeria returned to democracy; a defection is not a loss. “In 2023, we do not intend to lose; that is why the caucus meeting was convened to rub minds, share opinions and strategise towards winning the 2023 general elections. “On the issue of zoning, just as at the national level where the issue of zoning is being discussed, we also discussed it at the caucus level.   Celebrating Bishop Obinna     2023: Ebosele’s bid to rescue ‘Okpebho’ Federal Constituency     Ekiti 2022: Integrity is my unique selling point –…   “It is not my responsibility to disclose what was discussed on the issue,’’ the former minister of power said. He maintained that the PDP in the state was organised, well managed, and had an experienced chairman with a long history of political participation. In his remarks, the chairman, Mr Venatius Ikem, said the caucus had robust discussions on varied issues, including zoning and that the public would be informed of decisions taken at the appropriate time. Ikem stressed that the party was yet to take a decision on the zoning of power or any other position in the state to the southern senatorial district. “On the issue of zoning power to the southern senatorial district, our party will take its decision at the appropriate time. “Wherever you hear about the zoning of power or particular positions to the southern senatorial district for now, I am sure the source is not the PDP. “All party aspirants are assured of a level playing field pending when we make decisions on all matters before us, including zoning,’’ the chairman said. The News Agency of Nigeria NAN reports that the caucus meeting was attended by stalwarts like Mr Donald Duke, former Cross River governor, Sen. Sandy Onor, Amb. Nkoyo Toyo and Prof. Stella Atu, among others. (NAN)