AN aspirant for the Alimosho Federal Constituency seat in Lagos State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Adesina Egbetokun, has enjoined the beneficiaries of this year’s skill acquisition programme of the Alimosho Youth Empowerment Forum to utilise the knowledge they acquired during their recent training to boost their businesses. Egbetokun made the remark during the graduation ceremony of over 500 youth and women that participated in the recent training programme, dubbed “The Making of CEOs”. He said such empowerment has a great impact on the development of the nation “because small-scale enterprises have a huge capacity to contribute to the country’s gross domestic product (GDP)”. The aspirant who was the special guest at the occasion was represented by the director-general of his campaign organisation, Temitope Ogungbemi. The director-general said empowerment is the bedrock of development in every society. He added: “If you empower people, you have eliminated poverty in the poverty within the community; you have given them self-reliance and they can stand on their feet.” Ogungbemi, a former leader of the Egbe/Idimu legislature said his principal believes so much in empowerment, not because he is contesting an elective position but because it has become a part of him from childhood to put smiles on the faces of indigent members of the community. He said the major problem the country is facing at the moment could be attributed to the failure to plan. He said: “Part of my agenda if I emerge the APC candidate and subsequently elected as a member of the House of Representatives to represent Alimosho Federal Constituency is to empower women and youth in the constituency.”   Sokoto Speaker dumps APC for PDP     ‘PDP should make definitive declaration on zoning’     Aspirant drum up support for Tinubu’s presidential…   The Alimosho Youth Empowerment Forum, a non-governmental organisation, organises an annual skill acquisition programme to empower youths and women in the area. The modules for this year’s training are soap making, insecticides and bleach making, fashion designing, make-up and nails, shoe and bag making, hairdressing, art and crafts, photography, bathing and catering services. Aside from monetary donations to the organisers, the Egbetokun Campaign Organisation also gave a token of N10,000 each as part of start-up grants to 20 best trainees from the 10 departments; two from each. The President-General of the Alimosho Youth Empowerment Forum, Comrade Moshood Bankole said his organisation is targeting to drastically reduce poverty among the youths and women in the Alimosho area of Lagos by 2040. He said over the years, about 3,000 men and women have been trained and empowered to start their businesses in different fields. This year’s training and empowerment is the fifth in the series.