Bimbola Williams (pseudonym) was weary when his eyes caught the news highlights of the launch of a new taxi scheme by the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, recently. A huge smile lit up his face, and unconsciously, he threw a punch into the air, to salute yet another initiative to bring relief to Lagosians. Just that evening, he and some friends at a beer joint where they usually hung out to “kill time” after work, had had a heated argument on how traffic chokes within the metropolis are “killing family bonding.” They argued that besides affecting productivity at work, many homes going through severe strains could heal better had there been more time to bond. Though experts could argue that Lagos, despite its suffocating traffic gridlock, was yet to join the list of cities around the world with the worse traffic patterns, the Sanwo-Olu-led administration, like the ones before it, took it upon itself to innovate solutions to improve transport experience. The ride-hailing initiative launched by the government last week is aimed at optimising safety and comfort of riders. With the unveiling of 1,000 GAC taxis, the administration has added to the growing vehicle count in the state, put at about seven million (private and public vehicles). However, the scheme, codenamed Lagos Ride, which would be operated on lease-to-own, is a component of the state’s multimodal transportation blueprint being executed under the Traffic Management and Transportation, the first pillar of the THEMES agenda of the administration. It also aims to encourage more individualised car riders to drop their cars in favour of public transport. Unique features The initiative is a deal between the Lagos State-owned IBILE Holding Limited and CIG Motors Company Limited to provide clean and reliable taxi across the metropolis at affordable cost, using brand-new vehicles. Operators are required to provide a N1.9 million down payment. The sum covers the 20 per cent equity of cost of vehicle, registration and insurance. Each car comes with a tracker and enhanced security technology that enables the control centre to monitor every journey undertaken. The governor said the new scheme was not to run hailing ride operators out of town, but to offer safer alternative and clear the roads of rickety cars being used as taxi, especially by kabu-kabu operators. With the scheme, operators, he said, could become owners of the vehicles within four years. He said: “The need to provide better, dignifying and more rewarding means of livelihood for operators as well as create employment opportunity for the unemployed and underemployed gave birth to the “new Taxi Scheme”. Under the arrangement, a beneficiary will be provided a subsidised brand-new car, which will become the driver’s property after completion of the cost of payment. “This taxi scheme will complement the various bus services, which are making significant impact in the lives of our people; the water transport service, which is recording unprecedented patronage, as well as the Blue and Red Line Rail services, which are on course to commence commercial operations between the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of 2023.” To improve riders’and passengers’ security, Sanwo-Olu said a full security gadget, including a 360 dashboard camera that will give 24-hour audio-visual feeds to the control centre, had been installed in each of the cars deployed in the scheme. He added that each car came with a physical panic button that could be used by anyone on board in case of assault or emergency. The panic button, the governor said, is also on the mobile application and is connected to the control and command centre. Old features It wasn’t the first time Lagos would come up with an initiative aimed at improving the taxi culture in the state. Between 2007 and 2015, the administration of then Governor Babatunde Raji Fashola introduced a Mile-to-MileTaxi system code-named Mega Taxis, aimed at refleeting the rickety vehicles used by ‘aging operators’, even as it sought to get taxi operators registered to protect the sub-sector from illegal operators. Not only did the government introduce new fleet of taxis, it licensed new (modern) accredited operators to complement the old (Yellow) taxi cab operators and introduced in March 2015, a universal licence, under which it made licences bankable for holders of the instrument. Performing the ceremony at the LTV Blue Roof, Ikeja, the then Commissioner for Transportation, Kayode Opeifa, said the licence which the government was giving out at N14,000 would transform taxi business into a wealth-creating venture, as many companies were willing to participate by providing fleets of new cars to operators.   Sacked Abuja Imam gets new appointment     Bukayo Saka is Europe’s best young player     A gloomy picture of unending petrol crisis   Opeifa,a transport consultant, envisaged that the licences would be ‘tradable’ because of the government’s backing, adding that they could also be used as collateral for bank loans. Opeifa declared that metering would begin on taxis by 2016, adding that the taxi and cab industry was worth N25 billion and could be pushed to N50 billion by last year. He wondered why operators remained poor, and their services, despite the growing population, on a slide. He added that the government’s initiative was aimed at changing the narrative. Opeifa admitted that though the initiative could not fly throughout the Fashola era, the taxi and cab industry’s lot had not fared better until this initiative by the Sanwo-Olu-led administration. He said if the government carried out a survey, it would realise that despite unfavourable macro-economic indices, the taxi and cab industry still had huge  potential as a result of growing demand. He lauded the government for coming up with the initiative, which if faithfully implemented, would improve traffic experience of Lagosians who could afford more comfortable ride round the metropolis. “The lease-to-own is a better initiative and a reflection of the current dictates of the economy. It would work if dutifully implemented,” Opeifa, who recently bagged a Ph.D in Transport Management and Logistics from the Lagos State University, said. New Assembly Plant A novel component of the present initiative is the presence of a local assembly plant in the state, which Sanwo-Olu said would be 100 percent completed by September. The plant, a partnership between IBILE and the CIG Motors, when completed would further open new vista for employment for qualified but unemployed Lagosians, he said. He said: “What we are witnessing today is that, Lagos is moving away from the era of rickety kabu kabu to brand-new, comfortable and safe transport system. The multiplier effect of this singular initiative on job creation, youth employment and economic growth and development in the State cannot be overstated.” Commissioners for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladehinde, described the scheme as “another milestone” by the government, noting that the initiative had joined an array of innovative solutions initiated in the transport sector, which are targeted at redefining conversations around public transportation. To make the rides affordable, the Commissioner said the technology on which the scheme is operated had made ride-sharing possible for passengers, who would agree to share ride and share transit costs. Chairman of CIG Motors in Nigeria, Mrs. Diana Chang, said the roadmap for the urbanisation of the transportation system in Lagos started in November 2019 when the Governor and members of his cabinet visited the Republic of China for bilateral partnership. The launch, she said, is the glorious end of the partnership sealed with Chinese investors. “We are using this partnership to promote a Greater Lagos where opportunities abound for citizens of the State, while creating a win-win model for all stakeholders,” she said. Managing Director of IBILE Holding, Mr. Abiodun Amokomowo, said over 5,700 drivers had downloaded the driver’s mobile apps as at last Tuesday, out of which 1,786 drivers submitted applications. Registration and enrolment fee has been accepted from 359 drivers, while others were awaiting screening, Amokomowo said. He said: “As part of the process each operator will go through for the safety and security of life and effective operations of the scheme, we will conduct full verification of applicants’ Lagos State Drivers’ Institute (LASDRI) ID cards, medical history, background check and verification of NIN and Lagos resident registration numbers.” The launch of the taxi scheme was received with a warm embrace by ride hailing drivers, who described the initiative as “unique, better alternative”. Sam Mfuk, who is the first successful driver to get onboard of the scheme, said: “When we first heard about LAGOS RIDE, we were skeptical. But, when we attended the stakeholders’ meetings, we changed our minds. LAGOS RIDE has become the answer to our prayers in ride hailing sector. The details and features they shared with us were clearly thought out and our input was well included in the final model.”