The Lagos State Government has ordered the reopening of all Chrisland Schools. The schools were shut over alleged gang-sex but some pupils of the Lekki branch at the World School Games in Dubai in March. The “immoral act” generated social media outrage and sparked conversations around parenting. Following the incident, the school authorities suspended a female student indefinitely, stating that she was “a major actor” in an “immoral act”. But her mother claimed she was drugged and raped by some male students of the school. The State Government shut the schools on April 18 shortly after the news circulated.   2023: Tinubu, Sanwoolu have done enough to win for APC…     2023: The trouble within Oyo PDP     Delta 2023: Omo-Agege’s mother of all declarations   A statement on Saturday signed by Commissioner of Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, said the reopening directive is based on the ongoing administrative investigation into the incident. It reads: “The Lagos State Ministry of Education has directed that all Chrisland Schools shut for alleged misconduct of some students in Dubai be reopened from Monday, April 25th, 2022. “The directive follows a review of the ongoing administrative investigation into the incident. Besides, it is to ensure that students are not denied access to learning when the new term begins on Monday 25th April 2022. “The State Government shut the schools for the safety of students and the staff and to ensure unhindered investigation of the incident. “The Ministry of Education and other relevant agencies of the State, in conjunction with the school’s Parent Teachers Association, will be working on scheduled psychosocial support for the students. “An extensive assessment of the school’s procedure, especially on external trips and excursions, is being made to identify safety gaps and prevent such incidents. “Besides, the Ministry will launch the reviewed guidelines/protocols governing private and public schools across the state within the next one month.”