Nigeria will overcome insecurity and uncertainties, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday in his Easter message. He urged citizens to love one another and to be more patriotic. Senate President Ahmad Lawan urged Nigerians to show love to one another and be hopeful. All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife Senator Oluremi urged Nigerians to apply godly principles in their conduct. In a statement, they said Nigerians should stand against those promoting injustice against one another. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) expressed sadness over the security situation but is hopeful for better days. President Buhari: “I join our Christian brothers and sisters to celebrate this year’s Easter, which is the most significant event/festival in the Christian calendar. “This year’s celebration is very unique for adherents of the two great faiths in Nigeria. “It culminates the 40-day season of Lent for Christians, where the faithful are expected to fast, pray, assist the poor, abhor injustice and strife, give alms, penitently engage in self-examination and repentance of sins. “Similar values apply to the Muslim faithful, currently about halfway into the holy month of Ramadan. “For us as a nation, the message of Easter, which commemorates the resurrection of Jesus Christ after crucifixion and burial, reminds us of the power of divine love, faith and redemption. “Easter also evokes in us the resilience of the human spirit not to give up in the face of seemingly daunting challenges of life. “This period emboldens us to believe that the current spate of uncertainty and insecurity will soon unfold a season of the triumph of good over evil; hope over despair, and light over darkness. “I urge us to increase our love for one another rather than hate, and show more patriotism, as this is the only country we have. “I enjoin us, therefore, to live out the eternal words of Jesus Christ on the cross: ‘Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing.’   Experts: Economy will sink further with N4tr subsidy     APC NEC to meet Tuesday     Nyame, Dariye: Their roads to prison   “Let us remember that the scriptural emphasis of love has so much relevance for us today as a nation more than ever before, and thus contribute towards its peace and development. “As we approach another season of electioneering, let the security and unity of the nation guide our actions and utterances. I wish all Nigerians a joyful and blessed Easter.” Lawan, in a statement, said the triumph of Christ at resurrection was a sure pointer that the faithful will overcome their challenges. Lawan said: “Easter marks the trial, sacrifice, victory and completion of the divine mandate of the author of the Christian faith. “As we celebrate the unique occasion, let us keep in mind the significance of the season, which is the perfect demonstration of sacrificial love to others. “As it ended in triumph, the season should also rekindle our hope of victory over personal and communal challenges.” CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, in his Easter message with the theme: ‘hope in the midst of gloom’ called for fervent prayers, adding that the country will be great again. The statement reads: “The situation in the country today, to say the truth, without an iota of politics looks very gloomy. There seems to be nothing to celebrate because of unimaginable insecurity. “Despite the efforts of the government to arrest the situation, the scope of insecurity keeps expanding to our consternation. “Coupled with insecurity are other challenges such as mass unemployment, industrial disharmony, especially that of the Academic Staff Union of Universities( ASUU), just to mention but a few. “The prices of goods and services have risen in a way unprecedented in our country before and entrepreneurs are relocating to other countries that have better ease of doing business. “Is there anything that calls for celebration in all these things we are facing? Yes, there is. Nothing is worse than death! “If Jesus died and was buried, putting his disciples in the greatest state of disappointment and sorrow but afterwards rose from the dead, then, Nigeria is going to be great again. “This nation will rise from all the challenges we are facing and we Nigerians are going to rejoice and be proud of our nation again in the name of Jesus Christ. “There is hope for a tree that is cut down but its root remains in the ground, at the scent of water, it will sprout again! (Job 14: 7-8) “My prayer to God is to fast-tract the resurrection of Nigeria from all her pains and challenges so that those of us who have tasted the suffering in our nation might equally eat of the good of this nation in the name of Jesus Christ.”