The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has said alcohol produced in sachets and small volume polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and glass bottles below 200ml will be phased out by 2024 because the agency will no longer renew their registration. The Director-General, NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, who said this yesterday at a media interactive session in Lagos, stated that the agency will ensure that validity of renewal of registered alcoholic products in the affected category will not exceed 2024. She explained that manufacturers of low volume alcohol beverages with satisfactory laboratory reports, which were  submitted to NAFDAC for registration before this decision, had been directed to reformulate their products to stipulated standards free of charge. “Even as we grapple with the after-effects of COVID-19 pandemic, NAFDAC is resolutely committed to the implementation of the regulations and regulatory measures towards safeguarding the health of Nigerians, particularly the vulnerable youths against the dangers of reckless consumption of alcohol.” The ban comes after the recommendation by the committee of the Federal Ministry of Health, NAFDAC, and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC). Already, the Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria has been given orders to embark on intensive nationwide sensitisation against consumption of alcohol by adolescents who are below 18 to stem alcohol abuse. The producers of alcohol in sachets and small volume had  agreed to reduce production by 50 per cent, ensuring that the products are phased out by 2024.   Free private ambulance service, stable health initiative…     O-Shot therapy raises hope for genitally mutilated females     Lassa fever kills 132 in four months – FG   Adeyeye also said the Vaccine Laboratory, Oshodi, Lagos, which is being constructed by the Federal Government, would be ready by the middle of the year. On the World Health Organisation’s Maturity Level Three certification, recently obtained by the agency, she explained that Nigeria and five other African countries had been chosen to commence the production of vaccines. “We are building the vaccine laboratory in Oshodi, Lagos, which will be ready by the middle of the year or early in the third quarter. This success was because of the support we got from the government,” Adeyeye said. On the WHO Maturity Level three certification, she noted that the agency scaled through 868 hurdles to obtain it. “We started this journey in January 2018, five weeks after my resumption as NAFDAC Director-General. It was a torturous, tasking and highly demanding journey, but I went through it with the support of my directors, the governing council and other staff members, who made different sacrifices towards the realisation of the goal. “When we started, the WHO listed 868 recommendations, which we must meet before we get to the Maturity Level Three status. Initially, it sounded impossible, but my directors stood by me all the way, in addition to many others, who did all forms of sacrifices to ensure that we achieve the feat. “In June 2019, WHO officials visited NAFDAC headquarters in Abuja to commence the benchmarking. Of the 868 recommendations they listed, we were able to meet over 600 of them and were left with 147 items, which were the most difficult ones at that time. We started working at it. We organised town hall meetings and retreats for everyone involved along the chain. We made sure that NAFDAC was on the quality system, and that helped us greatly to achieve the feat.”