Political activities in preparation for the next year’s general elections have begun. Major political parties have concluded their conventions and talks on zoning are currently on the front burner. At the state level, some governors are already serving out their constitutional two-term. Thus, the stage is getting set for the emergence of new governors in those states. Some of the states in this category include Abia, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Benue, Cross River, Delta, Ekiti, Kogi, Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto and Taraba. Since the advent of the Fourth Republic, there is a common practice among senators to aspire to become governors of their states. Similarly, most of the governors always want to work their way into the upper chamber of the National Assembly. For instance, Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed (Bauchi), Douye Diri (Bayelsa), Hope Uzodinma (Imo), Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina) and Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (Sokoto) are former federal lawmakers currently serving as governors. Governors who got elected to the Senate after their tenure as state chief executives are Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia North), Theodore Orji (Abia Central), Gabriel Suswan (Benue Northeast), Kashim Shettima (Borno Central), Sam Egwu (Ebonyi North) and Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu East). Others are Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central), Rochas Okorocha (Imo North), Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano Central), Ibrahim Gaya (Kano South), Adamu Aliero (Kebbi South), Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa North), Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa West), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central), Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto North), Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe East) and Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa Central). Indications are that many senators in the Ninth Senate are eyeing the number one political seat in their respective states ahead of the next general elections. While some have publicly declared their intention to run, others are still consulting and oiling their political machinery to actualise their dreams. Jibrin, a two-term senator and chair, of the Senate Appropriations Committee, is generally regarded as a grassroots politician in his home state of Kano. Between 1999 and 2003, he was in the House of Representatives. Jibril belongs to a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that is constantly at war with the mainstream faction of the party loyal to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. The rival faction is known as the G-7. The group’s feud with Governor Ganduje over the party’s congresses has created a crack in the Kano chapter of the party. The lawmaker, who is among the top shots eyeing the exalted seat in the Kano State Government House come 2023, had his governorship campaign office situated along Maiduguri Road in Kano. But, it was burnt by hoodlums after a court ruled in favour of his group on the ward congresses logjam. His battle with the incumbent, according to some analysts, may, however, be his albatross. Kabiru Gaya was a member of the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in the Second Republic. During the aborted Third Republic, he was a member of the defunct, centre-right National Republican Convention (NRC) on whose platform he was elected governor of Kano State from 1992 to 1993. In 1997, during the General Sani Abacha transition, he joined the United Nigeria Congress Party (UNCP) and was a member of its National Caucus Committee. In 2003, Gaya ran for the Kano State governorship again. This time, he contested on the platform of the National Democratic Party (NDP). After his unsuccessful governorship bid, he was elected to represent Kano South in the Senate in 2007. Gaya ran for Senate again on the platform of the All Nigerian Peoples’ Party (ANPP) in 2011 and was re-elected. He was the Senate’s Deputy Minority Whip from 2007 to 2011. He was re-elected three times to the Senate in the 2011, 2015 and 2019 elections. He is believed to be warming up to take over from Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. Dr. Gobir is a serving senator. He is the chairman of the Senate Services Committee and a member of four other committees namely aviation, FCT, poverty alleviation and procurement. A third-term lawmaker, he was a member of the PDP until 2014 when he defected to the APC. Although Gobir is yet to officially disclose his governorship ambition, he is reportedly among the major politicians in Sokoto interested in taking over from Governor Aminu Tambuwal. Kaita was elected to the 8th Senate to represent Katsina North in 2018 to fill the vacuum created by the unfortunate demise of Senator Mustapha Bukar. In 2019, Kaita was re-elected again, after defeating Usman Mani of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). He hails from President Muhammadu Buhari’s home town, Daura.  But he appears to be at loggerheads with Katsina State Governor Bello Masari. Although he is yet to formally declare for the race, some of his constituents have since commenced campaigns for him via social media and other platforms. One of the things that may count for him is his teeming youth followership, many of whom has benefitted from his empowerment programmes. Sani who represents Kano Central in the Senate defeated Senator Shehu Sani during the last general elections. He is not a newcomer in the country’s political scene, as he has been in the terrain since 1999. At a time, he was former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s adviser on public affairs. The governorship ambition of Sani, who chairs the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions, is common knowledge in the Kaduna political circle. Sani worked at the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) as an aide to the then Federal Capital Territory (FCT) minister, Nasir El-Rufai and later at the Kaduna State Ministry of Housing and Works. In 2011, Sani contested in the PDP primary for the Kaduna Central senatorial seat but lost.  In 2015, El-Rufai appointed him as the Special Adviser, for Political and Intergovernmental Affairs. However, in 2019, Sani re-ignited his interest to contest for the Kaduna Central senatorial seat on the platform of the APC and won. Senator Abba Moro who represents Benue South in the upper legislative chamber is believed to be in the race to become the next governor of Benue State. However, he is yet to declare his intention to contest. But, influential politicians of his Idoma extraction have already set the machinery to actualise this dream. He also enjoys the support of David Mark, a former Senate president. Mark is reportedly working to get the support of other major tribes in the state to consider an Idoma governor. Senator Moro began his political career as an elected chairman of the Okpokwu Local Government Council in 1998.  He was the PDP candidate for the April 2007 governorship election in Benue State but lost to the opposition party. In July 2011, he was appointed as Minister of the Federal Ministry of Interior by former President Goodluck Jonathan. Emmanuel Bwacha represents Taraba South in the upper legislative chamber. Long before now, precisely in 1992, he was elected on the platform of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). He was the State Secretary of the Peoples’ Democratic Movement (PDM), Taraba State chapter from 1994 to 1997.  In 1999, he was elected to represent the Donga State Constituency in the Taraba State House of Assembly. Bwacha was the Taraba State House of Assembly’s Majority Leader.  From 1999 to 2003, he served as the state’s Commissioner for Agriculture. In 2003, Bwacha was elected to the House of Representatives to represent the Takum, Donga, Ussa, and Yangtu Development Areas.  By 2011, Bwacha was elected to the Senate to represent Taraba South on the PDP’s platform (PDP). In 2015 and 2019, he was re-elected for the second and third consecutive times. Bwacha is reportedly interested in vying for the governorship position of the north-eastern state in next year’s general election. Popularly called SIA, Abbo is the senator representing Adamawa North at the National Assembly. He is one of the youngest senators in the hallowed chamber. He was elected into the Senate on the platform of the PDP, but in late 2020, he defected to the APC.  Pundits say his defection to the ruling party may not be unconnected with his intention to vie for the governorship ticket of his new party for next year’s general elections. Close observers say that Abbo has transformed so many young men and women from his hometown and state at large from rags to riches. Sources in Adamawa said he regards them as part of his family, and that he does so without regard to racial, religious, or regional differences. In the next general election, Abbo is widely expected to vie for the APC ticket.   United Capital grows Q1 profit by 39%     ‘Poor climate change compliance may lead to dearth of…     ‘Dangote Cement has 20% capital gain potential’   Abaribe who became a senator in April 2007 represents Abia South at the National Assembly. Enyinnaya is outspoken and regularly participates in national debates. Abaribe who was elected on the platform of the PDP was the deputy governor during Senator Orji Uzor Kalu’s first term as governor between 1999 and 2003.  In 2003, Abaribe contested the governorship election on the platform of All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), but lost to Kalu. But, following his return to the PDP subsequently, Abaribe was elected to the Senate in 2007. Senator Abaribe is Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Inter-Parliamentary Affairs. He is also a member of the committees on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Senate Services and Works. The senator, who was appointed as the Minority Leader, has remained in the Red Chamber since. He is currently lubricating his political machine in preparation for his bid to succeed Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. Ike Ekweremadu, a PDP senator, is a popular face in the Senate, having served for three terms (6th to 8th) as Deputy Senate President. Ekweremadu who represents the Enugu West constituency started his political career as a local government chairman in 1997. In 2002, he served as the secretary to the Enugu State Government.  He was later appointed Chief of Staff by the Enugu State Government. Ekweremadu, an erudite lawyer and well-liked politician in his home state of Enugu, has expressed the wish to succeed incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. Some of his loyalists are already calling on him to throw his hat into the ring. But, he would have to overcome the challenges posed by the subsisting power rotation arrangement in the Southeast state, because his aspiration runs counter to the zoning arrangement. Akpan, a PDP Senator, made his first entry into the Senate in 2015 to represent the Akwa Ibom Northeast senatorial district. He was re-elected in 2019. Akpan, a financial expert, started his political career in 2007 when he was appointed as the commissioner of finance and under him, it was reported that the IGR of the state grew to N15.6 billion. He was also the Chairman of the Inter-ministerial Direct Labour Coordinating Committee whose job was to ensure that government projects were completed using direct labour to save funds for the state. He saw through successful completion of over 6000 life-touching projects in the health and education sectors, as well as areas of rural and human capital development. In April 2009, Albert chaired the first-ever Akwa Ibom State Revenue summit. He was instrumental in the negotiations between the state and  Standard Chartered Bank for the approval of a loan of £325.24m to execute projects in the state. In 2014, Senator Albert declared his intention to contest for the governorship seat of Akwa Ibom State. Even though he was a front-line aspirant, he decided to respect, as a loyal party man, the zoning policy of his party (PDP), which paved way for the Eket senatorial district to produce Mr. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel as Governor of the State. He further contested and won the Senatorial seat under the umbrella of the PDP and was sworn in as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, on 9 June 2015. It is common knowledge among the political circle in Akwa Ibom that Akpan is seriously eyeing the governorship seat. Senator James Manager represents Delta South at the National Assembly on the platform of the PDP. Manager, who is of Ijaw extraction, is one of the longest-serving members of the Senate. Owing to his long sojourn in the Senate, he is fondly called the indigene of the Senate. Ahead of the next general elections, however, he is believed to be eyeing the governorship position.  He was the inaugural party chairman between 1998 and1999. Though Manager is yet to formally declare his interest to vie for the position, his kinsmen are said to be pushing for his emergence. However, it would be difficult for an Ijaw man to become the governor of Delta in 2023 for several reasons. For one thing, Ijaws are in the minority in the state and politics is a game of numbers. For another, the subsisting power rotation arrangement in the state favours a candidate from Delta Central to emerge as governor. However, pundits say Manager has been working to get the buy-in of other ethnic groups in the state. Ovie Omo-Agege, a lawyer by profession, is the Deputy Senate President. He has served in the district for two terms from 2015 to date. He was a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), commissioner, and executive assistant in Delta State. Omo-Agege has contested the governorship election in the state once. Omo-Agege began his political career by running for a seat in the House of Representatives on the PDP platform, but he was defeated in the party’s primary. In 2003, former Governor James Ibori hired him as an executive assistant. Under the Ibori administration, Omo-Agege also served as a commissioner and SSG. He subsequently vied for the governorship position but lost to former Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan during the primary. Senator Omo-Agege was nominated to succeed the deceased flag bearer of the Republican Party of Nigeria (RPN) in the rerun election on January 6, 2011, after the election of Uduaghan was annulled by an appeal court in November 2010. After losing the rerun election to Uduaghan, Omo-Agege defected to the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and subsequently secured the party’s ticket for the April 2011 general election. Again, he lost the election, as he came a distant third. After failing twice in his bid to become governor, Omo-Agege humbled himself by settling for the Delta Central senatorial race. In 2015, Omo-Agege defected once more to the Labour Party (LP), where he was easily elected to the Senate on the party’s ticket. His rival, Ighoyota Amori was initially declared victorious and sworn in, but the Court of Appeal proclaimed him the winner of the election on December 21, 2015. In 2017, Omo-Agege defected to the APC. Close observers say he is now gunning to replace Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa as the Delta state governor in 2023. The lawmaker, who represents Oyo North, said he looked forward to serving as chief executive of the state, not on the basis of zoning, but on merit, suitability and competence. The senator, who chairs the Senate Committee on Transportation, unfolded a robust agricultural policy, saying he would make willing graduates serve in the state for the second time after their mandatory service year. Prior to becoming a Senator, Buhari was a manager at UTC (SCOA), Managing Director, Abapat. His first stint in the National Assembly was in 2003 when he won the seat to represent Ogbomosho 1 Federal Constituency on the platform of the PDP. In the 2015 elections, he contested a seat in the Oyo North Senatorial District on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and won. His legislative interests include Appropriation, Petroleum, Navy, Transport. He is currently the Chairman of the Senate ICT & Cyber Crime Committee as well as the Vice-Chairman Senate Committee on Industry. In 2003, he served as a member of the House of Representatives, representing Ogbomoso North/Ogbomoso South/Oriire Federal Constituency. Buhari served as Special Adviser on Water Resources under late Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State, and as Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, in 2003. He is the current chairman of the Senate Committee on Land and Marine Transport.