Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has inaugurated a committee to resolve the leadership tussle in Benue community in the state. Oyetola, inaugurating the committee yesterday in Osogbo at a meeting with the leaders of Benue indigenes living in the state, urged the warring factions to withdraw cases pending in court, for peace to reign. Represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Mr. Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, the governor noted that Osun was a peaceful state and encouraged indigenes and non-indigenes to live in harmony. He said: “Osun is known as a peaceful state and as a responsible and responsive government, we will always ensure a peaceful environment for indigenes and non-Indigenes. “We have to sustain the peace in the state and not to give room for any crisis. The essence of this meeting is for the two groups to resolve the issue and ensure peace.” The committee, saddled with the responsibility to resolve the leadership crisis, will be chaired by the Commissioner for Environment and Sanitation, Mr. Sola Oladepo. The Commissioner for Political Matters and Intergovernmental Relations, Mr. Taiwo Akeju, will serve as the vice chairman, while the Special Adviser on Security, Mrs. Abiodun Ige, will serve as secretary. The two factions fighting over the leadership of the group will also nominate five persons each as their representatives in the committee.   Police hold Osun hotel manager for allegedly raping NYSC…     DSS, OPC nab three suspected kidnappers in Ondo     Commissioner tasks youths on turning Lagos tourism…   Oyetola, appealing to the Benue community to support his peace-loving government, urged them to support his re-election on July 16. Oladepo,  Akeju and Ige appealed to the two factions  to unite and agree on a consensus leader for peaceful coexistence. A factional leader of the group, Chief Audu Samson, appreciated the state government’s prompt intervention in the crisis. He assured the governor of amicable resolution of the crisis, saying Benue community would support Oyetola’s re-election bid. The leader of the second faction, Chief Augustine Tsor, described government’s intervention as a welcome development “Osun is a very peaceful state. We are happy that Governor Oyetola is set to resolve our crisis because we believe in his administration. “I implore my people to be law-abiding. I believe the committee set up today will do their best to resolve this crisis. “I will humbly withdraw the matter from the court since the governor has directed that,” Tsor said.