A 20-year-old lady Toyosi Adesegun, who raised false rape and kidnap alarm on Thursday morning, will be arraigned for giving false information. The Nation reports Toyosi presented herself to the Bariga Division of Lagos State Police Command after she tweeted that she was being kidnapped and raped. The tweet posted at 7:15 am reads: “I’m being kidnapped guys. I’m being raped. Number 78 Obayan Street Pako Akoka. Lagos.” She posted the mobile of the person who allegedly kidnapped her. Following her alarm, the general public alerted police authorities who visited the location for prompt investigation. But she later deleted the post and tweeted that it was false. “I tweeted earlier that I was kidnapped and raped. It’s false. I am so sorry for this. Please stop calling and threatening the numbers,” she wrote.   After 49 years, NYSC has harnessed youths’ potentials, says…     Fed Govt creates unified platform for unemployed youths     Get your NIN ready to board trains from May, says NRC   She also released a video, stating: “I am fine. I was not kidnapped or raped. I am fine and I am not making this video under duress or anything. I am very okay, I am in my house. Please stop calling or threatening those numbers. Thank you very much.” There has been outrage on social media following the tweet with many people condemning her action. One of her brothers, it was learnt, claimed she did it “to chase clout.” The Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, SP Benjamin Hundeyin in an update on Thursday evening said: “After a careful and extensive investigation, it is revealed that 20-year-old Toyosi Adesegun, female, is a regular visitor to Olamilekan Faruk, Ayanfe Ayinde and Olusola Onipede, all male of 78 Obayan Street Akoka. “This morning, she was restrained from leaving the apartment by the young men. “Toyosi threatened to tweet what she tweeted if she was not allowed to leave. The young men called her bluff and she tweeted. “Based on the foregoing, the three men will be arraigned for wrongful restraint while Toyosi will be arraigned for giving false information.”