This is not the electoral season we had hoped for. More things are going wrong than are going right. More people are dying in the hands of terrorists and bandits than ever before. A joint report by the Community of Practice Against Mass Atrocities and the Joint Action Civil Society Committee indicates that at least 1,545 people were killed during the first quarter of 2022, while as many as 1,321 were kidnapped. Many more have been killed or kidnapped since then as no day passes without the story of an attack. The apparent paralysis of the Federal Government has further emboldened terrorists and bandits to accelerate the subversion of the state. As they attack passengers at home and on any mode of travel— road, rail, and air—citizens are more afraid to travel than ever before. On the economic front, the nation owes others (foreign and domestic) more money than she is making and owes citizens much more than it has taken from them and their land. The debt burden is said to be approaching N40 trillion! Rising cost of living, unmanageable inflation, the devaluation of the Naira, and high unemployment rates are driving more and more people into poverty and crime. Inadequate energy supply and the rising cost of petroleum and diesel fuel translate to limited productivity for manufacturers, Small and Medium Enterprises, universities, and artisans. In a wide-ranging investigative report, The Guardian newspaper outlines the effects of these inadequacies on SMEs and universities in the Southwest (South West businesses, ivory towers sink under endemic power failure, The Guardian, April 18, 2022). It is against the above backgrounds that the 2023 general elections are being held. You would wonder who would want to be president, and how a peaceful election could be held, in these circumstances. Yet, INEC and the political parties are preparing daily for the 2023 election, while more presidential aspirants have showed up than ever before. So far, the focus has been on aspirants in the two major political parties, the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party. In recent weeks, supporters of the frontrunners have been throwing mud at aspirants competing with their principals. This is particularly true of the APC in which supporters of the leading contenders are engaged in a festival of backbiting, mudslinging, and even self-destruction, especially on social media and other online platforms. As a result, much less has been said about how the candidates plan to address these problems than about backbiting other contenders. One would have thought that Yoruba elders would have intervened since the leading contenders are of the Yoruba stock. But, you see, ours is a political culture that ignores problems until they nearly consume us. We take one issue at a time and run with it for a while until the issue is swallowed by yet another one. For some time now, the focus has been on party conventions, which gave a new twist to the notion of consensus, thanks to the newly minted, but still unsettled, Electoral Act. Consensus now means the practice of privileging one candidate over others and making the others surrender in writing in favour of the privileged candidate. It is democracy by fiat, which party leaders justify as a way to avoid chaos on the convention floor and acrimonies that may further divide the party thereafter. 		 			Strike: ASUU tackles Fed Govt over N4trn fuel subsidy budget		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m ransom for popular Akwa Ibom cleric		 		 		 			BREAKING: APC presidential form to go for N100m		 		 As we approach the party primaries for the election or selection of presidential candidates, the questions now are: Which manner of primary will the parties adopt? What critical factors should party leaders, political bosses, and the delegates consider in choosing the right presidential candidate? Already, there are as many as 20 aspirants in both parties, who have indicated interest in becoming President in 2023. The following discussion is limited to the APC contest. It would appear that the APC has settled for the indirect mode of primary. This means that party delegates, rather than party leaders alone or all party members for that matter, will participate in the election of the presidential candidate. There are at least three factors in support of such a conclusion. First, the precedent cited repeatedly by President Muhammadu Buhari in support of the consensus mode in the selection of the APC party chairman does not apply to the election of presidential candidate in the same party as there is no such precedent. He himself went through primary election twice, once in 2015 and then in 2019 for his reelection. Second, the stake is much too high for presidential candidates and it is already too late in the day to appeal to any of them to step down, given the time they’ve been at it and the huge expenditure they have incurred in the process. This is particularly true of the front runners in the race, who have been criss-crossing the country since they informed the President of their intention to run for president. In an ideal democracy, informing the President is only a matter of courtesy. His consent is not necessary. That’s why I think all the discussion about who the President supports, the President’s body language, and all that jazz is retrogressive. It is not the President’s job to choose a successor. Third, perhaps in acknowledgement of the above factors, the APC leadership has released data on the number of delegates per state, totaling 7,800 for all 36 states and the FCT. You can bet that, between now and May 30, the scheduled date of the APC presidential primary, the aspirants will spend time, energy, and resources on convincing the delegates to vote for them. How I wish the delegates were objective in their selection of aspirant for their vote? How I wish the totality of each aspirant’s political contributions to date were thoroughly considered? And how I wish the delegates were able to sift the grain from the chaff of mudslinging and negative propaganda about particular aspirants? And how I wish the delegates were able to act independently of their Governors and political bosses? Finally, how I wish questions about security, energy supply (electricity, petroleum and diesel) the economy, education, and healthcare were posed to the aspirants and their responses thoroughly considered? Above all, I implore the delegates to go after a candidate who would commit to the reorganisation of the country for greater security, including state polic; fiscal federalism; and local government autonomy. The ultimate goal is to provide better opportunities for equity, justice, and self fulfillment for all citizens, regardless of religion, region, ethnicity, language, gender, and other social considerations.