In the bid to address the challenge of funding for women participation in the oil and gas industry, the Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB) in partnership with the Nigerian Export Import (NEXIM) Bank has earmarked $40m intervention fund for the purpose. Its Executive Secretary, Engr. Simbi Wabote, states this in Abuja at the Oil and Gas Trainers Association of Nigeria (OGTAN) 2nd Annual General Meeting/Lecture Series. The theme of the meeting was “Diversity & inclusiveness in human capital development.” According to Wabote in a virtual goodwill message, there is no gender bias in the NCDMB. He added that all activities in the board are all inclusive, stressing that it provides all genders equal opportunities. The Executive Secretary said: “At the NCDMB there is no gender bias as it is all inclusive and provides equal opportunities for applicants and beneficiaries. “The Board has also initiated and executed other interventions to promote diversity inclusiveness. “These interventions are done in partnership with the Bank of Industry. Others are facilitated by the Nigerian Export Import Bank.   UBA posts N183.9b gross earnings in Q1     $15m for women-owned SMEs in Africa     MTN pays N3.5tr in taxes, levies   “One of the challenges of the participation of women in the oil and gas could be the non availability of funds. “It was in the bid to address this challenge that the board established the Nigerian Content Intervention Fund. “Furthermore, to provide the same chance for women in the oil and gas industry, the board partnered with NEXIM bank to establish a $20m fund that was matched with additional $20m by NEXIM bank to provide better fund, bringing the funds available to women in oil and gas industry to $40m.” On the theme, Wabote recalled to address issues of diversity in the board, it established the diversity sectoral group. He noted that the board has organized several events targeted at women and community activities to promote women inclusiveness in the sector. He vowed that the board will continue to promote human capacity development across various spheres of the energy sector. The Technical Adviser to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva on Gas Business, Dr. Justice Derefaka noted that women now “want to break the glass ceiling and technology has a key role to play.” His topic was “Leveraging diversity inclusiveness and the future of jobs through the lens of the fourth industrial revolution.” He sought a digital up-skilling to bridge the gap that the modern technolgical revolution has created. Derefaka noted that the oil and gas industry is beginning to feel the effect of an ageing workforce and enlarging skill gap and a talent scarcity.