An international organisation, NALT Club, has called for stronger political will in the fight against terrorism. It expressed concern about the growing insecurity  heightened by banditry and terrorist activities. The club said insecurity portends grave danger to peaceful coexistence of the people, stability of the country and ECOWAS sub-region ahead of 2023 elections. In a statement by its spokespersons Ekweozor Precious  Omeje, the group said: “More than ever before, community, ethnic and religious leaders in Nigeria, particularly Muslim and Christian leaders should reach out to one another with a new sense of purpose for unity, love for humanity and peace. “In this regard, religious leaders should go beyond making inflammatory statements and engaging the media with propaganda and work collectively and explore the opportunities for dialogue – the only means towards finding a sustainable solution to the growing crises in the country.   Ashiru rounds off consultations in Ogun     ‘MC Oluomo didn’t sack secretariat workers’     APC to Igbo: identify with Lagos progress   “The Federal Government should be firm and have the courage/political will to prosecute any political office holder indicted as a supporter or accomplice to the bandits and insurgents. “The Federal Government must take steps in a rapid improvement in the coordination of security for the protection of civilians including seeking international support for such protection. “The institutions resposible to promote peace should take the lead in the design of dialogue and joint problem-solving approaches that should engage  ethnic leaderships and groups. “Nigeria should create platforms for effective government-civil society and social justice crusaders (such as NALT) collaborations to address the root and proximate causes of insecurity in Nigeria.  “A comprehensive programme on arms control with a view to managing the proliferation of arms and production of locally made arms in Nigeria is needed.” NALT sympathised with the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to banditry and insurgencies, especially the attack on Abuja-Kaduna bound train on March 28.