To President Muhammadu Buhari, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) remains the party of choice for Nigerians in future elections. He expressed the confidence that Nigerians will vote the APC considering the feat attained by his administration in critical areas. The President, who spoke when he received the the APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, said the party has overcome the internal crises that preceded its convention. According to him, the party is ready to face the challenges of general elections next year. Speaking on reasons the party remains Nigerians most-preferred vehicle to achieving their dreams in governance, the President said his administration had been initiating economic policies that touch lives, especially in the in the areas of agriculture, infrastructure, ICT and others that are focused on the most vulnerable citizens.   Paying the price for speaking truth to power     Baby abandoned in Osun hospital     Two feared dead, another council HQ burnt in Anambra   He said: “Today, we should all be happy that the party has nursed its wounds and healed itself sufficiently to march forward to face the challenges of the coming state and General elections. “Our government is working for the betterment of the country. Our policies and programmes aim at nothing but the betterment of the country and its people. Essentially, the party should take the programmes of the government to the people to infuse confidence into them.” Adamu said the party will has three options of primaries – direct, indirect or consensus – to pick its presidential candidate. Fielding questions from State House reporters after his meeting with the President, Adamu said: “When we get there, we’ll talk alright, but the options are there; direct primaries, indirect and consensus. The party has a choice which of these paths to take.” On how the National Working Committee (NWC) under his watch will run the party, he said: “So far, we’re still on the foundation, we are just one week since handing over, there isn’t much I will tell the public at this point in time, but the President, as the head of this party, we owe him a duty to say, as of today, seven, eight days since our taking over, this is how far we’ve gone, these are things we’re doing, our preparations for the forthcoming election, we have to inform him of how things are.”