Familyhood Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), committed to the protection of children against destructive and unhealthy sexual influences and behaviours, has called for partnerships and funding support from governments and corporate organisations to reach more target members of the society with its advocacy programmes. Speaking during an advocacy programme for students held in Maryland, Lagos, Chief Executive Officer,   Familyhood Foundation, Adanilola Paul, said the foundation was committed to ensuring that one million Nigerian children and one million Nigerian parents are empowered and equipped with the basic knowledge and understanding of child sex education , child sexual abuse and its prevention on annual basis. Carrying out such task, he said would require funding support and partnerships with governments, financial institutions, manufacturers, and other real sector operators. He said the group has members and volunteers in several states of the federation, and will continue to expand. “We have members and volunteers in other states because our activities are both online and offline. So in online, many people have joined and volunteered,” he said. He said the group plans to carry out its advocacy programmes in more states across the country to enable it  reach more students and parents with its programmes. “What is is holding us back now is just the finance. We have human capacity, and we train our people to do sensitisation and counseling of children and parents on among other programmes,”Paul said . “If a child is abused in a family, that child has to be taken out of that family, otherwise the abuse will continue. At risk children also need to be taken out of that environment to save lives,” he said.   Global Citizen seeks end to extreme poverty in new campaign     Stanbic IBTC reaffirms commitment to creative industry     Heirs Insurance inaugurates Her Motor Plan for women   Director of Guidance and Counseling Unit, Education District II, Maryland, Lagos, Olori Kalejaye, said  Familyhood Foundation brought very vital topic to the students, who took their time to ensure that students understand the topic. It is about what the students should know and guide them to the right path. We need to tell them the truth, that is why many victims are not coming out to talk about sexual violence. She said: “The perpetrators always tell the victims lies. If you tell anybody, you will die. If you tell your mummy you had sex, you will die. We need to tell them that nobody will die for telling the truth” “We are also telling the students being sexually abused  is not the end. We have numbers that are toll free, sexual violence victims or targets can call, when they are in any danger. If they need help, Lagos State will help them,” she said. She added: “Most perpetrators take time to build fake trust. It is also not easy for a child to disclose what happened to him or her. But parents also need to carefully observe behavioral changes in their children that suggest they are likely being sexually abused”. She advised parents to have time for their children, and not feel disturbed or bored when they ask questions. “Parents should be very close to their children, so that they can give them information, as much as possible,” she advised. Paul added that there are cases where gils are raped, and the perpetrators make video of the sexual act to blackmail the victims. He said: “Victims like this need more than advocacy. That is why we work in conjunction with other agencies,  provide medical and psychological evaluation report on children and other victims, as well support police investigation. The investigation can also require forensic examination and counseling of victims.