With the World Cup in Qatar just over six months away, world football governing body FIFA has unveiled FIFA+, a free digital streaming platform created to connect football fans across the globe more deeply with the game.   In launching FIFA+, the body believes that it is the first sports federation ever to offer such an extensive streaming and content experience to its fans. The service will provide access to live football matches from every corner of the world; interactive games; news; tournament information; and what is called ground-breaking, unrivalled video content delivering truly global storytelling around the men’s and women’s game and much more.   From launch, effectively immediately, 1,400 matches will be live streamed monthly on FIFA+, rising rapidly. By the end of 2022, FIFA+ will be streaming the equivalent of 40,000 live games per year from 100 Member Associations across all six confederations, including 11,000 women’s matches. FIFA+ will also offers live coverage from Europe’s topflight leagues to previously un-served competitions from around the world in men’s, women’s and youth football.   Ahead of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, FIFA+ will be home to every FIFA World Cup and FIFA Women’s World Cup match ever recorded on camera, totalling more than 2,000 hours of archive content.   For the first time ever, fans will have the ability to watch full-match replays, highlights, goals and magical moments all in one place. The FIFA+ Archive will launch with more than 2,500 videos dating back to the 1950s, with many more to come throughout the year.     Platini, Blatter face fraud trial in June     NSF: Delta upgrades hockey pitch, builds hostels     Bundesliga: Aruna’s TTC chase third spot finish   The Match Centre will also allow football fans to immerse themselves in rich football data across 400 men’s competitions and 65 women’s competitions. A daily feed of news from around the world of men’s and women’s football will also complement and offer additional updates. Throughout the year, fans will enjoy interactive games including votes, quizzes, fantasy games and predictors.   An original content slate will offer global storytelling around the men’s and women’s game. It will feature full-length documentaries, docuseries, talk shows and shorts – localised into 11 languages, telling stories from local grassroots to national teams and footballing heroes past and present from more than 40 countries.   The first slate of FIFA+ Originals will feature legends such as Ronaldinho, Dani Alves, Ronaldo Nazário, Romelu Lukaku, Lucy Bronze. Asisat Oshoala and Carli Lloyd among others.   “FIFA+ represents the next step in our vision to make football truly global and inclusive, and it underpins FIFA’s core mission of expanding and developing football globally,” remarked FIFA president Gianni Infantino. “This project represents a cultural shift in the way different types of football fans want to connect with and explore the global game and has been a fundamental part of my Vision 2020-2023. It will accelerate the democratisation of football and we are delighted to share it with fans.”   From launch, FIFA+ will be available across all web and mobile devices, and across a range of connected devices soon. It will be available in five language editions – English, French, German, Portuguese and Spanish – with an additional six languages to follow in June 2022.