Senate President Ahmad Lawan yesterday warned MultiChoice Nigeria not to dare the Federal Government by hiking the tariffs of its products while the matter is being investigated. Lawan spoke while inaugurating a seven-member ad hoc committee, headed by Senate Deputy Chief Whip Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, to probe the matter. He stressed that foreign operators should not take Nigeria for granted. The committee was set up by the Senate on March 30, 2022 against the backdrop of an announcement of tariff hike by MultiChoice’s pay TV service providers, DStv and GOtv. Lawan, according to a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, said: “No operator should take us for granted. We mean business. We want you to be here. Nigeria always provides the climate for you to do your businesses, but don’t abuse the laws of our country. “Our consumers here are people who are innocent and we are prepared to protect them. “Meanwhile, stay action. No increase. No increase. And that is to say don’t dare our country. No increase in tariffs.”   Agip line sabotage cuts gas export     2023: Igbo Delegates Assembly asks APC, PDP to zone…     More appointees resign in states over Electoral Act   Also, a three-man Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCP) tribunal sitting in Abuja has adjourned hearing in its jurisdiction to entertain a suit filed against MultiChoice Nigeria to 5 May. The tribunal adjourned on Monday, following a complaint by a lawyer, Festus Onifade, as well as Coalition of Consumers of Nigeria that MultiChoice had violated the tribunal’s March 30 interim order that the pay television company should revert to old prices. MultiChoice’s lawyers, quoting a series of legal authorities, had countered the submission that the company was in violation of the tribunal’s order, having challenged the jurisdiction of the tribunal on March 31. They argued that the next course of action by the tribunal is to hear the application challenging its jurisdiction. The FCCPC, second respondent in the matter, also agreed with the submission by MultiChoice’s lawyers that the next step is the hearing on the company’s application on jurisdiction. The tribunal, in its ruling, agreed and adjourned the matter to May 5 for hearing of the application on jurisdiction. Onifade, a legal practitioner and Coalition of Nigeria Consumers, on behalf of himself and others, had, on March 30, prayed the tribunal for an order restraining MultiChoice from increasing the prices of its services, effective April 1, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice filed on March 30. The tribunal granted the ex parte motion, directing parties to maintain status quo ante bellum, which prompted the March 31 challenge to its jurisdiction by MultiChoice.