Super Eagles midfielder Kelechi Nwakali hit out at SD Huesca yesterday after the Spanish second division side recently terminated his contract. The Nigerian international had been in dispute with the club after returning late from the African Cup of Nations due to illness. While the Segunda outfit took steps of parting company with him; Nwakali, in a statement on Instagram, expressed his displeasure about the way he was treated by Huesca before he parted company with the club, saying he was made to train on his own, was not allowed to use the facilities or receive treatment from the club’s physios, was not paid his wages and they tried to bully him into signing a new contract. In his statement Nwakali said that Ruben Garcia, Huesca’s sporting director, tried to prevent him from going to the African Cup of Nations as it wasn’t an important tournament in his book. This came after months of Huesca pressuring him to sign a new contract, even withholding pay to try and force his hand. Nwakali missed Nigeria’s final game of the African Cup of Nations through illness and was too ill to return to Spain.   Sponsorship: Peculiar Ultimate Concerns splash N35m on Edo…     UCL: Villarreal stun German Champion Bayern 1-0 in Spain     Foremost ex-referee ‘show boy’ Okubule dies at…   The doctor that treated him advised him not to fly and to keep testing for covid-19 until his symptoms cleared which Nwakali said he notified Huesca about this. He then returned to Spain and Huesca opened up disciplinary proceedings against him, suspending him indefinitely and not allowing him to come to the training ground despite the fact he provided a doctor’s note explaining his lateness. Nwakali stated : “In December 2021 I experienced the biggest honour of my life after I received a full international call up for my beloved Nigeria. “But the joy of the moment quickly came crashing down when the club’s sporting director Ruben Garcia put extreme pressure on me not to go to AFCON due to it not being an important tournament. “He told me that if I go to AFCON I will not play for Huesca again. “This behaviour and the lack of respect shown to my country Nigeria was truly heart-breaking  and it was just the latest example of the club attempting to bully me into getting their own way.”