Ahead of the Easter holidays, Ecobank Nigeria has reassured that customers will be able to shop seamlessly and carry out all their transactions via the Ecobank Digital platforms, which include the Ecobank Mobile app, USSD *326#, Ecobank Online, Ecobank OmniPlus, Ecobank Omnilite, EcobankPay, Ecobank RapidTransfer, Automated Teller Machines, and Point of Sale terminals. Also available to customers is an extensive distribution network of over 50,000 agency banking locations spread across the country. Speaking on the ubiquitous nature of the Ecobank Mobile app, Babajide Sipe, Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Ecobank Nigeria, said the app which is available for download on the Apple Store and Google Playstore makes it extremely easy to bank on the go 24/7, enabling customers to cater to their everyday banking needs anywhere and at any time directly from their mobile device. “Our Mobile app allows customers to manage their accounts, send money, make payments, buy airtime, pay for services and do other transactions across the 33 African countries where Ecobank is present. The mobile app is secure, reliable, convenient, and available to everyone.”   TeamApt enables N23tr transactions via Moniepoint     World Bank: poverty to rise in 2022     Knox Wire to integrate 20 banks on dollar settlement network   “ At Ecobank, we have  just one Mobile App on Google Play store, unlike other banks with different apps in the respective countries they operate. Our customers are able to send money instantly to the 33 African countries where Ecobank is present; transfer money to other bank accounts both domestic and international; transfer to a mobile money wallet in the same country; transfer money by email and SMS in the same country; and send money to Visa cardholders through Visa Direct. Other unique features, include the opportunity to open an Xpress Account; create and fund a Virtual card; set travel notifications for enhanced card security; block and unblock one’s bank card; attach other bank cards for transactions; as well as being able to add one’s banking profiles from different countries,” he stated. Further, he said Ecobank customers can “pay for goods via QR code with EcobankPay; split payments with other Ecobank mobile app users; place a standing order for future payment and do cardless withdrawal from ATMs using Xpress Cash.” He encouraged Nigerians to download the app for firsthand experience, especially during this Easter season for easy banking services both locally and across Africa, emphasizing that with the revamped app, customers do not need to carry cash for shopping, adding that there are no account fees or paperwork and it can be instantly downloaded for easy banking. He pointed out that users of the Mobile app have access for help or quick solutions by chatting with RAFIKI on our Facebook platform. It also provides support or to locate the nearest Ecobank branches and ATMs. Ecobank Nigeria Ltd. is a subsidiary of the Ecobank Group, the leading pan-African banking group with operations in 33 African countries and an international presence in four locations (London, Paris, Beijing, and Dubai). Ecobank Nigeria is a full-service bank providing wholesale, retail, investment and transaction banking services and products to governments, financial institutions, multinationals, international organizations, medium, small and micro businesses and individuals.