In semiotic analysis, every action of the state, or, more precisely, of those who act on behalf of the state, is imbued with at least two levels of meaning: One is the denotative meaning, that is, the literal meaning of the act that is apparent to everybody watching. The other is the connotative meaning, that is, the associated or secondary meaning of the act—what the act actually suggests, implies, or symbolises. The recent agreement, signed between the Oyo State Government and the Government College Ibadan Old Boys Association, offers a good illustration of both levels of meaning. At the denotative level, the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the two parties on the transfer of GCI to the Old Boys Association is no different than similar acts between the state government and other parties. It is one of numerous such agreements, characterised by the attendant ceremonies of exchanging papers between representatives of both parties and signing them to the applause of onlookers. However, the connotative meaning of the ceremony begins to emerge the moment we start probing into why, in the first place, the agreement was necessary and what it was meant to achieve for both parties. Bridging the denotative and connotative meanings are the details of the agreement to which we now turn. The MOU contains two essential details, among others. One, the management, operation, and development of GCI are transferred by the Oyo State government to GCIOBA for the next 25 years. Two, GCIOBA will preserve the state government’s free education policy by not charging tuition fees. However, it would charge fees for boarding and feeding of students who stay in college residence. It will also see to the day to day management of the school, including the recruitment and retraining of teachers and the development of the school’s infrastructure and facilities. At the connotative level, the agreement has far-reaching implications for the government and GCIOBA in particular and for education in general. The agreement is an acknowledgement by the government that it lacks the financial capacity to sustain the high standard for which GCI is known. Here’s how the Secretary to the State Government put it during the agreement signing ceremony: “A study conducted by this government upon assumption of office in 2019 indicated that it needed over N40 billion to take the education sector to standard … it was clear from the beginning that the state could not do it alone”. The decline in GCI’s standard began in the 1979, when the Oyo State government, having taken over total control of GCI, disregarded the College’s elite status and lumped it with other secondary schools in the state. Admission standards were lowered as competitive entrance examinations were all but eliminated. With a N10,000 fee, your child would be admitted to GCI! Enrollment shot up from 200 to over 3000. Yet teacher recruitment stagnated at a teacher-student ratio of 1 to over 110, in contrast to 1 to <25 in its heydays. In no time, facilities began to deteriorate. Whatever happened to the colonial government colleges was replicated in all schools taken over by the government, including the so-called Unity Secondary Schools.   Foremost ex-referee ‘show boy’ Okubule dies at…     Yahaya pledges infrastructure renewal at the grassroots     IDPs are in dire need of food, says Niger   In an important publication, GCI: Past, Present, and Future, Dr. Kolade Mosuro recounts GCI’s glorious days, laments its present deplorable condition, and provides an outline of future action, aimed at restoring the school’s past glory. The deteriorating condition of the school and the accompanying falling standards alarmed the school’s alumni. It began serious intervention, while also negotiating with the government for greater involvement. For decades now, different sets and branches of GCIOBA have been renovating buildings, purchasing computers, erecting new structures, and even recruiting teachers to augment the effort of the government. The Parent-Teacher Association, whose membership includes some old students of the school, has also contributed to the development of the school. Ultimately, GCIOBA appealed to then Governor Ajibola Ajumobi administration to either transfer the administration of the school to the Association or at least allow the Association’s participation in running the school. The unsatisfactory response by the Oyo State Government to the takeover demand by GCIOBA led two star alumni of the school, late Professor Oladipo Akinkugbe and late Dr. Lekan Are, to invite me to Ibadan early in 2017. During a three-hour meeting at the Kakanfo Inn, they shared with me several documents and their concerns about the condition of the school and urged me to use my column to share them with the public. After a two-week investigation of the condition of GCI and its contemporaries, I summarised the findings and recommendations in “GCI and the travails of colonial government colleges”, The Punch, February 14, 2017. The continued decline in facilities and educational standards in GCI is symbolic of the falling standard of education in the country. For some time now, alumni and alumna associations have been intervening in their old schools. This is especially true of legacy secondary schools, which shaped the fortunes of the professional class during the early decades of independence. The ripple effects of the government’s neglect of the education sector are felt especially in tertiary institutions, especially the nation’s public universities, whose teachers have spent more time in protesting government failure than in teaching and research. GCIOBA is only one of several alumni associations that have succeeded in wrestling control of their alma mater from negligent governments. The Government College Umuahia Old Boys Association did it in 2014, when the Abia State Government transferred the ownership, management, operation, control and funding of the College to the Association. Ever sensitive to social problems, former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, decided way back in 2001 to handover 48 secondary schools in the state to their former owners in order to encourage competition and public-private partnership in education. One of the schools is St Gregory’s College in Ikoyi, which has continued to blossom, thanks to the active involvement of its Old Boys Association. These are among the stories that the simple act of signing an agreement to handover GCI to its Old Boys Association recalls about secondary education in Nigeria. Four things are clear: One, the government is both negligent about, and incapable of, funding and managing education. Two, better results could be achieved when the government partners with private sponsors of education. Three, the contributions of alumni and alumna associations are crucial and need to be effectively harnessed. Four, Nigeria needs elite secondary schools to groom the professional class as no nation develops without such schools.