ANAMBRA State governor Charles Soludo will not allow a dull moment for Anambrarians and the rest of Nigeria in the months and years ahead. Right from the starting block at his inauguration as governor last month, with first-rate drama enacted by two feuding ladies who pulled wigs and slapped faces, Prof. Soludo’s government is set to keep everybody guessing, tip-toeing, agitated, and possibly puzzled. The feuding ladies, Bianca Ojukwu and former first lady Ebelechukwu Obiano, virtually overshadowed the inauguration. In the days after the inauguration, more ink was spent analysing the fight than examining the quality of the inaugural speech. Drama easily trumped substance. Much is expected of Prof. Soludo. He came highly recommended, and Mr Obiano, with all his faults and the drama of his hated wife, pulled out all the stops to gift his state a quality mind. The professor, an acknowledged first-rate economist, was at a time also Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor. He is, therefore, expected to rethink the economic paradigm of the state, as he has promised, and rebuild the state’s infrastructure, as he appears poised to do. The state is widely believed to be fortunate to have him. But he must make conscious effort to remain focused and creative. He apologised for the distractions caused by the feuding ladies, one of whom he has incredibly appointed into a committee to interface with militants wreaking havoc on the state and the region. But there cannot be many more apologies if he is not to become bogged down in routine and ephemerality. Prof Soludo will no doubt have to contend with restiveness in the Southeast. But it is a regional crisis whose effects would ripple through Anambra State and his administration, and possibly distract and undermine him. The crisis began with the agitations of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), but lately intensified through the militant aspirations of the Nnamdi Kanu-led Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), a breakaway faction of MASSOB. While IPOB has captured the popular imagination of youths in the region, including Anambra, MASSOB has become largely somnolent. It is IPOB that Prof. Soludo will have to grapple with in the years ahead. IPOB had invented the regional pressure tool of sit-at-home order to compel the federal government to release the incarcerated Mr Kanu who was controversially forced back to Nigeria last year through rendition, but Abuja has rebuffed the tool and aggressively nurtured federal intransigence. How to tackle the IPOB crisis without being distracted or without frittering away Anambra’s resources will be uppermost in the mind of the governor. Appointing a 15-man Truth, Justice and Peace Committee headed by former Nigeria’s Human Rights Commission chairman, Chidi Odinkalu, to find a way out of the crisis is one thing – of course a necessary step in order to free space and time for development – however, getting results and managing expectations will not be easy, especially regarding a crisis that transcends Anambra and the Southeast, and courses perniciously to the federal level. The committee will have to determine how their work will positively impact Anambra as well as find a way to make their findings cost-effective when it comes to implementation. These objectives will not be easy to achieve. But, looking at the bright side, reporters will be fully engaged, as the governor gives them fresh bone to chew every week. The committee is loaded with public figures who make news effortlessly, hard-hitting and tough talking men and women of candour. But going by the terms of reference for the Truth and Justice committee, Prof Soludo may be biting more than he can chew. He can easily get distracted. According to the governor, “The purpose of the Committee on Truth, Justice, and Peace is to seek a restorative justice approach for truth-telling or real facts, for the healing of the victims of the violence. Accounting for responsibility and accountability of the actors, conditional mercy for the repentant perpetrators, restitution for certain losses and rehabilitation of the perpetrators, for the overall aim of restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the state, and the region/Nigeria.” The terms of reference for the committee, the governor added, “…are to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the South East since 1999; document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration, identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands; addressing any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and charting the roadmap for the future and make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra State/Southeast.” Prof Soludo has begun to think regionally. He needs to be cautious. While the IPOB crisis is a regional problem, it is not clear how he or Anambra alone, regardless of the influence and credibility of panel members, can mitigate the crisis and engender peace. Days after he assumed office, he deployed economic logic and administrative fiat to combat and placate IPOB’s sit-at-home order. It had little effect. There is little to suggest that the Truth and Justice committee will achieve the lofty goals set for it or the state. However, if he can manage expectations, avoid the distractions the panel might engender, control spending over peace schemes of doubtful utility, he may yet get water out of the rock. He is wise to enter into discussions with IPOB, but considering that the separatist group’s anger is directed primarily at the federal government, it is not certain what the state, or the region he is trying to inspire and represent, can do or how effective negotiations can be. Governance in the Southeast has been greatly compromised by incompetent leaders and decadent followers. If Prof. Soludo can’t persuade IPOB and other militant groups in the state and region to sheathe their swords, his optimism may also be weakened and possible extinguished. But he can at least try. When Prof. Soludo was inaugurated, this column thought aloud that should he do well in four years, and possibly eight, he could be the region’s answer to credible presidential aspiration. It is unlikely the eminent professor was influenced by such hazardous postulations. Indeed, it is likely the professor is self-motivated, and had secretly longed for a governorship opportunity to serve as stepping stone to the ultimate national prize. So far, however, his steps are unsteady. He would need to tame his regional assumptions and expectations. He is first and foremost Anambra governor. He should keep that in mind for a little while longer than his customary impatience and experimentations beckon him. He must recognise that his brilliance and eloquence require steady and logical policy and administrative steps to anchor firmly. The region will be his later only when he has proved himself in his state, and the state proves unable to accommodate his large and growing stature. If he tries to walk or run, as he is planning to do, before he can crawl, he will be prone to mistakes. One mistake he has made, a consequential one for that matter, is the appointment into the committee of the slapping guru, Bianca Ojukwu, as the Truth and Justice Committee secretary. Appointing her at all into the committee was an unforced error; making her the secretary is unforgivable. Prof Soludo is well travelled. He can’t pretend not to know the ethics upon which governance in Western societies is anchored, an orientation that has set them enviably apart from the rest of the world. It would be presumptuous of him to think that Nigeria, nay the Igbo, can and should tolerate abhorrent practices. The Southeast seemed to have celebrated Mrs Ojukwu slapping Mrs Obiano because the latter conducted herself repugnantly before the Igbo and particularly Anambrarians. Mrs Obiano might have provoked Mrs Ojukwu, but for the latter to engage in violence speaks not only to her objectionable mindset, it also reduced her esteem as a woman, mother, former ambassador, Christian (nominal or otherwise), and social and cultural standing. If she did not know better, the Southeast ought to. And if the region is inured to that abomination, surely Prof Soludo, by his education, breeding and exposure should be astute enough to distance himself from her. Mrs Obiano provocation is inexcusable; but Mrs Ojukwu’s response is unpardonable.   APC will retain power if it gives Tinubu ticket -Northern…     Vandalisation of power lines caused electricity grid…     Expose bandits in our midst, Lai Mohammed begs Nigerians   The high-powered Truth and Justice Committee apes other such panels elsewhere in the world. There is nothing original about it. Even the Nigerian version of the South African model of the same kind of committee ended up a damp squib. It is not certain that that of Anambra would fare better. The circumstances are different, and the dynamics are also different. However, Prof Soludo’s brain trust should have been more imaginative in dealing with the matter. Together with the governor, their policies and the personalities entrusted with the responsibility of implementing solutions should be a notch higher in competence than the depressing Nigerian average. The governor should, however, be encouraged to dream big, and to take unorthodox steps in resolving some of the long-lasting crises and dilemmas undermining development and governance in his state. But how far he can go when the country’s security services can’t even uncover and checkmate the Southeast’s so-called unknown gunmen or halt the serial betrayal of Nigeria by non-state actors working in league with highly placed politicians and appointees in bandit and Boko Haram territories is not certain.    GOVERNOR Samuel Ortom of Benue State was scared out of his wits last week when newspapers attempted to place almost wholly on him the burden of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) shambolic handling of its presidential zoning formula. The party inspired that formula in their years in office, but has lately grown tired of it. They nurse a secret wish to discard it entirely, insisting with strange epiphany that merit should be the sole determinant of who runs for and takes the presidency. When they first broached the merit argument last year, they were mercilessly lampooned by newspaper columnists and satirists. That piece of quaint sophistry has since then defiantly and perversely transformed into a party philosophy. Party panjandrums dare anyone to affront logic and philosophy by arguing against merit, intellect and competence. But party leaders lack the courage to peremptorily enthrone the merit argument on both the beleaguered party and a skeptical nation. They have, therefore, mischievously produced the Ortom red herring, knowing full well that the Benue governor, a veritable battering ram against Fulani hegemony, retains the credibility and integrity to sell an unpopular argument. Mr Ortom himself is not sure he is not being dressed in borrowed robes. He is in his elements when he politicks against hegemony, and time and time again has nimbly outthought the presidency in the matter of who should enjoy precedence between farmers and pastoralists. He has also matched the presidency’s partisan grumblings with resilient Benue-woven hysteria that has whipped up sympathy for the indigenous ethnic groups of his state. But asking him, in his first major national foray on behalf of the PDP, to take on an unpopular task is, to a tiring fighter, self-immolation. When newspapers last Wednesday emblazoned their front pages with the story that the 37-man zoning committee he, Mr Ortom, chaired had resolved to recommend the jettisoning of the zoning formula contained in the party’s constitution, the governor became instantly flustered. He had spent the better part of his two terms fighting hegemony and oligarchy, not only as a lone state warrior but also as a prominent and vociferous member of the Middle Belt Forum (MBF). In alliance with other southern groups, such as the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF), Mr Ortom’s Middle Belt groups had also championed rotational presidency. But whether it was disingenuous of PDP leaders to give the unpopular assignment to a Middle Belt champion and spokesman is not clear. What is clear, however, is that by the middle of last week, the Benue governor was wrestling with his conscience; and so far his conscience has fared very badly. The speculative story in the papers last week was that the Ortom panel had recommended opening up the presidential space, not that the PDP had jettisoned zoning. Mr Ortom, unhappily, became the centre of discussion. He had to promptly come out to clarify the story by engaging in his own peculiar disingenuousness. After quibbling a little, he proceeded to transfer the responsibility for discarding zoning and placating the concomitant guilt of doing so to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of his party. As he argued, the ultimate responsibility for deciding whether to stick to zoning or discard it rests with the party. His committee, he asserted, had made, and could only make, recommendations; nothing more. The party, he summed up, would take the final decision – almost as if that was sufficient to expiate the presumed ‘sin’ of the committee in recommending opening up the race to all comers. Mr Ortom is undoubtedly shaken. But in fact he said nothing in his rebuttal to suggest his panel did not recommend and justify jettisoning of zoning. He will hope in the months ahead that the zoning decision attributed to his panel does not return to hunt him. This column sympathises with PDP leaders for being caught between a rock and a hard place. They have no southern aspirant of sizable political heft. Not the voluble and irreverent Rivers State governor Nyesom Wike; not Peter Obi, a former Anambra State governor whose image has neither receded nor advanced a jot since leaving office; and not Ayo Fayose, a former Ekiti State governor more regarded for his comical politics than anything else. By sheer coincidence, northern presidential aspirants have seemed to attract more significant attention, regardless of their controversial worldviews. Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State is unapologetically irredentist and an apostle of open borders in favour of the Fulani; former senate president Bukola Saraki suffers from identity crisis, unsure whether to claim the South or the North; Governor Aminu Tambuwal has seemed to diminish in stature since leaving the House of Representatives as Speaker; and former vice president Atiku Abubakar has as a matter of fact ossified with every election cycle. Mr Ortom was simply caught in the middle of two unpleasant alternatives. The party may be largely bankrolled by southerners, but it is more substantially influenced by northerners. Having never really possessed a conscience to fight for what is inconveniently right against what is enticingly wrong, as its 16 years in office showed, the PDP now appears ready to eschew the little sense of logic and fairness its forebears imbued it. It’s a nightmare promoting the presidential aspiration of controversial northern politicians. For them to make any headway along the thorny path they have set their compass, they will have to hope that the less cohesive, more flawed and fiercely quarrelsome All Progressives Congress (APC), their main opponent in the 2023 race, implode in their primaries as they seem destined.