WHATEVER may be their shortcomings and failings, the two dominant parties, All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are impressive political constructs that took considerable organizational effort to actualize. Rather than seek to discard them, every effort should be continuously made to strengthen their organizational structures, improve their internal democratic processes, deepen their philosophical and ideological underpinnings as well as sharpen their efficacy, first and foremost, as developmental agencies. Parties compete to win electoral victories and form governments primarily to implement policies within the framework of their manifestoes designed, presumably, to steer their societies on the path of ever increasing progress and development. Transcending her current abysmal underdevelopment is Nigeria’s greatest need of the hour. The country’s current existentially-threatening challenges with power supply, a dysfunctional petroleum sector, huge infrastructure deficit, insecurity, humongous corruption, mass unemployment, collapsed social services, de-industrialization, pervasive poverty etc are manifestations of underdevelopment. Both the APC and PDP, in their combined 23 years in power at the centre since 1999, have no doubt recorded a number of achievements in diverse sectors if we are to be intellectually honest. Overall, however, democracy in this dispensation has not been the handmaiden of development it was envisaged to be as most Nigerians are far worse off today than they were before 1999. Ours is a case of severe regression in diverse sectors rather than progress. If we are to begin to realize Nigeria’s immense but still latent potentials, the two dominant parties must be reorganized, refocused and repositioned to produce and guide governments elected on their platforms to chart a concrete, accelerated developmental course for the country. This is, of course, in addition to the urgent need for a third nationwide party structure capable of competing effectively against the dominant parties and keeping them on their toes. But this cannot be achieved through idle talk and grandstanding or sterile social media activism but can only be the product of hard, back breaking work to organize people and build structures across the country the way the APC and PDP did. If the APC and PDP are to be positively transformed in this way to become potent instruments of development, they have a lot of pertinent lessons to learn from Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who was a consummate party organizer, a fact largely responsible for his still unrivaled transformational performance as Premier of Western Nigeria in the First Republic. His parties, the Action Group (AG) in the First Republic and Unity Partycof Nigeria (UPN) in the Second Republic, provided the ideological and philosophical framework to guide those elected on its platform as well as detailed policy plans to be implemented by its governments. Both the AG and UPN had very strong intellectual orientation, support and backing. The then University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), was the intellectual bedrock of both parties. Awolowo was not only a sound and rigorous mind himself, he respected intellect and incorporated sound scholars of a progressive orientation in the running of his political parties and the formulation of party and governmental policies. In an interview with the late academic philosopher, Professor Akin Makinde, on Saturday, 4th April, 1987, Awolowo said of Professor Sam Aluko, his close confidant and adviser: “The professor is a very good friend of mine and I have a great respect for him as an economist and a great intellectual, just as I respect philosophers like you. My respect for intellectuals lies in their ability to see things differently and objectively, and comprehend salient details, apart from their research capability. That is why I always have a romance with the intellectuals”. According to Professor Sam Aluko himself in his contribution to a collection of essays in commemoration of the Obafemi Awolowo Centennial, “It was the need to articulate the four cardinal programmes of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) that brought the supporters in the universities into closer relationship with Chief Awolowo. He commissioned us to write the party platform on each of the four cardinal programmes which were to be implemented at all levels of government to be controlled by the party. I was the chairman of the programmes committee of the University of Ife”. Professor  Aluko noted further that “The ease with which Awo related to us from the universities and the respect that he had for intellect was amply demonstrated during the Action Group era but also much more during the era of the UPN in 1979-1983. Those of us from the universities, who were members of the National Executive Committee of the party, were the envy of many of the other leaders of the party, because Chief Awolowo would not close a debate on any major policy issue of the party unless and until he had obtained an input from us, and, in many cases, he almost always leaned towards our views”.   I watched helplessly as 13 herdsmen slaughtered my husband…     Suspected Yahoo Boy dies after money rituals in Ogun     Yahaya Bello and his 2,000 millionaires   Intellectuals, men of knowledge, ideas and superior insight, not the President or governors, must be the bedrock particularly of a viable, progressive political party. An accomplished scholar himself, Dr Iyorchia Ayu as National Chairman of the PDP is well placed to help deepen the intellectual depth and orientation of the party if contrary political forces allow him to. The new National Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu, says his focus is to carry out the “marching orders” given him by President Muhammadu Buhari to lead the party to victory in the 2023 elections. This is incredible. Why does Adamu need “marching orders” from anybody to do anything? I suppose the APC is a political party, a democratic entity, and not a military garrison. Again, Chief Awolowo was not obsessed with numbers as the PDP and APC seem fixated on. In its 16 years in power, the PDP boastfully proclaimed itself as the largest party in Africa. And Yobe State governor, Mallam Mala Buni, reckons as one of the achievements of the defunct caretaker committee under his leadership, the increase in the APC membership to 41 million. But what does presumed large party membership mean in concrete terms? What really distinguishes either APC or PDP members either from each other or from non-party carrying members of the populace in terms of philosophical outlook, ideological orientation or moral values? Indeed, how are we sure that a number of people are not card carrying members of both parties so that they can brandish either party card for private benefit as the opportunity may arise? At the inception of the AG in 1950, Awolowo relates in his autobiography, he was disappointed that less than ten persons attended initial meetings to which he had always invited between 60 and 100 persons. In his words, “As a result of the very poor responses, I had a feeling that our people were not ready for the new organization. In the circumstances, I saw no point in continuing with it. I made my feeling known to the meeting and said that it would be advisable to wind up the Action Group. Mr E. A. Babalola, who attended the meeting for the first time, supported by Chief Sowole and Mr Ajasin, opposed my suggestion. They argued that it did not need a large number of people to get a great movement started. In fact, the fewer men the better for the smooth functioning of such a movement. All the other seven members concurred in this view and I had no alternative but to agree that we should carry on”. It is not the size of party membership but the quality that matters. Qualitative membership will drive qualitative and productive governance, which will in turn enhance a party’s electoral acceptability. Beyond competing in elections simply for the purpose of winning power, Awolowo was more concerned about developing detailed, well researched policies to be religiously implemented by governments elected on the party’s platform. According to him, “In the regional elections of 1951, the Action Group was the only party that published policy papers as well as a manifesto. Dr Azikiwe himself condemned this innovation, and regarded it as an attempt on our part wantonly to deceive the voters. He was confidently of the opinion that policy papers were unnecessary and should never be published for the purpose of elections. It was when a party had won an election, he argued, that it should essay to declare and publish the details of the policy it would pursue in office”. Awolowo continued, “At every election since 1952, we had adopted the same method of publishing both policy papers and manifesto. Our persistent efforts yielded dividend only during the federal elections of December 1959, when both the NCNC and the NPC for the first time emulated the Action Group and published their own policy papers alongside their manifestoes. As a result, the last federal elections smacked much less of personal abuse and gutter electioneering tactics than was the case in previous years. Each political party strove more than ever before to win votes on the basis of the relative merits of its policies and programmes”. In his enthralling biography, ‘Memoirs of a Public Man’, the Commissioner for transportation in Alhaji Lateef Jakande’s administration in the Second Republic, the late Oba Olatunji Hamzat, recalls that before he was formally sworn into office, he had held extensive consultations with experts in transport geography at the University of Lagos to come up with a policy plan for his ministry. On the day he was sworn in, however, the governor handed over to him a detailed policy plan on transportation prepared by the party to be implemented by his ministry. It was the same for every other ministry and not just in Lagos but also every other state controlled by the UPN. Is it any wonder then that the UPN governors performed superlatively in that dispensation even within the context of a suffocating emergent unitarism and relative resource scarcity?