The apex Islamic body in the North, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), under the leadership of the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, has queried Federal Government’s inability to proactively take the battle to terrorists’ hideouts and wipe them off. In its reaction to last week’s terrorists’ attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train, the Islamic body said the essence of government and governance is to protect the five principal cardinal rights of the human race. The most important one of them, it stressed, is the human life. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday, expressed serious concerns about the worsening insecurity across the country. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo also said the government appeared overwhelmed by the level of insecurity in the land. They urged the Federal Government to take urgent steps to fight the menace to a standstill.   2023: APC declares nomination forms free for women aspirants     Botched 2014 NIS recruitment: Court convicts ex-Perm Sec…     2023: Cross River and the batlle for zoning   In a statement yesterday by its Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, it said: “To say the least, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) is agonised and short of words to express itself over the gory incident of the infamous train attack which happened on Monday, March 28, 2022. The well-orchestrated incident remains highly condemnable, reprehensible and upsetting to every rational mind. “It appears that the continuous callous acts of mayhem, killings and arson happening almost on daily or weekly bases around us, either within communities and/or on the roads we ply, have automatically reset our human psyche that we now have accepted such dastardly acts as part of our lives, to the extent that we no longer feel it. The humanity in us is slowly being eroded, thereby making us to adapt to the new normal within which we have unfortunately found ourselves. “It should be noted that in Islam, and by all global standards, the essence of government and governance is solely to protect the five principal cardinal rights of the human race, the most important of which is life! Any government that is incapable of protecting the lives of its citizens has lost the moral justification of being there in the first place; this is enunciated in Section 33(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We have, however, carefully studied and followed up the unfortunate train blast, especially that another train attack was reported to have occurred on the Lagos-Kano-bound train, near Jaji, Kaduna State, on Thursday, March 31, 2022, which inevitably led to the death of the locomotive operator. “Therefore, this press release is premised on the fact that Nigeria is more or less heading to an unknown destination of multiple cum well-coordinated serial chaos attributable to lack of coordination and synergy from security personnel, if the news making the rounds is to be believed…” It expressed dismay that bandits have taken over some areas in the country where they collect taxes from their victims while government cannot take action.