Credit risk management has received a major boost with the introduction of a technology-driven application known as Tigran for DataPro. Speaking at the official unveiling of the credit risk management tool recently, Abimbola Adeseyoju, Managing Director of DataPro Limited said it is meant to enhance the conduct and practice of credit risk management in Nigeria. Going down memory lane, Adeseyoju recalled that, “I remember vividly in 2004 at the presentation we made to the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) for our license as a Credit Rating Agency (CRA) in Nigeria. One thing that really stood us out was the fact that we leveraged our framework and workflow on digital solutions instead of manual processes. According to him, “New technologies such as Artificial intelligence, Machine Learning, Blockchain and Data Analytics have thus helped tremendously to fasten the processes and make it more efficient. When the opportunity therefore presented itself in the last quarter of 2021 to partner with Mode Finance, Europe’s first FinTech rating agency, we welcomed it with both hands.”   Winner gets car in Bigi’s ‘Watch & Win’ promo     Firm unveils Camelot Mews in Lekki     Nigeria attracts fresh investments in pharmaceutical sector   The product, Adeseyoju stressed, “Is one of necessity for our economy in order to overcome some of the challenges associated with access to credit facilities.” Besides, he said, “One vital ingredient for faster and greater economic prosperity for everyone is access to credit facilities. The more Nigerians can have fair and equitable access to credit facilities based on scientific methodologies instead of the whims and caprices of others the better for all of us. It introduces a better trust system that both the giver and taker can rely on. This is what Tigran- For-DataPro brings to the table for all those whose products and services involve the dispensation of credit facilities from banking institutions to credit unions, cooperatives, FinTechs, manufacturing companies, conglomerates and others. Tigran will make it possible for example, for manufacturing companies to put in place a better credit decision mechanism about who to give, when to give, how to give, why to give and what to give leading to more efficient and effective allocation of resources.” Reacting to the partnership, Mattia Ciprian the CEO of Mode Finance said, “The credit market needs more and more fast evaluations with high accuracy. At Mode Finance, we are engaged on a daily basis in supporting organisations all over the world, with greater focus on the African continent.” Prince Oladele Adeoye, the Chief Rating Officer of DataPro Limited, also said “We recognise that credit decision-making needs to be effective and efficient. This has become necessary today, as customers are looking forward to speedy, convenient, and cost-effective services from providers. A technology that can assist financial institutions and corporate bodies whose businesses run on credit to make informed decisions, therefore, becomes essential.” Cristian Giacomini, CEO of Mode Finance International, was quoted as saying “We are fully committed to transferring our know-how, generating added value for the Nigerian economy, and creating a domestic legacy in the credit risk management industry. Our technological innovations in big data, artificial intelligence, data analytics, and machine learning are all paving the way for MSMEs to have access to better financial services.”