Anambra State Governor Charles Soludo has indicated that he is now working with the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to end the challenge of insecurity in the state. Also, the state government has set up a Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The panel, among others, will unearth the root causes of insecurity with a view to proffering solutions to the menace in the state and within the Southeast region. Soludo, who spoke on a Channels Television programme, Politics Today, said he was sure that the scourge of insecurity within the state would soon be over. He said that he has been to get the understanding of IPOB to work with him to end the challenge in the state. The governor, who noted that the nation was facing serious problems with insecurity, said his government has started consulting all stakeholders to end insecurity in the state. He, however, noted that he was mindful of the fact that some criminal elements within the region or state might want to undermine the government’s efforts, adding that he was ready and determined to make Anambra a safe haven for all citizens. He said: “One major problem facing this country, our region and Anambra is insecurity and we have started engaging all the stakeholders. We have announced the end of the sit-at-home and we are happy that the entire traditional, religious leaders and others are backing us as well as the IPOB.   Plateau group drums support for Tinubu’s presidential…     APC National Assembly aspirant provides succour for youth,…     Sokoto Speaker dumps APC for PDP   “Of course, some criminal elements might want to underrate our efforts but we are making every plan to ensure that the Southeast becomes safer. We must restore law and order. Yes, I agree that getting law and order restored in the region won’t come cheap and we are aware that some who have made criminality a source of livelihood will kick. “So, it is a battle that won’t be won cheap, but we are determined to ensure we get law and order restored.  It is battle and we are battle-ready.  We are happy that a lot of civil organisations are backing us on this too. IPOB has come out and emphatically stated their position and I trust that they are now working with us. Of course, within the agitation movement, we agree that there are now factions. “Notwithstanding, we are making huge development. We have also offered them some kind of amnesty so that they can be useful partners in society. We are setting up a Truth and Reconciliation Commission.  It is to get the root causes of the agitation.  Yes, the Federal Government said it proscribed IPOB but their activities still affect human existence. “The commission is to help us get to the root and proper documentation of those who have lost their lives and the circumstances of their death and where necessary compensation would be paid.  The challenge of insecurity in the country today needs extensive engagement. “To the criminals, we are calling them to jettison criminality and join us to make a safer place. “On Nnamdi Kanu, every major organized group needs to be part of the conversion to end insecurity. Essentially, the sit-at-home began because of Nnamdi Kanu. “So, Kanu is a factor that cannot be wished away. So, anybody that wishes this away is living on the moon.  And that is why we are saying his case should be taken expeditiously.  All this long adjournment is not necessary.  We need to allow the case to go through trial and bring closure to it.”