An officer with the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) Jamiu Issa, has been killed by a driver he accosted for driving against traffic. The incident, according to LASTMA, took place at Ajah on April 20. Spokesman for the agency, Olumide Filade, in a statement on Thursday morning said the deceased officer was knocked down by the driver who proceeded to run over him as he fled the scene. Filade said the suspected killer driver rode in a green Toyota Sienna with registration number FST901AR, adding that he was arrested by other motorists who witnessed the incident and pursued him. He said the deceased,who was the leader of LASTMA team in Ajah, had approached the vehicle flouting traffic law from Chevron towards Conservation Toll Plaza and stood by the side of his door for him to come down. He said the driver had opened his door in pretence as though he wanted to alight the vehicle only to return inside, reversed and knocked Issa with the opened door while his front tyre ran him over. “Issa’s colleague at the scene of the incident quickly put a call through to the zonal head while some good Samaritans/eye witnesses pursued the escaping driver to Chevron Waterfront area where he was apprehended and taken first to Ilasan Police Station, and eventually to Ajiwe Police Station, where the incident occurred for proper investigation. 		 			Lagos diverts traffic at Ikeja rail level crossing		 		 		 			Insecurity: Obasanjo canvasses state police		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m to free pastor		 		 “Also, according to other eyewitnesses accounts, the Sienna driver knocked down another person while trying to escape from the scene before being apprehended. “The fatally injured Issa was rushed to the Lagos Island General Hospital where it was confirmed that he was brought in dead (BID). “His remains have been deposited at the morgue of same hospital. “The LASTMA General Manager, Bolaji Oreagba, who is grieving, commiserates with the family of the deceased officer. “He has also said that in-spite of several appeals and warnings to the public to desist from assaulting and injuring government officials, some unscrupulous elements in the society who have refused all entreaties would be made to face the full wrath of the law. “Oreagba also noted that, this occurrence would not discourage the officers of the agency from continuing to carry out their duties and responsibilities as enshrined in the law that set up the agency,” Filade said.