Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Senator Bukola Saraki has assure banditry and kidnapping will ceaae if elected. He explained the decision of the northern elders, who chose him and Bauchi Governor Bala Mohammed as consensus candidates was not forced on anybody. He said that they all agreed to consult with the elders and accept their decisions. Saraki stated this at the Niger State PDP Secretariat in Minna when he met with the State delegates to seek their support for his aspiration of becoming the PDP presidential flagbearer. According to him, the country is in a state that needs desperate measures, especially in the area of insecurity and poverty. The former Senate President stated that when he becomes the President, there would be more women in his cabinet while youths will be made Ministers of State of various ministries. “A” Nigeria need a President that is bold, energetic and dynamic. A President that can bring people together. I am the kind of President Nigeria needs. “After I become President, there will be no more banditry and kidnapping in this country. I assure you that I will do more as president. I will include more women in my cabinet and make sure that my cabinet has youths as Ministers of State ” The former Senate President appealed to the members of PDP in Niger state to work towards ensuring that the north-central produces its first President stressing that it is time for the north-central to have a democratically elected President. “2023 is the time of the north-central. We will make history to have a democratically elected president from the zone. We can fix, rescue and rebuild the country.”   We won’t spare anything to give Alaafin befitting…     Osun 2022: Why I will be re-elected, by Oyetola     Lawan mourns Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi lll   Reacting to the uproar that has followed the decision of the northern consensus candidates, Saraki noted that everyone involved in the process was not forced and the decisions and recommendations were taken in good faith. He however said that to contest and to accept the decision are individual choices which would be made by his co-contestants. “We voluntarily went to our elders’ statesmen to seek their participation. They did not seek or ask that they should be involved in it, and neither were we forced into doing it. We decided on our own to go seek their involvement for a northern consensus candidate. “For the decision, we appreciate our elder statesmen for their role in the process and their patriotism and desire for the unity of the country. To abide by the decision is an individual choice. Everyone has to make his own decision. “With all humility, I have accepted the recommendations and recognised them and have decided to forge ahead.” Former Niger Governor, Dr Mua’zu Babangida Aliyu, said that Nigeria needs people who can sacrifice, adding that Saraki is among the few of those on the ground. He called on PDP to do the needful as the election process drew closer describing Saraki as a dependable and bankable candidate. “In Niger state, we need to articulate our positions and make our demands known Saraki is a dependable person that we can rely on.” Niger PDP chairman, Barrister Tanko Berje assured the aspirant of the support of the state adding that the state PDP will modify its stand and make their choice known. The Director-General Bola Saraki Campaign Organization, Osaro Onaiwu, described Saraki as a bridge-builder, courageous, determined and a man that will change the country’s narrative.