The suspension and eventual sack of Chief Imam of the National Assembly legislators’ quarters’ mosque, Sheikh Nuru Khalid have come and gone. But the propriety of the punitive measures by the management committee of the mosque will continue to divide opinion. Khalid had during his penultimate Friday’s sermon, taken on the government for its inability to secure lives and properties in the country. We will reproduce aspects of that sermon since they are at the centre of the dispute. Hear the Sheikh: “Most parts of the country are not secured. The government is always telling us that they are doing their best. But we deserve the best as citizens because we want a secured Nigeria”. “You have been given four years and an addition, yet people are dying like fowls, killing is becoming the norm in Nigeria under your watch, Mr. President”. He did not end there: “What you are telling us is that your concern is about the 2023 elections. And what I am telling the citizens is to send a message that we are going to vote under one condition. Nigerian masses should resort to only one term which is, protect our lives, we will come out to vote, let us be killed, we will not come out to vote”. The Imam appeared mindful that his sermon might not go down well with the authorities when he said he was willing to take responsibility for calling out the president on his inability to tackle the security challenges in the country. And true to his prediction, he lost his job for it. But he struck as a man of conscience and conviction when he stood his grounds contending that his sermon is for the overall good of the country. The first two passages of his sermon reproduced above are statements of fact. Most parts of the country are not secured as evident in the near state of anarchy. Killings and atrocious acts by bandits/ terrorists have reduced human life to nothing and continues to question the relevance and capacity of the government to live up to its primary duty of existence. It is inconceivable how anyone can pick holes in this. There are no new issues in the first two passages that are not already within the public domain. Neither can the Imam be faulted for reminding President Buhari that he was captured in video while campaigning for votes promising Nigerians he would put an end to insurgency when he comes to power. Indeed, he had after three months in office claimed Boko Haram had been technically defeated. Today, not only is Boko Haram still much alive, insecurity has metastasized to dangerous dimensions. Perhaps, the third passage dealing with conditions on which the electorate will vote could be the source of Khalid’s travails. Chairman of the mosque management committee, Saidu Dansadau said that much when he claimed the cleric’s teachings on political apathy are unIslamic among others.   Banditry: El-Rufai spills the beans     When Buhari summoned Uzodinma     Petrol souvenirs as national mockery   “You are an influencer; your words carry a lot of weight, your words can make or mar our situation, your words can be taken advantage of by mischief makers or enemies of the country for their devilish agenda”, were some of the reasons Dansadau gave for sacking the cleric. What can be deduced from the explanations of Dansadau is that aspects of the cleric’s sermon on conditions for the electorate to vote during the 2023 elections were clear calls for political apathy. It is difficult to fathom how this meaning could be ascribed to such a provisional statement. The statement is meant to draw attention of the government to the absurdity in expecting high voters’ turn-out in a largely insecure environment. That is a statement of fact and a call for appropriate responses to secure the country and guarantee the success of the elections. The General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye had last week not only criticized the government on escalating insecurity but raised fears on the prospects of the 2023 elections. Khalid is genuinely worried by the seeming government’s obsession with the coming elections in the face of the ravaging insecurity.  Many states are so ravaged and pummelled by banditry/ terrorism that those cut down in the process, have become minuses from the election register. The dead cannot vote. Neither will those killed in the escalating kidnapping, banditry and terrorism be part of any election process. So the call on the government to secure the country and guarantee the success of the elections is a patriotic one. That is the positive side of his sermon. Unfortunately, Dansadau and his committee approached it from the negative angle. Their position is all part of the culture of intolerance to alternative views that has done no good to this supposedly democratic contraption. Positions like these are part of the reasons little progress has been made in this country. At any rate, how does the gagging of the Imam or his sack address the festering insecurity? One had expected the committee to be more concerned with what a government being overwhelmed by unceasing insecurity is doing to stem the tide. But they would not have any of such. Theirs is morbid fear for criticisms and curious proclivity for regime protection. There is also the tenuous suggestion that taking on the government for its inability to halt the unceasing killings and destruction of properties would worsen the situation. Maybe commendation will be the tonic that will stem the tide even when insecurity is overwhelming the leadership. Given the fault-lines of this country and their disruptive effects in nation building, it is good the criticism came from a revered Imam. Had it been otherwise, apologists of the regime would have rushed to hurl invectives, ascribing primordial, partisan political and religious motives to the sermon. Khalid spoke truth to power. His sack is of questionable value in diminishing the issues raised in his sermon.  This country has dire need for people above ethnic, religious and political leanings in addressing existential issues of our federal order.