The ECOWAS Bank for Investment and Development (EBID) has pledged to consolidate its relationship with the Republic of The Gambia through the financing of key infrastructure projects to propel  transformation. EBID will also fund developmental initiatives to impact the livelihoods of the Gambians in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic challenges. President and Chairman of the Board of Directors of EBID, Dr. George Agyekum Donkor, made the commitments, when he visited The Gambia. Donkor recounted the support EBID had extended to The Gambia in the past through the funding of the government’s rural electrification project and construction of the Mandinaba-Soma Road and assured the bank’s intention to support projects in the road infrastructure and energy sectors. He commended the government’s collaboration with bilateral and multilateral partners to ensure access to energy for 1,100 rural schools in addition to the positive economic indicators achieved by the country.   ‘Road map implementation key to textile revival’     Global, African airlines record major operation recovery     IMF weighs impact of Russia sanctions on global economy   President Adama Barrow, stated: “The Gambia has embraced EBID as an internal stakeholder and a key development partner as it charts the course of attaining economic independence for its people. We, as a people, are resolute in pursuing the cohesive development agenda as enshrined in The Gambia 2030 Strategy. We will achieve this with you and other development partners.”   The EBID president also  discussed with the Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs of  The Gambia, Mambury Njie. Based in Lomé, Togolese Republic, EBID is a leading regional investment and development bank, owned by the 15 ECOWAS member states, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo.     Based in Lomé, Togolese Republic, the bank is committed to financing developmental projects and programmes covering diverse initiatives from infrastructure and basic amenities, rural development and environment, industry and social services sectors, through its private and public sector windows. EBID intervenes through long, medium, and short-term loans, equity participation, lines of credit, refinancing, financial engineering operations and related services.