Insurance promotes economic, social and environmental sustainability and helps countries achieve the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Stakeholders in the African insurance have deliberated on how to facilitate the attainment of a sustainable future. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo writes. Experts agree that insurance, like pension, plays an important role in the attainment of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – eradication of poverty, reduced inequalities, zero hunger, good health and well-being, gender equality, decent work and economic growth, industry innovation and infrastructure, climate change, and partnerships for goals. In addition, it also plays a supporting role in the attainment of the five main SDGs: quality education, industry innovation and infrastructure, reduced inequalities, and partnerships for goals and sustainable cities and communities. Therefore, the sector holds the potential for enhancing sustainable development with the 2030 Agenda. It was in the light of the foregoing that  operators, regulators and other stakeholders in the industry gathered in Lagos and, more importantly, to deliberate on the modalities for facilitating the attainment of a sustainable future. The Financial Sector Deepening Africa (FSD Africa), UK Aid and the United Nations Environmental Programme, which hosted the event, is also funding the deliberations that will lead to the sustenance of these goals. Speaking at the conference on ‘’The Nairobi Declaration on sustainable insurance’’ on Victoria Island, Lagos, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Olorundare Sunday Thomas, said the event also aimed at exploring ways that insurance could play a significant role in helping African countries achieve the SDGs. It appeared that insurance had been relegated within the context of the SDGs, he said. He noted that the indicators did not capture insurance-related metrics. He sugested more consistent data collection. He said: “ESG issues constitute a shared risk to insurers, businesses, governments and society.  Some ESG issues such as climate change, pollution and eco-system degradation, have various ramifications. Some of these issues are considered as likely to be financially material to the success of organisations.There is, therefore, the compelling need for innovation and collaboration. “The four principles for sustainable insurance formalise the commitment of the signatories to ensuring decision-making along ESG criteria; raising awareness with clients and partners on ESG criteria; collaboration with governments and regulators to promote action on ESG criteria; and accountability and transparency of progress in ESG implementation. The corresponding list of possible actions provide a common anchor and framework for the insurance industry to manage ESG issues.  This is expected to enhance the industry’s contribution to building resilient, inclusive and sustainable communities and economies.   African Alliance, NCRIB embark on awareness drive     ‘Digital compulsory insurance can create 50,000 new jobs in…     NCRIB to govt: insure markets   “On the regulatory side, the  environment is increasingly becoming complex.This has heightened the need to ensure effective supervision as well as resolve broader policy challenges such as inclusive economic development, sustainability, climate risk and digitalisation.Insurance regulators, therefore, have a vital role to play in sustainable economic development.Through regulatory and policy initiatives, regulators can guarantee that their insurance jurisdictions offer the essential range and variety of products and services that support the SDGs.” He stressed that supervisors could also act as conveners of key stakeholders to building partnerships to coordinate insurance solutions, especially when faced with multifaceted risks such as climate change and pandemic risk. On the Nairobi declaration on sustainable insurance, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, fsdafrica, Mark Napier, said a declaration of commitment by African insurance industry leaders to support the achievement of the UN SDGs was needed. Napier explained that the SDGs, a shared vision to end poverty, rescue the planet and build a prosperous and peaceful world, were gaining global momentum. He stated that while progress was being made in many places, action to meet the SDGs was not yet advancing at the speed or scale required. “As we embark on the UN’s Decade of Action to deliver the SDGs by 2030, there is a need to accelerate solutions to major sustainability challenges, ranging from climate change, biodiversity loss, ecosystem degradation and pollution, to human rights violations, poverty and social inequality, particularly in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic that has slowed down progress on the SDGs. “As risk managers, insurers and investors, the African insurance industry has a key role to play in promoting economic, social and environmental sustainability; in other words, sustainable development, including ensuring a sustainable recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. “In this vein, under the auspices of UN Environment Programme’s Principles for Sustainable Insurance Initiative (PSI), we declare our commitment to take the actions to support the achievement of the SDGs.” He listed the actions as risk management; insurance; investment; policy, regulatory and industry engagement; and sustainable insurance thinking and practices. “On risk management, our action would be to advance the assessment, management and disclosure of climate change-related risks and opportunities, building on the PSI’s project to pilot the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). It would also include management and disclosure of ESG risks and opportunities across all lines of business that includes non-life, life and health and pension. We will build on the PSI’s ESG guide for non-life insurance business and other PSI guidance on specific sustainability issues like illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing; plastic pollution, tobacco risks, UNESCO World Heritage Sites. “As regards our action on insurance, we will support the insurance’ SDGs being developed by the PSI to harness insurance products and solutions to help achieve the SDGs. We will close the insurance protection gap by actively developing and promoting inclusive and innovative insurance solutions, including through insurtech and nature-based solutions for households, businesses and governments to build resilient cities and communities as well as sustainable food and agriculture systems, among others,” he said. Executive Director, Leadway Assurance, Ms Adetola Adegbayi during the panel session said the  industry needs to work with the government to structure informal activities for sustainable development to happen.