The Founder of Tomeb Travels and Tours, Dr Ahmed Tunde Popoola, yesterday urged Nigerians to seek Allah’s forgiveness. This, he said, will make the country return to the path of greatness. Dr Popoola gave this advice during the 7th Ramadan Lecture organised by Tomeb Travels and Tours entitled The anatomy of sin and forgiveness. According to him, the effect of sin is being felt all over the country. “People go against the injunctions of Allah without being remorseful. We all need reflections and orientation to avoid the wrath of Allah. We need to reflect as individuals and as a nation. We are all aware of the sinful acts like killings and kidnappings among others going on in the society which Allah frowns against. We need forgiveness of Allah,” he said. The Chief Executive Officer of Tomeb Travels and Tours, Alhaja Mariam Popoola, said ignorance of sins led the country to a sinful path. Alhaja Popoola said: “It is necessary to keep reminding one another about how grievous committing sin is and its repercussions. All what is happening in our society makes one unhappy and people are not even remorseful that they are actions against Allah’s injunction.” She said the topic was meant to call Nigerians attention to the impacts of sins and seek forgiveness. The Saraki Adeen of Osogboland, Alhaji AbdulYekeen Abimbade Adeshina, who chaired the occasion, said parental negligent is one if the factors contributing to the high moral decadence in the society.   Village Head, 14 others killed in Kaduna attacks     Osinbajo to APC governors: I’m running for president     Fed Govt to raise N700b for pension liabilities   The Holy Quran, Alhaji Adeshina said, is explicit about how to raise children, but most parents did not follow the teachings. He added that the leadership challenges bedeviling the growth and development of the country can be address by going back to the Holy Quran and the prophetic teachings. He called on Nigerians to vote for God-conscious people with good leadership traits and capacity to govern the country in 2023. He advised the youth to channel their energy toward productive ventures. “They should engage in what halal and leave what is haram,” Alhaji Adeshina said. Member, Board of Trustees, University of Lagos Muslim Alumni (UMA) Alhaji Yisa AbdulKareem popularly known as YKO Kareem, said one of the things that obstruct supplication is sin. “As long as we avoid sins, our prayers will be accepted,” he said. He stated that seeking forgiveness is imperative for spiritual upliftment as the bulk of the problem in the society is due on unforgivable attitude of individuals. “Allah has enjoined us to forgive one another and by doing so he will reward us,” he said. He advised the youth to adhere to the injunction of Almighty Allah and desist from societal vices.