Residents and indigenes of Umuokealum Amukachi in Akabo Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State have been rendered homeless with property worth millions washed after heavy downpours in the early hours of Monday. Over 50 houses, including five boreholes, cars, electronics and household items were submerged in the flood. The fences of St Michael’s Catholic Church Akabo and Akabo High School also collapsed. The rain sacked several residents, particularly those living along the Ekemele Axis on Owerri-Okigwe road and rendered them homeless as they battled to savage their soaked properties. Items such as mattresses, foams, kitchen utensils and clothes were washed away as a result of the heavy downpour. A pensioner, Mrs. Rachel Owulezi, who was full of tears, said she was preparing to bury her husband later this month before the incident.   DSS arraigns impersonator who also duped Osogbo businesses     Insecurity: Buhari’s govt. not overwhelmed, says minister     Kumuyi slams choristers for male ‘jackets’,…   The flood, she said, flooded her entire house and damaged all they have bought for the ceremony including their certificates. Mrs. Helen Odunze and her son, Nnamdi Odunze, expressed their grief at what the flood from the poorly constructed drainage caused in their house as all their electronics, clothing and other household items were destroyed. Kingsley Owulezi, a civil engineer, complained they had earlier approached the Craneburg Construction Company handling the road construction in the area on the need to channel flood away from the Community, but their complaints were not heard, adding that the drainage failure was responsible the havoc caused by the flood. An aged woman wept bitterly concerning the flood from the drainage. She called on the government and the construction company to come to her aid as all she has laboured all to acquire over the years had been destroyed. They called on the government to come to their rescue as they have been incapacitated at the moment.