Pension sector recapitalisation exercise has been completed going by the April 27, 2022 deadline issued by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) last year to 22 Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) in the country. Two PFAs are out of existence by way of acquisition. They are AXA Mansard Pension acquired by Verod Capital Management Limited and IEI-Anchor Pension Managers Limited acquired by Norrenberger. This reduces the total number of PFAs in the country to 20. In a document obtained exclusively by The Nation, the Director-General, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, said she is pleased to inform all stakeholders and the general public that as at April 27,  2022, all  PFAs had complied with the commission’s directive for the increase of the Minimum Regulatory Capital (Shareholders’ Fund) from N1 billion to N5 billion. The PenCom boss stated that the Commission had approved the recapitalisation exercise for the PFAs with a 12-month transition period -from 27 April 2021 to 27 April 2022. She said the exercise became expedient as the value of pension fund assets under management and custody had grown exponentially by 244 percent, from N3 trillion in 2012 when the previous recapitalisation was done to N12.29 trillion as at December 31, 2020.   Ekiti 2022: Buhari receives Oyebanji in Aso Rock     Khafi Kareem: A reckoning for ex-BBnaija housemate     Yul Edochie’s surprise: A second wife!   The sustained growth in assets, according to her, implies greater fiduciary responsibilities that require more operational capacity by the PFAs. She maintained that the urgent need to ramp up PFAs capacity to manage the increasing number of registered contributors and value of pension fund assets under management led to the recapitalisation exercise. She said: “It is worthwhile to state that 10 PFAs had met the new regulatory capital requirement of N5 billion as at 31 December 2021, while the others intensified efforts to meet the deadline of 27 April 2022. This resulted in some mergers and acquisitions, which led to the reduction of the number of PFAs from 22 to 20. “The Commission approved the acquisition of AIICO Pension Managers Limited by FCMB Pensions Limited; and the merger between Tangerine Pensions Limited and APT Pension Funds Managers Limited and subsequent change of name of the merged entity to Tangerine APT Pensions Limited. “In addition, the Commission also approved Norrenberger’s acquisition of IEI-Anchor PensionManagers Limited, after its acquisition of the majority shareholder, IEI Plc.” “With the conclusion of the recapitalisation exercise, stakeholders, particularly Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders, should expect increased effectiveness and efficiency as well as improved service delivery from PFAs,” she added.