For airlines and other organisations in the aviation sector, securing licences from the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has become an uphill task. KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR reports The global air transport industry is one of the most regulated sectors in the logistic and mobility value chain. Regulators are raising the bar in terms of technical, safety, economic and other requirements for operators. Experts are unanimous that there is no need to shift grounds in the compliance of regulation for any player who seeks to be involved in safety in the moving lives and goods. According to them, safety is the greatest asset an airline requires to come to being.This is rolled out by global regulators, namely the  International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and its domestic arm – Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). In the last few months, the NCAA has been inundated with requests from  operators who are either seeking fresh licences to commence flights or seeking renewal of their Air Operators Certificate (AOC). Among the new entrants are NG Eagle Airlines, Nigeria Air and other operators who temporarily ceased operations and are planning to return. Top among operators, which have applied for certification, according to the Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, are promoters of the proposed national carrier – Nigeria Air. Investigations show that they have filed for an AOC. Officials of the Ministry of Aviation confirmed that the process for the acquisition of the AOC and that of the Air Transport Licence (ATL) was on course. It  was learnt that the relevant agencies of the Federal Government are carrying out security checks on the promoters of the project. In an interview on the challenges of handling certification and recertification for airlines,  NCAA ‘s Director-General, Captain Musa Nuhu, said the authority could sometimes extend the threshold by granting extension to operators seeking  AOC renewal to ensure continuity in the system. He said the NCAA, in some circumstance decline such extension approval, so as not to ground the operations of requesting carriers. Such a development, he clarified, could  trigger disruption in the air transport ecosystem.   FCTA seals Federal Ministry of Works, Character Commission,…     Alleged gang sex: Chrisland denies pregnancy test claim     2023: Conversations with God   Nuhu said some airlines may, for some reasons, fail to complete the renewal processes within the stipulated period, in order not to bring about disruption in operations. The NCAA boss said: “To renew  an AOC, there are certain conditions and processes that must be completed. If, for whatever reason, either from the operator or the NCAA, we cannot complete those processes before the expiration of the AOC, we will extend it for them. “Extension is for the system to continue to ensure that regulatory requirements are complied with for the renewal. Sometimes for some reasons, some operators are not able to meet certain requirements on time or may be on their own, we cannot complete the process, then, we say instead of disrupting the system, we give them extension for that period so that they can continue their operations. “Before the extension runs out, the  renewal  would have been granted. Renewal is not automatic. It is a process with steps, which must be completed.” On AOC for Nigeria Air, he said the process was ongoing but that the authority had nothing to do with security clearance. “The only thing I can tell you is that the promoters of that airline have applied and their AOC is ongoing. I don’t have any assurances of when the licences would be. You see, when you apply for AOC or any certification, some issues that are not completely under the purview of the NCAA like seeking security clearance for the applicant, security agents do that. I don’t have control over security agencies to give such clearances. They have applied and it is ongoing, we are waiting for security clearance.” On multiple entry points granted foreign carriers, Captain Nuhu insisted that it is a bilateral decision between the Federal Government and the benefitting carriers and their countries. He said the regulator is not responsible for the negotiation of Bilateral Air Services Agreements (BASAs), hence does not have the authoritative to say who comes in or goes out as it lies within the purview of the Ministry of Aviation. He said: “Unfortunately, the NCAA is not the one responsible for BASA negotiations to airlines. It is a policy issue and this is handled by the Ministry.” “NCAA makes its own contributions, but the final decision is made by the Ministry. So, anyone that blames the NCAA for that is either out of a lack of understanding of how BASA negotiations work for Nigeria; and every country has its own peculiarity on how they do BASA. In Nigeria, it is the ministry. airfare hikes and the recent dust raised by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) about anti-competition practices, the NCAA helmsman said the deregulation of airfares was not so unfettered that the airlines can do as they please. He said,” FCCPC has its own functions, which are different from that of the NCAA. FCCPC deals with consumer protection and NCAA deals with air transport regulation, which I think still deals with the issue of airfares. “All airlines are supposed to, at the beginning of each year, file their airfares to the NCAA and most of the airlines do that. However, during the year, if the airfares are going to be higher than the ones filed before the NCAA, the airline is supposed to notify the NCAA. Then, we will do our reasonableness check and if we are good with it, we tell them to go ahead, but if not, we will tell them no. “It is not an unfettered deregulation that they can do as they like, there are guidelines to that in our regulations,” he explained.