Active telephone users hit 197.5 million, internet 143.7 million – NCC Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, who disclosed this at the ongoing 33rd Enugu International Trade Fair in Enugu, also noted that subscribers to Internet are exceeding 143.7 million. Dantatta added that broadband penetration stood at 41.61per cent. The executive vice chairman, who was represented by the Enugu Zonal Controller, Ogbonnaya Ugama, said: “In this new environment, the competitiveness of Nigeria and ability to open up the business environment to more global opportunities, depends on the ability of local players to leverage new technologies in their businesses”. He restated the commission’s commitment to protecting and empowering consumers from unfair practices by service providers irrespective of their class.   Marijuana: GO pleads “not guilty”, gets N2m bail     FG to add 800,000bpd to crude oil production     Nigeria gets 1.75mb/d OPEC production quota in May   According to him, the assurance was based on the commission’s regulatory mandate of ensuring that consumers of telecommunications services deserved to get value for their money and to be treated right as very important stakeholders. He disclosed that NCC was on the verge of deployment of Fift Generation (5G) network in Nigeria. The NCC boss said already, spectrum licenses for the companies that will roll out services have been issued. He said: “Though the deployment will start from the state capital and gradually extends to other areas across the state, it is important to state that unlike 1G, 2G, 3G, and 4G, the 5G network will bring substantial network improvements , including higher connection speed, among others”. Dantatta assured that as a consumer focused public sector institution, the NCC shall continue to commit to the provision of a high level playing ground for operators to thrive, promote investment, delivery of innovative services to individual consumers, among others. He noted that NCC has been a long standing partner of ECCIMA, adding that the commission has continually held it’s special day program at the fair.