Facts are facts, they are sacred and immutable, and so must be told without mincing words. These are very dangerous times in Nigeria. The Buhari government overwhelmed, no matter the spin. The Nigerian condition today is gangrenous. I did not say cancerous because all politics is local, which accounts for the serious variations between the South and the North. Much about that anon. So much happened in the past one month that anybody who loves Nigeria must now be thinking of what fate lies ahead of it.  No longer do we require a Professor Chukwuma Soludo, as he did in a series of exchanges with Dr Ngozi-Iweala in 2015, to know that whoever succeeds President Buhari would face torrid times ruling. If Soludo was talking then of macro- economic challenges, what President Buhari’s successor would face will certainly have to do with Nigeria’s very survival as we know it. Nigeria is on tenterhooks. It  is therefore a surprise, that if on 18 October, 2006 President Olusegun Obasanjo could, proactively, declare a state of emergency in Ekiti, then about the most peaceful state in the country, even without as much as a pint of blood shed therein, claiming he did so “to stop the state from descending into anarchy and threatening the security of Nigeria”, President Buhari could, in the face of all the horrendous killings happening all over the country, but especially so in the Northern states of Kaduna, Plateau, Benue, Zamfara and others, still need to be persuaded to do the same if only to nip the killings in the bud. This past week, some of Nigeria’s most respected religious leaders poured cold water on the likelihood of the 2023 elections holding as scheduled. But worst of it all, and not for the first time, was that the highly regarded Northern Elders Forum (NEF) advised President Buhari to resign from office. Speaking through its spokesperson, Dr Hakeem Baba Ahmed, the Forum said that “The administration of President Buhari does not appear to have answers to the challenges of security to which we are exposed. We cannot, they continued, “continue to live and die under the dictates of killers, kidnappers, rapists and sundry criminal groups that have deprived us of our rights to live in peace and security. Our Constitution has provisions for leaders to voluntarily step down if they are challenged by personal reasons or they prove incapable of leading. It is now time for President Buhari to seriously consider that option, since his leadership has proved spectacularly incapable of providing security for Nigerians”. These, indeed, are weighty words from a very respected organisation but the President has to be seen doing something beyond meetings with security Chiefs. Just as promises or condolences messages to bereaved families will no longer do. It is either we have a country or not. Should we not have a country even if Amnesty International and other do – gooders, would continue to shout themselves hoarse, blaming the victim of terrorism, which Nigeria has since become? Why, rather than getting its citizens killed daily, should Nigeria not be able to turn its Tucano’s on these killers and carpet bomb them out of existence as El Rufai, the Kaduna state governor, has severally advised?  Must President Buhari wait until Nigeria becomes Afghanistan? Why not wipe out a people who kill without mercy, especially so that we have a well-trained, though overstretched army, which has the fire power to make insecurity history in Nigeria? Or is President Buhari constrained by religion and ethnicity, which will then tantamount to a dereliction of duty? Are we suffering from a Stockholm syndrome, seeing how thousands of Boko Haram killers are being re-integrated into society? And, worst of all, why does the Northerner citizenry just sit down watching the carnage going on, unabated; around them, unconcerned? Is it because they neither question authority nor elders, even if wrong? Nigeria would be so different today if these horrendous killings were happening in the South. ‘nough said. Where are the Emirs, the billionaires, the elite but, especially the women – wives and mothers? What, for God’s sake, are they doing to help President Buhari call out these children of evil or must these killings continue, ad infinitum? How exactly do they see life, precious or dispensable? Is it culture or consanguinity? How do they think the world sees them? What is the council of traditional rulers and Ulama, especially the latter, doing to rein in these devils many of who worship in their mosques? I urge the North to rise up today, do something or large swathes of the North may soon find themselves as refugees in lands unknown, because these uncircumsticed killers are dead serious. It is not a curse. These are the reasons I believe that President Buhari ought to have long declared a state of emergency in those now totally unsafe states in the country. Such will significantly assist our fighting forces to more easily do the required reconnaissance to monitor the movements of the killers, isolate and keep them off their supply of, especially petrol, and, thereby render them hors de combat.   At ‘Easter of War’ Pope seeks peace     Tinubu: let us build Nigeria as never before     Aspirants step up governorship ticket chase   We must appeal to President Buhari’s love for Nigeria and sense of duty, demonstrated severally at extremely difficult and challenging times in the past, to declare these required emergencies today and give Nigeria a new lease of life. Now back to my point about all politics being local. Even though APC has failed totally to fulfil its campaign promises at the National level – an issue members of the Buhari government now angling to succeed him, must be ready to explain to Nigerians – it is not so in many states where APC states have performed. That is why I will eagerly campaign for the APC towards the governorship election slated for June 18 in Ekiti state because the government of Governor Kayode Fayemi has performed creditably. The party has, as its candidate for the election, a young man, Biodun Oyebanji who I know will equally perform to the admiration of Ekiti people.  Biodun has age and vitality on his side, in addition to having the requisite training and experience, having had his tutelage under two of the consequential governors the state has been privileged to have in her turbulent political history. He also has Governor Fayemi’s sterling performance to run and ride on. I have been a ring side observer/participant, and should know. I remain ever proud of what Governor Fayemi has done for Ekiti. A development expert himself, it is no surprise that several international development agencies are busy funding several projects in the state. For instance, the World Bank is funding the N3.7B Ero Dam, the largest water project in Ekiti State, which will provide improved water as well as solve defecation problems. This in addition to financing some 635 micro-projects in the 133 communities in the state. Also, because Ekiti is adjudged as one of the best implementers of its projects, the World Bank recently approved for it, a grant in excess of $20M in its post- Covid stimulus fund, surnamed NIGERIA CARES project. This is not to forget the Ikun Ekiti Dairy Farm in which the state is in partnership with Promasidor which has since invested over $5M into what is now a fully operational livestock/ milk production company. Or his monthly subsidy stipends to the elderly – the first of its kind in the country – from which thousands of our elder’s benefit. I am equally excited that the hopes I expressed concerning his wife, the First Lady, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, in my article: ‘ELECT ONE, GET ONE FREE’ on these pages on Sunday, 19 June, 2011, have uncannily more than come to pass. Let me quote at some length from the piece, written over a decade ago: “ BOGOF, meaning ‘buy one, get one free, was an aphorism made popular in the Clintonian era in the United States of America, largely because of the symmetry between President Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. “… and I make bold to say that with respect to passion for Ekiti people, and the state’s socio-economic development, the only difference between Dr Fayemi and his spouse, is that the latter was not voted for by the good people of Ekiti. With two Masters degrees in History and Gender Studies from the Universities of Ife, Ile-Ife, and Middlesex University, U.K, Erelu Fayemi has recently been recognized as one of the world’s leading 100 personalities working for the interest of women and children. Only last Friday, June 10, 2011, she drew a large crowd of who is who, at the launch of her Ekiti Development Foundation, EDF. She is, of course, not new to this type of structured philanthropy, having founded the African Women’s Leadership Institute which has trained over 5000 women all over Africa as well as co-founded the African Women Development Fund, which has supported over 800 women’s organizations in 42 African countries. She established EDF to do the following in Ekiti state: Support initiatives which will economically empower women and youth by providing capital on revolving basis for co-operative societies; support civil society organisations, promote the rights of women and enhance their leadership capacities, as well as encourage women political participation and focus on health care, education and give financial assistance to women with multiple births as she has, indeed, been doing before the launch and not a penny of these would come from state funds. Erelu has not stopped. Rather, she has since “influenced the passage of six bills into law at the State House of Assembly, all of which have enhanced the status of women and children and protected them against victimisation and dehumanisation. They include: Gender Based Violence Law, Equal Opportunities Law, HIV Anti-Stigma Law, Treatment, Care and Protection Law for Sexually Abused Minors and Gender Composition Law which affirm 35 per cent representation for women in political positions. Her Obirin Kete Cooperative Scheme has “provided 3,544 poor women with access to credit facilities to boost their businesses, while also serving as a platform for a virile political participation for women”. It will not be superfluous to mention that I have sat, severally, at all night long committee meetings interrogating ways of improving the lives of the generality of Ekiti people. Interesting at these meetings, is how she would, like our great father of blessed memory, and former governor of Ondo state, Chief Michael Aiasin, who would sit through a whole day’s meeting without drinking water or as much as going to pee, Erelu would sit ramrod straight, all attention, while some others, to stay awake, would be quaffing coffee, like it was going extinct – a thoroughly hard working author of many books. The above is the interesting scenario, Dr Olayemi Oyebanji, by God’s grace, will seamlessly step into, come October 2022, to take ownership, and sustain the wonderful legacy Erelu has laid. This is why I urge all my Ekiti compatriots, as well non- Ekiti residents, registered to vote, to once again troop out to Vote APC, Vote BAO, Vote Continuity and Vote for enhanced security, peace and continuing development in our dear ILE UYI, ILE EYE. Victoria acerta.