Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) OPPO Nigeria has restated its commitment to the country. Its Marketing Manager, Jennifer Okorhi, who spoke during the unveiling of OPPO A96 in Lagos, said the OEM would continue to do all it could to delight its numerous customers with the best devices and at pocket-friendly prices. She said the company was pleased to have created a phone that is affordable to customers. She said the OPPO A96 was filled with amazing features, carefully thought out, to provide customers with the very best at affordable price. “The OPPO A96 is enhanced with features that will not only thrill our customers but enhance their daily functions. It has been specifically designed to accommodate the intricacies of their lives while refusing to compromise on its outlook. For instance, the OPPO A96 has Optimised Night Charging, which allows the phone’s AI to learn the user’s sleep patterns and schedule a segmented battery charging plan during the nighttime. This simply means that you never have to wake up to an insufficiently charged device” she said. According to her, the device is equipped with the 5000mAh long-lasting battery and 33W SUPERVOOC flash charging, complemented by the OPPO Glow Design that allows the phone to be scratch and fingerprint resistant, 6.59-inch 90Hz Colour-Rich Punch-Hole Display with 96per cent NTSC wide color gamut that is managed by the OPPO’s self-developed Adaptive Refresh Rate Technology to deliver an immersive viewing experience. She said the features embedded in the OPPO A96 includes the All-day AI Eye Comfort which enhances the screen visibility in bright or dim environments based on the levels of ambient light. The display now covers more of the color spectrum, making image colors even truer, richer, and more captivating. It also features a 6.59-inch 90Hz Colour-Rich Punch-Hole Display with 90.8 per cent screen-to-body ratio and 1080×2412 FHD resolution.   NCC urges subscribers on infrastructure protection     Deepening Nigeria’s e-commerce space     E-commerce boosting shift from cash to digital economy   “The OPPO A96 design is deliberate. This is why the fingerprint sensor has been moved to the side of the phone so as to create a slimmer, more premium look and feel. Equipped with The 5000mAh (typical) battery gives users the necessary battery power to stay connected. The battery allows users to text on WhatsApp for up to 154 hours while 33W SUPERVOOCTM fast charging gives users more flexibility with a 30-minute charge providing 55per cent of battery power. In addition, OPPO has made great strides in improving the battery usage efficiency with features such as Super Power Saving Mode based on the power-saving strategies, such as CPU frequency adjustment and backlight regulation that adopts on specific apps to extend battery life. OPPO A96 also features Optimized Night Charging, which allows the phone’s AI to learn the user’s sleep patterns and schedule a segmented battery charging plan during the nighttime,” she explained. Powered by the Qualcomm Snapdragon 680 4G Mobile Platform, OPPO A96 delivers an exceptionally smooth user experience with the 8GB + 256GB large memory and storage. This is complemented by RAM Expansion which gives the OPPO A96 an extra boost to performance and storage, meaning better multi-tasking and smoother experience, and extra storage via SD cards expansion to preserve more photos and videos. OPPO A96 carries a 16MP Front Camera, producing gorgeous portrait shots. Features such as AI Natural Retouching includes blemish removal while still preserving the user’s natural facial features. Portrait shots are now brighter and clearer in dim environments with the help of the 360° Fill Light feature. “The rear-facing dual camera setup features a 50MP Rear Camera with high photosensitivity and high pixel count, and a 2MP Bokeh Camera, allowing users to use Portrait Mode to capture photos with the precise and natural bokeh effects. The rear camera also supports 5x digital zoom and up to 20 continuous burst shots. “ColorOS 11.1 on OPPO A96 makes the entire user experience effortless and efficient with fluidity, ease of use, and performance at the core of its functionality.  System optimization software features such as System Booster and Link Boost 2.0 ensure high-level system performance and connectivity smoothness. Bullet Screen Message minimizes the disruptions from calls or notifications while users are engaging in a game, meaning message information will scroll across the screen as floating windows to minimize the disruption. Privacy features are also a core tenant of ColorOS, with Private Safe and APP Lock offering users the ability to keep their private data and apps secure. Anti-peeping for Notifications gives the front camera the ability to detect anyone close by and intelligently protects user information by hiding notification content,” she added. Air Gestures are now available on OPPO A96, which include non-touch sliding gestures to move the screen up or down, swiping up to answer calls, or static palm gestures to silence calls. Equipped with a large memory and storage thanks to RAM expansion, dual speakers and microphones for an optimized audio experience and air gestures that doesn’t require physical touch to scroll up or down, OPPO A96 is capturing the hearts of Nigerians as evidenced by the gasped of excitement during the product launch. With the customer in mind, OPPO Nigeria has created a beautiful phone that truly speaks to class, functionality and affordability. The device has been set at a retail price of N159,900 comes with 8GB + 256GB and will be available in Nigeria from the 4th of April 2022, however, pre-order has begun and will run till the April 3.2022.