Former Anambra State Governor Mr. Peter Obi has blamed high rate of crime and insecurity in the country on failure of leadership. He promised to fix Nigeria’s problems in four years. Obi, a presidential aspirant in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who spoke yesterday in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, during an interaction with the party’s stakeholders and delegates at the party’s secretariat, warned that the worse was yet to come unless the needful was done to address the drift, stressing that the country had faced bad governance. The ex-governor, who said 98 million Nigerians were living in abject poverty,  added that 35 per cent of the population were unemployed, 15 million out of school, while as at 2017, the country’s debt stood at about 57 trillion, which might have risen to 135-140 trillion. He lamented that the country’s debts could not be re-paid because it was borrowed for consumption and production, adding that over 90 per cent of the revenue was being used to service the debts. On the panaceas, Obi said: “I know the problems of this country and how to solve them, including insecurity.” The former governor, who frowned at the gross mismanagement of public resources by administrations, promised to end the culture of money sharing, noting that the wealth of the people would be deployed to work for the people. He acknowledged that the only hurdle before him was the PDP presidential primary election, after which he would defeat the candidates of other parties. 		 			Blackouts: Excuses, excuses …		 		 		 			Obiano’s wife must be a Senator		 		 		 			Emefiele lists conditions for stable exchange rate		 		 Obi appealed for the support of Abia State delegates and those from other states on the day of the primaries. He recalled his achievements as governor, which he said made Anambra one of the fastest moving economies in Africa and promised to replicate his performance in Anambra, if he becomes the president He identified hunger and unemployment as the breeding grounds for criminality, saying Nigeria’s export would increase under his leadership. The Chairman of PDP in Abia State, Asiforo Okere, described Obi as a fine material who ”Abia, Igboland and Nigeria are proud of.” He told the presidential aspirant that Abia PDP delegates would take the right decision on the day of the primary election. A member of his entourage and former presidential aspirant, Dr. Doyin Okupe, urged Nigerians to elect Obi as president, saying his antecedents were proof that he was ordained by God to lead Nigeria. He said: “I withdrew from the race to give Obi a chance. PDP is lucky because it stands the chance to defeat the APC- Federal Government, who he said had nothing to offer Nigerians. “Nigeria must elect a person like Peter Obi. Obi is the champion of the presidential aspirants, having in addition to other qualifications, acquired knowledge from the four corners of the globe.”