POPULAR singer, Oluwatosin Ajibade, better known by his stage name Mr Eazi, has proposed to his long-term girlfriend, Temi Otedola. Mr Eazi is the pioneer of Banku Music, a fusion of sound he describes as a mixture of Ghanaian highlife and Nigerian chord progressions and patterns, while Temi is an actress and one of the daughters of billionaire Femi Otedola. The singer and Temi shared a video that captured their moments together. Many friends, fans and family were indeed delighted to watch the beautiful chemistry. Temi made her Nollywood debut in 2020 in ‘Citation’ by Kunle Afolayan. Mr Eazi’s proposal comes less than two years after Otedola had asked the pair when they planned to tie the knot. Temi and the ‘Leg Over’ crooner have been dating since 2017. The singer’s marriage proposal continues to elicit reactions on social media, with many celebrities taking to the comment section of Temi’s post to celebrate them.   Orlando Julius: Curtains fall on legendary showman at 78     Umar to FG: forget census, secure Nigeria     Delegation submits Wike’s form, says Rivers Gov…   Joining the fray, Otedola wrote, “Somebody is taking my baby.” Others like Tiwa Savage, Simi, Joeboy, Adesua Etomi, Broda Shaggi, Sharon Ooja, and BBNaija stars Bisola, Neo, were palpably excited and congratulated the love birds. Temi’s sister, popular Disc Jockey and artiste Florence Otedola, aka DJ Cuppy, who is currently studying for a second Master’s degree at the University of Oxford, tweeted: “Today is one of the HAPPIEST days of my life… Thank you Mr Eazi for bringing such joy to our family! … Oya what is the hashtag for the wedding? Congratulations to my favourite couple on their engagement!” DJ Cuppy is said to have played a very pivotal role in the celebrity couples’ love story, as it was through her that Mr Eazi and her sister met. That was what she meant when she tweeted that she introduced them to each other. Eazi had in an interview in 2018 said though he met Temi through her (DJ Cuppy) she did not introduce her sister to him, in the strict sense of the word. “I met Temi in London. Her sister was playing at the event, somewhere in Knightbridge and she said, oh come out come out, follow me to this event, so I followed her to the event and then she was deejaying and all of a sudden it was just me and Temi sitting down and just watching her,” he said. Back in 2021, the two started their own podcast – How Far, where they talked about their relationship and the dos and don’ts in a relationship.