With the Super Eagles’ shock and catastrophic exit from the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup, stakeholders are unanimous that the Nigerian football’s Augean stable under the leadership of Amaju Pinnick needs to be cleaned up as stakeholders called for a new direction in this report put together by MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN and OLALEKAN OKUSAN.   All eyes would be on the posh Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre in Qatar as the draws for the first FIFA World Cup to be held in the Middle East  holds today. While the flags of Cameroon, Senegal, Tunisia, Morocco, and Ghana will be hoisted with pride as the five African representatives at the event, Nigeria will be missing after the Super Eagles were dumped by the Black Stars on Tuesday after the final play-off. Before now, the hues and cries were that the Super Eagles were a struggling side under the immediate past manager, German Gernot Rohr, although they always grind results when it mattered most to qualify for major events like World Cup and AFCON.  Under the German, the Super Eagles after missing out on two successive AFCON in 2015 and 2017, qualified for both the 2019 and 2021 AFCON as well as the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup and he was on the verge of sealing a ticket to Qatar 2022 after qualifying the team for the final play-off spot but was booted under the pretence that the Super Eagles were not playing ‘sexy football’. Days to the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon, the former Bayern Munich defender was unceremoniously sacked as the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) promptly drafted its Technical Director Austin Eguavoen as the Super Eagles’ interim technical adviser. Though Eguavoen failed to take the team beyond the second round in Cameroon following the listless 1-0 defeat to Tunisia in the Round of 16th, the NFF still left him to lead the Super Eagles’ charge for the precious Qatar 2022 World Cup ticket, but that decision led only to nothing but catastrophic (Qatar-strophic) exit of the national team. Until Tuesday when Ghana sent Nigeria packing, the Super Eagles have only missed the FIFA World Cup once when Germany hosted the event in 2006 while the ‘Giants of Africa’ have remarkably qualified for six editions including USA 1994, France 1998, Korea/Japan 2002, South Africa 2020 as well as Russia 2018. So, what next after next for the Super Eagles after the team’s Qatar-strophic exit from the historic World Cup in the Middle East? Football stakeholders are unanimous that it is about time that the Augean stable of the Super Eagles and indeed the NFF must be cleaned to move Nigerian football forward following this huge setback. Former Super Eagles midfielder Mutiu Adepoju, an AFCON winner in 1994 as well as a member of the World Cup squad at USA’94 and 2002 Korea/Japan, said he was troubled pained with the ouster of Eagles from the World Cup, saying the panacea is renewed development of the sport from the grassroots. “It is very unfortunate that we were not able to make it to Qatar 2022 because we had the players just like Ghana, but we were not able to utilize our chances to qualify ahead of them and that is football for you,” the former Real Sociedad  midfielder told NationSport. “The problem with our football is not Super Eagles but the way we have been handling things in our football.  “We must now focus on development rather than competing in major competitions. We must pay attention to youth development while serious attention must be given to the development of our local leagues which have been in a moribund state for years.” Similarly, former Super Eagles goalkeeper trainer Ike Shorunmu who was between the sticks ay Korea/Japan in 2002 was not too happy with the attitude of the players during the encounter against Ghana which he said contributed immensely to their exit from the World Cup. “I think the problem the Super Eagles had was that they (players) believed they had already qualified without focusing on that important match against Ghana,” began the former Stationery Stores stopper.  “They were complacent before the match, and this really cost us the Qatar 2022 World Cup ticket.  “What worried me most during the match was the attitude of the players as they were playing as if nothing was at stake. I think the players’ attitude contributed to their exit from the World Cup.” Shorunmu said there must be conscious efforts to develop the local league henceforth as most of the top players that the country had produced in the past came from the domestic league. He continued: “It is time to focus on the local league because most of us that made it to the national team passed through the league and we understand the rigours of playing for the national team.  “We should stop depending on foreign-based players but rather develop our league so that we can have players that have gone through the rigours of the league that can also hold their own when it matters most.” Another former Nigeria international, Francis Monidafe, is equally miffed and has in fact asked that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) should be dissolved even if they would be sanctioned in this onerous task of sanitizing its damaged game.  “I think the first thing that should have happened by now is to dissolve the NFF and be ready to accept the CAF/FIFA sanction for two years so that we can use the period to set our football on the right footing,” he explained. He continued: “We are just wasting talent away with what we are doing in the last eight years under Amaju Pinnick who is only interested in getting a higher position in CAF and FIFA as his board cared less about the development of football. “Despite the huge money the government gives to NFF annually, there is nothing to show for their efforts because we don’t have any grassroots programmes.  “No youth competitions and there is no genuine move by NFF to discover and groom talents from home rather they continue to scout footballers from the Diaspora which has not helped at all.   Adekalu Bulls wins South West Baseball tourney     Infantino seeks third term as FIFA president     Injured Ndidi to miss rest of season   “It is high time we tell ourselves the truth that we are not growing as a footballing nation, but we are just out to compete without looking at what we can do to produce more home-grown footballers. “Unfortunately, those in charge are only interested in getting juicy posts in CAF and FIFA which we are all seeing now but they forget to focus on their constituency.  “There is nothing wrong in eyeing top posts in CAF and FIFA, but they must be conscious of their constituency so that they can produce footballers that understand the system,” he added. As the fabrics of Nigerian football reel s in the shock exit from Qatar 2022 World Cup, FCT FA Chairman, Mohammed Adam Mouktar said he was yet to get over Nigeria’s ouster from Qatar 2022.   “The result is simply shocking and devastating; to think and imagine that Nigeria, an African football powerhouse, will not be at the 2022 World Cup in Qatar is heart-wrenching,” began Mouktar, one of the emerging forces in Nigerian football following his ground-breaking achievements since he took over the reins of football in Abuja. “The fans will take a long time to heal. They made sacrifices and filled the stadium, yet the players couldn’t deliver the result.  “Personally, I was not in support of the timing of the former coach’s sacking as it clearly destabilised a system and this is the outcome.  “Under the new regime, team selection was not based on merit or performance data to justify some of the players invited. Most new players need a gradual integration and to slowly assimilate.  “But as all Nigerians and stakeholders, we expect a statement soon, a strong review, and certainly some change of direction as to how our football is run and organised. We need to lay strong foundations, map out a systematic design and stop the fire brigade approach. “This has set us back many years in our quest for world standard football development. Some players’ careers will suffer within the four-year absence on the world’s biggest stage.  “To restore confidence in Nigerians, there is need to be a deliberate effort to open up and show positive actions towards a new rebirth and change,” Mouktar noted. Yet former Super Eagles midfielder to the South Africa 2010 World Cup, Sani Kaita, believed this is not the time for a blame game while calling for total reflection of football. “Firstly, there are changes which need to be done, hopefully, NFF or the sports ministry will investigate that. Secondly, we lack tactical understanding on both games,” he said. “Players have done their best, but it wasn’t enough to put us through, I hope we’ll learn from this. “It’s not time to point accusing fingers but there are changes which are definitely needed,” Kaita added. But  former Green Eagles star Paul Okoku said the continuous poor leadership management of  Nigerian football has continued to rob the country of  global success.  “What we witnessed last Tuesday in the Eagles and Black Stars match was a complete failure of leadership in all levels of our football administration and we also learned that everything foreign is not always the best,” the US-based  former Nigeria international told NationSport. “If the team had a mixture of our home-based players and foreign players, I believed they would have performed better with the chance to win. “I was so convinced that we really had a good team if we have to go by the performances they displayed during the last AFCON tournament in Cameroon. The momentum was on their side after the draw in Ghana but the last match against Ghana in Abuja was disappointing. As a result, we came to the realization that the players weren’t as good as we thought they were. They did not take chances through committed offensive plays, there were no man-to-man coverage. “In a final match of that magnitude to get to the World Cup tournament like we had last Tuesday, a team’s strength gets them through in the knockout stages and their deficiencies get them defeated, our weaknesses were exposed and consequently, we got knocked down and out regardless of the final scoreline.” `Meanwhile, Okoku has  called for leadership change in the administration of football in the country, which he believes would help to give attention to the grassroots development of football. He offered: “We want energized and trustworthy leaders who are selfless in their services to the common good of the people. “Simply put, we want and should demand responsible leaders with integrity who are willing to be held accountable for converting public funds to personal consumption, for their illegal activities and transactions, for their corrupt practices, actions, or inactions.  “The government should revamp grassroots sports from its fundamentals straight from the primary school levels. We must encourage the games masters’ efforts and their patience with the young lads. “We should deem it appropriate for us to expect the private sectors and all levels of the government to invest in grassroots sports. I am looking forward to the day we will support our local teams as we do the foreign teams.  “Equally, we want committed players who can perform at a high level. We have to start believing in our players who are plying their trades in Nigeria, to have a chance to represent Nigeria. “I don’t mean to be narrow in my proposition because I still believe in the inclusion of foreign-based players, and that’s perfectly fine to have a split identity rather than put all my eggs in one basket as evidenced in the last game against Ghana. “Though, there has to be a national willingness, a change of attitude, for their acceptance in order to make a difference for the home-based players. “The late coach Stephen Keshi was masterful in his flawless execution of grooming the home-based players. He was loyal to them to the core. He was committed to conviction with all the criticisms that he got, he didn’t waver,” the 56-year-0ld  former Flying Eagles star added.