Reaching the age of 80 is definitely worth celebrating in a special way, and music legend Chief Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi released an album in celebration of his milestone birthday on April 3. “The songs are about thanksgiving,” said the musician popularly known as ‘Chief Commander,’ his stage name. After he retired from playing Juju music in the 1990s, and became an evangelist promoting gospel music, his numerous fans put pressure on him to rethink his retirement.  He returned to secular music after 17 years. It was as a Juju megastar that he performed in the maiden edition of the Glo Evergreen Series in 2013, sponsored by the proudly Nigerian telecommunications company. He now performs Juju music only on special occasions. At his induction into the Evergreen Music Hall of Fame in 2019, in Lagos, by the Evergreen Musical Company, a highlight of the event was the company’s release of a compilation of 660 songs by Obey in the Juju music genre. “For you to have evergreen music, it must be educative, teach morals and preach against societal ills. That’s the reason the albums I produced in the 1960s are still relevant today,” he said in an interview in 2020. According to him, he formed his first band, the Royal Mambo Orchestra, in Idogo, his hometown in present-day Ogun State, in 1957. He formed another band called The International Brothers, which played a fusion of Highlife and Juju, in Lagos, in 1964.  By the time the band became Inter-Reformers in the 1970s, he had launched his own brand of Juju music. His Miliki Sound was distinguished by a leisurely style. It was didactic and danceable. He rose to prominence with a long string of Juju album hits on the West African Decca musical label.   A win or wool over the eye?     2023: APC declares nomination forms free for women aspirants     JNI queries Fed Govt’s inability to wipe out bandits,…   He became a living legend. His creative experimentation with drums, guitars and talking drums demonstrated his high-quality artistry. His melodious dance-floor compositions, liberally spiced with Yoruba wise sayings and Christian philosophy, promoted his cultural heritage and emphasised righteous living. He also did praise-singing. Obey’s compositions were gripping.  Among his popular tracks are: ‘What God Has Joined Together,’ Aimasiko, Aiye Wa A Toro, Esa Ma Miliki, ‘The Horse, The Man and His Son,’ Pegan Pegan, Anjade Lo Loni Eledumare, Jesu Olore, ‘Africa is My Home,’  ‘I am a Winner.’ President Muhammadu Buhari noted in a birthday tribute to him: “He has used his music to champion government’s programmes such as: Change of Lane in 1972 (Keep Right), Change to the Naira (Naira/Kobo), and Operation Feed the Nation, among others.” This observation underlined the relevance of his music.  He received the Nigerian national honour, Member of the Order of the Federal Republic (MFR), in 2001. His services to music transcend performance. He was chairman of the Nigerian Copyright Commission, and was, in 2014, appointed Professor Emeritus at the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. As a visiting artiste in the university’s Department of English and Performing Arts, he promised to ensure that the students in particular benefit maximally from his experience. Giving back to society, he established Ebenezer Obey Music & Life Skills to “give opportunities to young ones who want to know more about music,” and Ebenezer Obey Scholarship Scheme in affiliation with universities in Ogun State. The Ebenezer Obey Museum, which opened at the Federal College of Education, Osiele, Abeokuta, Ogun State, in 2019, was, according to the curator, designed “not just to create inspiring works for posterity, but also to inspire the younger generations and students of this great institution that they can also achieve greatness.” A place that preserves the old-time spirit of Juju music is of immeasurable value. Obey remains great despite the changing times, the reinvention and noticeable decline of Juju music.