Music star, Teniola Apata aka Teni Makanaki was a sight to behold when she performed at the Laffmattazz with Gbenga Adeyinka 1st and friends in Ibadan, Oyo State. The burly singer thrilled attendees of the show which kicked off the 2022 journey of the traveling comedy show on Easter Sunday. The show, which began in the afternoon, also had performances from celebrities that include Jaywon, Klint da drunk, Lyta, MC Bash, Prince Phelar, Testimony Jaga, Keanzo Abami, Dj Secxy, Dr Whiteberry, and MC Danfo. Also in attendance were Yomi Fash-Lanso, Omobaba, Dele Omo Woli, Dr Smiles, and Peteru. Adeyinka 1st noted that the Ibadan edition of the show kicked off a potpourri of activities that have been lined up to complement the unique standard the show is already known for.   Marriage? Count me out, says Iyabo Ojo     Bellamino serves Pepper Soup     I can’t date a lady who asks me out, says Ugovin   After 12 years of touring other southwest states of Nigeria with top-notch entertainment, Adeyinka will return to Lagos with his hit comedy show, Laffmattazz. The Laffmattazz Bursting Loose 2022 tour will move to Akure, Oshogbo, Ekiti, Abeokuta, and Lagos. Laffmattazz with Gbenga Adeyinka & Friends started in Lagos about 16 years ago, offering three editions before it was hijacked by other southwest states. The show holds in at least five different states every year. Adeyinka explained that “I have always wanted to bring out the best of comedy in the South West, knowing fully well that comedy is deeply rooted in this region from the days of our fathers who are without doubt legends of the trade, hence my decision to go on a tour of the region with my friends in the entertainment world.” Adeyinka, however, added that bringing the show back to Lagos is imperative saying, “We are coming back with a bang this year. It’s been 12 years of sharing Premium Entertainment across the South Western region of our great nation, Nigeria. Ibadan will be the first city to set the pace and enjoy what my team and I have planned.”