Morakinyo Abodunrin with Agency Reports As Manchester United are reportedly leading Arsenal and Newcastle in the race to sign Napoli striker Victor Osimhen this summer, immediate past Super Eagles technical adviser, German coach Gernot Rohr believed a move to the English Premier League would bolster the career of the in-demand Nigerian strike. The 23-yearl-old Osimhen is drawing attention from the Premier League after scoring 16 goals in 28 appearances for Napoli this season, a return which has helped Luciano Spalletti’s men take control of the race for top four in Serie A. Osimhen according to London Daily Mail would command a huge transfer price after Napoli paid an impressive £67million to prise him away from French Lique 1 side Lille in 2020 even more so as his Italian club rejected an audacious bid by Newcastle in January. Following Newcastle’s January offer, and with Arsenal also eyeing a deal, Napoli expect a bidding war for their star striker to play out at the end of the season, with £84million the starting price. Words are rife that Man Chester United have already opened discussions with Osimhen’s representative Roberto Calenda, who is ‘the bridge that connects Naples with Manchester’ even as Italian news outlet, Corriere dello Sport, claimed Calenda has held a ‘summit’ with Napoli president Aurelio De Laurentiis, sporting director Cristiano Giuntoli and Osimhen himself.   Ex-Internationals slams Pinnick on dwindling football…     Revealed: why Black coaches rarely in Brazilian football     Tiger’s rapid progress excites Sunmonu   Reacting to this development, Rohr told NationSport that he would be so pleased to see his former ward star in the high-profile English Premiership. “ I’m always happy to see my former players succeeding so well and particularly happy that Victor Osimhen is being linked to this list (of EPL clubs), “ the 68-year-old former Bayern Munich defender told NationSport. “I hope it would be good for him to discover another league and it is always possible for him to progress because everybody knows that the Premier League is of the highest level . “ I really hope he can land this big transfer.” Rohr also had some good words for Villarreal’s winger Samuel Chukwueze for his hair-raising performances in recent UEFA Champions League matches. “ Of course, I’m also happy for Chukwueze over his good performances in the Champions League especially for his goal which sent my former club, Bayern Munich out in the quarter final,” he said. “ It was hard for us but I’m very happy for Chukwueze.”