The trend of moving from Government House to the Senate chambers, which began in 2007, is not about to abate, as six sitting governors are set to join the bandwagon. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI who has been monitoring the development reports The Senate is gradually becoming a retirement home for former governors, as almost every governor who completes his two terms in office heads for the upper legislative chamber. After serving as governor, there are only two high profile political offices: the presidency and the Senate. Since the Senate is much easier to get into, many second-term governors do not hesitate to move from the Government House to the Senate chambers to remain politically relevant. So far, only two former state governors, the late Umaru Yar’Adua (Katsina) and Goodluck Jonathan (Bayelsa) have made it to Aso Rock Villa, the presidential seat of power, after their tenure. The trend of moving from the Government House to the Senate chambers began when Dr George Akume who was Benue State governor between 1999 and 2007 and former Enugu State Governor Chimaroke Nnamani (1999 to 2007) were elected into the upper legislative chamber, also known as the Red Chamber, at the end of their tenure in 2007. As leaders of their political platforms in their respective states, governors control their party structures. In most cases, they personalize such powers. They also use their enormous financial muscle to maximum advantage by dictating who gets what, where and how during elections. It is instructive to note that Abia, Kano and Nasarawa states have two of their former governors in the 9th Senate. Abdullahi Adamu who was Nasarawa State governor between 1999 and 2007 only vacated his seat at the Red Chambers recently, to concentrate on his role as the National Chairman of the All Progressives (APC). There were 17 former state governors in the Senate at the outset. They are Kashim Shettima (Borno), Tanko Al-Makura and Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa), Ibrahim Geidam (Yobe), Rochas Okorocha (Imo), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun) and Abdullaziz Yari (Zamfara). Others are Kabiru Gaya and Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano), Danjuma Goje (Gombe), Theodore Orji and Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia), Sam Egwu (Ebonyi), Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto), Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu) and Gabriel Suswan (Benue). There are also two former deputy governors in the Senate chamber. They are Eyinnaya Abaribe who represents Abia Central and Biodun Olujimi, the senator representing Ekiti South at the Red Chamber. That trend is not likely to abate, as six sitting governors are set to join the bandwagon. They are Samuel Ortom (Benue), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano) and Simon Lalong (Plateau).   Ortom: Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom is one of the second term governors that have indicated that he would make the transition from the Benue State Government House to the Senate chamber next year. After months of speculations, Ortom finally confirmed recently that he has yielded to the appeal of his constituents that he should vie for a seat in the Senate in next year’s general election. The governor made the revelation during a town hall meeting at his home town, Nzorov, in Guma Local Government Area. He said he arrived at the decision following a series of consultations with his kinsmen who pleaded with him to consider running for the Senate at the end of his tenure as governor. It is likely to be a smooth sail for the governors, as Senator Emmanuel Orker Jev who currently represents the constituency (Benue Northwest) has earlier indicated that he would be willing to step down for the governor. He said those speculating a frosty relationship between him and Governor Ortom over the senatorial seat would be disappointed. There had been reports that Jev and the governor would have a showdown over the latter’s alleged ambition to contest the Benue Northwest senatorial seat at the expiration of his tenure.   Lalong: Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has also indicated his interest to run for Plateau South senatorial election in 2023. The governor, who is the Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum, has obtained the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms at the national secretariat of the ruling APC in Abuja. A group identified as The Plateau Legacy Group led by Yusuf Gagdi collected the forms and guidelines on behalf of Governor Lalong.   Ishaku: Taraba State’s Governor Darius Ishaku has also accepted to contest for a senatorial seat to continue the good work he is doing for the people. A group under the auspices of the Southern Taraba Women and Youth Coalition has been appealed to Governor Darius Ishaku to contest the Southern Taraba senatorial seat and the governor is believed to have accepted to contest. The coalition made the latest appeal while presenting an endorsement letter to the state’s PDP chairman, Col. Agbu Kefas (rtd). The co-convener of the group and the member representing Ibi Constituency in the Benue State House of Assembly, Mohammed Abdulkarim, said the group saw that Governor Ishaku has what it called “an unquenchable spirit of development and love for his people”. Abdulkarim said: “The governor has proven to be a good ambassador, hence our decision to ask him to go back home and continue his good work as a senator representing the zone, come 2023.”   Boy apocalypse: Beyond the applause     Ogbonge women: Lending to transform women’s lives     Osun food support scheme lifting the poor, improving SMEs   He said the people of Southern Taraba have carefully followed the track record of the good works of the governor and that he (Governor Ortom) should continue to render such selfless service to the people.   Ugwuanyi: Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi had been in a dilemma over whether to contest for the Enugu North senatorial seat or go for the presidency. This was based on the clamour for a president of Igbo extraction to succeed the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari when the latter completes his second term by May next year. But, the governor appears to have eventually settled for the senatorial race. There was jubilation in the constituency recently when the lawmaker currently representing the district, Chukwuka Utazi, announced his decision not to re-contest for the seat next year. Utazi said he decided not to run to pave the way for the smooth emergence of Governor Ugwuanyi to represent the district in the 10th National Assembly. The lawmaker added, amid jubilation, that the decision is also to promote the existing peace in Enugu North senatorial district and Enugu State in general. Utazi reassured the governor that the PDP family in Enugu North senatorial district and the entire people of the district are solidly behind him and his political decisions regarding the choice of candidates during the party primary. He said: “We will follow our brother and leader; we are going to be behind you, and pray that God will guide you to take these decisions. We are here to reassure you that it is ordained by God that you do the things you are supposed to do. We are here to also reassure you that you have our backing. Our case is not just political. The followership and backing are also spiritual. And you have our spiritual backing too.”   Okowa: Delta State’s Governor Ifeanyi Okowa is another southern governor that is hoping to be picked as vice president if the PDP eventually settles for a northerner as its flag bearer for next year’s presidential election. But, Okowa who was in the Senate from 2011 and 2015 was recently reported to have picked up his nomination and expression of interest forms for the Delta North senatorial race. The governor may have begun to prepare the minds of the people that he may be heading back to the Red Chambers next year. When he was confronted by reporters to comment on the issue, Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu said it is within the right of the governor to return to the Red Chamber from where he contested the governorship election in 2015.  The commissioner spoke while reacting to the speculation that the governor had procured the nomination and expression of interest forms for the Delta North senatorial election. Aniagwu who spoke during an interactive session with reporters in Asaba, the state capital, said he could not confirm or deny if the governor actually bought forms for the senatorial election. He said: “If he wants to return to the Senate where he made remarkable footprints, it is within his democratic right. He did not inform me, I did not accompany him to pick a form for Senate, and so since it is within his right and there is no law that says you must announce it when you pick a form, I am not in a position to confirm or deny whether he has the forms or not. “The only thing I know is that my governor has been very busy consulting, knowing that whichever position he would proceed to from here would require a larger number of persons in the political space. He is consulting a number of persons. I am sure you saw a picture yesterday with a former president of this country. And about three days ago, you saw four prominent Nigerians who came to visit him along the same line of consultation.”   Ganduje: Kano State’s Governor Abdullahi Ganduje is still weighing his exit plans and political future outside the Government House. He has openly said he has no plan to quit active politics after his exit from the State House. The 71-year old says he will remain politically active after the expiration of his second term in 2023. But, the governor has not been categorical about whether or not he would contest another election. Ganduje, who has been in politics since 1978, says his eyes would be wide open for the good of the country. When asked whether he would toe the path of his Katsina State counterpart, Aminu Bello Masari, who recently said he would quit politics next year, he said: “I am not tired anyway; neither will I resign nor retire from politics.” Ganduje’s close allies have indicated however that he is aspiring for two key positions, but is still pondering on which one would be feasible within the calculations of his party for the next general elections. From all indications, Ganduje’s first interest is to be picked as a running mate to whoever the party picks as its presidential flag bearer. But, if his vice presidential ambition does not work out, Ganduje, it is said, will settle for the Senate. If he runs for the Senate, he will have only a few hurdles to cross. One of such close allies said: “The leadership of the APC has already planned to cede the ticket to him, if he aspires for Senate, after all, Sen. Barau Jibrin the incumbent senator representing Kano North district where the governor comes from, is running for governor.”