The Lagos State Police Command has invited for questioning all the pupils of Chrisland Schools involved in the viral child pornographic video. Their parents were also summoned as were the school teachers in whose custody the children were kept, and members of the school management alleged to have attempted to cover up the act. The Nation learnt yesterday evening that the parties were asked to present themselves at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti as part of police effort to unearth the truth. A viral video said to have been circulating on social media for over a month drew public condemnation on Monday after it was alleged that a 10-year-old pupil was drugged and raped by her classmates while they were in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to represent their school in a global competition. The pupils, all minors, were said to have engaged in explicit sexual activity that made thousands of social media users question their upbringing as well as the school’s duty of care. “It is an elaborate investigation,” a police source said. “Our concern is not just the video. We are interested in knowing how the children learned the acts they displayed? We want to be sure they are not victims of sexual assault because if that is the case, the adults who exposed them to such must face the music.” The girl in the video has now been said to have an online page where she posts erotic videos. 		 			Strike: ASUU tackles Fed Govt over N4trn fuel subsidy budget		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m ransom for popular Akwa Ibom cleric		 		 		 			BREAKING: APC presidential form to go for N100m		 		 She reportedly posts her self-recorded videos on an App called Likee on her handle called “bhadgurl4k, and has over 24,000 likes. She posted over 526 videos with 4,134 followers as at Easter Monday. Curiously, checks have revealed that the videos were recorded in her home. She titled her page “madness and cringe” and tries to show off dance moves with erotic mannerisms. Lagos State government has shut all campuses of the highbrow school over the incident. Police spokesman Benjamin Hundeyin said they had been calling the command to pick convenient dates for their appearance. The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba yesterday ordered the review of police personnel and operational assets deployments to schools and colleges around the country. Baba said the development is to ensure the protection of schools and colleges, particularly boarding schools, tertiary institutions, and its campuses in areas prone to security breaches around the country. The deployment, according to findings, is connected to the Dubai rape allegation. A statement by the Force spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said, “The IGP has equally directed detectives and operatives of the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) and the Force Intelligence Bureau (FIB) to ensure sustained surveillance and intelligence gathering activities within various school environments while the Police Air wing has been directed to extend its aerial patrols to the six geo-political zones of the country.”