Indications are becoming stronger that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, may have joined the race for the 2023 presidential ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Minister is yet to publicly declare interest, but a glossy brochure to market his aspiration was unveiled over the weekend. Titled, “Qualified to Serve,” the 86-page brochure has Amaechi on its cover saying, “I believe that the destiny of Nigeria can only be best actualized in the context of one indivisible and united nation. What is required is for us to continue to work towards a nation in which doors of opportunity are open to all our citizens irrespective of ethnicity, creed, class or circumstance.” On the back page, the Minister is again quoted to have said, “We must give meaning to democracy so that every Nigerian can find a place and a voice in a land of free men and women. We must deploy our diversity to increase our strength. We must make our streets and highways, and now forests and farmlands, safe again for all Nigerians to fulfill their individual dreams of a good life so that, together, we can actualize the manifest destiny of this blessed land.”   APC members defect to SDP in Kwara     Sule raises the alarm over Adamu’s, Al-Makura’s supporters…     Bola Ahmed Tinubu   Numerous images of the minister in different Nigerian attires, a picture of him and his wife, photographs with President Buhari on various occasions; with former President Olusegun Obasanjo, General Overseer of the RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo among others, are also contained in the publication. A bold print and translation of Amaechi’s names into English as Chibuike: God is strength; Rotimi: Stand by me; and Amaechi: Who knows tomorrow occupies page three of the brochure while the table of contents includes “Making the Critical Choice; Reasons Why: The competitive advantages of Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi; First Among Equals; Broad and Deep Experience in Governance; Geopolitical Considerations; Nationalist Outlook; Political Prowess; Personality and Leadership Style; Track Record of Performance; Highlights of Achievements: Rivers State Governor (2007-2015); Highlights of Achievements: Ministry of Transportation (2015 – Date); and Hallmark of Amaechi’s Leadership. Other chieftains of the ruling APC, including former Lagos State Governor, Bola Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the latest entrant, Amaechi, are reportedly eyeing the party’s presidential ticket. Courage, stamina, and resilience were listed as part of some of the virtues that make Amaechi towers above others.