Actress Tonto Dikeh has received hard knocks on social media after her son, King Andre, was caught on camera smacking her backside. In a video, the 6-year-old could be seen running after his mother and hitting her backside repeatedly as they walked along a corridor. While King Andre carried out the act on his mother, she barely shook her head and did nothing to deter him. The individual recording the video warned Tontolet’s son to cease hitting her backside but he continued until he struck her really hard and she reacted by telling him not to destroy her ‘multi-million naira backside’. Taking to her Insta story to share the video, Dikeh wrote: “King wan burst out N5million bum bum”. The ‘controversial’ video has since generated diverse reactions from social media users with many condemning the act alongside Tonto Dikeh’s style of parenting. @Letter_to_Jack stated: “Many single moms are like Tonto Dike. They spend half their adult & mid-lives complaining about ill mannered, irresponsible & badly behaved men, they want to overcompensate for the lack of father figure in their children’s life and they end up raising the same men they loathed. @UgwuannaEjikem tweeted: “Generally don’t like commenting on celeb families but that video is somehow esp Tonto’s reaction. She might unintentionally be raising a crackhead.”   Mr Macaroni to Kate Henshaw: your photo makes me vibrate     Four popular people that have been slapped     Seven famous Nigerian artistes off the radar   @OfficialAkoh said: “I hope Tonto’s son won’t go about spanking other girls bum thinking it’s cool bcos it was cool when he did it to his mom.” @rutie_xx wrote: “Tonto Dikeh’s son spanking her ass is totally wrong. If my son spanks my ass, I fit nod am.” @MrBambulu stated: “This is disturbing! Tonto is raising a perv. A woman can’t teach a boy how to be a man just as a fish can’t teach a fisherman how to fish.” @EducatorsGinjah tweeted: “Abt Tonto Dike young son who hit her bum & she was smiling at the 5M yansh in her words. It looks more of a cruise until this boy go-ahead to spank girls or women yanshes 4 school or in the community since he wasn’t corrected immediately. Cruise go kon turn curse..ok o @nee_dles said: “Tonto dike thinks her 5-year-old son smacking her bum is cool. She’ll be like “it’s my child”, just don’t breed a menace, you owe the society this.” @scad_official wrote: “A kid spanking his mum’s ass? I’d be more worried if my daughter is in the same school with Tonto Dikeh’s son.” @zhurg_ stated: “Tonto Dike’s son will spank his female classmates in the butt and see it as normal, even worse he might spank his teacher’s butt too. Bad parenting has more than one ripple effect.” @McIntoshkraft tweeted: “From the look of things that’s not his first time of doing that, it looks disturbing.”