They are young. Aged between 20 and 30. They are chief executives of start-ups which assets are worth millions. One of them is Emmanuel Edim, a web developer. An Information Technology and Business Information Systems graduate of Middlesex University, Edim founded Emedia Home. The journey was not easyfor him. He started with N40,000 but, today, he runs a business that is a leader in the online business. His words: “First, affiliate marketing is just a business model that I jumped on. I am an affiliate marketer who has registered on several affiliate marketing platforms, where I provide digital products and skills to people who need them. I was able to begin my business and scale it to the point where I make consistent and predictable results; it all started when someone close to me suggested that I venture into it and since then, it has been a beautiful ride. My driving force to becoming an entrepreneur is the idea of being able to scale my business excellently to the point where I can make massive results.” Though some people see affiliate marketing (earning commission by marketing products that belong to another company or person) as a form of passive income, Edim is helping a lot of youths earn money online. The secret is that there are many savvy brands that are rewarding marketers with a percentage of every sale generated from their online promotional efforts.   Entrepreneur Academy celebrates women     Group hosts startups     Firm for 16 African markets   Edim sees a big opening for youths with skills to help drive e-commerce sales globally. According to him, the industry provides a source of significant income for individuals who can tap into it. What’s unique about it is that anyone can do affiliate marketing; there is no age requirement. What keeps him on top of the chart is not chasing high commission, but focusing on promoting brands with strong conversion rates. He explained: “My business has been marketing and is based on utilising social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp – WhatsApp primarily. Some other times I get customers based on referrals from other folks. Every business has its custom-made tactics for marketing, but generally speaking, utilising the media space is the most efficient way so far. I put in at least four hours into my business every day, the reason being that I have automated some processes, so it doesn’t really involve my input.” He runs a marketing and publicity consultancy that focuses on clients in the small-business space and has a strong representation among those involved in personal development. He has been in search of online networks which create significant opportunities to drive sales for advertisers and revenue for publishers. His objective is to create an impact and make a change in the world through the quota he can contribute, “obviously, making money is a sort of passion to me”. Love, integrity and hope, are the values he lives by. “Success is the ability to accomplish and become all you are meant to be in your lifetime. It really has nothing to do with how much you amass. You are successful when you have fulfilled and continue to fulfill your purpose,” he said. His most satisfying moment is when he gets clients to purchase his services/products. He advised aspiring entrepreneurs: “Entrepreneurship is not child’s play. It involves some level of resilience and focus, so they must be prepared to have downtimes and uptimes and be ready to give it their all, without holding back.”