President Muhammadu Buhari has admonished the younger generation of musicians to take a cue from the life of legendary musician and evangelist, Chief Ebenezer Obey Fabiyi, also known as ‘Obey Commander’. President Buhari’s admonition was contained in his congratulatory message to Chief Obey in commemoration of his 80th birthday, applauding him for his contributions to national development through music in about six decades. According to a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, the President noted that the countless laurels and accolades showered on the musician in the many years of his performance were well deserved as he used his music to instruct on every facet of life. “President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with music superstar and evangelist, Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey on the occasion of his 80th birthday, April 3, 2022. “The President pays tribute to the musician, who used his art and skills to fly Nigeria’s flag around the world, bringing joy and merriment to people with his sonorous voice, and didactic songs, for over six decades.   Peter Obi warns against electing incompetent leaders in 2023…     National Arts Theatre will be ready in November – Lai…     BREAKING: IPOB cancels ‘sit at home’ in Southeast   “President Buhari remarks that though he is from Abeokuta, Ogun State, Nigeria, Obey’s music has been a blessing not only to the entire Southwest, but he has garnered tremendous recognition and adulation nationally and internationally. “He has used his music to champion Government programmes such as: #Change of lane in 1972 (Keep Right), # Change to the Naira (Naira/Kobo), # Operation Feed the Nation and many others. “The President notes that the musician/ preacher has sang on virtually every area of human endeavour and activity with countless gold discs and many platinum discs to his credit, leading to being honoured with the prestigious award of Member of the Federal Republic (MFR) in 2001. “President Buhari lauds the fact that on 7th of July, 2014, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State, conferred on Chief Commander Obey the status of Professor of Music, as a visiting lecturer in the Department of English and Performing Arts of the University. “Successfully blending the secular and spiritual, the President urges the younger generation to borrow a leaf from the musician, who was formally ordained into the ministry on his 50th birthday on the 3rd of April, 1992. He is the General Overseer of Decross Gospel Mission, Lagos and the President of Ebenezer Obey Evangelistic Ministries. “President Buhari wishes the celebrant longer life, good health, and further service to God and humanity”, the statement said.