Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State has commended President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration for having laid a strong foundation for the eradication of poverty in Nigeria, adding that since the amalgamation of the country in 1914, it has never had a better government and President like Buhari. Masari, who made the commendation on Saturday in Katsina at a rally by beneficiaries of the Federal Government’s Social investment Programme (NSIP) in the state, said President Buhari has laid a significant foundation, which if properly utilised by the incoming administration, will guarantee the removal of several Nigerians from the poverty line. The rally was organised under the leadership of the Social Protection and Good Family Value Initiative (SPGFVI). Organisers of the rally also disclosed that their major aim was to prompt the Federal Government and the National Assembly to enact laws that would ensure the programme becomes a permanent one Masari said, “With this initiative, which no administration has ever thought of, the president needs more commendation and support to achieve the purpose of the programme.”   Three years after, Dankwambo returns to Gombe, says PDP…     COVID-19: New travel guideline takes effect from April 4…     Obangame Express ’22: Navy showcases readiness to…   “I wish to inform you that I am totally in support of this call for the president to continue to reduce the challenges Nigerians are currently facing”. “It is unfortunate for someone to wake up in the morning thinking of what to eat, how to go to hospital or take their children to school, but this programme has reduced such difficulties for people. “And if a law is enacted and it becomes permanent, no government will come and stop it, and Nigerians will continue to enjoy the programme and it will continue to reduce unemployment,” The governor further assured the beneficiaries of the programme that their message will get to President Buhari and the national assembly. The state’s coordinator of the SPGFVI, Mr. Mustapha Bara’u, had earlier disclosed that their main objective is to ensure the wellbeing of Nigerians, especially the youths, elderly, physically challenged people, women and pupils.