Uche Edochie, an ultra-contemporary artist has broken his silence on the trending second marriage of his younger brother, Yul Edochie. The contemporary painter, in a lengthy post on his Instagram page, explained the family was shocked with the news of Yul’s marriage to a second wife with whom he has a new born. He however said he is an adult who has complete responsibility for his actions. He empathised with sister-in-law, May, Yul’s first wife noting his younger brother’s decision to marry a second wife was totally unfair because she never signed up for polygamy. He however said the family is trying their possible best to placate her. He began: “Hello guys. So my younger brother Yul Edochie just married a second wife out of the blue and Nigerians are freaking out. I get it. We are all shocked. I am a low key type of guy and I have tried to mind my own business but this circus is chasing me around too. So here is my take.   As a strong king, I take responsibility for my action…     Fans throw brassiers as Burna Boy performs on stage     I’m getting married soon – Davido   “I see two main problems here. His first wife Mary, a wonderful woman and my sister in law did not go into a relationship with my brother agreeing to be part of a polygamous marriage. That’s the first problem. So I feel for Mary. It is not fair on her. My family are not in support. This is not what we do and we are trying our best to console Mary. What else can we do?” He added: “The second issue is that Yul is not a Muslim. If he was a Muslim, no one will be talking about this. Muslims marry as many wives as they want and nobody says shit. Traditional rulers and traditionalists of sorts do the same thing too and the Nigerian constitution recognizes polygamy as a legal marital union. Maybe we should burn that bloody constitution. “We told Yul not to do it. He did it anyway. Have you ever tried controlling an adult when it comes to relationships? Good luck with that. Yul is an adult who feels marrying a second woman is the best way to own up to his mistakes and make things right. It took a lot of courage for him to do this too.” Uche Edochie went on to urge people to quit acting the ‘judge’ arguing being famous wasn’t a walk in the park as most persons would certainly impregnate more than five women if they ever had to walk in his younger brother’s shoes in just a period of one year. “A Muslim marries two or more wives and his people throw a party. Totally normal. A Christian does the same thing and he is the worst human being alive. It is tough. Women throw themselves at famous people so bad that it is suffocating. If the average person walks in Yul’s shoes for one year, they will get five or more women pregnant. So don’t be quick to judge if you have not lived that life. Most people will do worse”, he said. Furthermore, the elder son of iconic Pete Edochie celebrated the birth of the new baby from Yul’s second wife while he proposed his brother became a Muslim in order to hush critics completely. “So this is Yul’s new baby with his new wife. Beautiful boy. Children are a gift from God. It is the circumstances of their birth that gets us all riled up about what’s right and wrong. I wish them all luck. Maybe Yul should become a Muslim and shut this circus down. It is said that life is what happens when we are making other plans. I was minding my own business. And now this. Fantastic”, Uche Edochie added.