An award-winning celebrity fashion stylist, John J. Angel, has encouraged Nigerians to be mindful of their public appearances. He said this is what helped many celebrities who have realised its essence to stand distinguished among contemporaries. He said knowing the importance of this at a very early stage growing in the entertainment industry also helped him in drawing a focus on specialising in fashion and style with a touch of excellence, which he said has placed him in high demand to the extent of styling at least over one thousand videos so far. John J. Angel, the head of the De Angelic Touch Stylist, an outfit that caters to the fashion and style needs of celebrities and the generality of Nigerian fashion enthusiasts, is a professional who has carved a niche for himself in the fashion, life and style industry, as his works have been applauded by both the Nigerian and foreign artistes. As a graduate of Marketing from the Lagos State University, John J. Angel, who said he has always developed a passion for creative works, knowing he has a good dress sense, said, he desired to make a living and statement out of the industry, and that made him go into full training to become an authority on his the job he likes to do. He said part of the encouragement for him on the job is adding value to his clients and the good feedback he gets from individuals and organisations rewarding his efforts.   Ogogo, Alesh describe Dejo Tunfulu’s death as shocking     Yoruba comic act Dejo Tunfulu dies     Abacha didn’t loot but kept fund away from thieving…   He pointed at some of his awards including the Pan African Awards 2018; October 1 Stylist of the Year 2018; and Most Sought After Stylist 2019, which he said are the motivation and encouragement for him to do more. According to him, as a professional stylist, his job is to review the style and personality of a particular person as a fashion consultant, assess the events a client plans to attend, then recommend the outfit pattern that suits the person’s status. This, he said, in the past years of his profession, he had passionately handled, with a record of work done for many Nigerian and foreign celebrities among whom are Wizkid, Davido, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Emoney, Patoranking, Don Jazzy, Rema, Ruga, Mr Eazi and Mayourku. Others are: Flavour, Falz, Reekado Bank, Bella shmurda, Reminisce, Lax, Buju, RMD, Zlatan Dbanj, Naira Marley and a host of others, whom John J. Angel, said are some of the top Nigerian celebrities on his label, adding that, “I have also worked with some of the well-known foreign artistes too, the likes of Awilo Logomba Sakodie, Stonebwoy, Diamond and Falipupa.” He said his irresistible dress sense with a touch of excellence which is his known signature in the industry is why celebrities at home and abroad are glued to his works, saying, besides the many grounds already covered, in future, he still hopes to work with John Legend, Drake and other top artistes. John J. Angel, popularly known with his label, DeAngelicTouchStylist, said he began his styling career on a professional scale in 2009, but he earlier made a noticeable presence in the entertainment world as a makeup artist, at a time he said the styling industry was not booming one as it is today. He advised the Nigerian youth, especially the creative ones who want to cut their teeth in the entertainment industry to carve a niche for themselves and develop a particular focus on a specific area of specialisation and not just be a jack of all trades and get trained to know their jobs so well, so they can become sought after professionals.