Africa’s leading payment cards and digital tokens brand, Verve, has announced the launch of the Verve Supersaver Promo, in collaboration with Ebeano and Addide supermarkets, to reward Verve cardholders with exciting discounts. The promo is billed to run from last month to this month. Verve cardholders will enjoy a 3.5 per cent discount when they shop at Ebeano Supermarket and a 10 per cent off their purchase when they spend N5,000 or more with their Verve cards at Addide Supermarket. The promo was designed to support the needs of Verve cardholders as well as reward their loyalty.   535,815 depositors of distressed banks get N220 billion from…     Absa: Telecoms sector attracts more FDIs, deepens…     Wema Bank announces108.3% growth in profit before tax   The partnerships will avail Verve cardholders the opportunity to purchase products.There is also a chance for new customers to access to these discounts. The Group Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Interswitch Group, Cherry Eromosele, said Verve will continue to reward its cardholdern. She reiterated: “Verve is committed to providing support to customers’ lifestyle needs, which is why we launched the Verve Supersaver Promo to reward cardholders and give them an opportunity to shop at these supermarkets at discounted rates.” “We are, particularly, excited about our partnership with Ebeano and Addide Supermarkets because they are known for offering quality products to customers. We, therefore, urge Verve cardholders to take advantage of this promo and enjoy awesome discounts while shopping. “In the commitments of Verve to  deliver an array of rewarding offers to our customers, we enjoin new and existing Verve cardholders to seize this opportunity to shop at Ebeano and Addide supermarkets to enable them enjoy the mouthwatering discounts and imploring prospective customers to take advantage of the offer by asking their respective banks for a Verve card to enable them enjoy this exciting deal before the promo ends.’’