Chairmen of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Lagos Branch, and the Nigerian Institution of Highway and Transportation Engineers (NIHTE) have inspected the Apongbon section of Eko Bridge razed by fire in March. They were led by the  Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Olukayode Popoola, an engineer. Popoola said because of the importance of the section to Lagos, the Federal Government was giving its repair a priority attention. The controller assured that the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, was determined to look for the funds for its repairs. This, according to him, is because the part razed by fire was not slated for rehabilitation in the 2022 budget. “For now, the section has been closed down to traffic and the repair would be done on time to open it to traffic. “The contractor has been moved down to this section for that purpose,” he said. Popoola said an integrity test had been carried out on the bridge and that this has been analysed. He revealed the ministry was waiting for the Fire Service’s report, and would analyse this once they get the report.   ‘Why welfare of serving, retired judges must be prioritised’     ‘Tackle insecurity to protect women, children’     Group to politicians: fear God   The controller added that the traders under the bridge had been ordered to vacate the place in their own interest, adding that while some had left already, others might need enforcement. Chairman of the Lagos branch of the NSE, Ayotunde Ogunnoiki, said they came to assess the impact of the fire on the bridge. “We are not happy with the level of damage done on the bridge,” he said. Ogunnoiki stated that they could not advise the government on what to do, until the report is out. He added that they were talking to the Federal Controller of Works on the issue. He said that they were later informed that the money to be spent on the bridge would be so much, and that they were mopping money from other sources as the damaged section of the bridge was not part of the areas earmarked for rehabilitation in the 2022 budget. “So, the Ministry is trying to get emergency funds for the rehabilitation of the damaged section of the bridge, because it has to be done so quickly. “We await the result of integrity test conducted on the bridge before the professionals would advise the government on what to do. Also speaking, Chairman of the Lagos chapter of the Nigerian Institution of Highway & Transportation Engineers, Engr. Opanuga Adenuga said that what had happened to the section of the bridge is a national disaster. He described the bridge as critical because of the number of Nigerians who makes use of the bridge every day.