Super Eagles and Napoli FC’s sensation, Victor Osimhen, emerged as the biggest winner of the 8th edition of the Nigeria Pitch Awards. The Nigerian striker, who was confirmed Player of the Month for March in the Serie A, emerged the Striker of the Year and the King of the Pitch making him Nigeria’s Most Valuable Player for 2021. Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Femení goal scorer, Asisat Oshoala continued her dominance of the women’s award category as she was named the Queen of the Pitch for the fourth time. Shina Philips, President of the awards, encouraged Nigerians to put the disappointment of the inability of the country to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qualifier in Qatar behind them and look forward to a better future with the Super Eagles. In the Goalkeeper of the year category, Maduka Emilio Okoye emerged the winner while Super Eagles Captain, William Troost-Ekong beat compatriots, Olisa Ndah and Lean Balogun to win the Defender of the year award for the third time. Wilfred Ndidi of Leicester City FC was named the Midfielder of the Year and Victor Osimhen starved off competition from Genk FC’s Paul Onuachu and Leicester City FC’s Kelechi Iheanacho to lift the Striker of the Year award. In other categories, 2021 League winners, Akwa United and Coach Kennedy Boboye were voted the Team of the Year and Coach of the Year respectively. Barr. Seyi Akinwunmi, NFF First Vice President emerged as the winner of the Sam Okwaraji Award for commitment to Nigerian football. Continuing in her dominance, Lagos State again won the Award for the State with the Best Grassroots Football Development Programme as His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Governor of the state was voted the Football Friendly Governor of the Year. The major highlight of the night was the presentation of the Sportsmanship Award to the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba for his tactical use of peace overtures in fighting crime across the nation. Another interesting highlight was the presentation of the Achievement in Sport Award to business mogul, Sir Kensington Adebukola Adebutu also popularly known as ‘Baba Ijebu’.   8TH AWARD: LIST OF WINNERS   Goalkeeper of the Year Maduka Emilio Okoye  (Super Eagles & Sparta Rotterdam ) Defender of the Year William Troost-Ekong  (Super Eagles & Watford FC Midfielder of the Year Wilfred Ndidi  (Super Eagles & Leicester City FC   Stakeholders speak: What next after Super Eagles …     Adekalu Bulls wins South West Baseball tourney     Infantino seeks third term as FIFA president   Team of the Year Akwa United Coach of the Year Kennedy Boboye  (Akwa United) Sam Okwaraji Award Seyi Akinwunmi   ( First Vice President, NFF) State with the Best Grassroots Football Development Programme Lagos State Football Friendly Governor of the Year His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu ( Lagos State Corporate Sponsor of Football Award AITEO Group      (Oil & Gas) Striker of the Year Victor Osimhen   (Super Eagles & Napoli) Queen of the Pitch Asisat Oshoala  (Super Eagles & FC Barcelona Femini) King of the Pitch Victor Osimhen  (Super Eagles & Napoli )