NOLLYWOOD actress Shan George has disclosed why she took a break from the movie industry for 10 years. The movie star, who was delighted to have returned to her first love, in an Instagram live interview noted that she was off to care for her late mother who was ill for 10 years which took her off the big screens. “I took all that time off because I had to go take care of my mother, my mother was sick and old, and being that I am her only child I didn’t have anybody I could leave her for so I just had to be there to take care of her by myself which took me 10 years, and then she passed on recently. We just finish doing the burial and I am just back to work as if I never left really, it didn’t affect me much,” said George.   It’s my turn to shutdown 02 Arena – Uzo     Kemi Oyedeji speaks on new book, ushering     Standing out in saturated music industry is challenging,…   Describing how the acceptance has been since she returned, she said “A lot of people were so happy to see me, let us say yes it affected me positively because I made so many friends. The good things that have been happening have made me not bother about the downside which is probably the fact that now they don’t pay me what they used to pay me before I went on break, the money came down a bit but everybody is so happy to see me and I am overwhelmed. I want to say a big thank you to everybody in the Nollywood industry based in Asaba and those that are coming to Asaba, basically, I have been in Asaba and I have done a couple of very good jobs. I want to use this opportunity to thank the producers and directors.” Speaking about how she feels, she said, “it is just great to do some artistic job that people see and they like it enough to want to like you or want to associate with you and be involved in things that you are doing. It is really awesome, it is a great thing and I think it only comes from God.” The award-winning actress was recently spotted at her colleague Rita Dominic’s wedding in Imo state.