Imo Governor Hope Uzodimma has claimed over 90 per cent of actors and sponsors of insecurity in Imo State and Igboland are Christians. Uzodimma, who made the observation while addressing residents in a state broadcast on Saturday, urged the perpetrators to use the Easter celebration to purge themselves of those acts that make them hypocrites and worst enemies of Christ. . He said:”It is truly ironic and disheartening that over ninety percent of both the actors and sponsors of insecurity in Imo State, and indeed all over Igboland, claim to be Christians.. “Are these Christians the true followers of Christ? Do they even remember the 5th commandment which says; “Thou shalt not kill”? ” Let us, therefore, use the occasion of this Easter celebration to purge ourselves of those acts that at best make us hypocrites and at worst enemies of Christ. “In several fora, I have literally gone on my knees to appeal to the sponsors and perpetrators of these senseless killings to sheath their swords and embrace peace and reconciliation irrespective of whatever grudges they may have.   Those seeking consensus not sincere – Wike     2022 WASSCE: No clash in date with UTME — WAEC     Crowd welcomes former APC scribe Akpanudoedehe to Akwa-Ibom   “I have also asked for forgiveness from anyone who feels offended by any of the policies or actions of the Government of Imo State which I lead currently. “In the spirit of the Easter season, I would like to repeat this appeal for forgiveness, peace and reconciliation in our state. “Heaven will bear me witness that I have always placed the welfare of the people of Imo State above other considerations while taking decisions as Governor of Imo State. *It is also on record that I have gone to very great lengths to provide succour to many citizens of the state who were aggrieved by some of the actions of my predecessors. “As peace-loving people, I appeal to you to follow the proper channels to lay down any complaints you may have. As I have done before, I promise to look into these complaints and make all efforts to resolve them to the best of my ability.”