When in March, last year, a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) fighter Alpha Jet went missing in an operation against Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State, the real facts about why and how the aircraft went off the radar were uncertain. Understandably, the Boko Haram terrorists waxed triumphalist about the crash as a video footage they posted on social media featured a masked man standing on top of what was supposed to be the wreckage and said in Hausa, “As you can see, this is the pilot of your aircraft, whom you sent to harm the servant of God. This is what God did to him. He fell from the sky, and if you do not repent this will be your reward”. Two mutilated corpses in military fatigues were shown in the footage, which were presumably those of the crew. This, of course, confirmed once again the perverse mindset of the terrorists who believe they are indeed carrying out God’s will by destroying fellow human beings. Admitting that the aircraft went off the radar, the spokesman of the NAF said in a statement that “Intelligence report gathered by the Nigerian Air Force indicates that the Alpha Jet Aircraft (NAF 475) that went off the radar with two crew members on board on 31 March, 2021, might have crashed”. The NAF, however, debunked the attempt by the terrorists to claim credit for what was clearly an air accident, pointing out that Boko Haram sought to boost its image by creating the impression that it brought down the jet and was still a potent fighting force at a time its operational efficacy had been significantly degraded by the Nigerian Armed Forces. It is a most welcome development that the wreckage of the plane has been recovered about a year after the crash. A statement by the military last week announced that troops of Operation Desert Sanity on clearance patrol in Sambisa Forest, Borno State, uncovered the fragmented parts of the jet. At least this confirms that the plane actually crashed and shows where this happened.   Scandalous     Wearisome statistics     Terror rage   This discovery will enable experts to examine the wreckage, with a view to ascertaining as accurately as possible, the cause of the crash and whether there are any pertinent lessons. However, the time lag between when the crash occurred and the discovery of the wreckage may be an indication of the difficulty that the military faces in effectively monitoring the forests and tracking the movement of the terrorists. For, if it took over a year to discover a plane wreckage, we can imagine how much more elusive constantly moving human targets will be. The length of time it took to discover the wreckage also implies that the bodies of the two crew members involved in the crash are unlikely to be discovered. Everything should thus be done to continuously enhance the capacity of the military to respond more promptly and efficiently to emergencies like air disasters, both to recover wreckage of machines or bodies of victims in reasonable time. Incidents such as the crash of this aircraft remind us once again of the seriousness of the war the country has been waging against the Boko Haram terrorists in the North East for the last decade and indeed the gallantry of the armed forces, putting their lives on the line to safeguard the unity and stability of the country under very challenging circumstances. In this regard, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has commendably improved on the funding and acquisition of appropriate weaponry such as the Tucano jets, among others, for the military. We encourage it to continue to do more while the military authorities should also ensure judicious use of resources