Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello has said his administration had turned no fewer than 2,000 persons in the State into millionaires. He spoke in Abuja at the opening ceremony of the “Second Governor Yahaya Bello (GYB) Seminar for Political and Crime Correspondents”. Bello also expressed the wish to run for office as President with a female Vice Presidential candidate, if he gets his party’s ticket for the 2023 elections and its approval to choose his running mate. The Governor was responding to a question about his economic plans for the country including his recent pledge to make 20 million Nigerians millionaires by 2030 if he succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari. “We have made nothing less than 2,000 millionaires in Kogi,” Bello said. On his choice of VP, he added: “If given the opportunity, if my political party will give me the opportunity and free hand to choose who will run with me come 2023, surely I will not leave the constituency of my mother. I would love to have the first female VP in 2023.” Last Saturday, Bello formally declared to run for President in 2023, with a promise to build on Buhari’s legacy by adopting the Igbo apprenticeship system to create millionaires. Commenting on national issues, Bello said he would never condemn President Muhammadu Buhari for the security challenges in his State. Rather, he challenged Governors to live up to expectations as their State’s chief security officers.   Buhari sympathises with Jonathan over convoy’s…     Imo on lockdown for IPOB’s Kanu     Piracy: Nigeria exits International Maritime Bureau’s…   The Governor said: “I will never come out here to point out the flaws. Whenever I observe any lapses of laws, I will discuss them with President Muhammadu Buhari. “I will never be that governor that will come out here and tell you that President Muhammadu Buhari did not come to secure my state. “That is why as the Chief Security Officer of Kogi State, I ensure that I brought down the rate of crime to ground zero and now Mr. President is assisting me to continue. “If all of us as chief security officers are doing our jobs the way we should, Mr. President’s work would have been easy. “If elected as the President, I as the Commander-in-Chief, I will ensure every Chief Executive of various security units sits up to do their jobs. I will not tolerate any lackadaisical attitude.” He said he would give various units specific assignments so that they can be responsible for what happens in their states. “I will be hard on governors to do their jobs. Issues if security can’t be discussed in the open.” He stressed that as a presidebt, he would give governors task, monitor, reward success and punish failures. Bello further pledged that if elected as president in 2023, he would ensure that the Nigerian Security agencies are well motivated to fight terrorists and other agents threatening the country’s peace. According to him, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) party is aware that the youth and women are clamouring someone to solve the country’s insecurity challenges, someone like him. He added that he would focus on non-oil driven economy especially agriculture to further develop the country, create jobs and ensure that there is food on the table for all Nigerians. The presidential aspirant said he was confident he would emerge the candidate of the party for the 2023 presidential election because he was instrumental in the mobilization of the 41 million members which cuts across the country.