The vice chancellor of the newly established Federal University of Technology Babura in Jigawa State, Professor Sabo Ibrahim Birnin Kudu, said the university is set to commence operations with two faculties – faculty of engineering and faculty of sciences. In view of this, the vice chancellor solicited the support and assistance of the security chiefs in state on the growing threat to the activities of banditry and kidnapping in learning institutions in the region (northwest). The vice chancellor made the appeal when he led the management of the institution on a courtesy visit to the commissioner of police, Director of the Department of State Security Service and Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defense Corps in their respective offices. According to him, “Security is paramount in the development of the institution, particularly in view of the growing threat to the activities of banditry and kidnapping as well as other social vices”.   Masari: Buhari has laid strong foundation for poverty…     Three years after, Dankwambo returns to Gombe, says PDP…     COVID-19: New travel guideline takes effect from April 4…   Professor Sabo said the visit becomes imperative in order to establish a good and harmonious relationship between the university and the Police Command. The VC maintained that “Without peace, there could be no development; hence the desire to establish a good working relationship with the security outfits in the state.” The Police Commissioner, Alhaji Aliyu Saleh Tafida in his response, thanked the vice chancellor and his team for the visit and assured that the Police Command will do its best to provide a security cover for the new institution. Also the director of State Service, Dr. Nuhu Umar, said although Jigawa State is a peaceful state, they will not relax in efforts at ensuring that the university remains peaceful all through. The Vice Chancellor was accompanied by the Registrar of the University, Secretary of the Governing Council, Hajiya Fatima Binta Mohammed, the Bursar, Alhaji Ibrahim Alhassan and the University Librarian, Alhaji Abashe Abbas.