All Progressives Congress (APC) National Secretary Senator Iyiola Omisore yesterday accused people he described as “drowning politicians” of spreading propaganda against him. He lamented that a decade after the Bola Ige murder case, Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka still referred to him as a prime suspect, despite being cleared by the court. Omisore,  a former deputy governor of Osun State, said it was curious that Soyinka, who accused the Obasanjo government of complicity in Ige’s death when he described the government “as a nest of killers”, could now describe him as a suspect in 2022. The Nobel Laureate in a statement at the weekend said Omisore’s endorsement as APC Secretary by President Muhammadu Buhari would tamper with judicial inquiries into Ige’s death because he is a prime suspect in the murder case. Taking exception to the eminent scholar’s statement, Omisore said “it is an unnecessary propaganda some drowning politicians are trying to spread.” The National Secretary also threatened to sue a political group in Osun APC for fabrication and defamation. Omisore said “as brilliant as Prof. Soyinka is, he, no doubt, has monopoly of knowledge. In a statement by his office, Omisore said: “If the court of the land has vindicated a man, it is naive of him after nearly a decade to link Senator  Iyiola Omisore to further search. He added that “civil and criminal law knowledge should tell professor to ask his cousin,  OBJ for the murder.” Omisore added: “The world is aware of the framing of Senator Iyiola Omisore and his travails and trials facing murder charges and his subsequent acquittal and discharge, almost a decade ago by a competent court of the land. “So, how come any man, can still refer to him as a possible suspect? The Prof is very wrong to say all that. It takes wickedness to spread the statements.” Omisore alleged that despite the fact that not all Soyinka’s intervention in national life has produced the expected outcome in the long run, society has continued to hold him in esteem.   DSS arraigns impersonator who also duped Osogbo businesses     Heavy downpour sacks residents, community in Imo     Insecurity: Buhari’s govt. not overwhelmed, says minister   He said: “It is part of history and we are not too young, when we read of him, that professor too carried a gun into a Radio station; a criminal offense against the state. Yet, we continue to honour him. “Can we also forget that Prof was appointed the chairman of education summit that gave birth to a single uniform for all secondary and primary schools and Opon Imo, during the tenure of Rauf Aregesola as governor of Osun State. A failed Education Policy that history will not readily forget. “So, at 88, it’s better for him to stay clear of politics and not allow drowning politicians to use him to fight a cause he knows nothing about. It is a subtle warning to the respected Nobel Laureate. Omisore recalled that in 2004, Soyinka, who was 70, accused the Obasanjo government of complicity in the death of Ige by referring to the government as a “nest of killers” He lamented that, in April, 2022, the Nobel Laureate, who is now 88, is complaining about his choice as National Secretary. He also regretted that Soyinka, once attacked another Yoruba son, Gbenga Daniel, an engineer and former two-term governor of his native Ogun State. He maintained that the record shows that he and others were tried for two and half years and later discharged and acquitted by the court. Omisore said: “The recent volte face of Soyinka on the Bola Ige matter gives one a cause for concern. First, I was not a member of cabinet in Obasanjo’s government and second, a court of competent jurisdiction had set me and others free after a grueling two and half years trial with N2 billion damages awarded still unpaid by the state government. “Besides, why has Omisore/Bola Ige matter become an issue of campaigns and elections deliberately used by Omisore’s opponents to undermine his influence? “Or, are some people who are worried by the erudite and strong personality and capacity of Omisore as National Secretary using Soyinka to settle scores or pursue their political ambitions? “Politics is a game and an avenue to serve and the Nobel Laureate can throw his hat in the ring if he so wishes instead of making unsubstantiated claims and causing confusion here and there, acts, that don’t befit his international recognition as an elder and statesman.