Wisdom Macaulay, the eldest brother of 2Baba’s wife, Annie Idibia has apologised while blaming depression for his outburst. On March 31, Wisdom in a series of now-deleted videos posted on his Instagram page accused his sister of shortchanging him after introducing him to hard drugs. He also accused the mother of two of exploitation and financial strangulation by laying him off when it mattered most thereby, depriving him of his source of livelihood. Few days later, Macaulay has now apologized to his ‘dearest’ younger sister over the allegations leveled against her. In a video posted via his Instagram page over the weekend, Wisdom said: “Good day, Nigerians. My name is Wisdom Macaulay. I want to use this opportunity to apologise to my sister, Annie Macaulay-Idibia, to her husband and the entire Idibia family. “I also want to apologise to my mother, my wife and my in-laws. I am truly and deeply sorry for my outburst some days back. “I also want to use this opportunity to reach out to Annie’s colleagues to plead with her to find a place in her heart to forgive me. “My sister, Annie is not on any form of drugs. I have never seen it with her. I am not on drugs either.   Patience Ozokwor, Kanayo O. Kanayo, others attend premier of…     Full list of winners at Grammy Awards 2022     2022 Grammys: Alicia Keys, Cece Winans win 4 Grammys   He continued: “I have been under a lot of depression for a long time now. I know and come to realise that the route I took wasn’t the right one. “There’s just a whole lot going on and to feel that your source of income is being taken away from you is what made me to lay those false allegations against my family member. “I am truly and deeply sorry again. Annie, please forgive everything I have done to you. “Please Nigerians, Nigerian youths, I am truly and deeply sorry. My sister is not on any form of drugs, I am not either. My outburst came from a bad place.” Captioning his video, Wisdom Macaulay wrote: “I am truly sorry for the hurt I have caused my Family the Macaulay’s, Idibias’s family, my wife, my inlaws, my children and my sisters children. “I take back every word I put out, please find it in your hearts to forgive me. “Thanks to all the people that have reached out to me from all over the world and those around me that have given me support and strength in this my troubling time. God bless you.”