The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has explained why he wants to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. Amaechi on Saturday declared his intention to contest for the presidency 2023.  His declaration ended months of speculation about his ambition. The former Rivers Governor said he is burning with zeal to make a difference in the lives of Nigerians. The Minister said his aspiration is not about fulfilling a personal ambition but a ”moral duty to give what I can in the service of my country”. “Today, I stand as an aspirant to the position of President because of that same passion for people; that same drive for results. More than ever before, I am burning with the zeal to make a decisive difference in the lives of all Nigerians,” he said. “No matter the darts and arrows that come my way, I will remain steadfast because the stakes are too high. We cannot afford to fail. We cannot afford to veer off-course. “My aspiration is not about fulfilling any personal ambition. I am contesting for office because I believe that it is my moral duty to give what I can in the service of my country.   2023: Tinubu, Amaechi, four others seeking APC presidential…     2022 UTME: NSCDC set to provide maximum security during…     2023: Save Ebonyi APC from impending crisis, Izzi…   “To sustain and intensify present efforts at solving our national problems, our democracy must ensure the emergence of a leadership that is equipped with broad experience in governance to ensure stability and continuity,” he added.  Amaechi said he is compelled by the urgency of the country’s challenges to give his service as president of Nigeria. “At 58, and a member of the generation born after independence who has seen the good, the bad and the ugly of Nigeria, I am compelled by the urgency of our present challenges to place my experience and proven capacity at the service of the nation at the highest level,” he said. “We are facing some very serious challenges as a country. These are problems of insecurity, challenges of greater accountability in governance, youth unemployment and the scourge of spiraling poverty.” Amaechi talked about his experience in the past 23 years, as a legislator, governor and minister, saying occupying those offices has prepared him for the presidency. “It is this combination of experience and patriotic passion that I bring to the table. I have been in the political arena for 23 years. I have served at every level of government – local, state, and federal.  “I have served both as a political appointee and an elected official. I have served both as an executive – as Governor of Rivers State and as a legislator – as Speaker of the State House of Assembly. “In these capacities, I did not just fill vacant posts. As a Speaker, I managed the legislative process in a difficult transition from military rule. As Governor, I defeated mercantile militancy and restored security. As a minister, I can modestly claim to have justified the trust of Nigerians,” he explained.