WHEN the first episode of the Real Housewives of Lagos aired on the streaming platform, Showmax, on Friday, April 8, 2022, it was with a clear bang as it made history as the most viewed show on its debut day in Nigeria. However, if Big Brother Naija is perceived as a gigantic franchise that has drawn the viewing public close to their TV screens in the last six years, the Real Housewives of Lagos is an absolute behemoth threatening to seep into every corner of popular culture. In the world of the Real Housewives – spawning a total of 16 installments in the United States, Dubai, South Africa, and Nigeria – drama is guaranteed, just as real-life shades complement members of the cast’s social currencies. Filmed and produced by Darey and Deola Art-Alade’s Livespot production for Showmax, the cast was carefully selected to give the audience a deserved viewing pleasure. Producers and the cast also ensured that the reality show explores the seaside and avant-garde sceneries of Lagos. “A city only affluence can inspire, hierarchy over everything, either you are the bag or secure the bag, gold-digging,” the opening lines of the series decrees while introducing viewers to the cast’s notoriety for luxury as well as the city’s affluence in a format of weekly episodes. The show further showcases the camaraderie, glamour, and drama of the lives of the reality show’s protagonists.   Glo Battle of the year finale holds today     Davido, Perruzi, Reekado Banks thrill football fans on…     Burna Boy speaks on being managed by mom   Real Housewives of Lagos is bound to surpass the success of The Real House of Atlanta, which is touted as the most successful franchise, going by the momentum it seems to be gaining barely four weeks after its debut. Interestingly, much of the show’s huge momentum has been fueled by its all-star cast led by Toyin Lawani-Adebayo, Iyabo Ojo, and Carolyna Hutchings, who have become celebrities newsmakers. From serial entrepreneur, Chioma Ikokwu to reality television aficionado Mariam Timmer to the seeming cantankerous Laura Ikeji-Kanu, Real Housewives of Lagos hinges its success – since it premiered – on individuals, whose personalities blend with the famous TV stars to have a show not devoid of iconic reality TV queens. The women of the Las Gidi thrive both in and outside of the metropolitan city, that is regarded as the heartbeat of Africa, with trips to Dubai, and exotic locales like the luxurious beach houses on Ilase island, the highbrow restaurants in Lekki providing some of the most entertaining, authentic and hilariously chaotic television viewership. The Cast The Real Housewives franchise – in U.S., Dubai, South Africa, and Nigeria – focuses on the lives of a handful of women living in affluent neighborhoods or cities. The women, who make up the cast vary from five to ten. For the Real Housewives of Lagos, five women began the show before a sixth personality was introduced after filming had begun – this is evident in the first three episodes of the show. The lives of six wealthy women living in highbrow areas in Lagos are filmed with an insight into their lives and how they navigate businesses, family, and friendships. Some of the cast include Toyin Lawani-Adebayo, Iyabo Ojo, Carolyna Hutchings, Laura Ikeji, Chioma Ikokwu, Mariam Timmer.