A group, Grassroots 37 for Osinbajo, has joined the list of supporters clamouring for Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to declare for the 2023 presidency. The support group led by Evangelist Kolade Segun-Okeowo declared this in Lagos through a letter and a cheque of N500,000. Osinbajo, represented by Dapo Akinosun (SAN), received the cheque as support for funds needed to obtain the All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination form “whenever he is ready to declare his intention”. Akinosun considered the group’s gesture “a new and encouraging development.” He noted Osinbajo has the firsthand experience to lead the country, adding he is a firm believer of the ‘Yemi Osinbajo project’. “The sky is the beginning for Nigeria if Osinbajo becomes the president. “We will continue to pressure him until he yields,” Akinosun said. Segun-Okeowo explained the presentation is “symbolic as a mark of showing our support and the desire of Nigerians to have him in office as Nigeria’s next President.”   Nine areas I will develop as Akwa Ibom governor, by Luke     Challenges before APC Chairman Adamu     Tinubu posseses qualities to fix Nigeria, says SABAT   He said the “exemplary performance” as Vice President and also as Acting President at different times has prepared Osinbajo for the task of leading the country. The convener disclosed the cash donation was contributed by members of the group in the 36 States of the Federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. “Grassroots 37 for Osinbajo is made up of patriotic Nigerians and lovers of Osinbajo canvassing for him to lead us as president from 2023. “No state is left out including the FCT. “Osinbajo is the contemporary Moses of the Bible. “He is passionate, humble, intelligent, and highly anointed for the task of leadership and nation-building. “Our goal is to raise one million Nigerians who will sensitise others for 10 votes each to ensure Osinbajo becomes the next president. “Achieving that means Osinbajo polls 10 million votes,” Segun-Okeowo stated. He emphasised the group will not take no for an answer from Osinbajo while expressing optimism that he will declare interest soon.