THE National Pension Commission (PenCom) has released  new guidelines on some  areas of its juridiction. It has Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to review the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) balances periodically to determine their eligibility for pension enhancement. The revised regulation, according to the Commission, provides that there shall be a periodic pension enhancement of the Programmed Withdrawal (PW) based on the returns of funds investment. Retirees with a minimum of five per cent growth in their RSAs, from the date of initial programming or their last enhancement date, should get enhanced pensions. The Director-General, PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, said the maiden pension enhancement was done in December 2017. She said the Commission discovered that the returns on investment by the PFAs could be used to increase  monthly pensions. She stated that the maiden pension enhancement resulted in increased monthly pensions for 64,076 retirees, while the second enhancement done in February 2020, resulted in enhanced pensions for 86,108 retirees. She, however, said a pension enhancement template had been provided for the re-computation of the enhanced monthly or quarterly pensions to guide the PFAs. She said the revised regulation provided for en-bloc payment with insufficient RSA balances. She said: “The provision allows the PFA to pay a retiree the entire sum en-bloc, where the RSA balance cannot provide a monthly or quarterly pension or annuity of at least one third of the prevailing minimum wage. Prior to this provision, en-bloc payments were pegged at a specific monetary threshold. However, this has become inadequate due to varying economic realities. “The new provision would address the dynamic economic circumstances as indicated by the national minimum wage. It further buttresses PenCom’s efforts at ensuring that retirees receive meaningful periodic pensions under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS).” Mrs Dahir-Umar said the revised regulation addressed the payment of benefits to the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) contributors. 		 			Tinubu gets Diaspora support for presidential bid		 		 		 			Buhari persistently sad over terror attacks – Monguno		 		 		 			Ayu knocks APC over N100m presidential nomination for		 		 “This is necessary due to the peculiarities of the MPP, where contributions are segregated into contingent and fixed portions that are available for withdrawal and fixed for retirement.  It is noteworthy that the payment of the contingent and fixed portions of the contributions under the MPP, shall be in line with the Guidelines on the Micro Pension Plan. “However, for the purpose of accessing the fixed portion of the MPP contribution, the MPP contributor must not be less than 50. Furthermore, the provision on en-bloc payment as described above is also applicable to MPP contributors.” Meanwhile, the new regulation has addressed the reappearance of deceased RSA holders. The PenCom boss said it had been observed that some RSA holders who were reported dead and benefits paid to their legal beneficiaries, reappeared after additional amounts were remitted into their RSAs. “The revised regulation provides that where an RSA holder is reported dead, the PFA shall write to the bank of the deceased informing it of the demise and advising that the deceased’s bank account/BVN be flagged off.’’ She said this would stop such fraudsters from accessing financial services. On the payment of benefits of missing persons, she said: “The revised regulation provides that where an employee is missing, the employer or Next-of-Kin/legal beneficiary of the missing person shall notify the PFA of the disappearance after a minimum period of 12 months with proper identification. Where the PFA is satisfied with the identity of the next-of-kin/legal beneficiary, verification shall commence. Onn receiving a report on missing, PenCom would constitute a Board of Inquiry (BoI) made up of staff of the Commission, Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and other key stakeholders. If the BoI found that the contributor  was missing, then it would pay his benefits to the next-of-kin/beneficiary. “Furthermore, to address the challenges faced by employees who wish to access their Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) Benefits, the revised regulation established conditions applicable to retirees from the private sector with NSITF benefits, which NSITF transferred at the implementation of the CPS.  It provides that any employee who retires and has NSITF contributions shall notify the PFA of his/her intention to withdraw the NSITF contributions. “A PFA shall request the retiree to provide documents and application to access the NSITF part of the RSA balance.  A PFA shall forward requests to access Pre-Act portion of the RSA balance to the Commission for no-objection. In Part III, we will conclude our presentation on the key highlights of the Revised Regulation on Retirement and Terminal Benefits, Mrs. Dahir-Umar said.