In its quest to boost productivity and performance across its operations, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has developed a four-year strategic plan, The Nation has learnt. The four-year strategic plan drawn from 2021-2024, will guide the agency’s programmes and actions towards achieving its set goals and targets. Justifying the need for the plan, the SON Director General, Mallam Farouk Salim in a communiqué issued at the end of a strategic leadership retreat in Uyo recently, said the SON would institute an efficient, open, transparent and effective performance measuring mechanism, as well as a reward and sanction programme to ensure accountability and consequence management, stressing that this will include staff recognition and reward programme which will be put in place before the end of 2022. Salim also expressed SON’s commitment towards effective implementation of the National Quality Policy approved by the Federal Executive Council as well as the Nigerian National Standardisation Strategy to provide adequate support for economic development, such as developing a 21st century work environment that is conducive and digitally-enabled all geared at maximising the potential of the employees’ goals and strategic objectives of the Agency. Pressed further, Salim said among the organisation’s resolutions was the attachment of the staff of the SON to establishments like the National Metrology Institutes and testing laboratories outside the country for further exposure, consideration of retired staff of the organisation as SON Ambassadors and maintenance of established procedure for the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme for locally manufactured products.   Univasa launches cashless payment system for yellow taxi     Despite economic headwinds, Nigerian Breweries records…     FoodCo berths in Arolugun   Other objectives are improved understanding and positioning of the Regional Directorates to effectively and efficiently carry out their responsibilities and strengthening of staff capacity in the area of the Public Service Rules. Besides, the organisation has hinted of plans to become a high performance and world class organisation with a top ranking in the committee of nations. The SON top management resolved that the approved SON Strategic Plan for 2021 to 2024 and the initiatives identified will continue to be the major drivers of the organisation and will guide its operations in the years ahead, while it will continue to periodically monitor its activities through management performance reviews and its strategic leadership retreats, as well as tracking through appointed third party experts. The communiqué also stated that the continuous development of new standards has vast opportunities in many sectors of the economy for improved competitiveness in the local and international markets. The SON management relishes its recent top rating on the PEBEC index on Ease of Doing Business and resolves to maintain and exceed it in 2022 and beyond. Echoing similar sentiments, a former Director General of the SON, Brig. General Anthony Etukudo (rtd) advocated that SON be allowed to carry out its mandate at the nation’s entry points to enable local industries to compete favorably with the rest of the world.