He made a name for himself as a maestro. “I started with highlife, and then modernised it into Afro beat in the early 60s. I also play Afro soul and Super Afro soul,” he said in an interview, describing his trajectory as a musician. Orlando Julius Ekemode, known professionally as Orlando Julius, was musically active for more than 60 years until his death on April 15 at the age of 79.  He recorded his first single, titled “Igbehin Adara,” in 1960. Born in Ikole-Ekiti, in present-day Ekiti State, he learned how to play drums and sing in his hometown, influenced by his mother who led an all-female musical group. He stopped his secondary education following his father’s death, and attended a music school in Ibadan, in present-day Oyo State, in the 1950s. After a stint under highlife great I.K. Dairo, in Ilesha,  he formed his own band, Orlando Julius & His Modern Aces. It was the golden age of live bands in the country, and his group performed regularly at Independence Hotel in Ibadan. He released his first hit “Jagua Nana” with the band in 1965, and toured West Africa following the success of the song. AllMusic described his 1966 hit album Super Afro Soul as a “dramatic, highly melodic incorporation of soul, pop, and funk,” which demonstrated his creativity. The musical fusion boosted his fame.  When he performed with the American soul music giant James Brown at Paradise Hotel, Ibadan, it reinforced his recognition. He relocated to the US in 1974, and further proved his sterling musicianship. After forming the group UMOJA in Washington DC, he played with notable artistes. His song “Asiko Lo Laye” was a hit in the 1975 album, The Boy’s Doin’ It, in which he collaborated with Hugh Masekela, who was known as “the father of South African jazz.”   Ex-Olubadan Adetunji’s younger brother dies at 84     Oyetola’s campaign DG cries out over plot to kill nine APC…     Swings in oil and gas prices: Implication for Nigeria   During the Second World Black and African Festival of Arts and Culture (FESTAC), held in Lagos, Nigeria, in 1977, he co-produced an album with American musicians.  His track, “Ka Ma Ranti Isedale Baba Awa,” in the album, was also a hit and won a Grammy Award. Orlando Julius enhanced his professionalism in America. He studied audio engineering and production at Bear West Studios, and film production at the Berkeley Film Institute. He also attended Laney College where he learned photography and television production, and did some music courses. He acted in Roots: The Second Generation. He later changed the name of his band to Ashiko. A renowned saxophonist with a distinctive style, he attracted and taught local musicians in the US who wanted to learn from him. It is worth mentioning that he said it was because of him that Afrobeat legend Fela Anikulapo-Kuti learned to play the saxophone. He played at several major music festivals across the world, promoting not only his unique music, based on African rhythms, but also Yoruba culture. He produced many evergreen songs, including “Mapami ,”  ”Topless,”  ”Ise Owo,”  ”Boju Bari,”  ”Ololufe,”  ”Oni Suru, “  ”Stop War,”  ”Ijo Soul,” “Bamijo,”  ”Columbia” and  ”Erora Miliki.” His expertise enriched some award-winning Nollywood movies for which he produced soundtracks, including Saworoide and Owo Blow. After he finally returned to Nigeria in the 1990s, he continued performing locally and helped to keep his music genre alive. He attracted renewed interest following reissues of his oldies from 2000. He collaborated with The Heliocentrics, in London, in 2014, where they recorded new music and new versions of oldies. The collaboration produced Jaiyede Afro, which made it to number 13 on the Billboard World Albums chart. When an interviewer asked him what he did when he was not on stage, he answered: “I’m on stage 24-7 by listening to music, producing music, teaching music, talking music and dreaming music when I’m asleep.” His accomplishments were based on passion, dedication and vitality.