The 2023 general elections will be contested by deceptive personae, among others. Some of the aspirants are driven by delusions of sainthood and an inflamed ego. The career aspirants declare their right to Nigeria’s most coveted seat citing everything but merit. Some new kids on the block, however, seek to illustrate a dubious fable; chanting the ‘nottooyoungtorun’ mantra, they wear their naivete like a badge and brandish ebullience in replacement of substance. Together, they fulfill the purpose of a taxidermic decoy, like Spenser’s False Florimell. More old and young aspirants are out to incite and exploit the electorate’s frantic hopes in order to dash them. Like changelings of fickle principles, passion and integrity are changeful in their wake. The electorate must make its way past the fraud and extortion of such seasoned con men, who are out to lure the psyche into committing political capital (that is, electoral votes) to unsound judgments and investments. But to achieve this, the Nigerian voter must learn to identify the false messiahs and con men among the aspirants. These range from the stark pretenders to the supposedly powerful contenders. The most prominent among them justify their claim to power touting paper qualification, ill-gotten wealth, an army of thugs, assassins, and unparalleled deviousness. How do illiterate voters avoid the snare of such con men? The answer lies in the capacity of the politically literate amid the ranks of the country’s electorate – comprising the impoverished breadline and the middle class – to sensitise their kind, to repel the scourge of predatory politicians. But that is in the long run; no degree of push-back could work against such political elements at the moment. Like every other constituent of the country’s electorate, the true patriot and politically literate will watch helplessly as familiar tricksters scuttle the electoral process via vote-buying, filthy propaganda, hooliganism, and character assassination. Whoever wins the 2023 elections, across all levels of government, the flawed systems will remain in place; the patrons of the systemic anomalies are too powerful to be challenged – at least for the moment. It’s time to look beyond the 2023 elections. This is the time for the politically savvy to join or create a dependable platform and start conversations to educate and reorientate illiterate segments of the electorate. The average voter must be taught to understand, that, Nigeria’s most dangerous enemies are not Boko Haram, thieving bank chiefs, armed robbers, industrial monopolists, corrupt security operatives, and government puppeteers in the corporate business sector, but the criminal masterminds responsible for these maladies and the illiterate voter who would gladly pawn his vote for a token and ethnoreligious bigotries. The voter’s card thus becomes a weapon of mass destruction in the hands of such a voter. Knowing this, the fraudulent aspirant plies prospective voters with inducements, bigotries, and outright lies. The big truth, however, subsists in the buried narratives: that fictions of growth have a hollow underside; that Nigeria and constituent states must ultimately learn to live within their means; that regional claims of marginalisation have undertones of lies; that terrorism has its patrons in government and among the governed; that government size and spending has to be surgically pruned; that Nigeria has to move from a consumer economy to a producer economy; that power is finite and voter apathy and ignorance keep predators in public office, indefinitely. The theme of the forthcoming elections, as advanced by the contenders, is that of salvation. A few aspirants present themselves the virtuous of our world, by whose virtues Nigeria may attain salvation.   This hell we made     Bola Tinubu at 70…The legend and the gloom     Twilight blues   Too little supports their messianic posturing. For instance, their platitudes fail to practically address the abysmal states of the economy, health, education, and transportation sectors. This is more pronounced in the case of the aspirants holding public offices. They fail to justify why they’ve been unable to assert the positive change and progress they promised throughout the two terms cum eight years of their incumbency. There is no aspirant with a heartfelt plan to commit at least 30 percent of Nigeria’s annual budget to health and education – split at 15 percent each. No president-elect has ever done that. No aspirant has ever promised that. None may do that. Those who pay lip service to such often do so to amass political capital and ultimately, win votes. Of all the aspirants, none would agree to the surgical trimming of the nation’s legislature, while legislative work is reduced to a part-time assignment. Yet several voters would dance and maim, bicker and kill, to guarantee their easy access to the nation’s public offices. The Nigerian voter thus creates a plenum, from which he/she would not escape for another four years. This would be blamed on ‘voter illiteracy’ at crunch time when reality bites harder, and the frenzied, ignorant voter of today relapses in sober awareness tomorrow. At the moment, there is fierce jostling for the presidential ticket within the country’s two major political parties. The cutthroat rivalry, dirty dealings, and betrayals highlight the importance of the stakes. Even so, it must be acknowledged that more aspirants fulfill the role of a spoiler, and some, a placebo, presenting as false contrary to the prospects of the aspirants with real substance and the capacity to truly improve the fortunes of the country. This minute, the press has been contracted to clothe dross as gold and ornament misgovernance as quintessential brass. This reinforces the failure of the media: more journalists have become praise-singers of the failed political class and common carriers of its propaganda. We’ve sort of given up being independent on our own, in order to survive. Through these maladies, Nigeria’s incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari, is expected to lead Nigeria to the execution of a flawless transition by the forthcoming elections. In his two terms of office, he was expected to conjure a magic formula to turn Nigeria’s fortune around. The jury bickers, in real-time, on the depth of his success or failure at this task. President Buhari was expected to channel dignified statesmanship and the latent strength to facilitate the emergence of Nigeria’s extraordinary league of detribalised, patriot leaders, within and outside the folds of the prominent parties. The latter would reinvigorate Nigeria’s comatose industries, eliminate terrorism, achieve a 24-hour electricity supply, revivify substandard health and education sectors, and truly fight corruption. But it was foolhardy to leave the task of finding them to Buhari alone; he hadn’t the facilities to actualise their emergence. He was too preoccupied fighting our home made fires perhaps. Again, we find ourselves at the desert end of our green pasture. There is no one left to lead the charge for our world’s lost splendours. For eight years, Nigeria entrusted Buhari with this task because he seemed our best hope of snatching Nigeria from the jaws of decline and devastation. He did his bit. But he won’t save Nigeria. Someone else will. But could Buhari prepare us for the one who would lead the charge for Nigeria’s lost splendours? The retired General from Daura couldn’t tease our practiced tremble to affect the bounteous tumult. This was because he lost too much ground to the elements he swore to neuter. This minute, Nigeria seeks for the umpteenth time, our romanticised revolutionary who would unburden our lives of rottenness and excess baggage. Nigeria seeks the one capable of standing like a man; the man whose current stoop and future sway perpetually stifles the prance of the predatory political class.