Nigerians looking up to the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, RMAFC, for a more equitable, federalist revenue sharing formula would have, no doubt, been disappointed with the latest proposal from that body. Going by the recommendation submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari last week, RMAFC proposes to cut off 3.51 percent from the Federal Government’s share of 52.68 per cent. By that, the states will get 3.07 per cent more, thus taking their share from the current 26.72 per cent to 29.79 per cent. The local governments with 0.44 per cent more will thereafter have their share increased to 21.04 per cent from 20.60 per cent. The proposal, after the last one in 1992, would seem to be some 30 years late in coming. For, even before the latest round of constitutional amendment process, Nigerians have long before now voiced their displeasure with the current allocation formula which allows the Federal Government a more than disproportionate share even when, for all practical purposes, it has fallen short on the actual responsibilities attached. As tokenistic as the latest proposals appear however, it is nonetheless a step forward. A number of issues naturally arise. The first is whether the proposed review actually reflects the yearnings of Nigerians for greater equity and justice and the overall quest for balanced development; second is whether the fortunes of the states as indeed those of the local governments as the ultimate beneficiaries would be better enhanced either now or in the long run, without a fundamental re-ordering of the political economy. 		 			Strike: ASUU tackles Fed Govt over N4trn fuel subsidy budget		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m ransom for popular Akwa Ibom cleric		 		 		 			BREAKING: APC presidential form to go for N100m		 		 To these we can add the third – whether a revamped revenue formula can help address some of the inherent flaws in our federal practice. On the first, there is no doubting the fact that the current revenue formula is not just lopsided but inequitable. From primary health care to such interventionist activities in the basic primary education, we have seen the Federal Government dabble into provinces that, were things to be normal, it would have no business venturing into, as the states and the local governments would have been seen to be firmly and effectively in charge of them. Indeed, many of the interventions which have since become the new normal would have been most unnecessary were the funds available to the states and the local governments to tackle them. What Nigerians have long advocated is for a compact and focused Federal Government – certainly not one building primary health centres or digging boreholes in the guise of supplying potable water – a job better left for the states and local councils. It goes without saying that the states, in the circumstance, deserve more than they are currently getting vis-à-vis the Federal Government. In the same vein, it also bears stating that the current distributive arrangement has also proven to be extremely unhelpful to the states as indeed to the federation. As has been the case over the years, more money to share has meant little incentive to harness resources, minimise wastes and ultimately to wean themselves off the culture of dependency. So, as one would push for more funds for the states and the local governments, they just have to accept that no formula, no matter how generous, can fully address their developmental needs as the consequential dependence on the distributable pool would at some point spell doom. Above all, there is of course a limit to what the RMAFC can do barring a constitutional amendment. To be sure, the 1999 Constitution (as amended) puts so many responsibilities in the hands of the Federal Government and with it the requirement for funding. A major expectation from the ongoing constitutional review is therefore, for the Federal Government to be divested of such responsibilities that the states and local governments are best placed to discharge. Only thereafter would the basis for a more drastic review of the existing formula be reasonably and validly made.