The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has expressed concern about the declining capacity of the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LDPC) to effectively deal with cases of unethical conduct among lawyers in the country. It blamed the development on the ebbing standard of discipline, rising cases of misconduct among legal practitioners and the ineffectiveness of the LPDC as currently constituted. NBA President, Olumide Akpata, while making these observations, said the Body of Bencher, whose organ is the LPDC, should ensure an urgent reform of the committee to enable it to function effectively to restore public confidence in the legal profession. Akpata spoke in Abuja at an event held to celebrate the change of baton in the leadership at the Body of Benchers, with Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) succeeding Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour of the Supreme Court (now retired), as the Chairman, while Justice Mary Odili (of the Supreme Court) became the Vice-Chairman. Akpata said: “I will charge the new Chairman to look closely at the issue of discipline; look closely at the issue of the LPDC. “The public, right now have very little confidence in the LPDC and they believe that we are shielding many of our colleagues who have committed one infraction or the other. “So, more work has to be done at the LPDC. First, more panels should be created so that the LPDC sits across the country. It cannot be the case that a man, who has a matter against a lawyer in Ughelli in Delta State will have to travel all the way to Abuja to have his matter heard.   Emefiele: How CBN is reviving economy     Two children, five others die in Kwara autocrash     NDLEA seizes Tramadol, Exol 5 tablets worth N5bn   “The way things just show that we are not really keen or at least, it makes us look as if we are not keen to see that our members are disciplined. “So, it is the responsibility of the Body of Benchers to ensure that the LPDC has more panels and that the process is more efficient. According to him, right now cases/petitions have piled up, waiting to be heard. He added: “As the President of the Bar, I get calls every day from people who feel that they have been hard done by lawyers; who feel that some lawyers have misconducted themselves in cases involving them, and they think we are not doing enough in terms of disciplining erring lawyers. “It is a one-year term, as the Chairman of the Body of Benchers. It is not a very long tenure. But, as the Chairman, I know if he puts his mind to it, I am sure he (Olanipekun) can totally revamp the LPDC to ensure that our citizens regain confidence in the legal profession, not only that we are competent and can serve the public, but that we can discipline our own.” Speaking earlier, Olanipekun, who is now BOB’s 50th Chairman, said he was humbled by his new assignment and assured of his commitment to lift the body and the profession by building on the enviable foundation laid by his predecessors in office. “I pledge to continue to give my all to the services of the Body of Benchers as Chairman for the next year and, in doing so, I will be calling upon you all for your cooperation, understanding, assistance, advice and counsel. Nobody knows it all, and no man born of a woman can boast of the monopoly of wisdom. I am not insular,” he said.