TAYO: Good day, my name is Tayo. My late mother had two Retirement Savings Account (RSA) and PIN with two different managers. How do I go about it? PENCOM: You are requested to write a letter to the National Pension Commission, stating the issue as well as the two RSA PINS, name of PFAs and attach the letters of introduction issued to your late mum by the PFAs. The letter should be addressed to the Director-General, National Pension Commission, Plot 174, Adetokunbo Ademola Crescent, Wuse, Abuja. The title of the letter should be: Multiple RSA PINS. Thank you. EKPE: My name is Ekpe. I retired from the Nigeria Police in 2015. My complaint goes thus: On August 2021, I received a message from NPF Pensions that my 2.5 per cent shortfall on pensions approved for federal retirees by Mr. President was credited to my RSA account. I moved to my PFA, Premium Pension, to confirm it but they said nothing like that was in their system. They advised me to apply to NPF Pensions where I got the information on transferring the money to my PFA. This was done on October 20, 2021 and I copied Premium Pensions and PenCom. To my dismay, I discovered that the cash was received by them since July 2021. Sir, up till this moment, I have not heard from them about the payment, though the template was issued by PenCom.The most annoying thing is the deduction of their administrative fee on receiving this fund while they denied us payment. They forget that this fee is deducted monthly when pension is paid. Kindly use your good offices to instruct Premium Pensions to pay us.Thank you. PENCOM: You are requested to forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN; name and other details to enable us investigate further. Thank you. OTI: My name is Oti, a former staff member of Skye Bank Plc. My complaint is about my PFA. I left the bank since December 2009. I have applied for my accrued benefit of 25 per cent. But up till now, no response from them. My letter of non-indebtedness was sent to them by my former employer since January 19, 2022. I am based in Calabar. But the Calabar office manager refused to pick my calls or talk to me. I have health challenges. I need money for surgery.  Kindly tell them to pay my 25 per cent. PENCOM: Investigations revealed that the PFA was paid into your bank account on March 21, 2022. Please liaise with IEI Anchor Pension Managers Limited for further details. Thank you.   PenCom reviews retirement benefits     Lagos pays over N38b pension in 4 years     Pension complaints and solutions   ANNONYMOUS: I am a retired police officer. Is it a crime to be a police officer in this country? We suffered for this country. Last year, l applied for the payment of the lump sum of 2.5 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent increases approved by President Muhammadu Buhari to federal pensioners. Surprisingly, nothing has been paid. My PFA, Premium Pension, is treating us this way. They said we should sign an empty template which they have not reflected. What is the importance of signing templates? Premium Pension should pay us our arrears. PENCOM: You are requested to forward your RSA PIN; name as well as other details to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. MRS DANLADI: Greetings Omobola. I am a retiree of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) headquarters, Lagos. I retired in June 2021. When are we expected to be paid our lumpsum by our PFAs? Thank you. PENCOM: You are requested to forward your RSA PIN, name as well as other details to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. AMIRIUGO: Do PenCom and Trustfund Pension work together. My complaint is that the pension of my father, Amuriugo, who worked at Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Drilling Section, Abuja and died on April 14, 2013, has not been paid. I am his next-of-kin.. PENCOM: Please, forward details such as his Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, name of Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) and other information that will assist in resolving your complaint. Thank you. ADEBUKOLA: I am Mrs. Babalola. My husband, Gholahan, passed away in 2018 and PenCom has refused to pay his pension. I was told his accrued right has been released but nothing has been paid yet. He worked at the National Commission for Refugees and Internally Displaced Persons in Abuja. His PFA is First Guarantee Pension Limited.  Kindly help. PENCOM: Please be informed that your late husband’s benefits have been paid. Kindly liaise with his Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) for more information. Thank you.