Access Holdings Plc yesterday reassured its shareholders that its transition to a holding  company structure will lead to increased returns in the years ahead. Group Managing Director, Access Holdings Plc  Mr Herbert Wigwe, gave the assurance at a closing gong ceremony in commemoration of the transition to Access Holdings. He said the group remains commited to continue to deliver a healthy performance that is consistent with its vision by delivering exceptional service to its customers and adding value to its shareholders’ investment. He noted that the management of the company had over the years been working tirelessly to ensure return on investment, while noting that the company had delivered on all the promises it made the stockbroking community. Wigwe recalled that the Nigerian Exchange Limited, formerly, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) had been the platform the company went to when the Central Bank of Nigeria increased capital from N2 billion to N25 billion, adding that since the listing of the bank on the Nigerian bourse, the company had grown steadily and witnessed the greatest merger in the country.   NEITI: NNPC, FIRS, others raked in N28.02tr in three years     Zenith Bank’s Q1 gross earnings hit N191.5b     NCDMB earmarks $40m for women in energy sector   He noted that corporate governance is key to the company as it had at different point in time in the last 20 years come to the exchange to share it’s plans. Looking ahead, Wigwe said the company will not desist from sharing information as it has transited from the narrow banking structure into one that has institutional structures. Temi Popoola, the CEO of the Nigerian Exchange Limited appreciated the bank for what they have done for the Nigerian capital market while noting that the Exchange’s history would not be complete without mentioning the bank. He noted that the Exchange relies on partnerships for growth, thus it’s alliance with institutions that share it’s chemistry. Mr. Abubakar Mahmoud, Chairman, Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) noted that the transition of the company to a holding company signifies the beginning of collaboration and partnership that Access Holding Plc is known for and it will be beneficial partnership to the Exchange, the country and the world at large. Welcoming the board and management of Access Corporation, the Doyen, Mr. Rasheed Yusuf appreciated the bank for the return on investment and encouraged the company to continue to give the stockbroking community timely and relevant information as it drive investors decisions in the market. He therefore urged the holding company to list it’s subsidiaries on the local bourse and also encourage other companies to list on the local bourse  to make the market  more robust.