Six children were said to have been killed when a fighter jet belonging to the Nigerian Air Force attempted to neutralise some terrorists in Kurebe community in Shiroro local government area of Niger state. The Nation learnt the incident occurred last week with over 50 terrorists neutralised by the fighter jet. A security source confided the terrorists ran into the community to take a shield and when the jets tried to bomb them, it affected some children returning from the stream where they had gone to fetch water. “It was the terrorists that they were targeting. That week, there were about four airstrikes carried out in Shiroro and scores of terrorists were killed. “The terrorists ran into the community to take refuge and when the explosives were shelled, it affected the children. It wasn’t deliberate.” A resident of Munya local government area, Mark Daniel said that terrorists had taken over Kurebe community and several people were e scared to go there. Speaking about the incident, he noted that six children were killed but the terrorists suffered several casualties as several of them were killed during the airstrikes. 		 			Tinubu gets Diaspora support for presidential bid		 		 		 			Buhari persistently sad over terror attacks – Monguno		 		 		 			Ayu knocks APC over N100m presidential nomination for		 		 Spokesperson of Coalition of Shiroro Associations, Salis Sabo said that a man lost two of his daughters and two grand-daughters in the incident. He confirmed the presence of terrorists in the community, stating that there are two different camps of terrorists in Kurebe. “The terrorists around the community are of two groups with two different camps. “One links up with the community through Unguwan Zomo, the other through Kwantan Yashi area,” he stressed. There have been no security reports or statements regarding the incident. The Niger State Government has also not reacted to the incident. But in an interview with Voice of America (VOA), the Secretary to the Niger State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane said the government was looking into the incident with investigation ongoing. He said that Kurebe and some parts of Shiroro have been taken over by bandits with majority of the residents at the IDP camps in Shiroro.