Lagos State Transportation Commissioner Dr. Frederic Oladeinde has made a case for the reopening of tolling on the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge. The operator of the Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge Toll Plaza – the Lekki Concession Company Limited (LCC), has expressed readiness to resume tolling on the bridge. The company had suspended operations on the bridge and at the Lekki Toll Plaza after unarmed protesters were attacked at the plaza on October 20, 2020. The government had at a meeting with residents and stakeholders announced an April 1, 2022 deadline to resume operation. It, however, had to shift ground upon further consultation with the stakeholders, fixing April 15 as the new take-off date. Oladeinde, speaking with reporters yesterday, said the government would continue to consult with the stakeholders, as reopening of the toll plaza was in the overall interest of all. He said the reopening would help protect businesses. His response came on the heels of reactions by residents living along the Lekki corridor, who on Tuesday, urged the government to put its decision to have the Lekki-Ikoyi Toll Plaza reopened on April 15, on hold, until all issues relating to the reopening were resolved.   Bandits, Boko Haram pact behind renewed insecurity     12 military impersonators arrested in Lagos, Ogun     American arrested with firearms at Lagos Airport   Oladeinde said the government would not back down on reopening the toll gate because it would spell doom for the public private partnership (PPP), which had been helping the government in the provision of critical infrastructure. He said: “I know a lot of Lagosians are unhappy that the Lagos State Government is taking steps to reopen the toll gate, but we need to know that we are doing this in the best interest of all parties, including investors, who have always requested we guarantee the safety of their investment. We should not forget that the business in question is somebody’s business and it has been in jeopardy since it was burnt and shut down 18 months ago.” He said the government might find it impossible to attract local and foreign investors if it could not continue to guarantee the safety of businesses, “and investor’s confidence in our state will continue to sag.” “A number of investors approaching the government with the intention of partnership for the provision of critical infrastructure are looking at us and will want assurance that their investment is safe and secure. They will take their investment away if we cannot give them that guarantee and secure their business and investments,” Oladeinde said. The commissioner noted that since the government could not do it alone and would continue to rely on the private sector to provide for the citizens, it was important to ensure that the private sector as a critical stakeholder must have their investment protected. He said it would be unfair if the toll was stopped, as the investors would not be able to recoup their investment, which was constructed on the Build, Own, Operate and Transfer (BOOT) platform. He said if citizens continued to resist developments in the state, it would be difficult for the government to achieve any meaningful development in any area, as investors would be wary of bringing their money to a government that could not protect their interest. The commissioner, therefore, urged the citizens to show more understanding and support for the government, and see its intention to reopen the toll gate as an altruistic move to protect investors, who as residents also had a stake in the overall development and healthy position of the state.