Events practitioners have decried excessive taxes and charges by federal, state and local governments and their agencies. They have, therefore sought a dialogue with the government to review the charges.The practitioners, under the auspices of Coalition of events professionals, stated this at a town hall meeting in Ikeja, Lagos. They represented the various associations in the industry. They are the Association of Venue Owners Lagos Nigeria (AVOLN), Association of Professional Food Services Providers  of Nigeria (APFSPN), Association of Event Vendors Nigeria (ASSEV), Event Designers Association of Nigeria (EDAN), International Live Events Association Nigeria Chapter (ILEA, Rental Professional Society of Nigeria (RPSN),Nigerian Event Beverages Association(NEBA), Association of Professional Party Organisers and Event Management of Nigeria (APPOEMN), and Association of Music Band Owners of Nigeria (AMBON). President, International Life Events Association, Nigeria Chapter, Kunmi Ariyo, lamented that they were too many regulations by different agencies of the government. He complained of lack of uniformity in the charges. This, he said, ranged from venue, waste disposal, transportation, safety and security. He noted that the industry is vital to the nation’s economy as it contributes about N100billion to its Gross Domestic Product (GDP). As such it should not be toyed with. Specifically, he said the government’s taxes on their turnover instead of their fees was wrong. He advised the officials of the government to make themselves available for discussion to enable them understand the situation.   IBM targets 30 million jobs by 2030     Addressing gaps in construction skills     Making a living from cassava farming   “Our people are still paying for safety, clearing of refuse and no one is saying anything,’’ he added. Mrs Adelusi of AVLON said the multiple charges were crippling the activities in the industry, urging the government to review them. Also, Tosin Alao of ABON canvassed the formation of one body which will be empowered to present their grievances to the government. Bolade Adebayo of ASPN agreed with Alao. Members of APFSPN reminded the government that their business concerns fall under small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) and as such should be encouraged by friendly policies. ‘’The government should not kill us. How is the government helping us? We need to be clear about this,’’ Mr Abiodun said. However, government officials at the forum, while not denying the complaints by the group, said since these were policy matters which beyond them,  also advised that they parley with the governor.  Director, Noise and Emission Control, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Mrs  Bisi Shonibare, said one of the objectives of the agency is to ‘assist business owners to be environment-friendly. She said different noise levels that are allowed. She, however, warned that the ban on noise should not be flouted as offenders would either have their premises sealed or made to pay heavy fines. “LASEPA is the police of the environment and it ensures that it is safe,’’ she said. Upon a complaint that some agents are not frequent in the waste collection, despite being charged for the purpose, Mrs Aderonke Adesoye, the Regional Head, Business and Industry, Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) advised the coalition members to channel their complaints to their Managing Director. She also said refuse disposal is so important that the practitioners should register with LAWMA to avoid being sanctioned. The coalition also put officials of the Lagos Safety Commission on the spot.  But its Director, Enforcement Compliance, Babatunde Asinyobi, asked them to get safety permits before holding events to avoid breaking the law. He, however, agreed with them that bringing firearms, except to protect dignitaries, such as governors and their deputies, to events, was wrong and should be discouraged.