The global oil demand is expected to rise by 3.7million barrels per day and to average 1.9mb/d in 2022. The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) broke the news in its statement issued on the International Monetary and Financial Committee (IMFC) Meeting of Ministers and Governors April 2022. The cartel said: “In 2022, world oil demand growth is expected to continue recovering and to increase by around 3.7 mb/d to average 100.5 mb/d. “Oil demand in the OECD is anticipated to rise by 1.9 mb/d, with OECD Americas rising steadily, and OECD Europe and Asia Pacific also recording growth.” It recalled that global oil market fundamentals strengthened in the first quarter of 2021 4Q22 and 1Q22 on the back of sustained global economic and oil demand growth as well as the ongoing efforts by the OPEC and non-OPEC producers participating in the Declaration of Cooperation (DoC) to support market stability. OPEC said improvements in vaccination rates and a potential increase in public confidence in managing COVID-19 is anticipated to be more widespread in 2022, further supporting the recovery of oil demand, particularly transportation fuels. 		 			Military mops up 517 weapons in Plateau, Kaduna, Bauchi		 		 		 			Driver knocks, kills LASTMA officer to evade arrest		 		 		 			Nigeria needs to rethink fuel subsidy, says World Bank…		 		 The statement noted that petrochemicals and transportation will be sectors of the economy that will require more oil in 2022. Gasoline demand, said OPEC, is forecast to be supported by rising vehicle sales while expansion in the petrochemical industry and steady petrochemical margins will support light distillates in 2022. The organization said in the non-OECD region, growth is expected at around 1.8 mb/d, with China continuing to lead the region in terms of growth, followed by Other Asia and India. It added that Non-OPEC liquids supply in 2021 is estimated to have grown by 0.6 mb/d from the previous year. The organization said in the midst of the unprecedented crisis created by geopolitical events and the ongoing pandemic, the OPEC and non-OPEC countries participating in the Declaration of Cooperation have once again demonstrated their unswerving dedication to pursue stabilization of the global oil markets, contribute to restoring healthy oil market fundamentals and once again help balance the oil market in support of the global economy.