Reading any book has a purpose and a method. No good reader will ever read a book without taking note of its author, its publisher and its date of publication. And to read any new book, the very first point of call is its contents page which tells you the topics and the subjects you will read about in it. One of the major purposes of Tarawih is to serve as a reminder of the contents of the Quran. The word Qur’an means continuous recitation. It is so called because of its inimitable origin which makes it a compelling daily reading throughout the world, across nations and ages. It contains the unsurpassable words of Allah not only in the grandeur of its diction and splendour of its rendition but also in the depth of its meaning, substance and profundity. The revelation of the Glorious Book called the Qur’an to mankind through an unlettered desert Arab, Muhammad (SAW), the son of Abdullah and Aminah, began in 610 CE. It lasted 22 years and three months (10 years in Makkah and12 years plus three months in Madinah). The book contains 114 chapters and 6236 verses (not 6666 verses often quoted by most Imams and Alfas in Nigeria. Of these 114 chapters, 86 were revealed in Makkah and 28 in Madinah. But the 28 chapters revealed in Madinah constitute two thirds of the entire Book. This is because the Makkah chapters are short, rhythmic and poetic while those of Madinah are long and prose-like.   Insecurity: EU to supply 30 boats, forensic equipment to…     UN chief calls for probe into Bucha killings     Is this ‘Tripod of Terror’ not ‘A Declaration of War’?   Although the Qur’an was revealed orally, its writing began almost immediately the revelations started. The writing was however done on primitive materials like planks of wood, animal hides, back of trees and other materials of the like which were then readily available. It was shortly after the demise of Prophet Muhammad (SAW), that those writings were collated and rendered into a book form after corroboration with the memorised ones. However, one of the wonders of rendering the Qur’an into a written form is the classification of those revelations into chapters and verses by the Prophet himself despite his illiteracy. The Qur’an’s main appeal is to man’s intellect, feelings and imagination. But it also gives insight into some natural phenomena like spherical and revolution of the earth (Q. 39:5), the formation of the rain (Q. 30:48); the fertilization of the wind (Q. 15:22); the revolution of the sun, the moon and the planets in their fixed orbits (Q. 36:29-38); the aquatic origin of all creatures (Q. 21:30); the duality of the sex of plants and other creatures (Q. 36:35); the collective life of animals (Q.6:38); the mode of life of the bees (Q. 16:69) and the successive phases of the child in the mother’s womb (Q. 22:5 & 23:14). Yet, the purpose of this Glorious Book is not to teach history, astronomy, philosophy or sciences but to broaden the horizon of man for thorough understanding of the world vis a vis its supreme Creator. That is the Qur’an for you, a book that is incomparably divine through all ages and times. Whoever needs to read the Qur’an must know its features as stated above. Otherwise, just reading the Qur’an may be like swimming in a pool without any knowledge of its depth.