The Executive Order 11 (EO11) on national public buildings maintenance signed by President Muhammadu Buhari is a big relief. However, some experts doubt its full implementation. OKWY IROEGBU­CHIKEZIE writes  They cost billions to build and should have been national assets. But they are not. Reason? The edifices are not maintained. They were abandoned, and have become home to miscreants. Lack of maintenance culture is a big problem in the pulic sector.  Experts said the Federal Government abandoned over 60 properties in Lagos, after it moved the capital to Abuja in 1991. They include the Independence Building, which used to house the Ministry of Defence; the National Assembly Complex, Tafawa Balewa Square; NECOM House, Marina; NITEL Building; Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi; the Old Defence House. But for this problem, the properties would have been cash cows for the Federal  Government to milk yearly. For instance, the National Provident Fund building, now known as Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), at Iyana Era, on Lagos-Badagry Expressway, is an example of waste by the government. The building, referred to as Ile Nla, meaning large house, by the people of the community, is one of the properties abandoned by the Federal Government. The 18-storey has been uncompleted for over three decades, lying idle and rotting away. Ile-Nla, the National Stadium and the Old Federal Secretariat illustrate the wasteful and poor maintenance culture that has pervaded the nation. But, two years ago, the National Assembly reportedly showed interest in the property. Its committee on Labour visited the property and promised to get back to the NSITF, the government agency that owns the property. Since then, nothing has happened. But President Muhammadu Buhari is set to change all that. His  assent to Executive Order 11 (EO11) on national public buildings maintenance bodes a good omen. Speaking before signing, the President directed Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government (MDAs) to set up maintenance departments in line with the new Executive Order.   World Bank votes $17b to tackle food insecurity     NCC urges subscribers on infrastructure protection     Deepening Nigeria’s e-commerce space   Buhari said the order gave legal teeth to the national maintenance policy, following the earlier approval given by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). He added: “Since the approval of the policy by FEC, the Federal Government has started the implementation of maintenance of strategic facilities like the Federal Secretariat, Abuja and federal secretariats in 24 states, where, at least, 40 people are daily employed in each of those 24 secretariats. “The Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation has approved the establishment of a department of federal public assets maintenance as a vital step in support of the implementation of this national policy, which is unprecedented in our history and approach to maintenance. “To ensure the fullest implementation and impact of the policy, it is my pleasure to sign this Executive Order that ties maintenance direct to our economy. By this Order, I expect MDAs to set out and ensure the operation of their maintenance departments and make necessary procurements for their maintenance in accordance with the provisions of the public procurement act.’’ Vice Chairman, Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV), Lagos, Gbenga Ismail said if the Executive Order portends positive good omen as the value of public assets would be retained, and  jobs created, among others. Also, former Chairman NIESV Lagos, Dotun Bamigbola said it is a good development. He said: “We have demanded maintenance of public buildings as a government policy over the years. This order is an opportunity for the built industry professionals, particularly in the public service, to collaborate and make meaningful contribution to the development and image of the country.” He advised that the relevant experts be put in the saddle, from the property or facility manager, who should be an estate surveyor and valuer, to support builders and structural engineers. According to him, planned preventive maintenance models should be used to ensure that there is a maintenance programme or plan for every public building. “This will ensure that maintenance can be adequately budgeted for, yearly in a preventive manner and not as an appendage programme, which has usually led to serious deterioration of public buildings and making them more costlier to repair or renovated as the case may be,” he said. For a former National Secretary, NIESV, Samuel Offiong  Ukpong, the coming of the Executive Order  means  that the government had suddenly realised the decadence they had plunged the public buildings into.  “Must there be an executive order for the right things to be done,’’ he queried? He added: “Perhaps this would awake executive consciousness about the necessity of preserving our national assets. Now everyone will jump around and about claiming expertise in this area. Hoping that the right and relevant professionals shall be engaged.’’