A violent protest erupted yesterday in the Ipaja area of Lagos following the murder of a man by a commercial motorcyclist. The motorcyclist, said to be a northerner, allegedly stabbed the man to death with a dagger during an argument. A source said daily toll collection by thugs and area boys may have caused the altercation. The man’s death angered indigenes of Baruwa and others areas. Locals were said to have been infuriated because a similar incident occurred recently and they were still nursing the wounds. Angry youths reportedly stormed the streets to protest what they termed the takeover of their communities by the okada men. They also went after the suspected killer. But their move was resisted by other motorcyclists of northern extraction  armed with daggers, knives and other dangerous weapons. The situation which soon snowballed into an ethnic violence was brought under control by police teams deployed by the Commissioner, Abiodun Alabi.   Kunle Poly’s murder case transferred to high court     Rising diesel price forces JAMB to raise mock UTME fee to…     JNI queries Fed Govt’s inability to wipe out bandits,…   It was learnt that the operatives arrested the suspected killer and 41 others. A resident, Long Adenekan  said: “The landlords and people around several estates need to start scrutinising the okada people with the help of the police around their areas. “It was a mere argument and they pounced on someone looking for his daily bread. They killed the man. “Shouldn’t the police do their job before these attacks or they always wait until people are being killed before peace is restored?” “If people didn’t stand against them, they were ready to start entering different houses to kill. Police spokesman Benjamin Hundeyin said the suspected killer was arrested, adding that calm had been restored. Hundeyin posted an update on social media, saying, “We are fully aware violent fights broke out in the Baruwa area of Ipaja today (yesterday). Adequate teams of the RRS have since been deployed to that area. Calm has been restored. One person has been confirmed dead.”