Title: Goal setting workbook Story: Dr Kaltume Akubo Reviewer: Bamigbade Racheal Ifeoluwa Publisher: Gift Love Charity Foundation The most important investment you can make is in yourself “Warren Buffet”. In this book entitled ‘Line of wisdom’ written by Dr Kaltume Akubo, the author follows the footsteps of the past nature poets. This 2022 publication of Gift love charity foundation, an NGO organization aimed at empowering the less privilege in society; orphans, women, youths to ensure development in the society. This workbook offers the reader the schedule to follow to start the achieving their goals irrespective of their challenges. This book emphasizes on how to achieve one’s goals through the acronym SMART (specific goals, measurable, accountable, realistic and time bound goals). The book is divided into 52 smart goal setting template and 244 pages. Each section of the goal setting template includes Goal type, personal, academic, business, family, spiritual goals. Goal objectives, steps to achieving the goals Why this goal is important to me, it enables the reader to gain intelligence and other personal skills that will ensure success.   Nigeria safe to host maiden global tourism conference – FG     The glowing flame of blame     Olotu’s art inspires youths to be courageous   Goal timeline, the start and completion date of achieving the goals, the timeline can be short, medium or long term. Positive affirmations, words of motivation, strength, encouragement, relevant to the goals that will help the goal setter to achieve it. Its needed to repeated daily and often every day. Progress Journal, there’s need to track progress, document progress and failure every day or anytime in few sentences. This will help the person to push further to achieve more goals. Challenges, every situation or happy ending once had a challenge or the other, there’s need to document challenges encountered in order to be able to reach out to the right people for help. Results, the goal settee should be realistic to state the result achieve, the level at which it was achieved, lessons learnt in the process of achieving the goal. Each work template ends with goal setting quotes, examples are: “Set a remarkable goal for yourself and get to work on them” Marelisa Fabrega. The 54 goal setting templates is to help the readers and goal setters to achieve their goals in an orderly and planned manner which will help them to write to put them back in track when they lose hope and as well help them in keeping records of their progress. This book is therefore recommended to all walks of life, both young and old to make use of it as a handy tool in order to achieve their goals.