Give it to him, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State deserves the endorsement for second term that the Governance Advisory Council (GAC) gave him on April 18. The GAC is the highest decision-making body of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Sanwo-Olu’s chief press secretary, Gboyega Akosile, made this known in a social media post: “Breaking news: Lagos GAC gives nod to Governor @jidesanwoolu’s second term bid. The Governance Advisory Council at a meeting  in Lagos today gave pass mark to Sanwo-Olu for staying through to the developmental agenda of Lagos. Congratulations dear boss!” The endorsement has put paid to the speculation that the GAC had its eyes on another candidate for the party’s ticket in next year’ governorship election. Unlike a former governor, however, Sanwo-Olu earned the endorsement. After all, as they say, the reward for hard work is more work. His is the result of the good works he has been doing since his swearing in on May 29, 2019. He is therefore not in the same category with that former governor whose father asked that his son (the governor) be allowed “to repeat” (have a second term) because he failed to perform! It was “breaking news”, indeed. Until the tenure of Sanwo-Olu’s predecessor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the question of second term for governor in Lagos had always been a settled matter, at least since the country’s return to civil rule on May 29, 1999. This has remained so because the ruling party has succeeded in maintaining its strong hold on the state’s political levers since that day when Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu became the first governor in the new dispensation. Indeed, if anything, Tinubu has ensured that the state remains in the firm grip of the (now) APC right through all the political party name changes that the ruling party in the state has witnessed in the last 23 years. With Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement, only Ambode missed the second shot at the governorship in the state in the last 23 years. So, if Akosile referred to his boss’s endorsement as “breaking news”, he was right. If he had said that before the Ambode years, people would have been wondering whether he knew news. Or, what could have been breaking about something that was more or less routine? Again, the news qualified for “breaking” news because of the speculation that made the rounds early this year, that the GAC had been shopping for a replacement for Sanwo-Olu, a thing the council had dismissed several weeks before. Indeed, as far back as January, the GAC had made it abundantly clear that it had “not settled for any person to replace Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu as governor. Therefore, it is absolutely false and preposterous for anyone  to suggest so.” Indeed, the council had harsh words for those it considered ‘merchants of hate’ peddling the satanic rumour. This, ordinarily, should have settled the question of Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement. But things don’t always work like that in Nigerian politics. It is a long time between January and April. Anything could have happened within the period. Indeed, it is instructive that that was the way Ambode’s problem began. What started like a child’s play eventually ended up in the former governor losing his second term bid. The difference this time around, though, is that Sanwo-Olu did not allow that banana peel situation to repeat itself. Sanwo-Olu, even despite his modest achievements left the decision to return him for second term in the hands of the people. He knows it is not about achievements alone. Although the governor refused to state if he would seek reelection or not, he had told Channels Television in January, “I think we are doing a very good job” adding that “If I dare say so, I think that the citizens know what it is they will be missing if they don’t let us continue to wrap up all the things  we are doing.” He continued: “But for me, it is about ensuring that these four years that I have promised my citizens I put every bit of my sweat into it.” He said something that interests me and gave me the impression that he truly did not want what happened to his predecessor to happen to him. “I will ask, I will consult; citizens, how do you see it? That’s how you get it done. Keep your focus on, try and finish very strong.” I know I had cause to ask some of my friends in the Ambode government whether they had any meetings where some of the decisions taken then were thrashed out. Like the simultaneous construction works on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, Airport Road and the Pen Cinema axis. Very good projects if you ask me, but they should have been taken one after the other because what some of us feared then was what happened later: chaotic traffic in that axis due to lack of alternative routes. If the construction works had been thoroughly debated, it is not unlikely someone would have pointed out this implication right from the time the projects were on the drawing board.   NUC approves accreditation of 21 undergraduate programmes at…     JUST IN: Makinde arrives Alaafin’s palace for…     Buhari orders man-haunt for sponsors of Imo illegal refinery   I must confess I am seeing much of the fact that Lagos is still work in progress, with various projects here and there, particularly road projects. The Agege axis in the state is witnessing a massive urban renewal, especially with regard to inner roads. The Akowonjo Road is also being reconstructed, with befitting drainages on both sides. Roads that had never been tarred are being tarred, with drainages provided in many cases. Some other persons have reported similar activities in their areas of the state. Although things are happening in several sectors in the state, I am however going to focus more on roads in particular, and transportation, generally, on which the state government is committing huge resources. Here, one cannot but start with the Lagos Rail Mass Transit (LRMT) Redline Project Phase 1. The Red line is a 37 km North-South rail route that proposes to run on the same alignment with the Standard Gauge Rail system being constructed by the Federal Government, as part of the national rail network. It would be the first metro system in West Africa and the first of its kind in Nigeria. It is expected to run from Agbado to Marina, with 11 proposed stations at Agbado, Iju, Agege, Ikeja, Oshodi, Mushin, Yaba, Ebute Meta, Ido, Ebute Ero, and Marina. The project is a part of the state government’s vision of an integrated multimodal transportation system. One can only imagine how far Lagos State would have gone on the development index if the then Buhari military government had not truncated the state’s metro line project initiated by the Jakande administration in the 1980s. One major detriment of the backward unitary system foisted on us by military adventurists! We must be wary of their civilian successors whose utterances and activities are also antithetical to civilisation and modernisation. With a population of about 27 million residents, Lagos is the most densely populated city in Africa. Indeed, it is projected that by 2025 it would be one of the five most populous cities in the world. This is where the redline project comes handy. The train will transport some 500,000 passengers daily. This would naturally impact on the number of passengers scrambling to enter the few available transportation alternatives available today. That is not all. Transporters using rickety commercial buses on the roads too would not need any Vehicle Inspection Officer to tell them that market has closed. It would also impact on security, as ‘one chance’ thieves and other criminals would have to relocate or change from their sinful ways. Even ‘Okada’ riders that have become lords on the roads, violating every known civilisation, would know that something has hit them. As with most construction works, the state government has had to divert traffic on the routes the red line rail would pass through, including the Ikeja Overpass, Yaba Overpass and Oyingbo Overpass. Expectedly, this traffic diversion has had to cause motorists and commuters some hardship while it lasted, the sweet part of the story is that such pains have to be endured to have a better traffic situation that would be beneficial to all in the long run. Moreover, the state government has made some arrangements to ease the pains. Hopefully, as the governor promised, the Red Line would begin operations by the last quarter of this year, or first quarter of 2023. I cannot wait to see this project take off. I can imagine how anxiously the governor and other critical stakeholders in the state would also be anticipating its commencement. If Lagos had so significantly changed for better between 1999 and now, we owe a substantial part of the gratitude to the fact that it has remained in the firm grips of the progressives, from the Alliance for Democracy (AD) to the present APC. Continuity is therefore not a problem in Lagos. Indeed, if there is a place where continuity has paid off, Lagos presents a good example. This credit goes naturally to Tinubu. But there is still a lot to be done. I have had cause to mention street lights that have not worked for years. I used to mention that of Capitol Road in Agege. Mercifully, they are working today. But Fatai Atere has been in darkness long before the expiration of Ambode’s tenure. It is still in darkness almost three years to the end of Sanwo-Olu’s first term. I do not think it should be so. Once such facilities have been provided, they should be sustained. Adding more when some of those already provided are not functioning, for me, is not the way to go. And this is not only about Fatai Atere. Ditto all other areas where street lights have packed up, particularly the very critical parts of the state, if only for security reason. The same applies to traffic lights. Moreover, I have observed several times that drainages are cleared almost regularly, particularly at the onset of the rainy season, the garbage from the drains is often left beside the roads for long. In the end, much of it is flushed back into the drainages when rain falls, thereby making nonsense of the initial clearing. This should be packed away immediately for optimum results. Waiting for it to dry before packing is sometimes counterproductive. I have also been harping on this street that links Isheri-Oshun with Ten Acres or White Sand. It has remained in a terrible state for years, despite the rising population of the area. Lest I forget, those two defective skyscrapers under construction in Ikoyi should not be allowed to come down on their own, injuring or killing people in the process. If that happens, all the angels in heaven testifying for the state government would achieve nothing. Prevention is better than cure. All said, Governor Sanwo-Olu has to realise that he still has Lagosians to contend with at the polls next year. The GAC endorsement is only one of the hurdles. This is not the time for him to rest on his oars. It is time for more work. This is especially so as Lagos keeps receiving unusual in-flocks of people, either from banditry-infested parts of the country, or from other states where governors think it is the responsibility of Lagos to cater to the needs of all.