A study has shown that technology-driven remote jobs might be overtaken onsite jobs in remuneration and job satisfaction. The new study, the latest edition of Global Tech Talent Trends, was conducted by Landing.Jobs and it uncovered  information for tech professionals and companies. The results were presented yesterday in an all-exclusive and full virtual launch event. The tech startup will also be releasing throughout the rest of the year additional reports focused on specific geographies. The study counted on more than 6,000 answers worldwide and it delved into topics such as salary, remote work, relocation, most coveted work-from-home countries, career drivers, job perks, programming languages and frameworks.   Investors scramble for gilt-edge corporate bonds     NGX launches exchange traded derivatives market     FMDQ Exchange lists Prima Corporation’s N7b commercial…   The study report highlighted that top career drivers were salary and benefits and work-life balance, while the most sought out perks were health benefits and annual bonus. Almost 90 per cent of professionals work full or hybrid remote and around 20 per cent work remotely for a company overseas. As for salary, not surprisingly tech management roles earn, on average, 1.4 times more than developers, and full office jobs were the most poorly paid at 1.9 times less than full remote jobs. About 51.2 per cent of women had a salary raise in the last year, against 62.6 per cent of men, showing some unchanging disparity. “As for the actual results within the report, we can see that the tech industry has drastically changed and become global. The world has become almost borderless when it comes to looking for a new tech jobs, and what tech pros value has clearly suffered a shift to accommodate new needs and worries,”  Marketing Specialist, Landing.Jobs, Kemi Vaughan stated. Landing.Jobs stated that its  mission is to reshape the future of work as it aims at  improving the journey of tech professionals—from landing a job, learning and getting paid, to deciding where to go and when to begin. “We’re talent-centric career enablers, providing empowering opportunities for our tech talent community while unlocking bureaucracies and networking. We are proud to say we count on a community of more than 200,000 tech professionals and have changed more than 4,000 lives,” the startup stated.