The shocking revelation that 50 per cent of “pupils sit on the floor to take lessons” by the Executive Secretary of the Universal Basic Education Commission, UBEC, Hamid Bobboyi, should worry all stakeholders in the basic education sector. The UBEC boss made the startling revelation at a one-day Civil Society Organisations (CSO) and Legislative Round Table Meeting in Abuja, last week, in the presence of national and state officials. The grim statistics reflect a nation-wide challenge, and this is despite the intervention of the UBEC programme in basic education. According to Mr Bobboyi, only about 20 per cent of the population of children of school age, who are children of rich parents can afford private schools, while the remaining 80 per cent are stuck with the public schools. If we add these children learning in difficult environment to the millions out-of-school children, particularly the 10 million Almajiris, there is serious cause for concern. Mr Bobboyi, called for an increase in budgetary allocation to the UBEC, from two per cent to four per cent of the consolidated revenue fund of the federation. While increase in the federal allocation is one way of shoring up the resources available to UBEC, it is important to interrogate the performance of the states under their various Universal Basic Education Boards (SUBEB). At that ceremony, the representative of the chairman of Senate Committee on Basic Education, Senator Frank Ibeziem, lamented that SUBEBs have failed to sustain some UBEC initiated projects such as Classrooms Libraries, introduced by the commission in all constituencies across the country. Perhaps the complaint by Senator Ibeziem underscores one of the fundamental challenges facing the UBEC and SUBEBs’ relationship, which undermine the usage of resources allocated for basic education by the Federal Government. We are aware that many state governments through their SUBEBs are not involved in the choice of projects to site in schools. Usually, UBEC comes up with its projects, and goes ahead to demand counterpart funding from state governments which may not consider such projects as priority.   Wearisome statistics     Qatar 2022 failure: FGN demands explanation from NFF     Full list of winners at Grammy Awards 2022   The result is that many states fail to access the UBEC funds, even as the projects the states consider more important are left unattended to. Where the states are compelled to join the federal agency to execute the projects, there may be no funds available for sustainability. To stem that ugly tide, we suggest that UBEC should be willing to channel its fund to priority projects of the various schools, after a thorough needs assessment. It is also important that third-party interventions, like constituency projects, should reflect the needs of the schools, instead of a universal project which may not be sustainable in some schools. The observation of the representative of MacArthur Foundation, Mr Dayo Olaoye, that it was not enough that budgetary allocations are increased, but the stakeholders should examine the impact, is on point. He said: “as we think about reforms, let us think beyond buildings that have been delivered, let us start thinking about how many children have been brought to school.” This concern is important in the scheme of things, particularly with the security challenges bedevilling nearly every part of the country. With many children of school age in the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps, with crisis in many parts of the country making it impossible for children to go to school, with neighbourhoods becoming increasingly unsafe for children, the percentage of out-of-school children would keep increasing. In the meantime, all relevant state and federal government agencies should take steps to provide chairs and tables for pupils in schools. That 50 per cent of pupils sit on the floor to learn is scandalous and unhelpful to effective learning. It is also important that funds budgeted for such projects are well accounted for.