Mrs Madu Osinachi, the mother of late popular gospel artiste, Osinachi Nwachukwu, has narrated the alleged ordeals of her daughter in the hands of her husband, Peter. In an interview with BBC monitored by The Nation, Madu stated that her late daughter insisted on staying in the marriage with her husband despite the series of abuses she experienced. The Nation reports on April 8, Osinachi, the gospel singer known for her collaborative hit track ‘Ekwueme’ died at an Abuja hospital where she was being treated for an ailment. Since her demise, there have been allegations that the singer was a victim of domestic violence. Osinachi’s husband, accused of being physically abusive, has since been arrested by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police Command. She was a lead singer at the Dunamis International Gospel Centre. She was featured in several popular gospel songs like “Nara Ekele” by Pastor Paul Enenche (Dunamis, Abuja) and “You no dey use me play” by Emma. Narrating Osinachi’s ordeal, she said: “It is quite painful the kind of in-laws my daughter met, the kind of man my daughter met and her painful experience in the hands of the man. I never thought something like that would happen. “Ever since the man (Peter) married my daughter, she never experienced peace, even me as a mother didn’t experience peace.” Madu stated that after her daughter got married, she didn’t set her eyes on her again until after 8 years.   BREAKING: Bandits, Boko Haram now in alliance – FG     Controversy in Osinbajo’s camp over statement on…     Court voids Ebonyi PDP Chairman’s election   She said: “When she gave birth, her husband never informed me that my daughter had given birth, it was some people that notified me. “She didn’t disclose her ordeal to us at first. It was even outsiders that were telling me what my daughter was going through in the hands of her husband. “Someone had to call me to quickly come and take her away from her husband’s place because of what she was going through. “When Osinachi gave birth to her third daughter, Madu stated that she received call from her late daughter lamenting her ordeal in the hands of her husband and how she lacked care. “Osinachi called her father, narrating that Peter told her that if she does not go home alive, she will go home in death”. Madu said Osinachi’s eldest sister, Favour, had to travel to Abuja to bring her (Osinachi) and the children to Enugu. She further disclosed that Osinachi spent one year and three months at her father’s house before Peter came back begging. She said she advised Osinachi to divorce Peter and move on with her life rather than stay in the marriage. “Osinachi opened her mouth and said that God said whatever has been joined together, let no man put asunder, and that she will to back to the marriage. “I told her not to go back and that she should marry another person but she refused and said she has married someone and there won’t be separation. But when she returned back to her husband’s house, she was going through the same abuse again,” she added. Osinachi’s elder sister, Favour, said Peter and her sister met at a progamme in Abuja where she went for with her twin sister Amarachi.