The Police have declared 12 persons wanted in connection with a case of conspiracy, murder, armed robbery, act of terrorism, kidnapping, cultism and unlawful possession of firearms, house breaking, burglary and malicious damage. Their conduct, the police said, is likely to cause breach of public peace in Isu-Aniocha, Awka North LGA of Anambra State, Nigeria. The suspects are: “Edward Okoye (aka Stone), Donatus Okeke, Onyemazi Ngini, Onyebuchi Nwekeizu Okoye, Nonso Eboh, Chukwuka Onyibor, Chukwujekwu Anaekeokwu, Chuka Ilodigwe, Chinedu Nwoye Okoye, Nonso Awusionwu Obinna, Cosmos Okonkwo and Chukwujekwu Okoye”.   Police foil suicide attempt in Ilorin     IGP to deploy special squads to tackle land grabbing in Edo…     2023: Osinbajo seeks Olubadàn’s blessings on presidential…   According to a statement on Friday by the Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi: “The Police had earlier secured a court order to declare wanted the suspects, all male of Igbo extraction with ages ranging from 25 years to 55 years old, natives of Isu-Aniocha, Awka North LGA of Anambra State with heights between 1.5m to 1.7m. “Edward Okoye (aka Stone), had in conjunction with others shot two men dead – one Ifeanyi Anazoba (aka Ichafu) and one Chukwuebuka Amodo (aka Mutum) at a burial function in Umuzuocha Town Hall, Awka South of Anambra State on 19th January, 2019, beheaded them and burnt their bodies beyond recognition; kidnapped two others, and vandalized two properties valued at over 1.2 billion Naira. The suspects equally attacked and brutalized some mobile police officers detailed to restore calm to the community”. Adejobi urged all well-meaning members of the general public to assist the police with useful information which would facilitate their arrest and ensure they are brought to justice. He assured that justice would not just be done in the matter, but would be seen by all parties in the matter, to have been done as the police will leave no stone unturned in unravelling the ugly and criminal incident.