Nigeria is in a multitude of moral crises, which dovetail into one another. There is a moral crisis in the family. There is a moral crisis in the educational system. Peer pressure is laced with moral crisis. There is a moral crisis in the political sphere. There is a moral crisis in the economic sphere. There is a moral crisis in society at large. In general, the ethical fabric of the Nigerian society has been shredded in pieces, and from top to bottom. It did not start today. It’s been coming for a long long time. But it matters no more when and where the fabric began to tear apart. What matters now is that we are all enveloped by moral crises of different hues and no one escapes their effects. What is more, no one escapes blame. To put it in Biblical language, “We all sinned and fallen short of …..” We experience or learn about one or more of these crises on a daily basis but privilege for national discussion what the print, electronic, and social media bring to national consciousness. Many of these moral laxities take place behind closed doors, thereby escaping public gaze. But some become topics of national discussion. One such crisis is the recent breakdown of sexual morality as illustrated by several videos of a purported 10-year old female pupil of Chrisland Schools in Lagos. One of the videos is said to be an explicit sex video, involving the 10-year old girl and some boys. One boy engaged in the act with her, while the other was busy video-taping it. The other videos, some of which were recycled online, portray the same girl in sexy dresses, posture, and dance moves. The videos were posted on two different social media accounts, TikTok and Likee,  She reportedly has 62 videos on TikTok with 1,760 followers and 526 videos on Likee with over 12,000 followers. The immediate influences on the young girl can be deduced from the videos. They include social media and the enlarged social network of peers, which social media platforms made possible for her. Among her peers, of course, are her school mates, one of whom engaged in a sexual act with her in a Dubai hotel while on a school trip. The school’s negligence gave room for boys and girls to exchange room visits and mingle freely. Equally reprehensible is the school authority’s attempt to cover up the shameful behaviour of kids under its watch. Then, there are the kids’ immediate families, whose duty it is to exercise needed parental control over their children’s social “taste” and media engagements. A photo of the girl’s mother in some black jeans and black blouse by a black car seems to suggest the wrong role model for the young girl. The parents might also have failed to control their kids’ consumption of sexually suggestive music videos on TV and online, which gave the young girl some of the moves she imitated on the videos she posted on her social media platforms and in the sexual act portrayed in the Chrisland video. It is unfortunate that the focus has been on the young girl as if she is the only culprit in the sex video. Everyone in the room should be fully investigated, debriefed, and counselled. These are minors who learned their escapade somewhere, real or virtual, and found the opportunity to practice what they saw or learned. In fact, some of the parents may have been strict on their kids and exercised necessary precautions. Who knows?   Wike and politics of succession in Rivers PDP     Ontology of Nigerian politics     Ukraine being led to total ruin   I have been around kids long enough to know that they are imitative, creative, innovative, and daring, especially in this age of alternative reality online. More importantly, they know more than what their parents think they know, because they have teachers in school, among their peers, on TV, and on social media. That’s why it is necessary these days not to withhold necessary information from kids and to get them involved in decisions on matters affecting their lives. Moreover, sex education should start early. If parents fail to talk about it at the right time, the kids would learn from others and they may pick up the wrong practices and values. However, teaching the right values is not about sex education alone. There are strict parents, when it comes to sexual morality but who throw ethics to the dogs when it comes to seeking favours for their children. This is particularly evident during university admission seasons, when parents, especially mothers, seek various loopholes in the attempt to get their children admitted to the university. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has exposed many parents, who assist their children in cheating during exams, some by employing exam takers for their children. Traditional rulers, religious leaders, politicians, civil and public servants, teachers, professors, and other professionals, all have crossed or destroyed ethical boundaries in various ways. So have security agencies, the military, the police, the intelligence agencies, immigration, and customs officers. They all seem to leave their conscience at home whenever they leave home. If you are in doubt, just watch out during this electoral season. This brings me to a video now trending on social media. Traditional rulers are seen coming out of a bus, each carrying a hefty bag apparently loaded with “kolanut”. Here’s my comment to a friend, who shared the video with me: This practice of sharing kolanut will persist “so long as poverty persists and so long as we maintain two parallel systems—the monarchy and the republic—in which one feeds the other”. When it comes to morality, the breakdown trickles down from the larger society, dominated at the top by corrupt politicians, grab-grab traditional rulers, entrepreneurial religious leaders, and capitalist businessmen. Aided by the technologies of communication, the breakdown  has now trickled down to the lowest rung of the society—schoolchildren. The Chrisland school sex video is thus only a dramatic metaphor of the moral crises that have gripped the country. All the sermons about counseling and early sex education may be useful for the kids. But none of these measures will cure the moral ills of the society at large.