Barely a few months into 2022, new slangs have broken forth rocking the streets of Nigeria and social media spaces too. Slangs as we know are unconventional words or phrases that express either something new or something old in a new way, usually in a colloquial manner. Here are these slangs: · O tun ti Zeh or O ti Zeh This is one very popular street as well as social slang which originated from Portable’s “Zazu Zeh” hit single. O tun ti Zeh is used when one expresses excitement as well as satisfaction after receiving an unexpected gift. For example: O ti zeh, we have just received our diamond bracelets.   · Trabaye This is another street slang that became popularised following the self-styled ‘wahala’ musician, Portable’s hit song “Zazu Zeh” and outburst where he called out dancer and pop culture influencer, Poco Lee for allegedly taking advantage of him after Wizkid sprayed him a couple of dollars which he noted Poco Lee stole most of it.   He’d said: “Oluwa Wizzy baba nla ti bo cardi o, Olamide lo gbe mi trabaye o.” According to Urban Dictionary, ‘Trabaye’ simply means ‘to misbehave as a result of intoxication caused by taking hard drugs. “A person who has ‘trabaye’ is someone who is high on hard drugs and acting abnormally and mentally derailed.”   · Trenches   Singer Jaywon backs Osinbajo for president     Nollywood suffers from lack of structure, says Dakore     StarTimes surprises Femi Adebayo with private screening of…   One of the most popular slangs on social media, it refers to an area with a high rate of low-income earners where a lot of criminal activities and violence take place. It can be used in sentences: With your spending rate, you may be returning to the trenches soonest. I am too loaded for the trenches.   · Oxlade This happens to be the name of a singer whose s3x clips and nudes went viral in February. After the incident, his name became slang on the street to mean one whose s3xual prowess is top-notch as seen in the leaked clip and generally related to indecent acts.   The word could be used in a sentence as: The babe has just been ‘oxlade’. Or she’s craving for some ‘oxlade.’   · Woto Woto “Woto Woto” is a street slang mostly used in the South South region of Nigeria. This is a song that is full of good vibes and unlimited LAMBA (hype or falsehood). As a slang on the street, it means ‘plenty’ or ‘in excess’. Example: If you desire trouble, I’ll give you ‘woto woto’.   · Your face show, your show shine This has been another most used slang in Nigeria in recent times derived from a Nigerian movie, “Selina tested”. This slang is basically complimentary. It aims at celebrating and showering accolades on people who have made giant strides in their various fields and endeavours while also motivating others to step up their game. Can be used in a sentence as: “Babe, at the party today, your face show, your shoe shine.”