Street rave Portable has splashed mint notes on some airport workers. In a video shared on the self-styled “wahala” singer’s Instagram page, he was seen handing out N200 mint notes to some airport workers as he was boarding a flight with some crew members. At some point, he stopped handing out the money and decided to throw it in the air as they scrambled to pick up the notes. Reacting to the videos, many applauded the ‘Zazu’ crooner for being ‘open-handed’ always. But some berated him for splashing notes while others said the airport workers may lose their jobs if their superiors come across the video. lizzyflourishgold said: “even men day pick money. If na ladies now they will say see people girlfriend it’s now u men turn see person husband and boyfriend oooo. God bless u portable u too dey show love some mumu go say mama eye service u self do ur own na.” blessedtr3 wrote: “Guy no b everybody you go share money gives like this. Count Wetin u wan give them. Make them share am now.. which one be say u Dey splash money inside airports… Ode omolalomi.” iceymo_official stated: “This zazoo go make them sack these airport officials.” beldin_belz said: “More blessing baba.”   Mr Macaroni to Kate Henshaw: your photo makes me vibrate     Tonto Dikeh receives knocks as son smacks backside in video     Four popular people that have been slapped   akalusotshabalala007 wrote: “Let love lead BAM #always show love no matter how little try to impact positively in people’s life, GOD BLESS YOU ZAzuu! nurse_kenneth007 stated: “They might lose their job.” ozoe.xp said: “Give them cash let them share stop spraying money bro.” davefitness24_7 wrote: “Big Big Love bro. Show love and get love.” psmielz stated: “Dem go sack these staff tomorrow.” sainte210_ said: “The money just too much…. Dr Zeh. I’m omolalomi chai e b things but much love for you cruise man.” richmonk07 wrote: “Give them money normal must you do like weyre.” princesodiq50 stated: “Those airline officials are risking their jobs.” semilore_boss_man said: “God bless u, zeh nation.”