The insecurity across the country is the result of the people’s chain reaction to bad governance at the different levels of administration. The Lead Pastor of Victory Life Bible Church (VLBC), Apostle Lawrence Achudume, stated this while addressing reporters after the opening service of the 2022 VLBC Holy Convocation with the theme: In The Days of His Power. Achudume noted that many Nigerians are offended by the inequalities that pervade the country. The cleric said a situation where highly qualified persons are poorly remunerated or even without jobs, while those in power are overpaid, breeds anger amongst the people. He noted that many people do not even know their representatives in government, frowning at the practice where political office holders are worshipped by those they govern. Achudume urged Nigerians to know that they have the power to demand quality representation from their leaders, stressing that government is not God and the people should not be at their mercy.   Nowhere is safe any longer for Nigerians, says Obasanjo     Sylva: what we’re doing to meet 1.753mb/d OPEC quota     Nine key questions Pastor Adeboye posed to Fed Govt   The cleric urged politicians to stop making unfounded promises when seeking position, describing Nigerians as intelligent and creative people who can make success of whatever business they lay their hands on. He called for the provision of basic infrastructure, such as good roads, quality healthcare, potable water, good education and stable power for Nigerians to prosper in their various endeavours. While admonishing Nigerians on their choice of leadership as the 2023 elections approach, Achudume also advised Nigerians to look beyond their environment and put national interest above personal needs in voting for politicians into various offices. According to him, Nigeria needs a President who will unite the country. Commenting on the theme of the VLBC 2022 Convention, which coincides with the church’s 30th anniversary, Achudume urged Christians to be prepared for God to manifest His power in their lives.