PENULTIMATE weekend, music stars Davido, Peruzzi, Reekado Banks and Lojay complemented the Heineken Trophy tour in Lagos and Abuja with exhilarating performances. The four Nigerian music stars and football lovers took turns to thrill football fans and guests at the recent Heineken Trophy Tour. While Davido and Reekado’s performances had football legend, Clarence Seedorf, who accompanied the Champions League trophy to Nigeria, dancing and saying he has returned to his roots, Peruzzi and Lojay held Abuja down for the football lovers. “We have the opportunity to bring this trophy close to those who never imagined or dreamt about getting close to the trophy. It’s beautiful to send that message to dream big, work hard, stay away from drugs and be a person that believes in himself and this is how I came to realise my dream,” Seedorf said. The excitement and collaboration between football and music further gave credence to the assertion that football and music are like Siamese twins.   Real Housewives of Lagos: Drama, excitement return to…     Burna Boy speaks on being managed by mom     I never knew I could break the internet – Yul Edochie   The popular musicians were on hand to delight the crowd with half-time entertainment and after-party displays which capped off a memorable experience for fans and loyal Heineken consumers. For Davido, he even demonstrated he is the best of two worlds with his performance in the faceoff challenge in which he led the likes of Austin Jay Jay Okocha and Daniel Amokachi against Team Heineken captained by the legendary Seedorf in a five-a-side football contest. Other music stars like MI and Darey Art Alade were also part of Team Davido and they did exceptionally well with the former getting on the scorer’s sheet and the latter dazzling the fans with his goalkeeping talents that should catch the fancy of clubs in and around Nigeria. In both Lagos and Abuja, the fans were rewarded for their passion and knowledge of the game simply by answering simple questions about the Champions League. Speaking at the event, Emmanuel Oriakhi, Marketing Director Nigerian Breweries PLC, succinctly captured the importance attached to the Heineken Champions League trophy tour saying, “As always Heineken always has something spectacular for Nigerians, and once again we are doing this. A lot of people argued that maybe the timing would have been more perfect concerning the disappointment Nigeria suffered a few weeks back. But we are resilient as a people and we are always positive and believe tomorrow will be better. For those of us still disappointed not qualifying for the World Cup we have the UEFA Champions League.”