All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Senator Magnus Abe yesterday said the constitution of the party did not provide for the emergence of a presidential candidate through consensus. Abe, who represented Rivers Southeast in the Senate, spoke on Channels Television on the proposed primary of the ruling party and activities of the aspirants. He urged APC to subject the contenders to a fair electoral process that will be acceptable to party members. Abe described Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the best aspirant, judging by his pedigree. Also yesterday, the Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju Tinubu(SWAGA) drummed up support for Tinubu’s ambition in the Southsouth geo-political zone. Led by former Minister of State for Works Prince Dayo Adeyeye, the group said Tinubu will transform the country and promote equity, justice and fairness, if elected in next year’s election. He said the former Lagos State governor has paid his dues as a successful technocrat, pro-democracy crusader, Third Republic senator, APC founding father, seasoned administrator,  and statesman. Abe said those interested in the presidential ticket should prepare for the challenge of the primary by mapping out  their strategies and plans Reflecting on rotation, he said the understanding is that since President Muhammadu Buhari is ending his second term next year, the APC presidential ticket should be zoned to the South. According to Article 20(iii) of APC Constitution,  the “nomination of candidate for President shall be through direct or indirect primary election to be conducted at the appropriate level.” On the ‘Procedure for Nomination of Candidates,’ the party’s constitution states: democratically elected by members of the party from the various wards contained in the particular constituency at congresses. Also, the APC Constitution makes provision for zoning It sates: “Without prejudice to Article 20(u) and (iii) of this constitution, the National Working Committee shall, subject to the approval of the National Executive Committee, make Rules and Regulations for the nomination of candidates through primary elections. “All such Rules, Regulations and Guidelines shall take into consideration and uphold the principle of federal character, gender balance, geo-political spread and rotation of offices, to as much as possible ensure balance within the constituency covered.” Alluding to the provisions on direct and indirect primaries, Abe said: “Consensus is not in our constitution and the Electoral Act cannot force the party to do what is not in the constitution of our party. “The legislators will not make the constitution for the party.  They have set the things that are legal for the electoral process. What we, as a party cannot do is to do anything against the Electoral Act. “Our constitution specifically excludes consensus to produce the presidential candidate of our party.” He added: “The truth of the matter is that as long as we follow a procedure that is fair, transparent, open and able to ensure that every aspirant gets a fair kick in the game, I believe that whoever emerges from such a process will be acceptable to the majority of the party members. “If you recollect in 2015, when APC was formed, it was basically Buhari from the CPC and Tinubu from the ACN that came together to form the foundation of the APC.  And that time, they could have sat down to talk and agree on consensus.   Wike to delegates: Compensate me for sustaining PDP     Buhari deplores ‘heinous’ killings     BREAKING: Real Madrid kick Chelsea out of UCL   “But they knew, given the challenges at that time, that kind of arrangement will not carry the broad majority along and they subjected the process to a clear transparent process that was hailed, not just across this country, but across Africa. And that gave Nigerians so much confidence. “The truth of the party is that consensus arrangement is not provided for in our APC.  So, if the APC must enjoy the confidence of our members across this country, we must use a process that is transparent, fair and inclusive that will satisfy every aspirant. And when that is done, it will be easy to support whoever emerges from that process and deliver victory to our party.” Abe maintained that the next presidential candidate of the party must come from the South. He stressed: “I think for the APC, it is clear that our presidential candidate will be from the South. This is in line with the decision taken before the convention that all the party offices in the South should go to the North and the ones in the North should go to the South. So, I think that presupposes that it will be the same way for the political offices. “I believe that for… fairness, equity and justice, it is clear that the next president of Nigeria after Buhari should be from the South.” Abe described Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as the aspirant to beat, saying he stands tall among the contenders. He said: “I am on Tinubu’s side.  I had said before that what is important for this country at this time is to be careful with the kind of leader that we throw up.  Let us not be driven by sentiments to put ourselves in a box that will be difficult to operate. “If you look at the track records of those who have indicated interest, I was convinced that looking at what Asiwaju has done in Lagos and looking at his contribution to democracy in this country and his contribution to the APC, it appears to me that he is naturally fit for the challenges of the time and therefore, I decided to pitch my tent with him. “We have to look at the experience and the track record of the individual we are talking about.  A lot has been said about Asiwaju’s age.” Abe added: “But, let me say that some of the most impactful leaders in this century have been people who are quite advanced in age. “If you look at China, for example, the miracle of modern China was initiated by a king, who was practically in his 80s. “If you look at the recovery of the Americans, it was initiated by one of the oldest candidates of his time. And if you look at the challenges that the American faced after Trump’s tenure, the Americans went for somebody that has the capacity and the knowhow that can lead them to a better place.  And they went for Joe Biden, who is actually one of the oldest presidential candidates that America ever produced. “So, looking objectively, and the track record of Asiwaju, you will agree with me that he fits into the equation. He said Tinubu is a visionary leader. “Given the economic challenges facing our country and the general situation, I believe that what we need at this time is a leader with wisdom and knowledge, who understands the strategy to bring Nigerians together and work together to achieve near impossible feats.” Adeyeye, who is leading the SWAGA train to Delta State, said the Delta State Bola Ahmed Tinubu (DESBAT’23) will be launched in Delta State. He said SWAGA will visit Ogiame  Atuwatse III, the Olu of Warri,  the Orodje of Okpe.  the Asagba of Asaba and other monarchs and political leaders. The formal inauguration of executive committees and leadership of DESBAT’23 /SWAGA’23 for the state and all 22 local government areas will hold on Friday in Warri. In a statement, DESBAT’23, led by Austin Oribioye, said it was read for the inauguration. It said: “We are launching out to campaign for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu to be the next President of Nigeria in 2023. We believe in his non-discriminatory leadership style and his pan-Nigeria approach to governance. “For this reason, we are mobilising Delta State and Southsouth to support him by joining DESBAT so we can actualize this goal together and achieve a Nigeria that we shall be proud of.” Adeyeye is accompanied by SWAGA National Secretary  Bosun Oladele; facilitator Oye Ojo; National Treasurer Apostle Oloruntoba Oke, other members of Central Working Committee; Chairman of  Northcentral Alliance for Asiwaju, Alhaji Raji Ibrahim, and Niyi Olabiyi among others. The group has inaugurated other affiliates, including Akwa Ibom Stakeholders for Asiwaju Tinubu(AKISAT) and (Northcentral Alliance for Asiwaju( NCS’23).