Former Minister of Petroleum Resources and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom State, Chief Don Etiebet, has described the swearing-in of Stephen Ntukekpo as APC chairman by its National Working Committee (NWC) as an action in error. Etiebet said this at the weekend in Uyo during the grand reception and governorship declaration by immediate past national secretary of the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John Akpanudoedehe. Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) recently sworn in Ntukekpo in Abuja months after Hon. Augustine Ekanem was inaugurated as the state chairman along with other state chairmen by the defunct Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party. The former Petroleum Minister recalled to a large crowd in Uyo, the state capital, how he went in company of other stakeholders of the party to meet the Senator Adamu-led APC NWC and explained the true position of how Ekanem emerged at the Congress in the State. He appealed to aspirants seeking the party tickets ahead of the next general elections not to be dismayed, expressing confidence the party leadership would defer to the directive of the Court of Appeal which ordered that the status quo should be maintained in the leadership in the state. According to Etiebet: “APC erroneously, mistakenly sworn in an impostor as the chairman. “The national leadership in performing that was deceived, ill-informed and we have taken immediate steps to inform them properly.   Current realities do not favour Osinbajo – Yoruba Ronu     Miyetti Allah to Southeast, South South Govs: involve us in…     NOSDRA confirms Shell oil leaks in Bayelsa   “We wrote a letter to the national chairman and said all that he was told were lies and he has taken cognisance of that. “And our adversaries who are good at telling lies have brought out a court order that his factional chairman should be sworn in. A man who didn’t attend the Congress, couldn’t have been elected. “We have told them that the judicial order form the Abuja High court was given out of ignorance because they don’t know the fact of the case. The Appeal Court has said the status quo before the high court order was given be maintained. “What is the status quo: that (Augustine Ekanem has been sworn in along with 35 others by the CECPC. So, the new NWC has no locus or power to override the national convention. “The people who are best in telling lies, whose character is in telling lies, have said the party has withdrawn its appeal to dismiss the appeal. The CECPC took the step to appeal the order of the High Court. It didn’t withdraw its appeal.” Chairman Akwa-Ibom Rescue Mission Team, Archbishop Samuel Akpan, said the name of the former national secretary on the ballot papers the APC candidate can defeat whoever emerges as the candidate of the PDP. “Today, we have come to honour our own, who completed his assignment in Abuja in grand style. He is about to begin another assignment. We came here to receive him to reassign him; to come and serve as the next governor of Akwa-Ibom State. “We are calling you to come and rescue Akwa-Ibom from lawlessness. So, on behalf of the Akwa-Ibom people, I hereby present Akpanudoedehe who never betrayed his former boss, Governor Buni to come and take the challenge and contest the governorship of Akwa-Ibom.”