We are witnessing two uncertainties in our country. One in the political sphere. The other on the street of fear. One calm begets the other. If politics fails, the street falls. The news will crawl with blood and trembling. It will orphan more sons and daughters and wives are widowed. Nothing demonstrates our slide from peace to pieces like the March 28th train disaster. To fix pains like ones on the train, we must save the terrain of politics. It is about leadership, the soul of any society. For now, the federal government has no answer to the underbelly of hooded goons and hoodlums. We plead mercy. We shed tears. The government advertises excuses. Their henchmen have shifted the trenches from forests and highways to the cabinet where they exchange barbs over cash, credit and discredit. Against this backdrop, the two main parties are boiling with infightings. We are witnessing men who see power over purpose. Ambition is overthrowing vision. Consensus is word of moment. It is tearing PDP apart. APC is smarting from it while trying to suture its wounds. But PDP is hoisting it as the balm. The likes of Eleyinmi Bukola Saraki, Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Mohammed are seeking a northern consensus candidate. However, the perennial, peripatetic harlot of Nigerian politics, Atiku Abubakar, is sulking on his own path. He is bent on extending his record as a presidential hopeful. Year after year, he hopes. Cycle after cycle, he stumbles. He must love Nobel Laureate Albert Camus, who said Sisyphus is a happy man because each time the mythical figure almost reaches the top, he falls back and has another opportunity to start again from the mountain foot. Success is not the goal but trying, the sweat, the heartache. After all, as Theocritus wrote, “By trying, the Greeks got into Troy.” Except that Atiku is not interested in getting into Troy, but trying. Awo tried a few times. Buhari capped it at four. Former governor Donald Duke turned Atiku historian by reminding us that it has been an eternal hope for the former vice president. Maybe Tambuwal and co. know this, and are treating him like a shadow that looks like a leper. They don’t even get close. They jaw-jaw with his wraith, and avoid the jaws of the tumbling titan. Meanwhile, Nyesom Wike, with his bellicose bonhomie, disappearing girth and dark goggles of a mafioso, is retailing his ambition, half comedic, half menacing. And he is insisting that northern consensus is an act of bad faith. With the sturdy Udom Emmanuel in the ring, the PDP consensus trio of the north know they do not have only the Adamawa petrel to tame, but the southern stalwarts. Wike’s ambition may introduce a new theatre of wry laughs and entertainments with his soulmate Rotimi Amaechi’s entry into the ring, although two separate parties. We may have a Rivers State as a side dish to the main diet of presidential slugfest. A rare example of two successive governors who hate each other like love while eyeing the same office. However, PDP’s consensus is not just a matter of persons, but also the contentious zoning formula. The matter is unfolding. Consensus has two meanings in the party. The northern and southern. What will prevail? A regional or a national consensus? In the APC, consensus was not to be until it was. After the fight that deleted it from the law, except everyone agreed, it was introduced in the party sweepstakes. President Muhammadu Buhari gave them a candidate, then it was no longer a contest but a coercion. A dark horse cantered in named Adamu, while others who had fought and spent surrendered. It was consensus also as parody. Even those governors who grovelled to the president found his choice suffocating. They conceded that position but not the rest. Consensus ended sour in the APC mouth. Refunding the form money is no consolation. The person who did not spend much was the one who had it as a gift. That was a queer paradox.  From him who spent, more spending. From him who didn’t spend, the crown. Even the refund has not happened. Perhaps hence President Buhari executed a pirouette during the party convention. He said he did not want a consensus-style method in picking the candidate for the party flagbearers, and he was speaking with an eye to his successor as presidential candidate. He did not want to be a monarch in a democracy anymore. Charles de Gaulle once said: “I was a monarch for 10 years.” He did not want another de Gaulle to succeed him.   Letter to Appeal Court president     Tinubu and associates     No holy war   Buhari said it did not augur well for the candidate not to be the choice of the party. This meant the party delegates ought to look beyond the sinews of a cabal, or a set of entitled men who want to play superhuman and coerce party men and women to choose a bully or peacock or wimp over the people’s choice. Buhari knows eyes will be on him as the party advances towards its party primaries. Everyone wants him to be true to his words. He should not monarchise the primaries. He made his pledge a few days to the holy month of the Muslims, when the fast signals the higher merits of human virtue. Consensus these days is a try at literary finesse. It is an excuse to go back to the IBB days, to steal from the oppressor and own it to oppress others. It militarises our democracy. We have seen it since OBJ’s days. There are two types of consensus: one, the technical-legal one based on the electoral act or constitution. That has been capsised by the National Assembly. The other is consensus by winks and nods, by intimidation. People vote by unofficial blackmail. That latter is dangerous. In APC, only Buhari can do it, and he has publicly disavowed it. Our problem has not been about the army leaving our democracy, but our democracy leaving the army. They exchanged khaki for agbada, but the fabrics are still starchy. They are not barking, but they issue orders. No command structure, but obedience reigns. This is not a time when a person who did not work should emerge and say, I am the anointed one. The party delegates may throw a fly on the ointment. President Buhari should not be like Ernest Hemingway’s famous novel, Old Man and the Sea, where an old man catches a big fish but arrives home with only its skeleton. No fishbones for dinner. If he won his ticket fairly without imposition, he owes it to his past to do same as he ruminates legacy.     At home, we thrilled to the kinetic bravura of James Brown, two Victors, (Uwaifo and Olaiya), I.K. Dairo, and the great Omokomoko (The Urhobo minstrel), and of course Jim Reeves, who stole from blacks. Brown with his I Feel Alright, Say it Loud, et al and Uwaifo’s stagecraft and throaty flexibility benumbed my childhood fancies. That was during the civil war. We were living in Lagos. We listened and danced at home only to the records that my father Moses, trendy for his time, brought home and blared out of his grand Grundig radio. After a few years in Warri, my father moved to Ibadan and he brought home three records, the mellifluous evangelism of the Everly Brothers, master guitarist Sunny Ade and Ebenezer Obey’s Board Members. My father was a fervent singer and dancer, but he was good at neither. His fine soul woke up his every move. He infected everyone with his goofy acts. He danced to Obey’s music often. On my part, Obey was new. Before long, I knew every lyric and his riffs haunted my boyish soul. Over the years, he has ranked for me in the elite of Nigerian music and music anywhere. His melody and avuncular charisma were only part of it. I loved the way he praised his fellow humans in his modernised oriki contrivance, and how he spiced proverbs in the public imagination. He has been a philosopher, raconteur, priest, fabulist, satirist, stylised comedian, wordsmith, sometimes epicurean, sometimes puritan, probing as he prohibits. If he massaged the vain, he did not applaud the villain. If he counselled the foolish, he never cancelled the wise. Each time I contemplate his music, I think he is a priest who sowed his ‘wild’ oats before his calling came at last. He has ended up a gospel artiste, but he has been pulpit habitue all along without knowing it, whether in the story of the father and son on ketekete, or his proclamation he would serve God all his life. What better gospel than Edumare soro mi d’ayo? He has had some sour moments, as when a false tale subdued his star that he was sick because he put on too much weight or evil men who said he was into narcotics. But he weathered all. There was also the funny story that anyone he praised fell from grace, a superstition of selective prejudice. They didn’t remember those who didn’t fall. It was part of the power Obey has had over the Yoruba imagination. He is also criticised for eulogising the delinquent, the rich and powerful over the heroic. That is a bit exaggerated. Praising was part of the Yoruba courtier history, and he modernised. He was not Fela whose lips engendered earthquakes. It would not, however be miliki, in Obey’s slow, melodic waves if it became a vehicle to twit power. Obey would not be Obey. Time has been faithful to him, as he has evolved as he marks 80, as one of the great gifts of all time. E sha ma miliki o…