Ahead of the 2023 presidential elections, the Social Democratic Party (SDP) is making bold moves in its quest to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the next general elections. ‘Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, write on efforts by the leadership and aspirant of the party towards achieving the goal.  ON Wednesday, Olu Agunloye says he has resignation as the national chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and surprisingly revealed that he is now the acting national secretary of the party. Not a few people thought that the queer development was as a result of the reported suspension of Agunloye by the Ondo State chapter of the party earlier in the week for alleged anti-party activities. But The Nation gathered that the development is part of moves by leaders of the party to reposition the SDP for victory at the 2023 presidential election. At an emergency meeting conveyed to discuss SDP’s preparations for the polls, the national executive committee (NEC) of the party decided that all positions that are zoned to the south are now zoned to the north. The move, The Nation learnt, is to allow the party picks its presidential candidate from the south. “So, there is no big deal about swapping in the party because the presidential aspirant is coming from the south. In fact, one of the leading aspirants is coming from Ondo state,” Agunloye revealed. Party sources claimed the leadership of the party agreed to make the needed sacrifice to ensure SDP produces the next president of the country. “We are not joking about 2023 presidency. Our party is being repositioned to emerge as the party to beat. Nigerians are clamoring for power rotation and we have taken that into consideration,” our source said.   Party sells nomination forms Prince Adewole Adebayo, a presidential aspirant, who picked the party’s N35m nomination and expression of interest forms last Friday, has insisted that he is in the race to win the presidency for the party. He is the first and only presidential aspirant who has obtained the forms, for now, forcing some analysts to predict his emergence as the candidate of the SDP for the 2023 presidential contest. At the moment, he is one of the youngest presidential aspirants currently in the race. He clocked 50 four months ago. Pundits say the purchase of forms, of course, underscores the seriousness and preparedness of the aspirant to contest the February 25, 2023 presidential election. Party sources claim there are other serious contenders seeking the ticket of the SDP aside Adebayo. It is left to be seen how many more will pick the nomination forms before the closing day. If given the nod by his party, 50-year old Adebayo who hails from Ondo state, will slug it out with eventual winners of party tickets among numerous political bigwigs who have shown interest in the race. These include Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, among other contenders on the platform of the APC. From the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, there are former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Mr Peter Obi, former Senate Presidents Bukola Saraki and Pius Ayim, Governor Bala Muhammad of Bauchi State and former Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State, among others. Former Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of Kano State has picked his nomination form from his new party, Nigeria Nigeria Peoples Party, NNPP.   2023: APC yet to decide on zoning, says Adamu     Awujale, tradition and good governance     Why always Peseiro?   In a move meant to promote the party across the country, Adebayo and his team, comprising Deputy National Chairman, North East, Senator Muhammed Alkali, former Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, Senator Ugochukwu Uba, Chief Peter Ame, and others, have been touring various states, particularly the North where he has been meeting the leaders and the people.   SDP train storms northern states One of such visits recently took him to the palace of the Emir of Kano, His Royal Majesty, Aminu Ado Bayero, where he condoled with him over his mother’s death and used the opportunity to seek his blessing for his presidential aspiration. The emir advised that he should not only go out to the people and present to them his manifestos, but more importantly, he should thoroughly implement the manifestos when he eventually makes it to the Villa. “The only thing I will promise is that there is nothing we will do in and out of power that will be an embarrassment to this palace”, he stated in response. In Niger State, he was warmly welcomed to the residence of former Head of State, General Abubakar Abdulsalami. “I am an ordinary citizen from Ondo seeking the office of the President, an office that was created by the constitution and signed personally by you. You know what to expect of the occupant of that office,” the aspirant said. “I would, in the next one year, convince you, Your Excellency, and your peers and my colleagues, that I have all the requisite qualities to do well. Seeing and hearing you now, I am more prepared now to be President of Nigeria than I was when we came to this residence this morning”. He was also at the residence of former military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, who expressed satisfaction with the fact that the aspirant is young, courageous, purposeful and has power of conviction. He, however, admonished the presidential aspirant that no matter the aspiration, the country must come first. “Babangida is one of the promoters of one Nigeria. He advised that we should love the country more than we love ourselves. He said we should show patriotism by taking bold decisions for the benefit of all. He had the power 100% on his hand but let go of it. I have learnt from him that power is transient,” Adebayo said after the meeting. The aspirant, speaking during the tour, said his desire is to lead the way in ensuring that Nigerian is administered the proper way, according to the provisions of our constitution. “Chapter Two of the Nigerian Constitution has everything Aminu Kano stood for. He would be our guide when we get into office. “Politics is the way by which society negotiates common affairs and comes to a common decision and appoints common agents, using common resources to solve common problems. Politics is not a profession for politicians. Politics is the public participation in the management of public affairs. Politics is when you live your life for the good of others, like the Mallam Aminu Kano did. Politics is where you build a legacy. Charging young Nigerians to join him in effecting the changes, he said “young people have a greater challenge because they have the population. And so if they fail in 2023, we should not hear of any EndSARS again because the real time for EndSARS in Nigeria is 2023. This is the time that young people must mobilize themselves. They must come out and believe in themselves and take over power and give it to a young person. “From the time of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Sir Ahmadu Bello, the Sardauna of Sokoto, the great Zik of Africa when education was free from elementary to secondary to university, to the limit of your ability, free of charge, and there was free health care, that is the meaning of Social Democratic Party.”