Union staged a stunning fightback to beat RB Leipzig 2-1 last time out. They’ve now won four Bundesliga games on the trot, and will climb to within a point of fourth place – for 24 hours at least – if that run continues against Fürth. Substitutes Sven Michel and Kevin Behrens were on target in Leipzig, but Awoniyi is very much Union’s main man. The Nigeria international has scored four times across his last eight league outings, and has a team-leading 13 goals for the campaign. He can count on the in-form Sheraldo Becker for support in the capital, the Surinamese forward with a goal and three assists to show for his previous three competitive outings.   BIG PREVIEWS: Tricky away trips for Man City, Liverpool     Ballon d’Or 2022: Benzema, Mane are strong contenders     Lakowe Lakes to host 2022 World Corporate Golf Challenge   Defender Dominique Heintz and midfielder Genki Haraguchi are set to replace the waylaid Timo Baumgartl and Andras Schäfer respectively, while Frederik Ronnow appears to now have the edge over Andreas Luthe in goal. Whatever happens in Berlin, promoted Fürth will be playing Bundesliga 2 football again next season. Bottom of the table since Matchday 4, the Clover Leaves’ luck finally ran out in a 4-1 home defeat to Bayer Leverkusen that confirmed their relegation to Germany’s second tier. Fürth recorded their first of three wins so far this Bundesliga season in the reverse fixture, but have been unable to match a much-improved defensive record since the turn of the year with the necessary impetus in attack. They’ve scored just 12 Rückrunde goals, with leading marksman Branimir Hrgota goalless in eight and Green still to break his Bundesliga duck. The five-goal Jamie Leweling should return in attack after self-isolating for the Leverkusen loss, while defender Maximilian Bauer is available again following suspension. The game comes two days after Stefan Leitl informed the club he will step down as head coach at the end of the season. Recalled that Awoniyi has scored in each of Union’s last four home games in the Bundesliga. Indeed, nine of his 13 Bundesliga goals in 2021/22 have fallen at the Stadion An der Alten Försterei and the fans expect.