Those at the helm of affairs in Nigeria, whether as president, governor, minister, or local council chairman, particularly those who have made conscious efforts to improve the nation’s physical infrastructure, despite the debilitating economic challenges facing the country, must be confounded with the destructive tendency that seems to have overwhelmed our nation’s consciousness. The tragedy that has befallen Kaduna State in recent days draws attention to this national quagmire. In terms of physical infrastructure, Kaduna State is the envy of other states, whether in the northern or southern part of the country. Many northern elites, particularly those who have used their positions in government to help themselves, have their homes and investments in Kaduna State. Also, as the political capital of the old northern Nigeria, the northern power oligarchs who have held federal power longer than their southern counterparts, favour Kaduna State in the citing of infrastructure in Nigeria. Even recently when Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, Abuja, was to be closed, President Muhammadu Buhari’s government used the opportunity to further improve Kaduna airport to world standards. Also, when President Goodluck Jonathan was in charge, he also prioritised the development of modern railway tracks from Abuja to Kaduna. So, after many years of comatose train services in Nigeria, the resuscitation programme effectively started from Kaduna. Furthermore, the Abuja-Kaduna highway is priority in terms of maintenance, and resources are not spared to ensure it is in good state. This column can attest that unlike the Enugu-Port Harcourt, Onitsha-Enugu, Onitsha-Owerri, Ibadan-Ilorin, Lagos-Abeokuta highways and perhaps many more, the Abuja-Kaduna highway was never left to decay as those earlier mentioned, since the living memory of this column. So, unlike some others, the Abuja-Kaduna highway has always lived up to its name as an expressway. Moreover, in the past few weeks that Kaduna has witnessed a resurgence of attacks by terrorists and their allied forces, the list of national assets, including military and para-military assets cited in Kaduna State, has been trending. The list include, 1 Division Nigerian Army, Nigerian Army Depot, Zaria, Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, Nigerian Defence Industry, Nigeria Airforce Training School, Nigeria Police College, Nigerian Navy School of Armament, Nigerian Army School of Legal Services, Bassawa Zaria, Nigerian Defence Academy, Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Nigerian Army School of Military Police, and Army Operations Base. Many of the commentators described the state as no different from a military fortress, considering the concentration of military and paramilitary institutions in the state. Yet, ironically, despite all the advantages, Kaduna State has become one of the most unsafe places in the country to live. While the Southern Kaduna has become a killing field, because of the malicious activities of a murderous gang, who has been accused of an ethnic cleansing agenda, the Kaduna metropolis is also unsafe. Some few months ago, the attackers took their devilish agenda to the NDA. Few days ago, the attackers in a most brazen manner stormed the Kaduna International Airport and stalled the take-off of an air craft. While the nation was yet to get over that rude shock, the terrorists bombed the rail track and successfully derailed an Abuja-Kaduna bound train. Storming the derailed train, the terrorist kidnapped some passengers and killed a number of others. Some hours after the nation woke up to that horror, the criminals boldly menaced the Abuja-Kaduna highway, which was already turning to a death trap for travellers in the past few years.   Tinubu as potentate – 2     Hope amidst hopelessness     Ekweremadu and Ebeano family   Considering the destructive tendencies of these terrorists, especially in Southern Kaduna, there are several conspiracy theories about the motive for these incendiary attacks. While alleged Fulani elements have been accused of an evil agenda to depopulate the place and take over the ancestral lands they despoil, other theorists ascribe the attacks to those hell-bent on carving out an Islamic Caliphate for their extremist agenda. As plausible as these theories may appear, we must take note of similar destructive tendencies outside the domain of the alleged evil agenda. One recent example is the destruction that greeted the Moshood Abiola Stadium following the ouster of Nigeria from the Qatar 2022 World Cup, by Ghana. While Nigerians may have shown emotional imbalance in the past over loss of a match, the malicious determination of the Abuja fans to destroy a stadium that took the ingenuity of the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare to repair, shows a deeper malaise than what happened in the past. These fans are aware that but for the intervention of Aliko Dangote, following appeal from the sports minister, the stadium would still be in a dilapidated state. Yet the fans were determined to destroy the newly installed infrastructure. Of course, I believe that a similar vicious determination to destroy whatever the rioters could see, after the highjack of EndSARS protest, is still fresh in the minds of my readers. In addition to the penchant to destroy physical infrastructure, there is also the growing vicious predilection to kill or maim for little or no provocation, which is a matter for another discussion. While making effort to improve infrastructure development across the country, those at the helm of affairs must worry about the perverse mass discontentment, especially amongst the hoi polloi. For this column, it is not enough to send security agencies against the unhappy and destructive Nigerians. Indeed, it should be instructive that despite the huge emotional and financial investment of the Buhari’s government in the maintenance of law and order in the past seven years, chaos and disorder is on the rise. Perhaps, the problem is far deep-rooted? Could the trigger just be economic hardship, or a complete disenchantment or breakdown of the current social order? When despite 23 years of democracy, the nation still boasts of about 10 million Almajiris, does it mean that the abundance of disenchanted citizens has become a permanent feature of our country? When the statistics indicate that about 90 million, out of about 200 million Nigerians are unemployed; in the midst of double digit inflation, collapse of the power sector, amongst other challenges in the factors of production, will things get worse than it is? With the northern Nigeria in particular, degenerating rapidly, it is shocking that the practice of such perversions like Almajiri is still allowed to fester. If we heard the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Ameachi, correctly, it will require about N8 billion to restore the losses arising from the bombed rail infrastructure. With the bombers yet to be apprehended, are we in a vicious circle? This column believes that if we don’t get the human capital right, all the investments in physical infrastructure could be turned to waste by the disposed and disenchanted. Could it be that Nigeria is facing a peculiar national quagmire, without any answers in sight?