Never – it seems – would a day pass without Nigerians being inundated with statistics of how bad the situation in the country is. Last week, it was yet time for the executive secretary, National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), Prof. Idris Muhammad Bugaje to present the facts as he saw them. Addressing the annual general meeting of the Science and Technology Forum (STF) in Kaduna, he claimed that 90 million of Nigeria’s over 200 million population are unemployed youths; and that “there are also 10 million out-of-school children, the majority of whom are Almajiris in the country”. He spoke of a particular youth group that has since emerged in Kano to buttress the danger ahead: “They are called the anarchists. They say they have been abandoned by the government and therefore they would be destroying all government installations they come across. It is a small group for now, but we need to take action now before the group grows and becomes another serious security threat to the country.” Elsewhere in Lagos – this time at the Livestock and Aquaculture Trade Fair, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo would be rueing the nation’s annual losses to the incessant farmer-herder clashes. He claimed that the loss, which he puts at $14 billion “is mitigating government’s efforts towards attaining food security”.   Qatar 2022 failure: FGN demands explanation from NFF     Full list of winners at Grammy Awards 2022     400 houses in Borno, Katsina resettlement cities near…   And finally, the World Bank, in its poverty assessment report titled ‘A Better Future for All Nigerians: 2022 Nigeria Poverty Assessment’ projected that the number of poor Nigerians would hit 95.1 million. Although the report noted that the COVID-19 crisis drove up Nigeria’s poverty rate, pushing more than five million additional people into poverty by 2022, it concluded rather grimly, that the situation would, at best be explained by the “weakening overall growth performance (which) makes it significantly harder to reduce poverty.” Although Nigerians may have become inured to such statistics over the course of time, none of the raw data or even the grim prognosis that they gave rise to could be said to be anything new. And whereas Nigerians’ daily experience of deterioration not just in their living standards, but all indices of human development has become such that no statistics can truly capture, the least they expect is that the government would at least be seem to be making valiant attempts to solve them. And to imagine that these are problems that have endured over the years. By this we mean such issues as the uncontrolled population growth and the variegated issues that it gives rise to; the inexplicably large number of out-of-school kids and its ensuing blight on the city-scape; the stuttering power sector as a result of which the economy could only limp along to deliver marginal growth; the corruption and inefficiency at the ports, all of which are known to impede business; the unprecedented youth unemployment; the pervasive insecurity that has bogged the country down, among others; there are by now enough materials in the public space for any serious government desirous to make a difference to run with. As it cruises into its twilight, it must be discomfiting that the Buhari administration that promised change is proving to be no better than those before it in this regard. For an administration on which Nigerians counted so much upon to help turn the tide, we can hope that it is not too late in the day to change course. For, in the final count, it would not be so much as what the administration professes to have done as much as the impact felt by ordinary citizen on their living standards.