New Super Eagles Assistant coach Usman Abdallah  said he was   honoured to be called to serve in the new look senior national team. Abdallah who holds UEFA PRO and  A Licenses, was listed on the technical crew of the Super Eagles  Team along with Salisu Yusuf, Finidi George and Ike Shorunmu. The  current head coach of Katsina United noted that he had been looking for opportunities such as this to serve his fatherland, adding those that selected him won’t regret the decision. Abdallah who won the Nigeria Professional Football League title with Enyimba in 2019 and also led the People’s Elephants  to the semi-final of the CAF Confederation Cup in 2018, said  he will contribute his quota to ensure the  Super Eagles fly again. “This is the greatest honour in my football career as a coach; to be called upon to serve your nation is something I think one should be proud of,” the amiable  and soft-spoken Abdallah stressed.”I have been longing for this opportunity to come and I pledge my loyalty to the country. I will make sure I make my country proud. I am very happy to have this opportunity to serve this county.” The France-trained coach with stints with lower division teams in France and Asia, thumbed up all his former  employers especially  Enyimba Chairman, Felix Anyansi Agwu  for his breakthrough on the local scene upon arrival from  Europe. The Kano born-coach also praised members of the Technical Committee of the NFF for the confidence repose in him while pointing out that ensuring that the Eagles reclaim their pride of place in the annals of football. “I am very grateful to my former employers and directors that I have worked with in football most especially my mentor, Felix Anyansi Agwu. “This is the greatest honour for me because I can never forget somebody that has seen me through my career. “For some time he gave me the opportunity to bring out myself in the country. He is my mentor and he is so wonderful I appreciate him because without his support and everything he has given me, I couldn’t have achieved this. “I want to thank the Technical Committee of the NFF that have confidence in me I am grateful to them. I will make sure I make them proud. I am so excited to be one of the national team coaches.” Before his impressive coaching education and career, Abdallah played in the domestic league  for  Kaduna Rocks, UNTL, Stationery Stores amongst others as well as stints with  the national teams as well as  playing abroad in Europe and Asia  with France, Bangladesh, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Benin Republic.   Super Eagles Assistant Coach   QUALIFICATIONS/TRAINING    BEES 1 Football (1st Degree) UEFA PRO (CREPS Montpellier, France)    UEFA A License Prep Course (England)    Degree in Football Team Management (CREPS Montpellier, France)     Kostic: Frankfurt winger who destroyed Barcelona     UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Pep, Klopp in unending fight for…     AFCON 2023 qualifier: Super Eagles know opponents on Tuesday    La Liga Football Course (Laliga, Spain)    Animateur for Seniors UEFA A (FFF, France)    Initiateur II – Football UEFA B (FFF, France)    Initiateur I – Football UEFA C (FFF, France)    AFC C License Coaching Certificate (AFC Singapore)    AFC Preliminary Coaching Certificate    Brevet European Des Premiers Secours (France)    Strength and Conditioning Level 1 (ASC, Australia)    National Coaching Accreditation Programme (NCAP) Singapore    HND, Chemical Engineering    Diploma, Information Technology, CIS, Singapore   CAREER HIGHLIGHTS    Coached at  NPFL top teams including  Kano Pillars FC, Enyimba International, Wikki Tourist FC and recently signed for Katsina United in March 2022.    Won the NPFL title for Enyimba International in 2019.    Prior to winning the NPFL in 2019, he managed Enyimba in the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup in 2018 playing to the Semi Finals.    Has Coaching stints with Lower division teams in France and Asia and coached ESP Toulon, France to the Round of 16 of the Coup De France and was Runner up in the Bangladesh Premier League with Sheikh Russell FC.    A former Player in the domestic scene (Kaduna Rocks, UNTL, Stationery Stores etc) and Nigeria National teams as well as abroad in Europe and Asia (France, Bangladesh, Singapore, Saudi Arabia and Benin Republic).    Speaks and write in French fluently.