A house of Representatives aspirant for the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Obudu/Obanliku/Bekwara Constituency, Cross River State, Kjay Jedy-Agba has urged leaders of the chapter to field the best candidate to win the election for the party in the forthcoming general elections, rather than be fixated on the issue of zoning. Jedy-Agba made the remark in an interview with The Nation in Calabar, the state capital, following his formal declaration to run  during the next general elections. He said zoning has become a sensitive issue in Nigerian politics but that it is equally important to consider other factors in choosing a candidate for the party. He said: “I can assure you that it is not an individual decision to make. I am very certain that at the appropriate time stakeholders would sit down with the leadership of our great party and the right decision would be taken that would serve the interest of all party men and women.” Jedy-Agba, a former chairman of the Cross River State New Cities Development Commission added that in his personal opinion, “what should preoccupy the minds of every loyal member of our party at this moment is how we can take back our mandate from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)”. He said zoning is a good approach to address certain concerns, such as marginalisation. He said: “We come from a multi-ethnic society where minorities would legitimately feel marginalized. So, I believe that the principle of zoning should ordinarily come in handy to address such agitations when it arises.   Anambra’s political ‘iron’ ladies     Adeboye: Admonition from pulpit     Barkindo emerges national coordinator of Wike Support Group   “However, zoning most often comes with its drawback. Many have argued that zoning has the ugly potential to breed mediocrity and I agree with them entirely, most essentially when you juxtapose it with the yearnings of the generality of society and their desire for accelerated growth, you would begin to see the need to put square pegs in square holes.” On his aspiration to represent his constituency at the National Assembly, he said: “I am sufficiently ready and prepared. I have been on this for quite some time, working behind the scene and I can tell you for free that I am ready. I am not one known for doing things haphazardly, so, I won’t come before my constituents if I’m not prepared for them to send me on this all-important assignment. “I will attract the basic necessities of life, such as water, electricity, good roads and easy access to farmlands and other points of raw materials to my people because they need them to function optimally. It is indeed that level of effective representation that I seek to bring to our people in Obudu/ Obanliku/Bekwarra Federal Constituency.” He promised to give effective representation to his constituents if given the chance to represent them at the Green Chamber of the National Assembly.  He added: “I pledge to provide an effective and transparent representation where accountability is a norm. I will make myself accessible to people by creating constituency offices in various communities to get to know their needs and challenges.” Jedy-Agba said he would also organise periodic town hall meetings to give accounts of his stewardship to the people. “It would also enable my office to feel the pain and joy of my people at the level they are, and identify their critical needs,” he added.