Rappers MI Abaga and YCee have expressed their opinions over the absence of rappers at Rick Ross’ Easter concert in Lagos. The show tagged ‘Rick Ross Live In Lagos’ featured popular singers including Davido, Tiwa Savage, Mayorkun, DJ Obi, The Cavemen, Fave, and DJ Yin among others but featured no rapper. YCee called out the promoters of the show for organising one involving a veteran American rapper void of Nigerian rappers. He added such move is the main reason why Nigerian rappers are switching genres. “Bruh this ain’t even about me cos I haven’t put out rap music in a while but how do you have a Rick Ross show in Nigeria and not have ONE SINGLE NIGERIAN RAPPER ON THE LINE UP??? And tomorrow you wanna come on twitter and ask why rappers are switching genres,” YCee tweeted. Joining his colleague to lend his voice on the ‘matter’, MI in a series of tweets explained he requested to meet with Rick Ross personally after being invited but he was declined.   Keke Tochukwu, wife welcome baby     Shatta Bandle acquires 2022 Ferrari, trolls Davido for…     Why I must buy G Wagon with cash payment, by…   He lamented the disrespect with which the Nigerian rappers are treated to noting it would continue until they learn to respect themselves. He further advised his rap colleagues to keep pushing the culture by making great music for the fans who care about them which will inevitably push them (the rappers). Mr Incredible tweeted: “Lot of rappers would have ate if they listened to me. Not every opinion is equal. “That’s how I created the wave the first time!!! Every single time I gave them music I never cheated them.. I made classic after classic and am relentless still.. the guy is my best album yet coming soon! Classic.. give your best and the music will grow! “Lastly .. I was invited to meet Rick Ross.. I responded by saying if I could do it one on one. Ofcourse they declined.. the afrobeats industry will not respect Hiphop just because.. that’s fine. Let’s accept it as what it is and make GREAT MUSIC FOR THE ONES who do care. “My first big gig ever was in 2008 with Jay Z and Rihanna and Usher.. how I was treated that day taught me a valuable lesson.. them no go respect us.. until we respect ourselves. “Let’s support each other.. I just posted a Paybac verse.. let’s see how many other rappers will repost.. push the culture and inevitably push yourself.. give the fans quality.”