Popular actress Dayo Amusa has addressed individuals caught up in bad marriages and relationships while addressing domestic violence against women. In a lengthy post on her Instagram page, the movie star advised women to use the exit door rather than endure such toxicity. Amusa revealed she’s had to endure bad relationships in the past because she thought herself a fixer and always encountered a certain type of men, those who needed to be ‘fixed.’ But she confessed to have failed at every attempt until she realised the men she got involved with could never be changed regardless of what she does as they were completely broken and probably beyond redemption. Sharing a movie stressing on the ills of domestic violence, one which she starred in alongside Mike Ezeruonye, Amusa wrote: “YOU CAN NOT FIX A BROKEN EGG. I used to be a fixer. I stayed in bad relationships, attracting the same type of men – men who needed to be fixed. “I know so many women in the same position. We attract cheating men, commitment-phobic men, emotionally unavailable men, emotionally damaged men, alcoholics, drug abusers, narcissists and sociopaths.   Airport workers scramble for Portable’s money     Mr Macaroni to Kate Henshaw: your photo makes me vibrate     Tonto Dikeh receives knocks as son smacks backside in video   “It’s like we are a magnet for men whose pieces are shattered all over the place. And for some reason, we feel compelled to put these pieces back together. But I must admit, I have failed every single time. “I never gave myself a chance to sit back and question my motives. Instead of asking why I constantly felt obligated to pick up someone else’s broken pieces, I ran to pick them up without a second thought. “Being selfless made me think that coming second didn’t matter because I was putting someone else’s worthiness first. And in the end, rank doesn’t matter, right? she continued: “I realized that the reason I was attracting these types of men was because I believed I could save them. “As selfless, thoughtful, giving women, we think we will be “that woman”—the one who will change them. We think we can turn a cheater into a loyal boyfriend. We think we can help him walk away from the drugs and alcohol. We believe we can help him get over his commitment issues and aim for a stable future with us. We trust that we can get rid of the emotional baggage that he has been carrying for years. We attract these men because we believe they need us. And to leave them would be selfish, insensitive and ruthless. “The sad news is, we constantly blame ourselves when they don’t change. Every time they fail us, we think it’s because we failed them. Their hold on us becomes stronger; they keep us around knowing they have nothing to offer. It’s just my view. “If that relationship or marriage is TOXIC! PLS MOVE!!!”