Amid dwindling revenue caused by falling oil prices, and worsened by revenue leakages such as duty payment evasion, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) is implementing the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) next month to track imported vehicles and generate funds. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports. BARRING any last-minute changes, the new Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) valuation policy will take off next month. To give teeth to the policy, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) will deploy its scanners after the one month’s grace given to agents in clearing their vehicles.The policy was recently introduced by the Federal Government.   What is VIN? It is a unique serial number assigned to vehicles and motorcycles to help identify them. In Nigeria, it’s popularly called chassis number. It was first used in the United States in 1954. There was no standard on how VINs should be, so automakers made use of various formats. Not until the U.S. government, along with car manufacturers, came up with a standardised VIN system. Then in 1981, the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) decided to standardise the format. The approved format required sold vehicles to have a 17-character VIN. These characters don’t include the letter O, letter I and letter Q to avoid confusing them with numerals like 0, 1, and 9. Since then, the auto industry has integrated the VIN into vehicle components. Globally, it was learnt, there are four competing standards that are being used to calculate the VIN.   The roles of VIN VIN plays the same role in the life of a car like the fingerprints. In other words, it is the DNA of a car. Every vehicle comes with VIN for proper identification. It is regarded as a key to safety in the auto world and provides information about the history of a vehicle.   VIN as revenue spinner VIN valuation, according to the management of the NCS, will determine the value of import duty that an importer is expected to pay on an imported car. The Assistant Comptroller-General of Customs, Information Communication Technology (ICT)/Modernisation, Saidu Galadima, confirmed that VIN is automated to aid the valuation of imported vehicles. Galadima said VIN was aimed at addressing the agitation of agents and other port users who have been calling for a standardised valuation system. He said VIN, using artificial intelligence, helps to allocate appropriate value and taxes to vehicles. “The only thing Customs needs from the importer or his agent is the VIN, and the system will automatically evaluate based on the available data across the world. It will bring out data on the vehicle, including the make, model, and year,” he said. Galadima added: “In all this process there is no human contact, the system uses artificial intelligence to allocate the appropriate value and it eliminates human interference, which means that the system uses self-declaration. The importer knows the cost of his or her vehicle, and if the person declares it correctly and make payments, within six hours, he or she will be out of Customs control.’’ On the protest by clearing agents against VIN, NCS’s National Public Relations Officer (PRO), Mr Timi Bomadi, assured them of NCS’s support and that what the Customs would be doing till the end of this month, “is to run the automated system side by side with the manual system to aid decongestion of the port’’.   Our stand, by stakeholders But the Vice President Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayode Farinto said they were not against VIN, “but we are against the outrageous value. We have asked them to consider accidented vehicles and mileage of vehicles imported as stated in the Customs Law. Therefore, we are still waiting to see what they will come out with by the end of the month. Farinto queried Customs on the data the service is using in the determination and implementation of VIN. “The data you are using for VIN where did you get it from? These are the basic questions you have to answer. If you must implement a new policy, you need to carry the stakeholders along. You cannot shave my head in my absence’’. Although the ANCLA chief agreed that the Customs is protecting the revenue of the Federal Government, Farinto warned that it must not be done to the detriment of the nation’s economy.     Kidnapped FCT monarch, two others regain freedom     Tinubu is God’s choice for 2023 presidency – Bishop…     Northern elders and Buhari’s resignation   Why stakeholders are worried It would be recalled that last year, the Federal Government made VREG mandatory and a prerequisite for clearing vehicles. It was aimed at providing a database for VIN and to reduce vehicle theft, enhance national security and generate revenue for the government. The scheme is powered by key agencies, parties and stakeholders and it is being implemented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, in collaboration with NCS and state governments. However, less than one year after, stakeholders said the introduction of the vehicle registry had brought hardship to them because of its failure to meet their expectation.   Issue Importers and agents claimed the VREG platform created by the Federal Ministry of Finance for imported vehicles had collapsed. Because of this, they explained that imported vehicles had been trapped at the various terminals inside the Tin Can Island Port. The Public Relations Officer of the association, Tin-Can Island chapter, Onome Monije said his colleagues were finding it difficult to access the VREG platform, noting that to bring out vehicles from the terminals had become a nightmare. She added that the trapped vehicles were attracting huge storage and demurrage charges from terminal operators and shipping firms. The spokesperson stressed that the VREG platform had been down due to server failure.”The VREG is for consignments with chassis or serial number. It is mandatory for us to register with VREG before we can proceed to Customs’ portal for duty assessment and payment because the vehicle registry has been integrated with the Customs platform. “As a result of the inability to access the VREG platform, we stay awake in the middle of the night searching for network and sometime it comes up 2am or 3am and whenever there is an amendment, it is difficult to do, ‘’ she said. Monije pleaded with the Finance ministry to have a help desk where complaints can be made and resolved, noting that it was also important that the government should have office in Lagos and the ports for effective working relationship with clearing agents and importers. She added: “VREG is a great pain on clearing agents’ necks and we don’t want VIN to be the same. The process is cumbersome as OTP code must be generated with a minimum payment of about N4,700 per unit vehicle. We are losing millions daily while shipping companies and terminal operators are gaining millions of naira daily. “Also, no one is telling us what the issues with the VREG’s network are and storage charges is increasing daily. Maybe shipping and terminal operators are paying commission to them through the huge demurrages and storage charges we are accruing.”   The minister reacts Last year, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, said a study shows that between October 2018 and September 2019,  the country recorded over N1.8 trillion value of used vehicle importation, noting that Nigeria was the hub of stolen vehicles VIN was not in place. The minister lamented that many vehicles could not be traced, but that with the introduction of VIN, it would be easy to do so. Statistics had showed that the country imported 400,000 automobiles between 2015 and 2020, but there was no VIN to trace them. However, the Minister said: “The Federal Government, through the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, launched the VREG, which is a national repository of vehicular information that seem to provide a single platform through which all relevant agencies shall reference vehicular data with a view to ascertaining ownership and value information. “The data process will also enable capturing of vehicular exchanges and utilising of VIN in Nigeria. Additional value is also accruable to the Federal Government, state governments and related agencies via this policy. The VREG will serve as single source of validation at the point of vehicle registration, while capturing and storing all information over the life cycle of the vehicle for the purpose of effective motor vehicle administration, documentation and tracking of vehicular activities across the nation to enhance national security. “Since the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning is saddled with managing the nation’s finances and revenue streams. In the mid of dwindling revenue orchestrated by falling oil prices, mono economy and further worsened by revenue leakages from unplugged loopholes such as customs duty payment evasion, it became imperative that the government be responsive to these issues.” Although it is imperative that the leadership of the NCS is trying to secure the country, block revenue loopholes and theft, experts said there was the need for it to make the VIN policy work for smooth trade facilitation, reduction in the cost of doing business in our ports and in line with the international best practices.