A governorship aspirant and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has boasted that the APC will produce the successor of Governor, Nyesom Wike, in 2023. Dakuku insisted the APC looked unstoppable in its goal of winning the presidential, governorship and all other elective positions in the state. Dakuku said the APC was on the right path of recovery and victory to end what he described as the “sad breast-pocket governance style of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the state”. Dakuku spoke in a statement to mark the success of the party’s Thanksgiving at the weekend in Port Harcourt. He said that every indicator for an APC victory in 2023 was positive, adding that recent successes recorded by the party in the state from the ward to the local government and state congresses, had reinvigorated its membership to a new height in readiness to kick-out the ruling party in the state. He said: “You all have seen the mammoth crowd here which points to a new height in APC’s renewed movement towards ending the breast-pocket governance Rivers people found themselves in since 2015. “Our people have suffered enough in the hands of Wike and PDP but APC is set to end all of that and reset the state to achieving her full potential. That PDP must go in 2023 is our resolve, and working in harmony, we shall achieve that. “Today is a statement in the party’s resolve to terminate the regime of Wike and his PDP and in turn entrench good governance and grow our beloved state.”   Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail: FG to reach Enugu by September     Police dispel rumour of attack on Jos     VIDEO: Robbers storm Yinka Ayefele’s radio station…   He said the APC in the state was ready to mobilize Rivers’ voters to vote out PDP claiming that the administration of Wike represented the lowest for the state since it was created on May 27, 1967. He said: “The agitation is everywhere across the state for freedom from the current administration of Governor Nyesom Wike, which is the lowest for the state since its creation on May 27, 1967. “Every Rivers’ citizen, including civil servants, traders, craftsmen , students and our statesmen, are tired of Wike and PDP and are in unison to see their end. APC in the state is ready to mobilise them, going forward, to serve this wicked government the red card it well deserves”. Describing Amaechi as “most fitting, competent, and pan-Nigerian”, Dakuku expressed confidence in Nigerians supporting Amaechi’s aspiration. He said: “I commend Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for taking this critical decision to serve Nigerians in the highest office in the land. Heeding the call of Nigerians to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari is a call to courage, commitment and continuation of the current Administration’s determination to develop the nation”. While thanking the party’s supporters for their presence at the Thanksgiving Service, Dakuku Peterside commended organisers for its success. He said: “This is the beginning of a new partnership between our party in Rivers and other critical stakeholders as the 2023 general elections gather steam. For me, it is a memento that speaks of what greater synergy we can possibly achieve, and subsequent results”.