Popular entertainer Steve Onu aka Yaw has expressed satisfaction over the growth of the comedy industry. The stand-up comic act in an interview with HipTv stated the growth in the comedy industry is a beautiful thing to witness. Yaw said: “Yeah! We’ve done a lot. We might not be where we want to be yet. We don’t have a lot of our guys on comedy central and all that big platforms but we are doing so well in Nigeria. “And like I love to tell people, the most important is, so far you can feed, take care of your family and all that; I think that’s the most important thing. “And gradually, a lot of our guys have become madly creative. They are very smart and all. So, I must say we are doing well.”   Femi Otedola reacts to daughter’s engagement to Mr…     I won’t reveal my new man until we’re married…     Tekno to Davido: don’t talk to me again if…   With a good number of persons trooping into the industry as ‘skit-makers’ regardless of their content appeals to the audience or not, when asked of his opinion on the matter, Yaw responded: “For me, I think, what might be funny to you might not be funny to me. I see some of them and I just feel like this guy is not funny at all. And yet I see some people and I’m like this guy is just stupid. “You know you can be stupid yet funny. Let me give a typical example. I love this guy so much, Mr Funny. He is not doing much o! He doesn’t stress himself that much but he is funny to me. “A lot of people might not like his comedy but I love his comedy. So for me, a lot of people are coming into it, na work dem no get. Job no dey. And they believe that it will make them famous faster. The radio and television presenter added: “You know, everyone is a skit-maker and all that, including those that are funny and not funny.But hey! We will definitely be able to separate the good ones from the ones that are struggling. “It’s natural. I think we won’t get tired of it. The problem in this country is too much. A lot of people are looking for ways to laugh, relax. So we can’t get tired of it. And I believe with time, people will evolve and get better in what it is that they are doing.”