Erstwhile co-ordinator of the Super Eagles, Sumonu Bello-Osagie (SBO), believed  the non-qualification of the national team for what would  have been  her seventh FIFA  World Cup appearance in Qatar,  could be a blessing in disguise, adding  the rank and file of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) should be revamped as a way forward to greater things. The attention of the whole world  was yesterday fixed for the Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre  where the Official Draws for Qatar 2022 World Cup was held for the 32 qualified teams sans  Nigeria following  the shock elimination by Ghana on Tuesday. “My view regarding our non-qualification for Qatar 2022 and particularly the match that was played between Nigeria and Ghana , was a national embarrassment,” SBO, one of the unseen hands that assisted the Super Eagles towards a glorious outing at USA 1994 World Cup, told NationSport from his base in New York. But  the failure to qualify for Qatar 2022 is also a blessing in disguise. It  is an opportunity for us to look back and reflect upon  our strategy  book that we  used when we had great results in football from the 1970s ,1980s  and 1990s.” There is always a sense of Déjà vu as far as the 1990s is concerned following the stellar performances of the Super Eagles that culminated into the historic qualification for the FIFA World Cup for the first time in 1994 as well as winning the African Cup of Nations for only the second time in the country’s football history at Tunisia 1994. This was followed with  winning  Africa’s first soccer Gold medal by a nucleus of the USA’1994 squad two years later at Atlanta 1996. “ The 1990s was a great time for Nigerian football,” recalled SBO.“We had a great man, Dutch coach  Clemens Westerhof who lived in Nigeria and was constantly going around the domestic league in order to recruit players for the national team. “ That was how he was able to discovered  a lot of talents including the likes of Daniel Amokachi, Finidi George, Nwankwo Kanu  and several others. “ The  Nigerian  league of those days is  like  the English Premiership with  the stadium always full to capacity but what has happened to Nigeria league and the management of NFF? “ What strategy do we have in place today in order to discover talented new players for the national team because as they say, charity starts from the home? But home many home-based talents can we find in the national team today. “With a  very strong league, we can be able to discover new talents  and we won’t be desperately looking for players  from the Diaspora all the time in a country with almost  200 million people.”   We urinate blood after drinking water from same source with…     Body of Benchers, NBA, Supreme Court Justice worry over…     Kidnappers seize mother-in-law, brother during N2m ransom…   The versatile SBO with diverse interest that cut through sports, entertainment and diplomacy opined that the way forward for the Super Eagles on one part is recruitment of ‘strong , talented and reliable’ players  from the domestic league hence  the Nigeria Professional Football league (NPFL) must be retool. “ They said a masquerade must dance at home before he goes outside,” SBO, a scion of late Balogun of Benin Muslims, Chief Bello-Osagie, equally explained.“ It’s about time the NFF and NPFL  to come together and see how we can build  the domestic league back in the days. “  We just can’t be looking for the  easy way  by sourcing for just any players from Europe after all, a local today  will become an international player  tomorrow if he is well groomed. “Nigeria can easily have two strong or three strong  national teams easily because of the talent we have in our country; so it is important for us to go back and try as much as possible to look back to open our winning book established by great coaches who had helped us in the past,” he noted. Back to the crux of the matter, SBO reckoned that it’s not enough to sack the entire Super Eagles’ coaching crew in order to gloss over the failure to qualify for the historic  first FIFA World Cup in the Middle East, adding the leadership of the NFF  are also guilty in a large way hence the need for maximum consequence. “ I agree that the first casualty  when you have a result like this  is the technical crew and that is why I’m not surprised to hear that  coach Austin Eguavoen and his crew had been sacked,” SBO  continued. “ From my past experiences, I know a lot of things must have happened behind the scenes and sometimes  the technical crew might not be able to voice out. “ It was also out there that  there was some interference by the NFF top management  in the selection of the team , that is totally unacceptable. “There is no need to lose sleep over that rather  the  NFF president (Amaju Pinnick)  and his board  should  do us a favour  and exit  the stage so  that we can start from the scratch. “ We need a total haul but not a cosmetic style of sacrificing some players  and that is not how to rebuild; we need to  rebuild right  from the scratch  to the top. “ It is unfortunate that most of the  players we have today in the national team   don’t  even know the history of Nigerian football and the responsibility that goes with wearing  the green-white-green jerseys.