There are times when public debate is not about the constitutionality or legality of an action, but its propriety and morality. One of such occasions is the raging debate about the President’s exercise of his power to set free former Governors Joshua Dariye who was the helmsman in Plateau State between 1999 and 2007, and his colleague, Jolly Nyame of Taraba State. Both had been jailed by the country’s apex court, for stealing public funds. Both men had enough time to prove their innocence in court. They explored all opportunities available under the law to wriggle out of the bind. By the letters of the law, Section 175 of the Constitution provides for Prerogative of Mercy by which the President could, on behalf of the state, extend full pardon or clemency to those serving terms for infringing the law. Under the section, the President could set up a committee to review cases that may come before it to determine who may be deserving of mercy, since justice and mercy are inseparable. However, it is not within the contemplation that, in doing so, objectives of state are to be so flagrantly violated. One famous remark that would continue to haunt President Muhammadu Buhari is, “if we do not kill corruption (as a state and people), corruption will kill us”. The refrain was first thrown up as he campaigned and promised that a fierce war against corruption would be waged as soon as he assumed office. In line with that, he turned attention to the judiciary with a view to ostensibly ridding it of all forms of corruption. Even in doing that, he was faulted as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), an executive body used to raid the homes of some justices in the dead of the night, did not follow the due process of availing the National Judicial Commission (NJC) of the facts available to it, to establish that there was indeed a prima facie case against each of them. Therefore, in the process of trying to fight corruption, the presidency corrupted the procedure.   JUST IN: Makinde arrives Alaafin’s palace for…     Buhari orders man-haunt for sponsors of Imo illegal refinery     NDLEA seizes cocaine hidden in teabags at Lagos, Abuja…   In granting Messrs Dariye and Nyame pardon on April 14, the President turned back the hands of the clock, doing what former President Goodluck Jonathan did in setting free his predecessor and former boss in Bayelsa State, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha. The former President hid behind the fact that Alamieyeseigha had become remorseful and thus deserved mercy from the state. Besides, it was argued that the former Bayelsa governor did not waste the time of the court during prosecution, thus saving the country millions of Naira that could have been spent during his tortuous trial. In the Dariye case, every legal trick available to his lawyers was adopted to ambush justice. It was not until October, 2021, that he was finally adjudged guilty by the apex court. For Nyame, the end did not come until last month. This is an errant behaviour that ought not to have been rewarded with state pardon. This is a precedence that could have been avoided. As Mr. Femi Falana, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, said after the Council of State had rubber-stamped the presidential procedure, if the former governors who were found guilty of embezzling billions of Naira could be set free, those in jail for petty theft and infractions ought not spend a day longer behind bars. The Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, could not hold his indignation as he wrote a blistering letter to the President and declared that, by the act, the Nigerian state is finished under him. These are voices of reason. By the presidential fiat, the government seems to be saying public opinion does not matter. It is suggesting that the electorate could only play a part in governance by casting their ballots on Election Day. This is contrary to the tenets of democracy that popular participation is at the heart of governance. Government has a duty to monitor public opinion regularly in order not to stray far from people’s expectation. When the history of this administration is written, this pardon will feature prominently. It is the point at which what had always been suspected was confirmed – that the administration of justice, with Mr. Abubakar Malami as Attorney-General and Minister of Justice has been abysmal. President Buhari has fallen short of the expectation of millions of Nigerians who elected him in 2015 and rewarded him with a fresh term in 2019 thinking that the template of governance would change. If there has been any change, it’s been for the worse. Corruption has seized the heart of a collapsing country, and the Buhari administration has, by overturning the judicial verdict on Messrs Dariye and Nyame, indicated that the state is comfortable with the current spate of corrupt practices among public officers. Others may be welcome on board. What a shame.