The governorship ambition of Hon. Terlumun Ikya has received a boost following his unanimous endorsement by MINDA APC youths who declared total support for him. Speaking at the residence of Chief Akange Audu in Makurdi, leaders of the youths from the four Local governments of MINDA, including Ushahemba Asen for Makurdi; Patrick Akaaer – Guma, Vitalis Toryila- Gwer East; Benjamin Kurugh for Gwer West as well as Mwuese Antseh who spoke for the women. They all described Ikya as a competent candidate with the desired vision and experience to effectively transform Benue State. They assured of galvanising and sustaining massive support for him to bring about the much-needed development that the people of Benue have been yearning for. Responding, Ikya thanked the MINDA APC youths for believing in his vision for Benue State.   Dakuku, Cole, Princewill, George, six others join Rivers APC…     A desperado’s smear campaign and Fani-Kayode’s lash     Who will beat Ayade in 2023 governorship race?   He maintained youths are assets who must be given opportunities in governance and creative sectors, reiterating that youth inclusion in decision and policy formulation in his administration will be sacrosanct when he comes on board. He stated his vision for the State centres on mechanised agro-business, pointing out he will revamp ranches created by former Governor Aper Aku, and introduce a dialogue between all stakeholders to ensure that the open grazing prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law is effectively implemented by carrying everyone along to bring lasting peace. The APC governorship hopeful added that harnessing the tourism potentials of the State and re-introducing technical education, granting scholarships to students to aid their educational pursuits are also areas to be given key attention. Others who spoke including a chieftain of the party, Chief Akange Audu and the State Organising Secretary, Mr James Ornguga, lauded the aspirant’s personality, pointing out that his late father, Retired General Ikya laid a good foundation for him which has adequately prepared and equipped him for the leadership position. The high point of the event was the adorning of Hon. Terlumun Ikya with the Tiv traditional attire by President of Minda APC Youths, Hon. Torver Gbenga.