The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, who joined his ancestors on Friday, had many plans shattered by his passage. One of them is the eminent monarch’s wish to visit the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi. The Ooni broke the ice in the frosty relationship between the Ife and Oyo monarchs by visiting the Alaafin during a cultural festival two years ago. In his tribute, Ooni Ogunwusi, confirmed the Alaafin’s promise to visit him before the middle of this year. Oba Adeyemi was also said to have concluded plans to present houses to two of his wives. Another unfulfilled plan, was the installation of House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila as Baamofin of Oyo. Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola, also spoke yesterday of the aborted plan by the late monarch to settle the rift between him and his principal. According to a source, the monarch was to hand over two new houses to two of his wives as gifts before end this month. The source said: “Kabiyesi was waiting to get well. He planned to hand over a gift of new houses to two of the queens. But, death has made that impossible now.  The houses have been completed. They were just to be handed over to the wives.” The monarch, who was the consenting authority to obas in Oyo and Oke-Ogun communities, had also initiated plans to confront the Oyo State Government over the elevation of some chiefs and bales into obas without his consent, and in violation of chieftaincy laws.   How to avoid incessant ASUU strikes – Olayinka, ex-UI VC     Cop kills two, injure others at Lagos party     Sit-at-home: Banks, schools, markets shut again in Imo   A source said Oba Adeyemi had written former Governors Rashidi Ladoja and Abiola Ajimobi on the issue. But, they did not take any action. Oba Adeyemi was said to have initiated moves to complain to Governor Seyi Makinde on the issue. It was learnt that the monarch had painstakingly gathered relevant documents, which he planned to launch by end of April before death came. In a 2017 letter to the late Ajimobi, the Alaafin had listed baales who elevated themselves to Obas and those who gave themselves non-existing titles. Aside the traditional ruler of Aawe, a community that borders Oyo, other communities in the list are in Oke-Ogun. Adeyemi stated: “One seemed to believe that with these and host of legislations on chieftaincy matters, both the administrators, prescribed authorities and the beneficiaries would be guided alright.  It was very disappointing that self-esteem, corrupt practices, negligence, and carefree attitude by those concerned have led to great abuse and bastardization of the important culture. Dubious characters in our society now found acquisition of chieftaincy titles at all costs a safe haven since the anointment is honourable for life. They manipulated their ways to the highest position, sometimes, to the disadvantage of some families. Criminals have invaded the culture.” In his condolence message, Aregbesola said Oba Adeyemi was one of the strong supporters of his administration while he was the governor of Osun State. He said: “Oba Adeyemi was an elegant and colourful monarch. He was a bridge between the ancient and the modern. He encapsulated the totality of the recorded Yoruba history dating back to the 11th Century.” He added: “He was a major player in the effort to settle the rift between me and my principal and he was still working on it till he passed on.” Gbajabiamila has cancelled arrangement for the conferment of the title of Baasofin of Yorubaland on him. The cancellation of the ceremony which was scheduled for May 27, is due to the death of the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Adeyemi who was to preside over the event. Shortly after the death of the royal father, already printed invitation cards for the event emerged on the internet. A statement by the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, explained that while the Oba’s letter communicating the award of the title to the Speaker was delivered on September 30, 2021, the event could not take place earlier than schedule.