The Federal Government, various state governors, former President Goodluck Jonathan among other prominent Nigerians and groups have  called on Christians in the country to pray for peace and unity among the different ethnic groups of Nigeria. They made the call in their various Easter messages. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, on behalf of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in his Easter message to the nation, charged Christians to emulate Jesus Christ and live to exhibit his teachings on love, tolerance and selflessness in all they do. According to a statement issued by the Director of Information in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Willie Bassey, Mustapha noted that unity and love among the different nationalities of Nigeria would help build a strong and virile nation. “The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, on behalf of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), felicitates with Nigerians, particularly, the Christian faithful, on the joyous occasion of Easter celebration, which commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. “SGF describes the sacrifice of Jesus as the manifestation of God’s love for entire world of mankind in which Jesus’ sacrifice brought mankind salvation, liberation, hope and a secured future. “He urged Christians to emulate the sacrifice of Jesus Christ as well as his teaching on love, compassion, selflessness and tolerance in all dealings. “Boss Mustapha used the opportunity to call on Christians to pray for peace and unity among all ethnic nationalities so as to build a virile, strong and equitable nation.   2023: PDP must reinvent self to win, rescue Nigeria, says…     Inflation rate hit 15.92% in March     …Igbo youth leaders condemn attack   “While wishing Christians a hitch-free Easter celebration, the SGF reminds Nigerians to continue to adhere to all Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs), which include regular washing of hands with soap and wearing of masks in closed places and further urged all to take advantage of the on-going vaccination programme as the nation has a variety of vaccines at various locations across the country”, the statement said. Jonathan in his Easter message extended his best wishes to Nigerian Christians and others around the world as they celebrate. He urged them to imbibe the lessons of sacrifice, love and peace which the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ signify. He charged the citizens to act in faith towards God and fellow citizens, and be confident that the nation will overcome its current challenges. The former President further noted that Easter teaches hope, forgiveness and love and urged Nigerians to “pursue peace at all times and work towards resolving our common challenges.” Jonathan wrote: “I celebrate with Nigerian Christians and others across the world on this year’s Easter. This should be a moment of sober reflection on the many lessons of the death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. “Easter reminds us of the boundless love of God who offered His Son Jesus Christ for our salvation. At Easter, we reflect on the triumphant life of Jesus Christ who died for our sins and was raised for our redemption. “Easter teaches us hope, forgiveness, faith and love. Let us therefore act in these virtues ; love our neigbbours and be tolerant of one another. “Let us act in faith towards God and our fellow citizens. Let us be guided by hope, pursue peace at all times and work towards resolving our common challenges. Ours is a victorious heritage; this is the fate of our nation and ourselves. This is the assurance of Easter.”