In October 2018, an international conference on “The Alaafin in Yoruba History, Culture, and Political Power Relations” took place in Nigeria.  The organisers said: “In the 17th and 18th centuries, Oyo was the dominant political power in Yoruba land and beyond. It also became a major centre for exchanging goods from the forest areas and the coast. “The Alaafin was the master of the realm spreading from the Savannah and as far afield as modern Benin and Togo Republics in the West African sub-region.  Oyo also gave a major identity to Yoruba land. The name Yoruba was initially used for the Oyo speaking people, their empire and dialect until the 19th century when European explorers applied the name widely to other Yoruba sub-groups.” The Yoruba are today found in the Southwestern part of Nigeria, the Republics of Benin and Togo, Brazil, Cuba, Trinidad, and other places in the Caribbean. Alaafin of Oyo Lamidi  Olayiwola Adeyemi III, who departed on April 22,  at the age of 83, was a product of this rich and impressive history.  Popularly known as Iku Baba Yeye, he reigned for 51 years, the longest reign of any Alaafin of Oyo in history. He was the permanent chair of the Oyo State Council of Obas and Chiefs. He became the 43rd Alaafin of Oyo on November 18, 1970, at the age of 32, and received his staff of office on January 14, 1971. He represented the continuity of a majestic narrative. Interestingly, he was a boxer before he became king.  But kingship did not diminish his interest in boxing, which he promoted during his reign.  He said at a boxing event: “The interest of sporting in Nigeria is focused on football, to the neglect of other sports. We should be able to go back to developing boxing.” He postponed the public celebration of his 50th coronation anniversary, a majestic milestone, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying “the sanctity of human life is more important to me than any social engagement.” In his era, the preeminent Yoruba traditional ruler witnessed the changing complexion of the traditional institution, but remained not only a veritable symbol of Yoruba culture and tradition but also a powerful and influential king even in a democratic milieu. It is a striking irony that a lot of high-profile Nigerian politicians usually seek the support of major traditional rulers to win votes in a democracy, and even to sustain democratically elected administrations.  This reflects the influence of the traditional institution as well as the capacity of traditional structures of power despite the prevailing democratic system of government.   Census in crises     Age of putrescence     New banks, fake banks and dubious banking   Oba Adeyemi was known for his frank standpoints, and his views on some of the country’s hot political issues bear repeating. If there was an agreement involving leaders of the country’s ruling party on presidential power shifting to the south in 2023, Oba Adeyemi wanted such an agreement to be respected and implemented.  ”In Yoruba land, a covenant is very important,” he said.  ”We believe that with the law of retributive justice, if you break a covenant the repercussion is great.” On the restructuring debate, and the kind of president Nigeria needs, he said:  ”If you want to have a country that is forward moving, there must be a federal system of government… We need to have a president who can listen…We have not been fortunate to have the kind of president that we deserve.” He represented an old order in a new milieu. The place of the Alaafin and the traditional institution in modern-day Nigeria continues to generate debate. Interestingly, in 2020, a member of the House of Representatives representing Bodinga/ Dange/ Shuni/ Tureta, Federal Constituency, Sokoto, Dr Balarabe Kakale, called for a constitutional amendment to give defined roles to traditional rulers in the country.  Also, the same year, a group called Peoples Movement for a New Nigeria (PMNN) argued that traditional rulers in the country should have specified constitutional roles. The group’s president and founder, Yahaya Ndu, said: “In all the 36 states of Nigeria, as well as in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, traditional rulers are in place in their various constituencies. But strangely, the role of traditional rulers was totally and inexplicably expunged from the extant 1999 Constitution… I, therefore, with all sense of history and patriotism, urge the National Assembly to lead us back to the right track, to restore the glory, honour, and dignity of our traditional rulers; and to create and ensure specific roles for them in the constitution of Nigeria.” Of course, there were those who opposed such proposals, which a prominent columnist, Ropo Sekoni, described as “creeping back to indirect rule.” In 2013, when a power surge resulted in fire that burnt parts of the Alaafin’s palace, Oba Adeyemi observed: “Apart from coming here to sympathise with the Oyo palace, I think we should see this incident as a colossal hit to the Yoruba race. It means that most of the things that the generations succeeding us would point to as the identity of their history have gone.” He received honorary doctorates, and was chancellor of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto State. He was appointed as the chancellor of the University of Maiduguri, Borno State, in 2021. He was also a recipient of the Nigerian national honour Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (CFR). As a traditional ruler, he practised what he preached. “Traditional rulers should be seen as the perfect embodiment of the culture of the place, as well as the synthesis of the aspirations and goals of the nation,” he said. “This is not only in social values of veracity, egalitarianism, justice and democracy; but in dress, utterances and comportment…” Guided by knowledge and wisdom, and a sense of self and office, he preserved and promoted Yoruba culture and tradition in the face of modernising influences.  That may well be his ultimate legacy.  His passing marks the end of an era, and the beginning of another. He was a worthy occupant of the ancient and powerful traditional office of Alaafin.