The weeks leading up to the Easter have been one of the bloodiest in recent history of Nigeria. While the Christendom relive the murderous adventure of the Jewish religious leaders, who out of jealousy handed Jesus Christ over to the Roman army of occupation for public execution on what has become known as the Good Friday, and Jesus’s miraculous resurrection from the dead on Easter Sunday, Nigerians are reeling under mindless killings by armed militias, with dubious agenda. The epicentre of the latest carnage is Plateau State, where over 100 persons where mindlessly killed by ravaging terrorists, who rode into the villages from their base in Taraba forests, to kill, maim and destroy communities without any fear of consequences. According to media report, the affected communities include Kukawa, Gyambawu, Dungur, Kyaram, Yelwa, Dadda, Wanka, Shuwaka, Gwamandaji and Dadin Kowa. While there are speculations of ethnic cleansing agenda in Plateau State, because of its attractive lush greenery for cattle, one wonders the motive for the killings in other far flung places? About 2000 years ago, the Jewish religious leaders were jealous of the increasing followership attracted to the new teachings of Jesus Christ, who preached forgiveness instead of an eye for an eye, and railed on the religious leaders as broods of vipers who place heavy burdens on the ordinary people, while they will not lift any with a finger; it is difficult to place a finger on the motive of the marauders engaged in mass murders across the north, south, east and west of our bleeding country. Take the murderers in the north-western part of the country for example. The government prevaricated before it declared them terrorists, because some argued that the bandits did not fit into the definition of terrorists. For according to the definition, terrorists are supposed to have an ideology which drives them unlike the bandits who just maim and kill, for little or no provocation at all. Indeed, our bizarre kind of bandits sometimes just rides into a community to kill to their heart desires, before zooming back into their evil forest. It is only recently that allegations are rife that the trenchant members of Boko Haram are joining forces with the bandits to go for bigger carnages, mostly for bigger ransoms. While kidnapping for ransom has become an economic activity for the colluding forces, it is difficult to equate the love for money to the egregious destruction they engage in. In the north-central, apart from the alluring attraction of greeneries in the Benue valley and the Plateau, what is the motive for the effort to turn a place like Niger State to a waste land? According to the governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani, some local governments in the state are under the suzerainty of the hybrid terrorist groups that have seized the state by the jugular. And with the federal capital Abuja, within their sight, incidents of terrorist attacks are becoming common in the federal capital suburbs. Also the carnage in parts of Southern Kaduna is exacerbating, and the governor of the state, Mallam El Rufai, out of frustration has called on his brother governors in north-west to consider inviting mercenaries to save the people.   Youth unemployment and urgency of action     War of the realms     Not far-reaching   In Imo State, the ubiquitous unknown gunmen have added officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to the list of its bloody enemies. While they relish killing and maiming innocent citizens on Mondays, which they have declared no-work days, it was a rude shock that an INEC staff was mindlessly killed for a phantom opposition to the forth coming elections. In Enugu State, it was some cowardly herdsmen with AK-47 who breached the security of the state, and killed three villagers, before running back to their hideout. Despite the spirited effort of the new governor of Anambra State, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, the unknown gunmen have continued to instil fear and trepidation in the people of the state. From burning local governments’ offices to attacking paramilitary officers working in the state, the criminals are not allowing the new governor any breathing space. They have completely ignored the appeal by the governor to lay down their arms and come forward to engage in meaningful activity, preferring that fear should hold sway in the state. The Nigerian Army has also been dealt heavy blows by the rampaging terrorists and sundry criminals, especially in the northwest and northeast part of the country. There is a report that about 700 soldiers have been killed in the last few months. There is also the report that many soldiers have deserted their duty post, out of fear and weaknesses in the national defence strategy, despite the trillions of naira expended by the federal government to beef up personnel and equipment. Some commentators have even claimed that the war against terrorism have become a big scam, with those entrusted with resources to prosecute the war creaming off large portions of it, for personal use.  Last week retired army Generals added their voice to those calling on the federal government to wake-up to its primary responsibility, which is the protection of lives and property. Also some northern elders have gone as far as asking President Muhammadu Buhari to resign, on the premise that the challenge of securing the country has overwhelmed his government. To add salt to the injury, the national economy has been in quandary. Even for those who earn some reasonable income, inflation has made mincemeat of that income. The prices of foodstuff have literary gone through the roof, while the energy crisis has further impoverished the urban poor. Even the pretentious middle class which generate their own energy, either with diesel generator or the petrol alternatives are struggling to keep up with the facade of living well, as the national grid keeps collapsing regularly. Like the Sanhedrin and Pharisees of the Jesus era, those responsible for the national predicament are busy plotting for better positions and prestige. They are completely indifferent to the crises the people are facing because of their malevolent actions, portrayed as national interests. Across the states, and at the national level, the only object of interest is getting their preferred candidate to become the party’s flag bearer with little consideration for competence. Just like the Jewish leaders of that era lied that killing Jesus and releasing Barabbas a notorious bandit was in national interest, the political pundits of the present era are pushing known criminals as the best candidates to contest important political offices. The consolation though is that like Judas, those who betray and sell the country don’t usually end well. While we pray that they mend their ways, they should know that the consequences of any wicked act are eternal damnation.