Gunmen have killed an operative of the Ebubeagu Southeast Security outfit in Ebonyi State. The operative, Iboko Christian, was allegedly killed on Thursday night by gunmen. The victim, said to be a graduate, joined Ebubeagu due to his inability to secure a job. He was said to have been attacked by the gunmen who trailed him to his house in Nduogbuovu community in Izzi local government area. The lawmaker representing Izzi East Constituency in Ebonyi Assembly, Anthony Nwegede confirmed the killing. The lawmaker, who is an ally of the slain Ebubeagu operative, said the attackers robbed him of some money and his motorcycle before killing him. Nwegede, who condemned the killing, said the matter has been reported to the police for investigation. His death comes barely a week after a commander of the security outfit was killed in Ezza North local government area In January, another member of the Security outfit, identified as Sunday Nwafor, was shot dead by gunmen and then beheaded in Ekpelu, Ikwo Local Government Area of the state. Also in January, another member of the security outfit, Ifeanyi Orogbo was killed and his remains partially burnt by the assailants He was killed in Igweledeoha, Amagu, in Ikwo Local Government Area of the state.   Court strikes out suit challenging CBN’s cashless…     Buhari approves re-appointment of Bello-led NEXIM…     Police foils attack on police division in Imo   Ebubeagu was set up by Southeast Governors to complement the job of the police and other security agencies in checking the rising crime rates in the region. Of the five southeastern States, only Ebonyi and Imo inaugurated the outfit. Despite their setting up, security situation in the region has continued to get worse. Attacks on security agents and facilities as well as notable personalities in the region have continued unabated. Many Police stations were attacked in Imo last week with casualties recorded. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency(NDLEA), head office in Ebonyi was attacked last month with about four casualties recorded. Also, the country home of Ohanézè Ndígbo, a socio-political group in the region was razed by gunmen in Imo State last month. The attacks have been blamed on Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), whose leader, Nnamdi Kanu is in being detained by Nigerian government. Kanu is on trial on allegations of terrorism and treason. He and IPOB, the group he leads, have continued to deny any responsibility for the attacks.