Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has blamed recurring electoral offences on inability of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to punish previous offenders, especially high profile ones. It said the Electoral Act 2022 can only be effectively implemented if violators of the law do not get away with it. CACOL Chairman Debo Adeniran spoke at a briefing in Lagos on “prioritising anti-corruption and social inclusion in the 2023 political agenda: imperatives and components”. The group said more “aggressive and comprehensive reforms” were needed despite passage of the Act. It believes there is need to strengthen the administrative, financial and institutional autonomy of INEC to regulate  hate speech during electioneering. “In most cases, the Electoral Management Body (EMB) lacked the capacity to punish highly placed public officials who violate electoral rules and guidelines mainly due to institutional incapacitation. “The institutional weakness has hindered effective coordination of the electoral processes by the EMB. “INEC should be empowered to punish any candidates found to have violated the electoral law by disqualifying and banning them from participating in elections for a minimum of eight years,” CACOL said.   Rise up to your responsibilities, APC council tells party     Kwankwaso: we’ll prioritise security, jobs, others     Train attack: MURIC urges unity against terrorists   The group said the functions of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should be expanded to undertake the democratic role of political education and enlightenment of the electorate on the borderline between conventional campaign promises and political propaganda. The agency, it said, must prioritise the use of indigenous languages to get to a wider audience not conversant in the English language. “By so doing, the electorate would be well-informed on what constitutes a realistic campaign promise and mere slanderous propaganda targeted at discrediting an opponent unjustly and scoring cheap political popularity. “The NOA should also insist that Nigerians deserve the truth and should be told the truth and nothing more, no matter how unpalatable it may appear,” CACOL said. The group added: “The media must be regulated by law to disseminate objective messages. Specifically, it must be restrained from being an appendage of a political party, showing a preference for any candidate and serving as a tool to disseminate disinformation and hate speeches. “Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) drawn from the academia, trade unions, media and social research institutes should conduct background checks on contestants and manifestoes of political parties, and subsequently, educate voters on the qualification of candidates and feasibility of their programmes. Most importantly, CSOs should organise and insist on the compulsory participation of candidates in a nationally televised presidential debate. “In most cases, presidential candidates abscond from debates and only educate the electorate on the policy direction of their parties during campaign tours. “In Nigeria, political campaign tours are an inappropriate means of educating voters since actors utilise the platform to showcase their dancing skills, engage in name calling, and reel out questionable campaign promises.”