Please forgive me. Why is it that when enlightened Nigerians become members of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), they are struck by a bug which troubles their thought processes until their tenure lapses? We celebrate every new board on the proposition that those elected would purge the place of its vices and bring forth new ideas which would make the Dankaro House in Abuja the silver lining in the darkest clouds that have enveloped this country. I’m still pinching myself to find out this NFF board is engulfed in crises, though its birth was the most troublesome in the federation’s history. Something tells me that there are evil forces in the Dankaro House that loathe success because Nigeria is the biggest exporter of talented footballers across genders. Indeed, those who are hounding this present NFF board won’t do any better since most of them have been there in the past – making one ask what they forgot in the Dankaro House? With this type of chaotic environment, nothing good can come out of the place except those hunting the hunter being hunted. A caveat needs to be introduced in the statutes which forbid anyone who has served in the NFF for two terms from returning to the place in whatever position, including the NPFL and other WAFU,  CAF and FIFA bodies. These are the attractive pecks which make NFF, NPFL and the country’s soccer very toxic. These continental appointments are at the root of all the fights in the federation. Firstly, with the change of guards when the new members are sworn. That way, aspiring to be the members of the federation would be less attractive. Until this rule is inserted in the statutes and applied, each succeeding federation would be worse than the board that it replaced. Yes, if you want to soil your name, aspire to be a member of the NFF or its ancillary bodies such as the NPFL. The place is jinxed. We need to hasten the National Assembly to the NFF Bill to Mr President for his assent if we truly want the country’s football to be run like a business as in other climes. It is possible. I digress! Credit must be given to the Italian gem Mario Balotelli for today’s headline why always Peseiro? We read Why always Balotelli? Balotelli’s football skills are matchless. His confidence with the ball intimidates everyone but his character and patience have been thrown out of the window making him look outrageous among others in the game. His precocious dribbling skills are only matched by Nigeria’s great Austin Okocha, no hyperbole. Balotelli’s story can’t be written here because of space constraints and I imagine that he must have changed a bit as he grows older. The search for a new Technical Adviser for the Super Eagles is looking like the exclusive rights of Portuguese Jose Peseiro. Granted that Nigeria had zeroed her choice to Peseiro shortly before the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations, good sense prevailed on the NFF to stick with the home-based coaches with Austin Eguavoen as the Head Coach. It made sense since Nigeria’s preparations had been torn to shreds with the sacking of Gernot Rohr who had overstayed his welcome after the 2018 World Cup held in Russia. In fact, Nigeria’s journey to the 2021 AFCON and the matches leading to the final clash against Ghana had been bumpy with most pundits wondering what it was that kept Rohr on the job with results that in the past sacked others. The public outcry was loud for Rohr’s sack based on the Eagles’ nerve wrenching results. The government intervened and Rohr was asked to step aside. Before, the government’s intervention the federation had scouted Peseiro and even suggested that the Portuguese joined the team as an observer. What was the hurry in recruiting Peseiro became the swansong among most of the critics. Soon the idea was thrown into the bin, leaving Nigerian coaches to prosecute the country’s AFCON matches within the short time left to the continental soccer competition. Nigeria’s ouster from the Qatar 2022 World Cup from November to December 18 led to the disbandment of the Eagles’ technical crew, leaving the window for the recruitment of a foreign coach as the only acceptable option – but such a foreigner must be damned good with an intimidating profile of recent achievements, not an astrologer. The joker. The government accepted to pay the wages of the foreign coach and football lovers waited with bated breath. You won’t blame them. Not with the federation’s bad past with foreign coaches.   2023: Sanwo-Olu picks APC governorship forms     Presidency: Don’t run, loyalists, ex-minisers advise…     PDP: Atiku, Bala Mohammed camps in verbal war as party…   Suddenly, a rich list of four top-rated managers namely Frenchman Laurent Blanc, Dutchman Cocu, Spaniard Ververde and Peseiro was again added. The Portuguese manager has not stayed more than two years on a job since 2004, managing a total of 15 different clubs including Al Ahly, where he was chased out after only three months after fans protested against the decision to employ him based on his weak résumé. What a journeyman – rejected by a club side and adored by the NFF. Shame. Any ardent soccer fan would pick Blanc as the first choice, Cocu second and Ververde third, leaving Peseiro on the lurch, given the quartet’s pedigree in the game, especially their recent feats. Not so for the NFF technical committee members who in their wisdom chose Peseiro ahead of the others. Not unexpected of them more so without telling us what Blanc, Cocu and Ververde lack when placed side by side with Peseiro. Typical of the committee, it chose to tell us that one of the managers asked for $250,000 a month in wages without naming him. The members leaked the story of Nigeria not willing to pay more than $55,000, not forgetting the fact that Peseiro who was begged to accept $55,000 before AFCON 2021 held in Cameroon, was now ready to accept $50,000 from which he would pay his two assistants – we are conversant with this line. Unknown to the committee, handlers of  Blanc and Cocu who submitted their note of interest through a former Nigeria international, contacted the government to say that their clients were waiting for European club assignments which were more engaging. So, who did the committee members talk with? Or was the interview skewed to favour Peseiro? What transpired at the meeting? Full disclosure, please. With the seeming deadlock in the choice of a foreign Technical Adviser, shouldn’t it be the best opportunity to look inwards to pick the country’s best coaches in the domestic league to jumpstart another rebuilding exercise with the Eagles? After Nigeria’s spectacular Mundial outing in the US, the federation chieftains then sought the services of the late Shuaibu Amodu, who was then the best domestic coach to handle the Super Eagles, following the absence of Clemens Westerhof. The late Amodu’s first outing was against The Three Lions of England with the international friendly slated for the famous Wembley Stadium. This writer can still paint the picture of the late Amodu, hands akimbo inside the Wembley Stadium with his thoughts running wild as the players loosened up before the game the next day. The decision to appoint Amodu divided the country sharply because of Westerhof’s incredible records which he achieved over five years. But we had our destiny in our hands – a change we must accept and Amodu fitted the bill like glue. The Eagles gave a creditable performance against the English with the game ending in a 1-0 loss. Yes, the yoke was broken. Amodu had joined the league of coaches who brought teams to play at Wembley and gave a good account of themselves.  Until Amodu passed on, he guided Nigeria twice to grab the World Cup qualification ticket but wasn’t allowed to savour the sweetness of the Mundial, where only the best in all its ramifications compete for honours. We have reached the 1994 era but this time with the game on its knees. Yet, we can’t surrender. Therefore, it wouldn’t be out of the practice to name Rivers United FC of Port Harcourt’s manager Stanley Eguma as the next Super Eagles Head Coach. He has what it takes. He reminds me of the late Amodu. Come in Stanley Eguma, it is your time to handle the Super Eagles. let’s take the risk.