Renewable energy and energy efficiency are key ingredients for the new phase of power as the global focus is shifting  from fossil fuel to that of cleaner energy use, stakeholders have said They spoke at the first career fair for the clean energy sector entitled: Energise held in the week. The fair was designed to facilitate the matching of competences with available opportunities within Nigeria’s clean energy sector. The Minister of Power, Abubakar Aliyu, represented by the Director, Renewable and Rural Power Access, Abubakar Ali-Dapshima, noted: “The Nigerian renewable energy (RE) and energy efficiency (EE) sector has continued to grow rapidly, leading to a heightened need for a skilled workforce to support the strengthening of power and energy access initiatives of government, sector actors and partners.” Welcoming participants on behalf of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Associations – Alliance (REEEA-A) Steering Committee, Dr. Aminu Isa, noted the importance of sectoral collaborations as a key driver of the expected growth in the energy sector. “As an Alliance of associations within the RE and EE sector, we are very much interested in joining synergy to improve the quality and standards of RE and EE technologies, while also strengthening capacity in terms of knowledge generation and skills distribution,” he said.   Shell pays $4.48b in taxes, royalties, others     Lekoil Limited rejects £.9m loan deal     EKEDC gets first female CEO   The Head of Section, Green and Digital Economy, European Union (EU) Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ms Inga Stefanowicz, said: “ Youth and job creation is a major Key Performance Index for the EU in Nigeria and we are happy to support the implementation of this activity that contributes to multiple Sustainable Development Goals in one go, particularly the creation of decent work within the renewable energy and energy efficiency sector to foster economic growth in the country.” The Head of Programme, Nigerian Energy Support Programme (NESP), Duke Benjamin represented by Olumide Fatoki, Head of Unit, Sustainable Energy Access, NESP, emphasised the commitment of the programme to reinforcing the skills and capacity force in the sector. “With the support of our funding and implementation partners, this career fair is only the first step we are taking towards establishing a skills-matching collaboration platform that will end up creating career pathways and quality opportunities for the skilled workforce in the rapidly growing power sector,” he said. The fair was organised, in collaboration with NESP, a technical assistance programme co-funded by the EU, the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) and implemented by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH and the Federal Ministry of Power. Human Resources (HR) advisory was provided by Phillips Consulting Limited (pcl.) and West Africa Vocational Education (WAVE), a social venture focused on screening, training, and placing talents. The fair, which targets two major cities, kickstarted in Lagos with the participation of over 25 firms in the renewable energy and energy efficiency sector and over 115 professionals seeking to pivot or advance their careers in the clean energy sector. NESP is a 48 million Euro technical assistance programme co-funded by the EU and the BMZ and implemented by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH in collaboration with the FMP. It aims to foster investments for renewable energy and energy efficiency and to improve access to electricity for disadvantaged, rural communities.