They are determined to add salt to our injuries, to make us suffer and suffer and suffer and continue to feel severe pains acetaminophen tablets cannot relieve. They have a curious kind of love for us; this love is so much that the only way they are showing it is by distressing us with more afflictions. And something tells me that as we get deeper into the electioneering period, we will be shown more of this undesired love. To make sure we get the gist of their affection for us, they— within three days— struck at an international airport and on a hitherto-safe train route and they left sorrow, tears and blood: Their regular trademark, as Fela would have said. They came in huge numbers to the Kaduna International Airport on Saturday, shooting dead a security officer of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA). The invaders— a report claimed they were over 200—overran the runway and prevented a Lagos-bound AZMAN aircraft from taking off at about 12:30pm. The invasion forced the authorities to temporarily shut down the airport, while the military battled the gunmen. That was on a Saturday. By Monday, it was the turn of the Abuja-Kaduna train route. The road trip from Abuja to Kaduna had become a suicide mission; so, the train was the option for those unwilling to play games with their dear lives. Now, the terrorists have found a way to render this unsafe. About 400 passengers were said to be on board when the devils struck around Katari and Rijina area of Kaduna on Monday night, with about ten people confirmed dead, scores missing and some believed to have been abducted. It looks as though people will now have to travel using some supernatural means beyond these terrorists’ sphere of influence. As usual, President Muhammadu Buhari has called for the heads of the perpetrators. We are not certain anything will come out of the directive to the military chiefs to smoke out these cursed men claiming to be fighting for Allah who obviously is self-sufficient to fight for Himself. The notoriety of these terrorists, who should never be called by any other name, keeps mounting the pedestal in a manner we have never experienced. Hardly does a day pass without them committing one evil or the other. From Lagos to Owerri to Kano and Kaduna and elsewhere, they sneak in on people and leave sorrow and blood. They steal, they rob, and they plunder people’s lives with hot lead. They know no class; their victims can be the bourgeoisie, the middle class and at times the poor who are daily begging to eke a livelihood. They once killed an ex-judge and ended the dreams of a former political adviser. And farmers are regularly captured and made to pay a ransom. In Niger State at some point, farmers had to borrow money from cooperative societies to buy their freedom. There are instances when they operate like bandits, who plunder and dash into the bush to hide and share the loot. At times, they are terrorists who maim and kill and are even ready to die for what they believe in. They are so powerful that they have defied the police, the army and the secret police. Once in a while, the authorities apprehend one or two of them, but largely they succeed in wreaking havoc and escaping into anonymity. They grant audience to the like of Sheik Gumi, who was doing a yeoman’s job as their mouthpiece and always warning us to stop calling them bad names. He said they were not bad, but only made worse by circumstances and were willing to turn a new leaf. For these terrorists, no land is sacred. They are attacking police stations and sacking officers and burning them down. They are burning electoral commission offices across the country. They have operated in churches, mosques and schools. When they invade schools, they grab students— male and female— in their hundreds and demand ransom in millions of naira, when they operate in churches, they grab pastors and priests, and when they operate in mosques, Imams become their prey.   Simply silly     Court frees ex-NNPC GMD Andrew Yakubu of $9.8m money…     Senate probes alleged sale of 1.7m barrels of crude oil by…   They are so talented to the extent that when governments refuse to pay, they threaten the relatives of the abductees and get them to cough out the money. In one instance, they got the parents to raise N180 million. In another, they even got relatives to borrow money to pay them off. Such devilish ingenuity! They are so disrespectful that when our president, our dear Muhammadu Buhari, reads the riot act to them, and when he asked that they be shot on sight, they became emboldened and I assume that they have formed the habit of laughing at our dear president and have, perhaps, labelled him toothless. They have made our country a bad place. They have made foreign missions warn their citizens against travelling to certain parts of Nigeria and they seem to have no qualms. To hell with Nigeria seems to be their message. Nigeria has failed them so they see nothing wrong in failing Nigeria. What they, however, fail to realise is that in dealing with Nigeria, they are actually misdirecting their anger. They are turning against people who have also suffered the side effects of inept leadership. Before now, we were told the seven virgins in heaven were the bait for terrorists, but these new terrorists in the horizon are not suicide bombers. If anything, they do not appear like one ready to die without enjoying the spoils of this world. And if everyone else needs to die for them to enjoy these spoils, so be it seems to be their anthem. In case they do not know, everyone is discontent and they are adding to the bad situation. I worry for our nation; I cry, and I wonder why they have chosen to pour pepper on our wounds. In the last few weeks, electricity supply has been at an all-time low, fuel scarcity has spread across the country, universities have been closed and eking out a livelihood has been a Quadratic equation for millions. Even the rich are feeling the pang and are crying out. Companies are in their throes as they have had to be running on diesel almost throughout the day. Service estates now find it difficult to supply electricity to their clients. In the estate where ace musician Timi Dakolo lives, it used to be a sin for homeowners to have personal generators because the estate managers supplied electricity with a central generator. Now, it is to your tent oh Israel because the managers have been unable to cope with the cost and difficulty of getting diesel. I understand so many estates have either followed this path or have had to increase service charges. The Redeemed Camp on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway has its power plant but the scarcity of gas has made it difficult to meet the demand of the residents. Now, power is rationed. The last I know electricity is only supplied at night. This means businesses on the camp are now run with private generators at a time when even getting fuel to buy is akin to planning a trip to Mount Everest or Mount Kilimanjaro. At a time of so much difficulty in the land, the terrorists have developed wings. Or how else can one describe a situation where they attacked an airport on a Saturday and, on Monday, they attacked a train? It can only mean they are determined to add salt to our injuries. Or can this madness be explained away by a passage in Eloghosa Osunde’s debut novel, ‘Vagabonds!’, in which the devil enters people’s head, body and soul at will and do bad things through them? It kills, it maims, it has sex, it just turns people into zombies. My final take: These terrorists love us so much that they have found the right time to show us that they can capture new territories, especially supposedly secured fortress such as an international airport. They have also shown us their crazy love by taking away the comfort and the joy associated with commuting on the Abuja-Kaduna train route. And they choose a time when hardship seems the middle name of an average Nigerian to show their kind of love.