Rapper MI Abaga’s announcement of his engagement to his heartthrob, Eniola Mafe has continued to excite his fans. Mr Incredible, in a post on Instagram, shared a video titled: ‘How I met the girl,’ with details of how they met and their beautiful moments together. As congratulatory messages continue to pour in following the engagement of the duo, here are eleven things you should know about them: Ø The duo met in December 2020 after an introduction by Chocolate City’s boss, Audu Makori. Ø Born Jude Lemfani Abaga in Jos, Plateau State, MI’s parents, Pastor and Mrs Abaga are from Takum, Taraba state, both of Jukun-Nigerian descent. Ø He attended Baptist High School, Jos where his mother purchased basic music notations and later, a 7-key mini piano which launched him into the music world. Ø After MI’s stint at Calvin College, Michigan, US, he delved into poetry while pursuing a career in Business and Economics. There, he performed regularly at the school’s major hip-hop shows and concerts. His impressive rap flows and attitude gained him a third-place finish at the Calvin College show tagged ‘HipHopera’ in 2003, which was actually the only “hip hop show” that Calvin College ever had.   Purchasing lie detecting machine best project for govt to…     Uche Maduagwu slams Kpokpogiri over Tonto Dikeh     Banky W joins PDP, guns for House of Reps seat   Ø His fiancee, Eniola Mafe born to Nigerian parents however, was raised in the United Kingdom and the United States of America respectively. Ø Eniola holds an M.A. from Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Washington, D.C. Ø She is fluent in about 5 languages; Yoruba, English, French, German, and Spanish. Ø Eniola is the founder of New Nigeria, an organisation that was formed in the wake of the #Endsars protests across the country. Ø Eniola Mafe is the co-founder of SecureFarmer.com, a social enterprise that develops the next generation of farmers through precision data, mechanization, and technology. And the co-founder of The Women Collective, TWC. Ø She serves as a Global Leadership Fellow at the World Economic Forum, WEF where she leads digital access and adoption work. Ø Eniola and MI will be getting married later this year and they already have the hastag #TheIncredibles22.