JOE Lovett, a former glaucoma sufferer who says he cured this dangerous eye disease with coconut oil, says it can help other challenged persons as well. Joe Lovett should know what he is saying. For his background does not potray him as an irresponsible person. The world’s leading opthalmologists (eye doctors) say glaucoma is incurable, that it runs its course up to the stage of blindness, that that course can only be delayed through early detection and appropriate treatment. That treatment comes in three levels. The first is the use of eye drops to lower intra-occular pressure (IOP). Occular tension is pressure of fluid at the back of the eye pressing against light sensitive optic nerve and damaging or killing it. The second level of treatment is surgery. This is employed to open up blocked drainage channels in the front chamber of the eye so that fluid can move out from the back chamber and stop pressing on the retina and optic nerve and damaging them. Sometimes, if not often, this surgery fails and the “gutter ” it creates in the front chamber gets blocked again, leading the patient to status quo ante. The third intervention, which is the use of eye antioxidants, recognise that the patient may have been suffering from nutritional deficiencies which make the eye unable to stand up against oxidative stress, photochemical reactions and other challenges. That is why, for example, worldwide , children are now given vitamin A as food supplement and adults are going for fermented vitamin A which has a huge arsenal of zinc and other eye friendly nutrients. If Joe Lovett emerged from this regimen of treatment for his glaucoma, saying it did not help him, and that it was coconut oil which finally cured his glaucoma, it is either that he is a crank, if he is lying, or that he is a frontier man of medicine , if his statements are true. The new frontier person is that man or woman who tells us we didn’t know all we needed to know about a problem, which was why we are always unable to decisively  solve it, and presents us with new information which, to our surprise, easily clears up the dross and leads us into a new world of freedom. Glaucoma is one of those problems. Mankind has not defeated it. Increasingly, more people all over the world are still diagnosed with glaucoma which, after cataracts of the eye lens, remains the second major cause of blindness. If Joe Lovett is now telling us that glaucoma can be cured simply by drinking some tablespoonfuls of it everyday or consuming it with our food, that is great news. And that is why we must quickly check his background to see if he has a reputation he will not wish to damage with careless talk. To prove his point, Joe Lovett has written two books on the cure of glaucoma and other eye diseases, using coconut oil. As a sinking person will cling to any straw for a lifeline, I expect glaucoma challenged persons to try out it’s postulations. Being a journalist myself, I do not believe any veteran of the profession will like to spike a hard-earned golden reputation as his. So, who is Joe Lovett and what are the postulations which may qualify him to be described as a new frontiers man of medicine ? Joe Lovett This man, according to an article in which his views were presented as an introduction to some books he has written on his glaucoma cure, waves the following testimonial before his claims. “Joe was a successful director and film maker living in New York City. In the 1980s, he was the producer for ABC News 20/20 programme with Huge Downs and Barbara Walters. After leaving ABC News in 1989, he founded his own company, Lovett Productions, producing documentary and highlighting social and health issues”. Lovett’s hypothesis According to the originating article titled “Is There a cure for Glaucoma?” A coconut oil based therapy offers promise: “Many researchers now view glaucoma as a neurological disorder that causes nerve cells in the brain to degenerate and die, similar to what occurs in Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s. Chronic inflammation characteristic of all neurodegenerative disorders, is now becoming recognised as an important factor in glaucoma”. The article began with a settled idea about how vision occurs when it says: “Elevated pressure may be a symptom rather than the initiating factor… “In Parkinson’s disease, the area of the brain called the Substantia Nigra, which controls movement is affected most. In Alzheimer’s, it is the Hippocampus Frontal Lobes, areas which involve memory. In glaucoma, it is the eyes. Damage to, and death of cells in the retina, mimics the same type of degeneration in brain cells. In fact, the same type of plaque that forms in Alzheimer’s brain, also forms in the retina. Studies show that Alzheimer’s patients have an increased risk of developing glaucoma. For example, a German institutional study of Alzheimer’s patients showed a 24.5 per cent increase, increase prevalence of glaucoma compared to only 6.5 per cent of aged matched patients without the disease. A Japanese study showed similar results. Alzheimer’s patients have an increased prevalence of glaucoma of 23.8 per cent compared with control patients of 9.9 per cent. Not only are Alzheimer’s patients more likely to develop glaucoma, but glaucoma patients are at increased risk of developing Alzheimer’s. A study of 812 glaucoma subjects, 72 years of age and older, found that they were four times more likely to develop dementia”. Comments These are serious statements which, nevertheless, should not frighten health pursuers. For when the roots of a problem are known and can be decisively uprooted, the chances of a cure are very bright. I have had glaucoma since I was 45 in 1995. That means I have had it for 27 years with serious impact on my vision. But my brain still serves me well for my age, with no visible signs of Parkinson’s disease or Alzheimer’s. My memory is still fairly good. My movements are not wobbly. I still wear my knickers or my pair of trousers, standing. I still write as fast as in the examination halls in my days at the university. I sleep when I wish to and wake up as easily as I fall asleep when I am done with sleep. Years ago,  I relished coconut oil in my meals because it gave support to my digestive system. At that time, I read of how it may be good for cancer and HIV. There was a story of a Caribbean woman whose name I do not remember now. This story made one of my columns. She lived in the United States where she developed cancer of the brain. Chemotherapy did not help her. So she returned home. The Caribbeans grew a lot of coconuts. Her father had a large farm. She went through a coconut oil therapy and, in one year, her cancer was gone. There are many such stories. Joe Lovett’s about glaucoma is about the first I will hear of this condition. I do not know if I am relatively healthy upstairs, irrespective of glaucoma, because I load up everyday on antioxidants in my daily nutrition, in particular with those which protect and help the brain as well. Ever since I knew of the antioxidant and phenolic compounds in Jobelyn, I have hardly missed it. Dr. Ray Strand taught me about 40 years ago to respect Grape Seed Extract. In www.olufemikusa.com, you would read in four articles I posted early this year of how it helped his wife recover from irksome fibromyalgia and restore life to some of his patients with neurological vision and lower limbs challenges. That series of four articles is titled Dr. Ray Strand, The Grape Seed Doctor. What about Alpha Lipoic Acid, Vitamin A, Vitamin E, Essential FattyAcids, Zinc, Magnesium and many more? I have been on and off on coconut oil. I have been witness to how it helps to arrest the “opportunistic diseases” in persons challenged with human immuno virus (HIV) and how it has helped in many cases of cancer. But Joe Lovett’s use of it for glaucoma, and with a reversal success as he says is something I have to grapple with. Coconut oil Joe Lovett says that when we consume a ketogenic diet, a low carbohydrate diet, high protein and high healthy fat diet (Omega 3 oils) for cancer and diabetes patients, we may increase BDNS to such levels that may beneficially impact the brain.   Warri refinery casual workers protest non-regularisation,…     IPOB declares war on fleeing cultists in Abia     Ex-Kwara Gov Lawal’s son defects from APC to SDP   BDNFS is a brain derived neuro Trophic Factor Joe Lovett’s article says: “Another way to raise blood ketones is by drinking coconut oil. When coconut oil is consumed, a portion of the medium fatty acids ( MCFAs) in the oil will automatically be converted into ketones, regardless of blood glucose levels. You can raise blood ketones and subsequently BDNFs, to therapeutic levels by eating coconut oil. Combining coconut oil with a ketogenic diet enhances the production of ketones and BDNFs, improving their therapeutic effects. If a ketogenic coconut oil-based diet is maintained for a period of time, it can allow the time needed to bring about healing and repair within the Central Nervous System. Ketones are proven to be successful in reversing epilepsy, Alzheimer’s , Parkinson’s and other neuro degenerative diseases. The eyes are also part of the Central Nervous System and can be protected with Ketone -induced BDNFs. In animal studies where the retina and optiic nerve s are intentionally injured, BDNFs are proven to lessen the damage and stimulate healing and regrowth of these tissues, preserving eyesight…It seems like, despite what you may have been told, degenerative diseases like glaucoma are not easily reversible. Lovett’s  experience Eighteen years ago, he was diagnosed with glaucoma. Six years ago, he reversed it on coconut oil diet. That means he suffered glaucoma for 12 years. It all began in his 20s. His doctor then did not think too much of it. He gave eye drops to lower the eye pressure. Joe Lovett was like many glaucoma-challenged persons. He used the eye drops, believing it will bring about a cure. He did not realise that elevated eye pressure was merely a symptom of many damaging biochemical and photochemical activities going on inside his eyes. Many opthalmologists do not sit their patients down to explain the nitty gritty of this problem. They only look at the eyes, hand them new supplies of their eye drops or change the eye drops, if they believe the eyes are not responding to the old ones. This may be because the opthalmologist has too many patients to attend to and too many eyes to examine. They shuttle from consulting to surgery, to teaching, to preparing academic papers for seminars and conferences. They hardly have time for themselves! At 40, another doctor discovered Joe Lovett was going blind and sent him for an eye examination. He was shocked when, during this eye check, he discovered he could only see a subject from the chest up and from the waist down. The mid region of the body was missing in his vision. He went on various eye drops to lower his intra occular pressure, but with no very satisfactory results. The story of how Lovett got his vision back is told in two books he has written on this subject. They are Stop Vision Loss Now and Prevent And Heal Cataracts, Glaucoma, Macular Degeneration and other eye disorders Lovett acknowledges the fact that it is better to prevent these diseases than to heal them and, given his personal experience, believes they can be reversed nevertheless, irrespective of iron-cast medical beliefs of our time. I recommend that you click on thislink to read Joe Lovett’s article in full at Is There a Cure for Glaucoma?  I recommend, also, that you read his books. Definitely, they will provide details of how he came to the conception that glaucoma begins in the brain and not in the eyes. My acknowledgement for the introduction of Joe Lovett’s works goes to a young friend of mine, Hassan Oyekan who is aware I am glaucoma challenged, who, through regularly reading my column, has become a health student. So interested in health he is that, not withstanding the fact that he is an entrepreneurship student of the Nigerian Open University, Hassan Oyekan has taken online courses on health management and become a health coach. He is a member of one of my chat groups on health. This group is called incubating. It is where new comers to product lines of AIM GLOBAL and SHINEWAY health networks are informed about the uses of these products and goings-on in the Nigerian Alternative Medicine Market. He knows I am glaucoma challenged and regularly sends to me information he believes I will cherish. Joe Lovett’s story is the latest of his messages.  Okubena  Where is Otunba Adejuwon Okubena, producer of Jobelyn, Nigeria’s leading herbal medicine formula. He deserves an honour on a day such as this. Okubena has been canvassing the use of coconut oil-based eye drops to treat glaucoma. I am asking after him because this subject should be of interest to him. Mention of Otunba Olajuwon Okubena reminds me not only of Jobelyn, but also a coconut oil-based eye drop for glaucoma management, if not a cure. Where a challenged person requires two or three drops of a pharmaceutical drug to hold down destructive glaucoma pressure in one day or a combination of drugs to do the job, Otunba Okubena says one drop of a coconut oil and some natural ingredients-based formula can hold the pressure down for five days and even reverse it. I know of persons who used coconut oil eye drops. I do not have scientific proof of its efficacy but I learned from www.healthline.com that it acts against dry eyes for which there is a pharmaceutical preparation. Dry eyes are often caused by some nutritional deficiencies including vitamin A deficiency, and long use of glaucoma eye drops. Anyone who has the nerves to try coconut oil eye drops may report his or her observations to www.healthline.com, which is researching it. Recently, I injured my navel when I tried to bring out some small stony materials lodged in it. The skin peeled deep inside and whenever I touched it, I smelt unpleasant odour on my finger. Two drops of coconut oil in two days cleared it off. Conclusion The idea that we need to address brain health along with eye health in glaucoma treatment should not surprise us. In glaucoma, we are dealing with damage to the optic nerve. The nervous system originates in the brain from the neurons. We observe damage to them in strokes when the affected parts cause loss of sensitivity or action in the limbs they control or in the organs they control such as the tongue, the urinary or digestive systems. In wisdom we should not throw ideas away with waves of the hand. Lion’s mane Mushroom is known to help the repair of damaged nerves. Gotu Kola has been shown to improve micro and macro blood circulation in the brain, like gingko biloba. The fatty substances in the brain need protection from Free Radicals Two great ones for these purposes are Grape Seed Extract  and Alpha Lipoic Acid. GSE, (As Grape seed extract) is also called, easily crosses the brain-blood barrier to suffuse the brain. In experiments to determine it’s therapeutic effects, it is often used at 350mg daily. But dosages of 1000mg and more are also known. GSE is about 50 times more powerful than vitamin c or vitamin E as antioxidants. Alpha Lipoic Acid (ALA) is active in both fat and fluid media and, is, therefore, good for the brain. We cannot forget CBD oil which fuels the body’s master system, the endocannabidiol system, the system which normalises other systems. There are more brain antioxidants than can be mentioned here. The brain sleeps not at night or during the day. Like burning coal or wood which must produce sparks, smoke and ash and other waste materials, constant activities of the brain produce free radicals or dangerous substances which are removed by the body’s derived antioxidants. What Joe Lovett has challenged us to do  in the treatment of glaucoma is to not treat the eye in isolation but to clean up its origin, the brain, as well.