A BREACH of its 24-inch gas line operated by Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) in Okaka, Yenagoa  Bayelsa State, has temporarily crippled gas export by the firm, its Italy-based parent company Eni said. The firm said it declared a Force Majeure on its gas export feed to the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) in Bonny. Force Majeure is a legal clause inserted in contracts to protect suppliers from liabilities due to circumstances beyond their control. A statement by Eni said the breach on the gas pipeline has cut gas export feed to NLNG by five Million Standard Cubic Meter per day (MMSCM/d). It added that the facility had suffered a second attack within few days on April 5 when it went up in flames. The Director-General and Chief Executive of National Oil Spills Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA), Idris Musa, said investigations by the agency traced the two leak incidents to sabotage by vandals. The statement issued by an Eni spokesman, said the firm shut in all gas wells that feed the line to douse pressure and pave the way for repairs which was completed on April 8. It (statement) reads: “A gas leak incident due to third-party interference occurred on 5th April, 2022, along 24 Ogbainbiri to Obiafu/Obrikom Gas pipeline at Okaka in Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State.   2023: Igbo Delegates Assembly asks APC, PDP to zone…     Presidential ticket: ‘why APC can’t use consensus’     Wike to delegates: Compensate me for sustaining PDP   “All wells conferring in that pipeline were immediately shut-in and line depressurised, whilst the area was cordoned off for safety reasons. The relevant government regulatory agencies and the community were promptly notified.” He said a joint investigation visit confirmed sabotage, stating that deferred production is estimated at about 5 MSm3/d of gas and the repair job, he pointed out, was completed on 8th April. Production ramp up will take some days, he said. “Force majeure has been declared at Bonny NLNG. This is the second hacksaw cut in the area within few days, following a previous event that occurred on the same pipeline on 28th March,” Eni stated. Also yesterday, the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), has said Nigeria’s March, 2022 crude oil production dropped to 1.354 million barrels per day (mb/d). The global oil exporting cartel made this known in its Oil Market Report for April 2022. The report said the figure showed a decrease of 24, 000 bpd when compared to the 1.378mb/d produced averagely in the month of February, 2022. “According to secondary sources, total OPEC-13 members’ crude oil production averaged 28.56 mb/d in March 2022, higher by 57mb/d month-on-month. The crude oil output increased mainly in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, while production in Libya, Nigeria and Congo declined.” The report noted that following a contraction of 1.8 per cent year-on-year in 2020, Nigeria’s economy expanded by 3.6 per cent in 2021, stating that this economic recovery was most likely to continue over the course of 2022 with support from improvements in the hydrocarbons sector and energy prices. The report said: “Recent official data suggested that the annual inflation rate edged up slightly to 15.7 per cent in February 2022 from 15.6 per cent in January 2022, although food inflation remained elevated. Indeed, higher food costs related to geopolitical tensions could further fuel inflation.”