Bandits have killed no fewer than 17 soldiers and three vigilantes during an attack on a military base in Polewire, Birnin Gwari Local Government of Kaduna State. They also injured 19 others and burnt two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) during the attack. A source, who confirmed the attack, said the bandits invaded the military base on Sunday evening and engaged the soldiers in a fierce battle that lasted for over two hours. The bandits were said to have launched the attack on motorcycles bearing AK-47 rifles with some of them armed with rocket-propelled grenades (RPG). He said the exchange of firepower lasted long before the soldiers were eventually subdued by the bandits who also burnt two APCs. “We lost 15 men while 19 soldiers were wounded in action after they were overwhelmed by the troops. “The bandits also burnt down three APC after they overwhelmed the troops and carried away several weapons from the troops,” the source stated. Another military source said over 44 fatally wounded victims of the attack were brought to 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna with 17 of them certified dead on arrival while over 23 of them sustained various degrees of injuries.   BREAKING: Reps, Amaechi, Service Chiefs in closed-door…     BREAKING: Anambra PDP suspends chair for insulting Chris Uba     BREAKING: Senate extends 2021 budget implementation to May…   Chairman of Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union, Ishaq Usman Kasai, while confirming the death of three vigilantes, said the attack took place on Sunday around 3pm. According to him, the terrorists suspected to be members of the Ansaru attacked the military base while returning from Niger State. “When we heard about the attack, we had to run and seek refuge elsewhere. Most of the residents slept outside Birnin Gwari town due to fear of being attacked,” he stressed. He said normalcy was returned to the town around 10pm on Tuesday, noting Birnin Gwari was fast becoming inhabitable as the bandits have turned it to their headquarters. He described the Kaduna- Birnin Gwari road as the most dangerous road in the State. According to sources, some of the soldiers wounded have been taken to Birnin Gwari General Hospital and 271 Nigerian Airforce Medical Center while those killed have been moved to the 44 Military Hospital in Kaduna. As at the time of filing the report, there was no confirmation from the Police, Army and the State Government.