One of the consequences of modern warfare is the proliferation of explosive land mine devices, which continue to wreak havoc in the theatre of conflict, even long after the cessation of battle. According to the Mines Advisory Group (MAG), a global humanitarian and advocacy organisation that finds, removes and destroys land mines, cluster munitions and unexplored bombs from places affected by conflict, “Mines are indiscriminate or dumb weapons. They cannot distinguish between legitimate military targets and civilians. They keep functioning long after conflict has ended”. The 2022 International Day for Mine Awareness and Assistance in Mine Action, which was observed on April 4, had as its theme “Safe Ground, Safe Steps, Safe Home”. This theme was informed by the commitment to “turning minefields into playing fields”, drawing attention to the dangers that residents in conflict-prone areas face when they move about without knowing if there are lethal explosives on their path and restoring the personal security of individuals and communities in terrains of conflict. Given the protracted Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, which has lasted for over a decade now, it is not surprising that three states in the region, Borno, Adamawa and Yobe, are reported to be vulnerable to land mines, putting the lives and limbs of at least 1.2 million people at risk. According to the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr Mathias Schmale, explosive ordnance in their different forms constitute “immediate, grave and additional threat to already suffering populations in Northeast Nigeria”. He stated that the United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS) collated 1,532 incidents in the region involving explosive hazards from January, 2016, to January, 2022, with over 10,000 casualties. This report was corroborated by the MAG, which uncovered 1,052 casualties from 697 accidents involving land mines and unexplored bombs between January 2016, and August 2020, while noting that the number could be much higher due to underreporting of cases.   Curious conviction     Crude thieves     United by insecurity   The United Nations must be commended for its efforts to help check and mitigate the menace of land mine explosives in conflict-prone areas of the country. Mr Schmale reported, for instance, that in January, 2019, mine action organisations provided critical life-saving information to mitigate the risk of explosive ordnance by educating more than 1.2 million Nigerians in conflict-affected communities. He said that the focus of the UN is to help deliver life-saving assistance to affected populations and encourage the development of a nationally-owned and coordinated response to reinforce Nigerian capacities. Towards this end, UNMAS conducted Improved Explosives Ordnance Disposal Training for 26 Explosives Ordnance Department Operators in Borno State. Furthermore, over 300 frontline  officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Borno State were trained by UNMAS in first aid and emergency trauma bag handling for the benefit of national security service providers. In 2022, it is envisaged that 12 personnel of the police will become Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) trainers and another 12 first aid trainers as well as 80 personnel of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and states emergency management agencies would have completed a training of trainers course on Explosive Ordnance Risk Education, courtesy of the UN. Ultimately, however, the responsibility for protecting her citizens from the dangers posed by land mines and other IEDs rests with the Nigerian authorities at the federal and state levels. The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management as well as the national and state emergency management agencies must be at the forefront, particularly of enlightening residents of conflict-affected areas on the features, characteristics and dangers of these devices and how to handle them. The MAG, for instance, notes that these devices present “a particularly lethal threat to girls and boys, who often mistake them as household items or toys while playing outside”. There is, thus, the need for closer collaboration between mine action organisations and local authorities acting in concert, to prevent further loss of lives and limbs as a result of land mines. Although Nigeria is a signatory to the Anti-Land Mine Convention sponsored by the International Campaign to Ban Land Mines, which has been negotiated and signed by 164 countries since 1997, it is difficult to enforce such treaties since war itself is a phenomenon that indicates a total breakdown of law and order, as well as a disavowal of stipulated rules and regulations. It thus behoves all sovereign nations such as Nigeria to summon all efforts to protect their people from such dangers as land mines in a world in which conflict has become a part and parcel of human existence.