Mrs. Madu Osinachi, mother of the late gospel singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu, has narrated her daughter’s ordeal at the hands of her husband, Peter. In an interview with BBC monitored by The Nation, Madu said the singer insisted on staying in the marriage with her abusive husband. Narrating Osinachi’s ordeal, she said: “Ever since the man married my daughter, she never experienced peace, even me as a mother didn’t experience peace. Madu said after her daughter got married, she didn’t set her eyes on her until after eight years. She said: “When she gave birth, her husband never informed me that my daughter had given birth, it was some people that notified me. “She didn’t disclose her ordeal to us at first. Someone called me to quickly come and take her away from her husband’s place because of what she was going through…Osinachi (eventually) called her father, narrating that Peter told her that if she did not go home alive, she would go home in death.” Madu said Osinachi’s eldest sister, Favour had to travel to Abuja to bring her and her children to Enugu. She said Osinachi spent one year and three months at her father’s house before Peter came back begging.   Controversy in Osinbajo’s camp over statement on…     2023: Nigeria needs new crop of leaders, says Olawepo-Hashim     N700m grants for 13,243 Taraba women   “Osinachi said that God said whatever has been joined together, let no man put asunder, and that she will go back to the marriage. “I told her not to go back and that she should marry another person but she refused and said she has married someone and there won’t be separation.” Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, said Osinachi’s widower was married to another woman. Tallen spoke yesterday when she featured on NTA’s Good Morning Nigeria’s breakfast show. She said the children of the deceased opened up to her when she visited the Abuja residence of the late singer. “One of the sons went in and brought out an album; he (Peter) has been married to another woman.”she said. Some female lawyers in Nigeria yesterday urged victims to seek timely judicial reprieve from abusive unions in order to stay alive. Mrs Ebere Obiora, chairperson of the African Women Lawyers Association (AWLA), Ogun State chapter, urged victims of domestic violence to speak out without fear. “My advice is that men and women should be free to choose whether to stay unmarried or not as being single is never a taboo. Red flags in marriages are warning signs and should not be overlooked for any reason,” she said Media practitioner, Daddy Freeze said, “if anyone discriminates against you as a divorcee, stand up to them, beat your chest and say, I didn’t fail at marriage; instead I succeeded in divorcing myself from toxicity. Those who actually failed in marriage are the ones who couldn’t make it out alive! If you made it out of suffering alive, you are a success, NOT a failure!”