The Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) on Saturday rejected the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) proposal that political parties should make drug integrity test part of the screening requirements for aspirants seeking to contest political offices in the 2023 general election. IPAC described the moves as outrageous, outlandish, preposterous, despicable and deliberate attack on the sensibilities of lovers of democratic governance in Nigeria. The council said the proposal portrays politicians as drug addicts who must be certified fit to run for various elective offices by the agency. A statement in Abuja by the National Chairman, IPAC, Engr. Yabagi Yusuf Sani said: “It is reprehensible and unacceptable. IPAC demands an apology from NDLEA and strongly warn the anti-narcotic agency to desist from impugning on the character and integrity of politicians including those contesting for president who are patriotic, highly respected, well accomplished statesmen and women with proven integrity. There should be limit to rascality in the discharge of public duties. “It is amazing that Brigadier General Buba Marwa (rtd) who lacks the audacity to make similar proposal to the nation’s armed forces that have on several occasions “accidentally bombed” civilian settlements killing innocent citizens including children in the course of military operations to get ride of terrorists, insurgents, militants and bandits should target politicians who are working assiduously along with fellow compatriots to build a strong, virile, united, progressive, egalitarian and decent democratic nation. It is high time we begin to show regard for the nation’s political leaders as obtainable in other democracies.   Tinubu donates food stuff, items to Plateau Muslims     Jonathan constitutionally qualified to run for President…     Seven dead, five injured in Lagos-Ibadan expressway multiple…   “IPAC strongly condemns drug abuse by misguided citizens and urges NDLEA to discharge its duties in tandem with the law establishing it. A nation is governed by the rule of law, not by impunity. “It is obvious that political parties’ activities are guided by the 1999 constitution as amended, the Electoral Act 2022, INEC guidelines/regulations and respective parties’ guidelines”. Sani said there is no justification whatsoever for extra constitutional requirements as proposed by the NDLEA boss. “This is the position of the Supreme Court ahead of the contentious 2003 general election where it held that INEC had no power to impose nomination fees on aspirants vying for elective offices outside the requirements provided by the constitution. This is the clear position of the law and the position of IPAC for aspirants seeking political offices in the 2023 general election. Political parties will not be distracted by this absurdity,” he said. Sani said IPAC will continue to uphold democratic ideals ethics and ethos as: “we jointly build a better, greater and prosperous democratic society”.