Morocco’s national carrier  Royal Air Maroc has described its membership of the global airlines’ network Oneworld as a strategic move that will allow its passengers to connect any part of the world with other carriers. As the only African airline in the group, the carrier said its membership of the body would guarantee better connection between the continent and other parts of the world. At a briefing to mark the second anniversary of its membership of Oneworld, Royal Air Maroc Support Division Director, Karim Benchekroun, and Oneworld Chief Executive Officer, Rob Gurney, described the relationship as a feat that would launch the carrier to greater heights. Bencheroun said the carrier considered Nigeria as a very important market for Royal Air Maroc hence, the decision to celebrate its anniversary into  Oneworld Alliance in Lagos. He said: “We are here to communicate with our customers about this membership and the considerable advantages it offers. “Nigeria is a natural market for us, given its excellent relationship with the Kingdom of Morocco.’’ He added added that this country is also an important market for aviation, because of its large customer base. On the consequences of the COVID-19 crisis on air transport, the Support Division Director of Royal Air Maroc indicated that Nigeria is one of the first markets it took over as soon as restrictions were eased.   Driving partnership for air transport infrastructure     Firm unveils passengers’ loyalty programme     Furore over relocation of facilities at MMIA   He said: “Being the first African airline to join Oneworld since April 1, 2020, Royal Air Maroc is not only bringing this prestigious alliance to Africa, but also  linking Africa to Oneworld. “It also means that passengers in Nigeria and Africa now have access to an extremely large network, with no less than 1,000 destinations in 170 countries, and access to up to 650 lounges in different airports and other benefits. “The integration of Royal Air Maroc within Oneworld will benefit the company’s passengers  who will draw  from better experience thanks to optimised connections between the fourteen member airlines with assistance shared internationally. This membership will also contribute to the international promotion of the African destinations served by the company. “Being part of the Oneworld alliance consolidates the position of Royal Air Maroc as one of the leaders in air transport in Africa.” Gurney said: “Thanks to Royal Air Maroc, the Oneworld network is considerably reinforced in Africa, thus offering excellent connectivity to business and leisure destinations in the region. As international travel resumes, Royal Air Maroc customers can expect more rewards and benefits when flying with the airline and its partners at Oneworld. “Royal Air Maroc will be an important contributor to Oneworld. Thanks to Morocco’s proximity to Europe, the RAM hub in Casablanca is well placed to serve as a gateway to Africa for the benefit of Oneworld customers.” Gurney said when the airline joined the alliance, it added more than 30 new destinations in Africa to the network, adding that with a strong network of more than 80 destinations, Royal Air Maroc’s membership in Oneworld allows would position it as the alliance of choice for customers to and from this region. “As the health crisis has subsided these days, the alliances will continue to play a key role in providing member airlines with a global network to better serve their customers,”  he added.