Engineer Bisi Osim, wife of late Commandant of the Armed Forces Command Staff College, Jaji, Air vice Marshal Eko Osim, is set to host a memorial kitty for her husband who passed on last year. event would hold at the Calabar Golf Club on April 23. Bisi who is equally a golfer and a Pastor at Redeemed Church , disclosed that she decided to honour the memory of her husband with a golf tourney because her husband during his lifetime, showed an unending love for the game and expended so much money to assist those who wanted to play the game but could not afford it. “My husband just loved the game,” Bisi Osim reiterated. “He was always devoting his free hours to the game. He hated playing alone. “At all times, he wanted people around him on the golf course. This is reason I am doing this tournament. I know this is what he would have me do”. In the same vein, the Captain of the Calabar Golf Club, General AM Sabo, disclosed that the club was ready to host a grand event that would befit the status of late AVM Osim who indeed was equally a past captain of the club. Sabo, an astute golfer, disclosed that Osim, during his time spent enough resources to ensure the rapid growth of the Calabar Golf Club, especially in areas of infrastructures and course maintenance. He further disclosed that Osim used his abundant charm and charisma to draw people closer and maintain oneness at the golf club. General Sabo added that AVM Osim lived a unique life and that he impacted hugely on lives of several individuals irrespective of where they came, adding this could be reason over 300 golfers from across Nigeria have indicated interest to hit Calabar for the memorial kitty.   Messi gets GOAT tag on PSG’s shirt   2023 AFCON: Radebe, Kalou to determine Eagles fate     Watford, Dennis win EPL nutmegs     Klopp wary of Chukwueze’s Villarreal ahead of UCL semis   Paris Saint-Germain star Lionel Messi has stolen an edge in the GOAT battle with Manchester United forward Cristiano Ronaldo – but not in a way that you might have been expecting In a move that is sure to anger Manchester United star Cristiano Ronaldo – Messi’s rival to the GOAT crown – the Argentine will have the four letters embroidered onto his shirt from next season onwards. Messi will be one of 11 GOATs on the pitch at any one time, as the move is part of a new commercial partnership between PSG and GOAT, which offers a platform for sneakers, apparel and accessories The deal will see the French giant’s players wear the brand’s logo on their sleeves from the start of the 2022-23 season. A PSG press release from Marc Armstrong, Chief Partnerships Officer at PSG said: “We are delighted to welcome GOAT into the Paris Saint-Germain family with this partnership that will see them join the exclusive roster of club partners present on our iconic jerseys. “GOAT is a perfect fit for the club and further supports our position as a leading global sports and lifestyle icon for fans all over the world. Together we will develop exciting and creative experiences to connect with supporters everywhere.” Messi and Ronaldo have been rivals for the GOAT title for almost two decades, but neither player has hit the heights this season. Messi has struggled to adapt to life at PSG following his summer move from Barcelona, scoring just nine goals in all competitions. The Argentine is set for his worst goal scoring season since the 2007-08 campaign when he netted 16 times in his fourth season as a professional with Barcelona. Even during Barca’s struggles last season, Messi still managed to hit the target on 38 occasions. Despite four goals in his first three games following his return to Manchester United, Ronaldo has not fared much better. CR7 is the club’s top scorer, but with only 18 goals to his name, it has been a poor season by his high standards. To make matters worse, the Portuguese legend’s form has fallen off a cliff since the turn of the year. He has only scored four goals in 13 appearances so far in 2022, three of which came in the same game against Tottenham last month.