Domestic violence is a global issue. The irony of it is that it is perpetrated in homes. It could be spousal, parents against children or vice versa, it could be between any combination of relatives or partners in the same space. While the majority of domestic violence is by men on women,  there are case reversals where women are the perpetrators of domestic violence. The spectrum of domestic violence is wide; verbal, sexual, emotional, psychological, spiritual, financial or physical. But all forms of violence are very damaging to the victims. While domestic violence is not strange in most cultures, most societies have laws and strict judicial processes to deal with suspects. In some cases, there are strict and long jail terms or restraining orders that bar suspects from going near the victim. Domestic violence is an abuse of power of any kind, either physical or otherwise. In Nigeria, domestic violence cases are often unreported or under-reported and, as such, victims either die or are badly damaged before any action is taken. The most prevalent domestic violence in Nigeria is physical and sexual.  Both types are often a result of more physical power. Sexual violence could be by men against girls/women or men against younger boys. There are also cases of women on younger boys sexual violence too. Cases of physical and sexual violence are the most reported cases in the country and with the help of the social media, there are accelerated reportage of such cases in ways that they often go viral, forcing the security agencies to act, even if temporarily. Before now, domestic violence was not seen as damaging enough for strict state interventions. Because of some cultural and religious nuances, some parochial views about patriarchy seem to lessen the impact of domestic violence, not only on women who are the majority of the victims, but the whole society. Domestic violence is sometimes erroneously interpreted as ‘family’ matter, so the victims are often further victimised by the society and made to bear the burden with extra blames. 		 			Strike: ASUU tackles Fed Govt over N4trn fuel subsidy budget		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m ransom for popular Akwa Ibom cleric		 		 		 			BREAKING: APC presidential form to go for N100m		 		 However, with advocacies in recent times, some states like Lagos and Ekiti have domesticated the laws against sexual/physical violence and even opened centres for reports and judicial actions. Many other states have been silent on the Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) laws they signed. In the last two years of the COVID-19 lockdown era, there have been increasing reports of domestic violence across the country, with some victims paying with their lives. The recent report by the National Human Rights Commission office in Kano, of about 266 cases of domestic violence between January and March, 2022 is alarming. Sadly, some cases are never reported for some cultural and religious reasons. Other states have similar or worse records but the lack of diligence in investigations and prosecution often discourage victims from reporting. In the first few days of April, there have been about five reported cases of fatal domestic violence resulting in the deaths of about five women. Just days before the popular singer, Osinachi Nwachukwu died of alleged impact of domestic violence, a woman  who came home from Scotland was allegedly burnt to death with her brother in the Abule Ado area of Lagos. Both husbands are reportedly in police custody. We condemn the attitude of the Nigerian states in the rising cases of domestic violence. While no one has any reason to be violent, it is obvious that there are some causative factors that good governance and systemic order can help reduce the number, given that some of the suspects are often alleged to have mental health challenges and even economic problems. An improvement in security, a better economy and concerted efforts at prosecuting offenders conclusively can serve as deterrent and save more lives. We equally believe that citizens must be re-oriented about certain cultural and religious dogmatisms that tend to condone certain attitudinal fixations about the use of force and sexualising women. Conclusive prosecutions would be a good step and publishing names of sexual perverts as is done in Ekiti State’s Sexual Offences Register is one good step aimed at curbing and punishing offenders. Governments and the people must do more to prevent the kind of domestic violence that claimed the life of Osinachi. The mantra should be, see something, say something. We hope justice is done in all the cases.