The much expected Ramadan for 2022 commences today, Saturday, April 2, 2022, the Sultan of Sokoto and President-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, has announced. He declared Saturday as the first day of Ramadan 1443 AH in Nigeria after the sighting of the new crescent in Sokoto and other parts of the country, on Friday, April 1, in a live broadcast via the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). He said the new moon of Ramadan was sighted in different parts of the country and that reports of the moon sighting were received from Muslim leaders and organisations. “After due verification and authentication by the National Moon Sighting Committee and states committees’ confirmation, as well as routine scrutiny, I hereby announce the sighting of the new moon of Ramadan signifies the end of Sha’aban 1443 AH. “In accordance with Islamic law, Muslim Ummah is to commence fasting on Saturday accordingly,” he said. The Sultan enjoined the Muslim faithful to devote themselves fully to the worship of Allah throughout the holy month, urging them to use the period to pray for the progress, peace, and prosperity of the nation. Meanwhile, Saudi Arabia and some other Arab countries have also commenced the Muslim fasting season as they also sighted the moon on Friday.   Edo PDP: Obaseki, Orbih, take supremacy battle to LG polls     New APC chairman Adamu threatens probe of national…     Mr Ibu’s poisonous ordeal   During Ramadan, Muslims have to abstain from eating, drinking, and smoking from dawn to sunset. As the fasting begins, President Muhammadu Buhari has joined world leaders in welcoming the month of Ramadan, urging Muslims across the country to observe intense devotion to worship and charity. The president said this in a message to Nigerians and Muslims all over the world in a statement released by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, on Friday, in Abuja. The fasting period, he noted, offers a unique opportunity to “feel the hunger experienced by the poor so as to feel what it is like to be deprived and marginalised. “Muslims should seek greater personal discipline, which is necessary for the realization of a great nation,” said Buhari. He advised the Muslim elite to avoid food wastage, urging them to feed the indigent and care for their neighbours. He also called for prayers for peace in the country and beyond, and for healing and harmony throughout the world. He wished all Muslims a successful completion of the 30-day fasting period.