To many, a luxury home is unaffordable. Not so for a real estate development firm, the Address Homes, which objective is to provide affordable homes that meet the benchmark of modern housing  development. Its Chairman, Dr. Bisi Onasanya said: ”In our determination to provide   inspiring, regal, and well-built maisonette housing schemes in the country, our company is dedicated to the attainment, development, and management of bespoke deluxe contemporary homes and to provide smart homes which could boast of the basic amenities that are reflective of global best property development practices. “We didn’t venture into The Address Homes to make money, even though every business is set out to make money. The real intention, for me, is to allow us to do something different from the way previous participants and players in real estate have done. We believe there is a need to inject some integrity into the real estate business. We also believe at times that quality was a bit deficient and there is a need to do things mostly to some level of international standards, irrespective of where you are.” The Address Homes boss said those who relocated from abroad were used to homes which have basic things that were largely missing here. He said: “We wanted a situation in which you live in the Address Homes and you are proud because of the comfort we offer. That is what we believe in. That’s what we have been able to do. Have we done everything? We’ve done our best, but we still believe that we’ll keep improving.” Onasanya said the Address Homes offers flexible payment plans.”We are very competitive in terms of pricing, but more importantly, we are very flexible in our payment structure. We allow people to dictate to us within a particular time frame, how they want to structure their payments during construction. “Even at that, we’ve had instances where we completed the project, but people had difficulty making the final payment. They make a special request for us to allow them to move into the property without completing payment, and yet we still oblige them.   Restoring maintenance culture to public sector     World Bank votes $17b to tackle food insecurity     NCC urges subscribers on infrastructure protection   “All these have endeared us to the few people who have had the opportunity to interact with us and to enjoy the services that we offer he added.’’ The developer said their projects were very competitive despite being top of the range in the market sector they play in. His firm has completed about 54 units of mid-luxury detached and semi-detached properties at Osapa, London, 31 units of luxury homes at Ilasa, Lekki, Lagos. This is in addition to the two new housing schemes christened Luxuria and Dan and Dan at Ikoyi and Banana Island. He said every apartment has a penthouse close to 500,000-square metre two kitchens, two living rooms, Spa, long tennis court and a rental shop and pharmacy, where residents can get groceries and medicals and that the Dan &Dan Apartments in Banana is a joint project with Wema Board Estates. On the risk involved, he said they advise clients to spread their payment from the construction stage and if it is not possible they hedge their risk by not giving title document until full payment is received. He said their buildings have a warranty of between five and 10 years with modern infrastructure such as 24-hour electricity supply, CCTV, water, maintenance management office that ensures all-year round maintenance with various façade. The former banker said his firm has a work line that ensures quality assurance. His firm’s watch word is functionality, uniqueness, bespoke and exclusivity. He said: “We build homes and not houses. We work with our emotions to create sync with the individuality of our prospective owners.’’ He also stated that that they intend to move to Ajah on a 75-hectare land mixed development at lower prices to accommodate the middle class without reducing taste and finishing. Asked if he is the developer, contractor and builder as most developers do, he responded that they have contractors and builders who build for them according to specification. He said they are compliant with the state town planning and building construction rules and regulations and submit to checks during and after constructing to the various regulatory bodies in the state according to requirements.