President of Matchmakers Consult International, organizers of the annual Nigeria Pitch Awards, Mr. Shina Philips has expressed confidence in the present Super Eagles’ squad to go ahead and accomplish great things in the near future, despite the team’s failure to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup finals. Philips insisted in Abuja at the weekend that the present squad has all the qualities to succeed, including youthfulness, talent, zest, ability and enterprise. “The Super Eagles’ team as presently constituted can still win a handful of laurels for Nigeria. I see a team with so much potential and capacity to deliver. They narrowly missed the World Cup ticket but that does not mean we have a poor team. They only lost on the away goal rule and that is a technicality that can undo any great team. “I want to respectfully call on all Nigerians to continue to support the team. The Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers are right here in a number of weeks and I am sure the players are eager to make amends.” Super Eagles’ forward Victor Osimhen emerged the biggest winner of the 8th edition of the Nigeria Pitch Awards held in Abuja on Tuesday. The player, who was confirmed Player of the Month for March in the Serie A, emerged the Striker of the Year and the King of the Pitch, making him Nigeria’s Most Valuable Player for 2021.   Tiger Woods will make ‘game-time decision’ on playing the…     NBBofC pledges support to WBO Champion Okolie     Everton ’ll fight to stay top, says Iwobi   Super Falcons and FC Barcelona Femení goal-poacher, Asisat Oshoala continued her dominance of the women’s awards category as she was named the Queen of the Pitch for the fourth time. Welcoming guests to the annual show, Philips encouraged Nigerians to put the disappointment of the inability of the country to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar behind them and look forward to a better future with the Super Eagles. He stated that organizers were not oblivious of the mood of the nation. “We understand that many Nigerians are disappointed but we wish to remind Nigerians that the nation has won many football matches and competitions and we ought to continue to encourage the players by rewarding them for their commitment, industry and display of talent in 2021.” The ceremony, anchored by legendary Nollywood actor, Segun Arinze lived up the expectations of guests, players, nominees and voters.