The National Rescue Movement (NRM), a political party, has given an assurance to Nigerians that it will transform the country if it wins the 2023 general polls. Amb. Isaac Udeh, the newly elected National Chairman of the party, made the pledge on Friday in Abuja at a news conference/handing over the mantle of leadership to the newly elected executive members. He said that NRM’s mission as a grassroots-based party was to rescue Nigeria and Nigerians from all difficulties that might have retarded their progress. Udeh said that the party had come to put smiles back on the faces of Nigerians and to bring visible development to the country. He said that most Nigerians were persistently living in fear, hence their future was no longer guaranteed as a result of a lack of dedicated leaders. “We no longer practice democracy which is “government of the people by the people and for the people. What we practice now is “government of the few, by the few and for the few.’’ “Nigerians of today are wiser than Nigerians of yesterday and that is why they are yearning for a fresh political party that will rescue them from the high cost of living. “This is the only party that has Nigerians at heart because it is a grassroots-based political party by its foundation and structures. “NRM is the only political party that made it mandatory that you must be a person of unquestionable character in your community and the society before you can hold any office in the party,’’ he stressed.   BREAKING: Bandits abduct wife, daughter of Plateau…     Zoning: Atiku, Wike, Saraki, Tambuwal shift lobby to PDP…     Insecurity: FG rejects plea by Nigerians to bear arms   Udeh called on Nigerians across the country and in the diaspora to massively support the party, in order for them to enjoy the much-awaited people-oriented leadership and good governance from May 29, 2023. Earlier, the immediate past Chairman of the party, Alhaji Usman Jikamshi, stated that the party was ready to win the forthcoming general elections, adding that it would mobilise votes at the grassroots. He described the insecurity in some parts of the country as worrisome, saying that the party was set to change the narrative if voted into power in 2023. Jikamshi thanked God for the success of the party’s last convention which ushered in a new set of leaders. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Sola Afuye, disclosed that the party had approved stipulated amounts for the purchase of expression of interest and nomination forms for interested aspirants vying for various positions. According to him, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party expressed confidence in the ability of the National Working Committee (NWC) to lead the party to win the presidential election, majority of the state governors, majority of the seats in the National and State Assemblies. He said that the party was more focused than ever before to rescue the nation from the hands of those it described as “enemies“. He commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for strict adherence to the new electoral law, as well as the introduction of modern-day technologies to make accreditation voting and uploading of results easy. (NAN)