Four political blocs in Delta South Senatorial District – Urhobo, Isoko, Ijaw and Itsekiri – have backed Dr Sylvester Onoyona to represent the district next year in the Senate. Onoyona, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), got their nod when he took his campaign to the district during his grassroots consultations. It was a huge welcome for the aspirant as the people turned up en masse from the eight councils. Delta South, according to them, needs a transformative representation to meet up with its peers in the country. The meeting was held at the Wellington Hotel, Effurun, with party chairmen from the councils present. Party faithful promised to embark on a house-to-house and door-to-door campaign for Onoyona. The councils were: Warri South, Warri North, Warri South-West, Patani, Bomadi, Bututu, Isoko South and Isoko North. Onoyona said his team would never rest  until success is achieved,  and called on party leaders at the grassroots to go all out for victory.   Constituents buy Senate forms for lawmaker     Governorship aspirant condemns cult killings in Ogun     Court declines to order elections into Benue constituency   At the Effurun meeting, the real estate mogul-turned politician  reeled out his manifesto, christened: “social contract with my people”. His plans include social justice, equity, empowerment and capacity building for youths, care for the elderly, health care facilities, education for  the girl child, and micro-credit schemes. Onoyona called on Delta South to give him support, vowing never to disappoint the district. He said his representation would be all-inclusive, adding that he would  establish offices in all councils to get feedbacks and input directly from his constituents. Onoyona said: “We shall establish a community-based feedback system where people meet among themselves and form a decision, transmit it through a channel to our officials and for consideration and actions. Apart from enhancing legislative duties, it will give everyone a sense of belonging. “I am going to the Senate to represent the people of Delta South and not myself, therefore, their input into my legislative decision making will be of positive impact. “Therefore, we are all together in this. A mandate for me is a mandate for all.” A former member of the House of Assembly, Okiemute Essien, believes Onoyona’s nomination would be a boost to the party because of his positive energy, likeability and leadership qualities.