Consensus now has different connotations. To the old breed, it is the selection of candidates through mutual agreement; a collective decision ratified by all and sundry without a dissenting voice. To that extent, it could be described as the cult of agreement and amity. However, to the younger generation, particularly the emerging and impatient political class, consensus is imposition. It is misunderstood as systematic exclusion, dictatorship and violation of internal democracy. Since election is not involved, they believe it is a disservice to competitive electoral process. But, either in the past or currently, consensus is acknowledged as a mode, which makes its alternative, the direct primary, more compelling, if it is rejected. It is more or less a product of convention and hitherto time-tested procedure that cannot be trusted in all circumstances. The debate on its suitability is on the front burner, following the recent All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention in Abuja. The brand of consensus by coercion or compulsion adopted by the ruling party upset many aspirants for party positions. To observers, it was akin to consensus under duress. Consensus is not new in contemporary Nigerian politics. It worked perfectly in the past and the process was devoid of acrimony and tension.  Even, in pre-colonial traditional settings, princes were picked as successors to the throne in the days of yore through mutual agreement among the contenders. The goal was to avoid strife and rancour. Old political warhorses still around would attest to the pre-eminence of consensus as a mode of selection that fostered unity in the past. In the pre-independence era, it was in vogue in the three, and much later after independence, four regions. Consensus is perceived as a better process for selecting candidates for party offices and general elections, where possible and practicable. The only limitation is that, once there is a dissenting voice, the alternative, which is election, either direct or indirect, is adopted. The main element of consensus is mutual agreement. Before the demise of first generation parties – the Northern Peoples Congress (NPC), Action Group (AG) and National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) – the agreement was not necessarily between or among aspirants for parliamentary tickets, but agreement among the  wise men; dependable and respected party leaders who, as moral voices, made the right and patriotic decisions for the platforms. The pattern of leadership recruitment and followership enlistment was dictated by the party. In the defunct AG, led by the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, only well known, reputable and loyal members were qualified to seek the ticket. Criteria for selection through consensus included age, education, job qualification or what was referred to as second address, party membership, good character, involvement in community and intra-party activities, belief in the party’s ideology, hierarchy or seniority, sacrifice and loyalty to the platform. Curiously, money was not a criterion, because the tickets were not for sale to the highest bidder. Once these criteria were set, the best were picked for the regional or parliamentary elections. Other aspirants, while bidding for their time, would return to the party to work harder. Few aspirants, who were not picked, could rebel by standing for election as independent candidates. Poll results in those days could be predicted with accuracy. The rebellious aspirants who opted for independent candidacy often lost their deposit at the poll. The First Republic was terminated by the military coup of 1966. Thirteen years later, although AG had metamorphosised into the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), consensus became somehow outdated and unpopular. Many dismissed it as preferential treatment or tacit imposition by the gerontocrats. Therefore, Awolowo and other party leaders reluctantly adjusted to the intense intra-party agitations for further democratisation of primaries. Indirect primary or delegate mode was adopted. Their subsisting fear was the likely invasion of some moneybags with an intention to buy or hijack the tickets. But, it never happened in the UPN. It also never happened in the ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN), Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) and Great Nigerian Peoples Party (GNPP). In the Third Republic, the new breed perceived consensus as old fashioned. Under the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC), there were stiff competitions for party offices and tickets for elections. The contests drew the SDP on edge at the party convention when Mohammed Arzika and Baba Gana Kingibe clashed. The race for party chairman was hot. But, unlike consensus, where few party leaders would meet to decide the fate of contenders and the entire party, party representatives or delegates chose candidates on behalf of the vast party membership. During governorship, state and federal parliamentary and presidential primaries, indirect primaries were adopted. The process was acknowledged to be more open and transparent than consensus. There were two parties. Party members queued behind their preferred candidates at shadow polls. However, the Third Republic was aborted. In 1998/99, the Afenifere/NADECO/Alliance for Democracy (AD) leaders were disposed to consensus in the Southwest. Primaries were held, but the push towards consensus was stronger. More of consensus by party elders, and less of direct primary, produced Olusegun Osoba who triumphed over Femi Okurounmu in Ogun State;  Bisi Akande, who was preferred to Mojisoluwa Akinfenwa and Iyiola Omisore in Osun; Lam Adesina in Oyo; Ade Adefarati in Ondo and Niyi Adebayo, who was preferred to Samuel Kolawole in Ekiti. In Osun, Akande never vied for governor. But, in a dramatic manner, the AD leader, Chief Bola Ige, anointed and pronounced him as an aspirant. Why consensus by illustrious founding fathers could not be faulted was that there was no deviation from their set rules. The political leaders were in one accord. Aspirants were assessed based on the set criteria. Besides, the criteria or the standard they gladly set had predictive values. Those selected by consensus usually ended up in parliaments and State Houses as high performers. They lived to expectation in public offices.   The madness in Ife     Buhari approves re-appointment of Bello-led Nexim…     Leadership, security and apologies   In those previous dispensations, after victory, elected public officers regarded themselves as products of the party. They subscribed to the doctrines of party supremacy and discipline. Why the fuss about consensus, when APC’s constitution actually makes provisions for it? It is because of the way and manner they went about the process. Many aspirants complained about consensus at gunpoint. It was a special case of ambush. Some complained to reporters that they were not aware of any consensus before and after they bought and submitted their forms. There was no wider consultation after leaders had made up their minds on some candidates. Many aspirants begun their campaigns, traversing their regions. They were targeting votes from delegates, not knowing that they have been excluded. The ruling party had postponed the convention, which it never really prepared for. Therefore, to meet the provisions of the Electoral Act, it was conducted hurriedly. Six national chairmanship aspirants, including Tanko Almakura, Abdulaziz Yari, George Akume, Saliu Mustapha, and Sani Musa, campaigned round the country. Governors who now own the party never adopted or endorsed any of them. Instead, they went to President Muhammadu Buhari to endorse a consensus chairman. The President requested for the list of aspirants. Then, he rejected the six and suggested Abdullahi Adamu. Initially, the governors packaged a feeble resistance. The Commander-in-Chief insisted on his choice. Later, the six aspirants embraced reality. Who are they to dare the President? Two things were clear. One, consensus was proposed. But, the agreement required to drive the idea was absent. The aspirants could not agree among themselves to support a candidate. The governors who wanted to reassure the President of their collective loyalty could not agree on a candidate. The President proposed a beneficiary of consensus. Although other aspirants and the governors grumbled, Buhari had his way. It was after the President insisted on Adamu that many governors started struggling to have the phone numbers of someone who would be their chairman for the next years. Two, taking a cue from the President, governors too insisted on nominating ‘consensus’ candidates for other party offices zoned to their regions and micro-zoned to their states. The Unity List was elusive. The battle shifted to the regions. There was commotion. Time was too short to iron out issues at that level. Old cleavages resurfaced. It was CPC versus ACN, or CPC versus PDP or CPC versus ANPP. Unable to resolve the logjam at the regional level, the antagonistic gladiators carried their battles to the convention. Tension engulfed the party. Although all the chairmanship aspirants agreed to step down for Adamu, many aspirants for other party positions refused. A few of them went to the podium to deny stepping down for rivals. To evade a grand elective convention, which it was not adequately prepared for, APC attempted to whip recalcitrant aspirants into line. The Election Committee resorted to blackmail, telling aspirants who refused to step down that they risked losing the election and forfeiting a refund of their nomination fees. The threat underscored the display of immaturity by the Election Committee. Thus, tempers rose. While some young aspirants panicked, older and experienced gladiators were unperturbed. In the Southwest, reason later prevailed over emotion. Elderstatesman Aremo Olusegun Osoba, former governor of Ogun State, saved the region from embarrassment. He was able to pacify aspirants for national secretary-Bayo Shittu and Aberdeen Olaiya- to step down for Iyiola Omisore. The Electoral Act has tied the hands of political parties and their leaders. Consensus implies an agreement among contenders who are expected to write a letter of withdrawal from the race. If this is not done or an aggrieved contestant goes to court due to exclusion or marginalisation, the exercise may be declared null and void by the temple of justice. The scenarios cast doubt on the efficacy of consensus in APC. Although the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) succeeded in selecting former Senate President Iyorchia Ayu as consensus chairman, the ruling party failed to put its house in order. During party conventions and primaries, political parties must brace up for the challenge of political participation. The slots, relative to the number of aspirants, are usually few. Screening is important. But, it should be fair and credible. It is not proper to tell aspirants to ‘go and sit down’ after paying millions for forms and preparing for election, only to be told that the party has opted for consensus. It is worse when they are not consulted or carried along, their opinions are not sought and the elements or circumstances warranting the option are not properly explained to them. If there is no involvement in the discussions or decisions on consensus, collective commitment may be difficult. There is nothing wrong about consensus. But, the process should be followed. It is often difficult for many party leaders to respect the procedure. Instead, they may resort to blackmail, intimidation, oppression and suppression. This is the crux of the matter. The implication is that APC needs to have a rethink about consensus in the future. If it failed at the convention during the election of party officers, can it be successfully adopted during the party’s presidential primary?