The film industry is blessed with many actresses who fit into varieties of roles and play them perfectly. But, switching gender and playing the role of a man is not something you see often. The Edo-born actress is outstanding in her acting prowess and she is one of the new generation stars in the movie industry. She played a male role in the movie, “Disguise”, and pulled it off quite easily. The movie features Ogbonna and Isime in reverse gender roles as female and male, respectively. The versatile actress and television presenter has featured in a lot of movies including, Merry Men, Made in Heaven, Living in Bondage, The Razz Guy, A Better Family, The Surrogate among others. Mary Lazarus is one actress who is versatile in her character portrayal. She smiles easily as much as she cries in films. Just like Nancy Isime, she swapped roles as a man in “Losing Control” and did a fantastic job. The actress who had her hair shaved off for the series starred alongside Joseph Benjamin, Mike Godson, Susan Peters, Venita Akpofure, Mary Njoku amongst others.   Mr Macaroni announces ‘engagement’ to colleague…     It’s my turn to shutdown 02 Arena – Uzo     Kemi Oyedeji speaks on new book, ushering   The Delta-born actress and model transformed into a male for the movie “The Parcel’ alongside Destiny Etiko and Mary Igwe and she delivered effortlessly. The 34-year-old thespian has debuted in lots of movies including Agaracha the Lioness, Love is all she needs, and Dangerous women since she came into the screen in 2012. Aside from acting, Lizzy Gold emerged as the winner of the Delta State beauty pageant in 2006 as a model. Etiko obtained a degree in Theater Arts at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka. The curvy actress played a male role in the movie ‘The last flight. Etiko’s career received prominence after she featured in a movie titled ‘Idemili’ which was produced in 2012. Her talent for acting earned her a nomination for Best Promising Actress at City People Entertainment Awards.   Mary Igwe hails from Delta and obtained a degree in Theatre Arts at Delta State University. The fast-rising actress effortlessly swapped roles as a man in the movie ‘The Last Flight’ alongside Destiny Etiko. Mary Igwe has starred in a number of movies including a trip to Dubai, Last Kidney, Red flames, Ofodile, Love and Split, Time never forgets, Against My Blood, The Mirage among others.