Former National Chairman of Young Democratic Party (YDP) Hamman Bello Barkindo has emerged National Coordinator of the Wike Support Group (WSG). The former Vice President North East of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) emerged in Lagos on Monday. He said the real change was here, stating it was time for Nigerians to take what belongs to them. The delegate to the 2014 Nigerian National Conference said the entrance of Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike into the 2023 presidential race was the game-changer that would spur youths into meaningful actions which would reverberate across the length and breadth of the nation. While calling on Nigerians to take more than a passing interest on who leads them in 2023, Barkindo assured he would avail of his wide contacts across the nation to drum support for Wike ,who he said has demonstrated capacity and vision with his laudable performance in the last seven years.   2023: Iyovwaye declares for Delta governorship     I didn’t revisit any court judgement, says ex-AGF Aondoakaa     Politics not a do or die affair, says Abia Speaker   According to him: “Even the blind knows that Wike has performed as Governor in Rivers State. The English man says that the taste of the pudding is in the eating. “What more do we need to join Wike’s quest for President? What more do we need to trust him with our votes? Certainly, nothing. “We would ensure that the youths are heavily mobilised across the country for this new task and challenge ahead of us all. “The Wike that we know is fearless, brave and honest. He can match anyone the APC brings on board wit for wit, brawn for brawn and influence for influence.” WSG said it was committed to the realisation of Wike’s vision for a greater Nigeria where terrorism, power, high cost of living, banditry, religious and ethnic bigotry as well as herdsmen/farmers’ clashes and constant energy losses, will be things of the past. It also promised to carry its agenda to the nooks and crannies of the nation by establishing a central office in Abuja through which their members will start to woo PDP delegates in support of the Rivers Governor.