Napoli are considering a move for Chelsea striker Armando Broja as a replacement for Victor Osimhen, according to reports. Osimhen – who has been a long-term target of Arsenal – has grabbed 16 goals and five assists in 28 games for the Serie A side this term and is now a reported target of Manchester United. A report yesterday claimed Osimhen has the ‘temptation’ to join United. The player and his agent, Roberto Calenda, reportedly had a ‘secret meeting’ with Napoli chairman Aurelio De Laurentiis on Wednesday. They discussed an ‘undeniable bid’ of ‘over €100m’ that has come in from United. It is stated that Osimhen will give it his all to help Napoli – who currently sit third in Serie A – to qualify for the Champions League before he is ‘free to seek his fortune in the legendary red’ of United. And Gazzetta dello Sport (via Sport Witness) claimed Napoli have put the ‘spotlight’ on ‘powerful’ Chelsea star Broja. The 20-year-old has impressed on loan at Southampton this season, scoring nine goals in 35 appearances for the Saints.   Raiola slams media over death hoax     Klopp extends Liverpool contract until 2026     Europa League: Lookman keeps Foxes dreams alive   Described in the report as being similar to former Italy international Christian Vieri, Broja ‘would be Osimhen’s replacement’ in Naples. Some have suggested Broka should be handed a chance at Stamford Bridge next season given the struggles of Romelu Lukaku. And Southampton boss Ralph Hasenhuttl has regularly spoken of his desire to keep the Albania international at St Mary’s beyond this season, but claims talks with Chelsea have been a struggle. He said: “We are discussing this topic at the moment.” “We all know the situation at Chelsea that there are a lot of changes there. “At the moment, it’s not so easy to find the right person to talk to and to speak about the future of players. “It’s maybe easier to concentrate on your job, to do a good job until the end of the season. That helps him; that helps us. “The higher we end up in the table, the more attractive we are for all of the players and this is the goal for the last seven games we have.”