Gunmen again on Friday set ablaze the Mbieri Police Station in Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo State. Another group of gunmen also attacked a police station in Anambra, killing an unidentified number of policemen in the process A day before, some suspected gunmen set ablaze the home of the Commissioner for Labour, Employment and Productivity in Imo State,  Ford Ozumba. The hoodlums, who stormed the Imo police station at the early hours of Friday in their numbers, threw improvised explosive devices on the police building, shooting sporadically. Confirming the attack, the Imo State Police Public Relations Officer CSP Michael Abattam, alleged that the hoodlums were members of the Indigenous People of Biafra/ Eastern Security Network, who attempted attack on the police, but were repelled following very stiff resistance from the police operatives attached to the division. He said that the hoodlums were overwhelmed by the superior firepower of the combat-ready police operatives, forcing them to retreat in panic, escaping in their vehicle. According to him, “only minimal damage was done to a parked unserviceable vehicle and some windows due to the effect of the explosive. He said that no life was lost or injury sustained by the operatives and no arms/ ammunition was carted away. The Police spokesman said that investigation was ongoing and efforts were on to arrest fleeing hoodlums. Gunmen kill policemen in Anambra  Also in Anambra, some gunmen were said to have torched a police station, killing an unidentified number of policemen in the process This is coming barely 48 hours a security man was killed and part of the council secretariat burnt  in Ukpor, Nnewi South Local Government Area of the State The Nation gathered Friday that the incident happened at Amichi, the home town of former Police Service Commission (PSC) Chairman, Chief Simon Okeke. An eyewitness said the police station was set ablaze around 7.30pm Friday. The source could not ascertain the number of casualties during the attack by the gunmen, but said some policemen were killed.   Appeal Court dismisses suit challenging defection of Umahi,…     Edo PDP: Obaseki, Orbih, take supremacy battle to LG polls     Ramadan 2022: Sultan declares start of Muslim fasting month   When contacted on the phone, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu could not answer his call as his phone rang out unpicked But one of the senior police officers in the state, who pleaded anonymity, confirmed the incident to The Nation . The officer said the news was broken to him by some persons in the command, adding that he was not aware of any casualty. Commissioner’s home ‘bombed’ in Imo On Thursday, gunmen attacked the home of the Commissioner for Labour, Employment and Productivity in Imo State,  Ford Ozumba. The attack was said to have occurred in the commissioner’s hometown in Umuhu-Okabia Community, Orsu LGA of the state. The attackers reportedly threw petrol bombs into the compound. Confirming the incident on Friday, Ford said the attack recorded no casualty as there was nobody in the house at the time of the incident. “We were all in Owerri only to learn this morning that my family house had been burnt down,” he said. “I was told that the attackers wreaked havoc in the dead of the night. They threw petrol bombs into the compound. “What a sad day. My family compound in my village was razed down by hoodlums last night.” The incident is the latest in a battery of attacks targeted at the homes of government officials and residents in the state. Earlier in March, the house of President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, George Obiozor, was set ablaze by gunmen in Imo. In April 2021, the country home of the Imo State governor,  Hope Uzodimma, was attacked, with a section of the building razed, and two security guards were killed. Weeks after the attack on  Uzodimma’s house, the home of Imo Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, was set ablaze when gunmen invaded the compound in Ubulu-Ihejiofor, Oru West LGA of the state.