The Chief Missioner of the Nasrul-Lahi-l-Fatih Society (NASFAT), Imam Abdul-Azeez Onike,  has admonished Muslims to observe the Ramadan fervently so as to enjoy its  divine blessings. “Bountiful divine rewards and spiritual rebirth await the faithful after the Ramadan. But such blessings will be only for Muslims that wholesomely practise the Ramadan,” Onike told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos yesterday. He said Muslims that adhered strictly to the ordinances of the Ramadan period would be divinely compensated with their supplications granted. “It is advisable to break the fasting with light edibles like fruits to enable the body system to easily digest the solid food eaten afterwards, ” he said. According to him, God is very much aware of the difficulties Nigerians are facing today. “Hence, in our daily intermittent prayers that we render, we are expected to offer supplications for peace in Nigeria, and especially that God should help us overcome insecurity,” Onike said.   Transportation Varsity to begin academic activities in…     Association stresses need to assist orphans, others     Zamfara distributes relief materials to needy   According to the chief missioner, there is no doubt that part of the rewards for Nigeria for a well-observed Ramadan is peace and tranquillity. “During this Ramadan, Muslims should relate with  every person irrespective of their religions through  good conduct. “By not perceiving  the adherents of other religions as bad people, Muslims will be seen to be spreading peace which our religion preaches,  and by so peace will permeate our society.” He said that alms giving was mandatory during Ramadan, and added that without doing it;  Muslims risked not enjoying the rewards of the season. Onike told NAN that NASFAT had outlined  plans on how it would reach out to the needy in various communities in the country with food and other materials during this season. He urged the adherents of the various religions to imbibe the habit of helping their fellow countrymen and women to amplify the much desired peace in the country irrespective of the faith.