A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Dr Yunus Akintunde, spoke to reporters recently in Ibadan, the state capital, on political developments in the state. The former Commissioner for Works said Governor Seyi Makinde has lost relevance ahead of next year’s general election, going by his alleged ineffective policies and inflated contracts. Southwest Bureau Chief BISI OLADELE reports Peace has eluded the APC since the second term of the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi when the crisis within the party reached a crescendo. Why has the APC remained in crisis? I believe the real cause is not a single factor. It is always a combination of factors. So, if one factor is no more, we might not be too correct to say that if that factor still existed, the situation might have changed. I think there are a lot of variables that need to be considered. But, the bottom line is like an ordinary Physics law: where there is movement, there will be friction too. Once a party is popular, there is bound to be a crisis there. So, we will continue to manage the crisis which is why we have a crisis management committee. If there is any party where there is no crisis, then that party can’t win an ordinary councillorship election. Are you saying the absence of a central leader is responsible for what is happening in Oyo APC today? There is what we call culture and there is the law. Where tradition or culture and law are in conflict, the law prevails. As far as the APC constitution is concerned, there is nothing like a central leadership. The constitution recognises only the executives. But by our culture and tradition, people give respect to elders. The truth remains that if former Governor Abiola Ajimobi were alive today, the situation might not degenerate to this level. But in a normal Physics law, water finds its level. The current situation will arrange itself. You have been in politics for about 30 years. At 60, would you say you are fulfilled as a major player in Oyo State politics? I give thanks to God who has made it possible for me even to be alive today, but looking back as a politician, I will say that I have fulfilled my dream. What is my primary dream? It is making neighbours happy. I have been able to provide for the needy in the very little way I can and I have been useful to my community, both the immediate and the extended. But, generally, I have a lot of regrets at 60. I have a serious regret that as of today, the political class cannot make the country what it ought to be. I have regret as a Nigerian living in a country where the citizens can’t afford to eat three times a day. We have a lot of drop-outs and out-of-school children. One will regret being in a country where the majority don’t have access to quality healthcare and medical services. I have regret that the basic energy needs of the citizens are not available. Invariably, one will regret being in a country where the vast majority of citizens are living below the acceptable standard of life. What exactly do you consider the major problem facing Nigeria? I think it is about our orientation. If you are saying we should decentralise the government and we have local government chairmen who don’t even know what they are doing, wasting resources on things that are not relevant, what that means is that the wastage you are trying to correct through decentralisation will be repeated at the bottom level of government. I am sorry to say this and I could be too conservative – personally, there are things I don’t believe in. How on earth will someone say he is a civil servant and he comes to church or a mosque and donates N1m? We should know that such a person is a thief. It is very simple. They made you a Baba Adini and you donate N1m. But the tradition here is that people will hail such a person. We all saw a policeman that they call ‘too much money’ and we all saw the cars he rides in and nobody talked. People will just be condemning politicians. These are public workers. There are a lot of things we need to change and they have to do with our thinking. I am not saying that I am a saint, but I don’t respect people who are so rich and I know they did not work for the money. I will never respect such people. So, whether we restructure or we don’t restructure, it will not change the situation of Nigerians. Go and read BUDGIT report and you will see that some people are not supposed to be on Nigerian roads again. How can a senator allocate money for boreholes in rural communities and at the end of the day, the money was collected and the job was never done? I believe the problem is not about the constitution or the structure, but about the orientation of the individual. What do we respect in life as individuals? Some illiterates will come to people and say: ‘bring money and this will happen’. This is how they dupe people. I still want to say clearly that it is not about Africans. As of today, Egypt has almost 95 per cent electricity supply and the same thing for Tunisia and almost all North African countries. Why can’t electricity work in Nigeria? It will never work here because the orientation is so poor. Earlier when I was talking about my regrets, I remember that as Commissioner for Works, I fought, and my colleagues will bear me witness, that we should not be powering streetlights with generators. It is unreasonable. Why are we buying diesel to power streetlights? Why can’t we use solar panels? You recently launched a book entitled Dimensions of Energy Poverty and the Challenges of Rural Electrification. Give us an idea of what you are saying in the book? When you talk of energy poverty, you look at the variables. Is energy available? If it is available, is it accessible? If yes, is it affordable, reliable and sustainable? You put those five conditions together to analyse whether there is energy poverty or not. You must have seen people who were doing immunisation and they carry a cooler in which they put the vaccine. If you want to do immunisation at Ido Local Government Area and you put iced blocks in a cooler, will the cooler give the vaccine the prescribed temperature? You need to convince me that the temperature of that cooler is the prescribed temperature of the vaccine. Are we saying we can’t power all our primary healthcare centres with solar energy? Is it not to refrigerate vaccines, give light to treat patients, fan for ventilation and charge phones and sterilise medical wares? If a schoolboy has to rely on candles that can burn the whole house to read his books at night, it is energy poverty. In your view, how can government address the challenges of energy poverty? One, the policy and the planning have to be looked into. There is no local government in Nigeria where there is not a person who has elementary knowledge of electrical engineering or physics. We don’t have to recruit. Let someone be the rural electrification coordinator. The policy of someone sitting down in Abuja and awarding a rural electrification project in Fashola, Oyo State does not even come up. We should make it mandatory that every project must be attached to the NGOs in the council areas. If you post a teacher to Soku in Oyo State, the teacher will not report for duty there. But in civilized countries, most people prefer living outside the cities because there is nothing people are enjoying in the city that he does not have access to. Again, there are too many people who know next to nothing about rural electrification but are just mere contractors. You said earlier that solar panels will not work after two years, but I think it is about maintenance. If you install solar in your house, before it clocks two years, you will have something to repair there. And Nigeria is naturally dirty. If you put on a white shirt today, you can’t wear it tomorrow. You have travelled out of the country; you know you can wear a white shirt for days abroad. It is about the environment. The same thing happens to the panel. Once the panel is dusty, it needs to be maintained, but what do governments do here? They will order the removal of the dusty ones and award a new contract to make money. Most people look for money that they don’t really need. What is your assessment of the Federal Government’s privatisation of the power sector? I think they almost got it right but not. You know the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) still belongs to the government. Some people generate and rely on other people to distribute what is generated. What are we saying? Even though people were talking about food scarcity, why won’t there be food scarcity? Can the farmers preserve their farm produce? If you plant cashew now, one Chinese will just come and you will just have to sell it. If you plant cassava and you harvest it, you dare not allow it to be on the ground for 72 hours. And what the Chinese will do is that they won’t approach you the first day after you have harvested it. They will come on the third day so that they can gain a lot from the distress sale. But if there is a means by which you can preserve your products, then it means you will sell to them at a reasonable price. This issue of energy is multidimensional. You are aspiring to go to the Senate next year. What is prompting you to run for Senate?   I have facilitated streetlights in a number of places; with more than 500 posts streetlights across the state. It is a Federal Government project. I have facilitated the construction and renovation of blocks of classrooms in about 11 schools with boreholes and toilets provided and so on. This is part of what is prompting me to go to the Senate. If I can do all these using my name as a credible brand to achieve it, imagine the scale of what I will be able to do if I have political power in an elective position. Allah is my witness. I have never had economic consideration for political offices. What do I want? How much will I spend on a meal? You can work and earn your salary and there will be dignity in it. If anybody knocks on my door, I will give what I have. I have the vision of serving so I will be able to do more for the people. There are about five other aspirants interested in the same position in your party…   Transportation Varsity to begin academic activities in…     NFF may rename Peseiro for Super Eagles     Transporters clash in Lagos   That is democracy. Will I say they should not run? I read somewhere that someone said he should be considered because he is younger. My response was: how and when does age become part of the consideration for performance. They should tell us their deliverables and let’s see if they can deliver. The APC is an opposition party in Oyo State today. What are the chances of the party returning to power in the state? So, there is no disunity in PDP? You reporters and I are aware of aggrieved PDP members in Oyo State. They are people that worked for the man and installed him. I saw some Gbagi market people doing billboards, saying Seyi Makinde for the second term. How many elites do you see voting on election day? There are gatekeepers. For me, I commend Seyi Makinde for doing the Gedu-Sabo-Oroki road and that is the only road he is paved in Oyo. The road Ajimobi did, he has put streetlights on. He is adding value and government is a continuum… If I build a house and you are re-painting it and you are doing so at exorbitant prices, that is a loss to the state. Look at how much was spent rehabilitating the Adamasingba Sports complex? About N5.5 billion. God will judge. That place? But, there are new projects there and it is not just the stadium… Tell me about those new projects. He is introducing training pitches for our footballers, tennis courts and other facilities are also there too Were these things part of the N5.5billion? Yes.. Then, what is the value of the so-called new projects in the stadium? He also rebuilt the Akesan market in Oyo town… It does not matter. It is our money he used. He is spending the money for the people and for the state… He is spending it on exorbitant projects. At the appropriate time, we will come up with an analysis of his projects. That Adamasingba should not be worth more than N1.5billion. Quote me anywhere. We are just borrowing billions and billions of naira. I hope our great-grandchildren will not grow up to be paying these debts. But, his people are always making reference to Buhari who is borrowing more… When Makinde had not become governor, he was heavily criticizing Ajimobi for borrowing money. You people are not talking. They stole N9billion recently. It is still an allegation and EFCC has not come out with concrete evidence… In their response, the government is not saying money is not missing. They said it was spent on security vote. Does the government have the freedom to spend so much as a security vote? It is too certain that APC will take over Oyo in 2023. I can tell you that. Who is the APC likely to field against Makinde? Is it Folarin? Whoever the APC fields will defeat Makinde. If Folarin gets the ticket, it means he is the most popular. I have been going around the state. In Oyo town, they have eight local government chairmen; the only one you will see is Saheed Arowosaye. They are my brothers and sisters. I have attended more than 10 functions in Oyo; it is only him you will see.