Police in Anambra State yesterday said four of their men were killed in a clash with some gunmen. The four policemen were slain yesterday in Atani, Ogbaru council of the state, where the assailants attacked a police station, which was also burnt, The Nation was told. In Nnewi, there was also an incident in which four other persons were reportedly killed. The two incidents happened early hours of yesterday. The state police command told The Nation that the incident in Nnewi was an accident involving tricycle operators and a motorist, which led to a protest in which nobody died. Police spokesman Ikenga Tochukwu said the situation was brought under control by security operatives, adding that a tricycle operator was seriously wounded and taken to the hospital. But he described the Ogbaru incident as unfortunate, while confirming that the command lost four of its gallant men in a  battle with the gunmen. Tochukwu further said the police station at Atani in Ogbaru local government area was not burnt as being speculated, but partially torched. He said the incident took place around 1am yesterday, adding that security operatives were in the hunt for the hoodlums.   Eight containers of cutlasses, others seized at Lagos port     ‘Osinachi stayed in her marriage despite abuse’     American arrested with firearms at Lagos Airport   He said, the commissioner of police Echeng Echeng swore that miscreants would not invade the state and get away with it, adding that those responsible for any attack in the state must be brought to justice. An eyewitness told The Nation that the Nnewi incident was not an accident as claimed by the police. At Atani in Ogbaru local government area, a source who spoke with The Nation, said the gunmen shot nonstop and killed some policemen, while the station was burnt. On Monday, assailants shot a businessman, Mr Nnaemeka Chukwu, to death in Abakaliki, the state capital. It was 10 days to his wedding. Police spokesperson Loveth Odah confirmed the incident yesterday. “We have heard about it, but the command is yet to get the full details of the killing to enable it to make any arrest,” she said. Favour Chioma, the spouse-to-be, said: “Some boys accosted us; first, they shot into the air, then they ordered my husband to lie down and they shot him, collected my phone and left. A relative, who requested anonymity, said that the traditional wedding was to take place on April 21 at Amaiyima Ekpelu, in Ikwo Local Government Area of the state. “The church wedding was slated for April 23 also at Abakaliki,” he said.