The telephone conversation was brief and direct. “Mr. Yusuf, you have to help me deliver this message from God to Nigerians: my secret for 2023 presidential election is Bola Ahmed Tinubu sayeth the Lord,” Bishop Kayode Williams said when he called The Nation recently. Williams, who is better known for evangelism in prisons having spent time in prison himself for armed robbery where he met Christ, said thrice did he receive the message from heaven. An appointment for interview was thus agreed. He spoke exclusively to IBRAHIM APEKHADE YUSUF and FUNKE COLE. Excerpts: Can you shed more light on the message from God about Asiwaju Bola Tinubu winning the 2023 presidential elections? This story started in 2014 when God spoke and sincerely directed me to inform all the leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC). That was before the primaries. And I wrote to all of them, starting from the then Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie Oyegun; and Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the party. They were all struggling then. They didn’t know whether they should vote for Muhammadu Buhari or not. God said, no, Buhari was His choice; that I should tell the nation so. So, I wrote a letter to all of them that were in that contest including Alhaji Rabiu Kwankwanso, Owelle Rochas Okorocha. Everything is there: their names, the dates and copies of the letter. I hope they’re not going to deny me. Even God did not ask me to go and deliver the letters myself. He (God) asked me to connect Oba Adedapo Adewale Tejuoso to give out those letters to all of them. Oba Tejuoso now decided to send the letters by DHL. All of them received their copies. Some of them stepped down for Buhari. I think one or two refused. But the result is history now. Later God told me that Buhari would defeat the incumbent president, the person there. It was a bit controversial because so many people who heard about it said the incumbent could not be easily defeated. And for the first time in the history of this country, the incumbent, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan was defeated. Shortly after that phase, there was something that happened in Ondo State; it was during the primaries for who would be the governor of the state; so everywhere was tensed. And God asked me to write Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the traditional rulers in Nigeria, particularly obas in the Southwest specifically for them to intervene and allow Rotimi Akeredolu to contest because that was what God said to me; that he (Akeredolu) would win the election. God specifically instructed the obas and Asiwaju Tinubu to support Akeredolu because God has a bigger assignment in the future for him (Tinubu); that all Yoruba must unite and respect Tinubu. That was what God told me. He (God) said Tinubu should be humble. I specifically took a copy to Akeredolu. God said that Akeredolu should humble himself before Tinubu because He (God) had chosen him (Tinubu) for the upliftment of the Yorubas and the Nigerian nation. When I took the letter to Akeredolu I didn’t see him after enduring some long hours of waiting. So, I said to myself, I have been in prison and since God brought me out I thought to myself that why should I be going to give messages to people. Thankfully, before Akeredolu became governor I had known him, so I called his phone number and delivered the message. Akeredolu was once my lawyer when I was in prison. Mind you, he wasn’t the one that handled my criminal case. No. The case he handled for me was another case entirely. They (authorities) said there was a riot in the prison and that I didn’t support them to silent the inmates because their action was capable of breaching peace in the prison. That was the case. So, Akeredolu heard about the case and came to assist. So, when I came out of prison, we became friends. Akeredolu won the primaries and also won the election and the rest as they say is history. Again, in 2018 and 2019, when the electioneering campaigns began, some group of pastors came together. Let me say this. All pastors in Nigeria are divided into three bodies. We have the bigger body, Christians Association of Nigeria (CAN), which is the umbrella body of all Christians in Nigeria. We have founders of churches; some of them are not against CAN neither are they regular members of CAN, but they are kings in their different cathedrals. We also have independent ministers of God, who have nobody to help them up there or even down below. So, they remain there but they are working according to God’s directives in their small way. They may not have a large congregation, but when aggregated they are more in numbers than the Anglicans, the Catholics, all other big churches put together. These set of churches by independent ministers are in large numbers and these are the people that really vote. Majority of our leaders don’t vote; it is not even convenient for some leaders in the church. Even if they receive messages they want to announce to the church that God Has spoken, you must follow this man or that man, it is not possible because church members don’t belong to only one party. But as for independent pastors, when God speaks to them, they can direct their members on what to do because the message is a mandate from God, which is different because there are pastors called hirelings, who are recruited and paid by some masters. As a hireling, you cannot go beyond what your masters say. I’m not using this to put down anybody. God sees my mind. I’m only trying to analyse things. The majority of people that will vote are within our organisation, the Integrity Ministers International Ministry Incorporated (IMIM). We have members across the different 774 local government areas in the federation. We’re seriously in control of the grassroots. And that is why my message must be general considering the respect that I have for all our leaders in big churches. I’m giving them the message of God. I’m not forcing anybody. I’m only saying the truth that they should look at it and consider whether it is from the Lord or not, because the Bible says they have the right to go into prophetical message and analyse. The letters you sent to the APC top shots you mentioned earlier, do you still have copies? Yes, I will let you have them. Most people know you as a minister of God involved in prison ministry, so at what point in time did you delve into receiving prophetic political messages? I have been receiving it but I didn’t want to go and be exposing things about governance and people would say someone who just came out of prison. Right from prison, immediately I gave my life to Christ, I have been receiving revelations about Nigeria. I was in prison during the regime of Shehu Sagari and I saw a vision that he was ousted in a coup. When I told my fellow inmates they mocked me. They said, “haha, Joseph alala. (Joseph the dreamer) what are you saying? Take it easy o. You just received Jesus o.” So I had to go back into my shell.  What most Nigerians don’t know is that they play politics in the prisons. Serious politics goes on in the prisons. There is APC, PDP, and all kinds of parties in the prison community. During electioneering campaigns, even prisoners mount the rostrum to canvass votes for their favorite candidates and parties. In the prisons, politics there is very serious because they can beat you to a pulp and you can’t escape the wrath if you say something stupid. I also remember I dreamt about Bola Ige’s murder. I shared the vision with a few pastors and they said how do you prove this? They said that’s not just possible. He is the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation with all security apparatus at his beck and call. Coincidentally, the day they killed Bola Ige, I was in Ibadan; my house is not far from Bodija. But now, boldness came particularly when Muhammadu Buhari wanted to contest in 2015. Buhari had been struggling to become president. He never achieved that aim; he had been failing. Most prophets prophesied at that time that Goodluck Jonathan would retain power. I was the only person, the lone ranger who said otherwise. Newspapers refused to publicise it. I don’t want to mention names of the papers. In fact, somebody told me when they were interviewing me that, “a o le ko eleyi jade” (We cannot publish this.) I was able to come out boldly at that time because I felt I was now in the shoes of leaders. So, I prophesied and said, “Thus sayeth the Lord. Buhari will win.” The argument then was that how would it be possible. According to what God has been telling me Tinubu will bring back the glory of Nigeria. That was why I sent all those letters. When I prophesied that time nobody believed me. But God that sent me made it a reality. Buhari won the primaries and the general elections in 2014-2015. In 2018, I came out again to say Buhari would retain power. But people were shouting, “ebi n pa wa o. Nigeria o da mo.” (People are hungry, things are worsening in Nigeria).You know all the noise. I came out at the time, even went on the radio, Lagos Radio to be precise. I was even interviewed by some newspapers including The Nation. I said Buhari was going to win the election. Even my own people started fighting me. Buhari won in 2019. Now 2023 is right at the corner. God spoke to me not just once but thrice. You said earlier that some clergymen congregate on the mountain to receive prophetic messages. Tell us how these things happen. Are they in form of trance or dream or the thought just drops on your mind?   Kidnapped FCT monarch, two others regain freedom     Northern elders and Buhari’s resignation     Tinubu to youths: With you on my side, we’ll make Nigeria…   Since the last election, we have been holding our prayers every Friday on a mountain in Osun State. Some people curse the president and the nation, but we pray against such curses that bring condemnation to the nation. God knows what is happening because whosoever that is on the throne as a leader, God wants us to pray for him. So, there is nothing that you want to tell God that He doesn’t know. If you remember the Bible where the Israelites murmumed against Moses in the wilderness. They started cursing him, and God started reacting, fighting and killing the followers. And the Israelites were dying. Moses had to plead on their behalf and God instructed Moses to lift up a serpent because it was the serpent that was biting them, killing them with a poisonous serpent. And God gave Moses instruction that whosoever that had been bitten by the snake should raise his eyes above and watch the serpent He will forgive and heal them and it happened. This dispensation, there is no Moses; Jesus is in total control because as Moses lifted up the snake in the wilderness. It is not for a pastor to sit down in the corner of his room and say thus sayeth the Lord, God revealed or I saw. But when you hear thus sayeth the Lord, there will be a voice under the inspiration and impartation of God through one of the prophets. After he might have spoken which will be written down by the secretary of the organisation, another person will speak. Because so many people might have been slain in the spirit so we would wait for a second person. Everybody will be quiet. There will be no more praying; prayers will stop either by ringing of the bell. But again, we don’t normally ring the bell otherwise other speakers will not speak again. There must be no break in transmission. So the prophetic message will come out. Thus sayeth the Lord. I’m trying to clarify your question. Then the third one will be heard. After the third one, we will stop because the witness must be from two to three then we will establish the truth. In 2020, God spoke to me to tell Nigerians to stop cursing but people did not stop. In 2021, God reminded me again. We would not have suffered greatly the way the COVID-19 pandemic devastated Nigeria. Before that time, we were saying we didn’t have money and in fact, were borrowing money to implement all manners of projects but when the pandemic broke out, we were all imprisoned in our houses, everyone was under lockdown. This happened because we had cursed the country with our mouths. God is not a joker. As I told you earlier, God told us in 2016 that He was going to raise Bola Ahmed Tinubu for Nigeria; you will all see. And the message was sent to obas and God mentioned specifically the name of the oba that must be given the letters through Oba Adedapo Adewale Tejuoso. He is my best evangelistic pastor. He is the Chairman and President of the Christians Traditional Rulers of Nigeria. He was the one who gave letters to Buhari. The good thing is that we were able to pass the message across. When this one came out, three times, I called Oba Tejuoso and said, “It’s Bola Ahmed Tinubu.” You said you received the messages thrice on how Tinubu will emerge victorious in the 2023 presidential elections. Can you mention these dates and times the messages came to you? I will need to check all those dates to be able to give you specific answers. But I remember sometime last year, 2021, I shared the message with Cardinal James Omolaja Odunmbaku, also known as the Baba Etoo. He is the Visioner/President of Christ Ambassador Soul Winners, because I believe he is closer to Tinubu. I went to his house. So when this message came, God told me to take it to Odumbaku. But he was not around. When he came back, he called me and said, ‘Bishop I saw your message for Tinubu.” I said, “e ma je ko tutu o, ogbonna oo. Tinubu ma wole.’ (It’s hot, let it not get cold. Tinubu will win).That time even the shenanigans we’re all seeing today was happening because nobody was even thinking about elections. Then, at another programme, I asked him last year, ‘have you given this message to Tinubu?’ And when I went back to Baba Tejuoso and said God Has spoken, he agreed with me, but said that we should go back and listen to God again. I’m quoting him verbally. He told me that last year. He said you have only confirmed it once, I want God to confirm it again. Then I went back and he (Oba Tejuoso) asked, “ki lOluwa tunso?” Se Tinubu yi naa si ni?  (What has God said this time? Is it Tinubu still?).Then I said, “Kabiyesi oun ni, Tinubu ni Oluwa tun so oo.” (Yes kabiyesi, he’s the one God confirmed).The third time was last month or two months ago. Elder Fajemisin was with me. We were writing and updating the notes and preparing the letters together. Because we could not just bring out a piece of paper and pass to Tinubu and say this is the message. We had to sit down. Fajemisin is a journalist of high repute. He retired as a Director of Programmes in NTA, Abuja. He knows my integrity and hence decided to join this ministry. He knows what I’m saying. He was the one writing. So, the third message now came. That was the last one and we were preparing how to take the message to Baba Akande because God mandated us to go and give Baba Akande. But they said Baba Akande was in Abuja. I don’t want to go to the gate of Tinubu and be lurking around like a nuisance. Even some pastors have been troubling me to lead people to Bourdillion Road saying that way I can gain access to Tinubu but I told them to wait for God’s direction. When Tinubu returned from London after his medical trip, they forced me and I had to dance to their tune, so we took my car and some others. Justice Shogbola, the president of this organisation; mama doesn’t believe in “nigbati ngbati woli kan so pe” (when a prophet said). But because of the integrity and trust she has found in me, she decided to accept the leadership because she has been seeing the consistency and the follow-up of all my prophetic messages. And I said Mama because you know all these things you’re a judge of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, you retired from the National Industrial Court, you are part of us. This is just to confirm to the whole world that it is not an imagination because if a judge is part of this set up, any reasonable person will know we’re not joking here. This is a woman, not a frivolous person. You can go and check her antecedents. So, she accepted. So when I now informed Oba Tejuoso that Kabiyesi, this letter must be submitted, he said glory be to God. That is what is gearing us up to speak out now. The copies for Tinubu, we wanted to go through his daughter, Sade, because the Iyaloja lives in the same place with my wife. But my fear is that if I go anyhow, people will say it is manipulation. But I know Sade as my daughter but this is God’s message. But I told myself I cannot use that familiarity to say, Sade go and give your father because God said. Politics is big business which requires funding. You have mentioned that your group hopes to mobilise support for him. Who is going to be bankrolling this project? In the 774 local governments in Nigeria, we have members. God has decided in His infinite mercy to grant us the opportunity of the mandate in the six geo-political zones in Nigeria that we must mobilise people to be praying for the success of the election and success particularly of Tinubu in every area. Our mandate also is that because we are sure of what God hath said that it will come to pass, that immediately he starts his campaign, all our members in the city, we must mobilise to go and be praying and make sure that there’s no calamity. Kí ṣe wípé Olúwa jẹ ó wọ lé, ó ti wọle. (The prayer point is not that he should win; he has won already). This is not a prediction neither is it a forecast, permutation or guesswork. God said Bola Ahmed Tinubu is His choice for Nigeria come 2023. In fact, our members are no longer praying for Tinubu to win the elections because we know his victory has already been sealed in heaven above. We’re only praying that God protects him from all forms of evil machinations ahead of his inauguration in 2023. Note this down. You are a leader in the Christendom. Interestingly Asiwaju Tinubu is a Muslim. How do you marry this? Couldn’t the Lord have shown you a Christian, as against a Muslim? God does not see things the way we do. If God wants to send rain, He sends rain for both Christians and Muslims. God does not see anybody as a Christian or Muslim, He sees us as the work of His Hands. We have made a choice in the world to follow. That’s the way God is seeing us. It was when I came out of the prison that I went to the university to do diploma in Human Resource Management to increase my knowledge. God does not look at the people He created as Chinese or Russians. God sees them as human beings and that’s what the Bible says that in the beginning God created them male and female. Did He mention Muslim? When God speaks, I cannot go and query the integrity of God. Galatians 3:28 says that ‘there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.’