Edo State Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu has congratulated the Executive Chairman of Edo State Sports Commission (ESSC) Yussuf Alli on his appointment as the Coordinator of Team Nigeria to the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games in the United Kingdom. A letter signed by His Excellency said Edo State was very proud of Alli’s achievements. Said Shaibu:‘’ It gives me great delight to felicitate with you on your appointment as the Coordinator of the Birmingham 2022 Commonwealth Games by the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. More importantly, this is coming barely two months after your appointment as Executive Chairman of Edo State Sports Commission (ESSC) “Indeed, it is heartwarming to say this appointment is well deserved and testament to your pedigree as renowned international sportsman cum administrator par excellence.” Similarly, organiser of the Okpekpe international 10km road race, Mike Itemuagbor has also hailed Alli’s appointment.   Aribo, Bassey up for Rangers’ awards     Aruna’s TTC qualifies for Bundesliga play-off     India 2022: Pharaoh gals arrive for Flamingos’ fight   “This is a classic case of a square peg in a square hole and I want to first congratulate the Sports Minister, Chief Sunday Dare, for making such a fitting appointment,” said Itemuagbor. Yusuf has proved his mettle as an athlete, winning continental, Commonwealth and global medals for Nigeria. He has also proved to be an astute sports administrator and this he has proved by helping to make the Okpekpe 10km road race the first to be granted a World Athletics label.” He added :“He (Yusuf) is also behind the Lagos City marathon’s achievement as the second road race in Nigeria to get a label rating,’ added Itemuagbor who is convinced Alli is destined for greater things. “Yusuf has proved to be the best amongst his colleagues and I was not surprised when he was named Edo state Sports Commission chairman. His Excellency, Governor Godwin Obaseki could not have made a better man for the job,” added Itemuagbor. Itemuagbor is convinced both Edo state and Nigeria will benefit immensely from Alli’s technical and administrative know-how. Alli has been the technical director and consultant for the Okpekpe 10km road race since inception in 2013. The 61-year-old Alli holds a personal best of 8.27m in the long jump set on his way to winning the African Athletics Championship gold medal at the National stadium, Surulere, Lagos in August 1989. That mark is the farthest any Nigerian man, dead or living has jumped. He also holds the 8.15m best in the event indoors.