Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has stated that those seeking a consensus presidential candidate in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are not sincere. The Governor, who is vying to be the PDP Presidential flag bearer in the 2023 elections, said whoever emerges as the presidential candidate will have his support. Wike, who was at the Niger PDP Secretariat to canvass support of delegates in the May 29th convention, said that he will agree on consensus if it is based on equity, justice and fairness. “I will agree on consensus if it is based on equity, justice and fairness because as it is those who are talking about consensus are not sincere and there is nothing like consensus in our constitution. “I have made myself available to run for the President of the federal republic of Nigeria under the PDP. I have been a member of PDP since 1998. I have never left this party and I will not leave this party, no matter what anyone will do. “Whoever emerges as the flag bearer, I will do whatever I can to ensure that the PDP wins the election.” Wike said Nigeria needs a courageous and fearless leader “someone who will say this is white and this is black, someone who is straightforward”.   2022 WASSCE: No clash in date with UTME — WAEC     Crowd welcomes former APC scribe Akpanudoedehe to Akwa-Ibom     Easter: Seminarian dies acting Jesus drama in Imo   He urged the PDP members in the State not to be swayed by sentiments, urging them to give him the mandate to make Nigeria right again. “Don’t let anyone come and deceive you. We are tired of lies. I will do what I did in Rivers State in Nigeria. ” I am here to match the APC in whatever they bring. If you give me the ticket, APC should start packing because they know it is over. “I will be the President for the poor and I will be a man who keeps his word. Rivers State is a testimony to what I can do to transform Nigeria,” he said. Niger PDP Chairman, Barrister Tanko Beji, said that the PDP convention will be a make- or-mar primary, adding that every member who loves PDP must strive to do what is right. He stated the need for the party to change its reward system whereby those who are loyal are rewarded while those who are disloyal are punished. Beji said that the PDP members will not be deceived anymore, adding that it is only those who will do the right thing that would get their support.