The Federal Government, through the Federal Executive Council (FEC), approved the establishment of 12 new private universities across the country on April 6, 2022. Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed made this known last week in Abuja. He listed the benefitting states to include Kano, Niger, Gombe, Sokoto, Delta, Abia, Anambra and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). However, there are concerns on whether it is a good move by the Federal Government since the  Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has been on strike since February 14. Last year, the FEC approved the establishment of 20 private universities. The recent approval for additional 12 increased the number of private universities from 99 to 111. In 2019, former Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund), Suleiman Bogoro, said 94 per cent of students attend public tertiary institutions. A  2019 record by Statista shows that, in 2019, there were over 1.8 million full-time undergraduates in the country. 1,206,825 students attend federal universities, 544,936 attend state universities and 102,500 attend private universities. However, the country has not been able to meet international standards regarding budgetary provisions for education and  has been doing far less than some of her neighbouring countries. In six years, Nigeria budgeted N3.6 trillion out of N55.3 trillion for education. The allocation to the sector is still less than 10 per cent. The period covers the year 2016 to 2021. In 2016, of the total budget of N6.06 trillion, N369.6 billion or 6.7 per cent was allocated to public education. In 2017, N550 billion or 7.38 per cent  was allocated to education of the N7.29 trillion budget, while in 2018, N605.8 billion or 7.04 per cent was given to education of the N9.2 trillion budget. In 2019, N620 billion or 7.05 per cent was allocated to education out of the budget of N8.92 trillion, while in 2020, N671.07 billion or 6.7 per cent was given to education of the N10.33 trn budget. In 2021, N742.5 billion or 5.6 per cent was allocated to education from  a budget of N13.6 trillion. Students  react Iniobong Antia, a student at the University of Uyo (UNIUYO) said private universities were not needed because the masses could not afford them. “We don’t need private universities now, not just because of the economic situation, but because the masses can’t afford it. Sadly, other universities around are not functioning well.  Government should improve the  ones we have first,” she said. Babatunde Adebayo, a 200-Level Literature-in-English student  at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, said the Federal Government should ease the burden on parents and students by effectively managing existing ones. “We have many federal and state universities which are not well managed. Now, approving additional 12 private universities at this point  is unacceptable. How many parents can afford  the fees of N1 million-plus with the current economic situation of this country?  Government should ease the burden on both parents and students by trying to manage the institutions we have,” he said. A student at The Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, who craved anonymity, said: “This is a misplaced priority. What good will the 12 new private universities do given the state of insecurity and economic imbalance in the country? Has the Ministry of Education settled their issues with ASUU? Will the top politicians bring their children back from abroad to be educated in those approved  universities? Federal Government should outline the major interest of our country and work towards that.” Oshinaike Oluwafunmilola, a 200-Level student at Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, said the government should improve existing tertiary institutions and bring solutions to the problems bedeviling  the education sector. “Approving more private universities is not necessary. At least, the ones we have are more than enough. Rather than having more universities, why not channel that energy into working on improving the ones already in existence and also make sure there are no issues concerning the education system as a whole? Provision of enough funds  for research work, improving the infrastructural facilities in the various tertiary institutions, and provision of employment for graduating students are quite essential,” she said. For Boluwatife Ojo, a 500-Level Law student at Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), the new  private universities will contribute to the economic growth of the country and create employment opportunities and competition among other  universities. “I am convinced that the establishment of the new 12 private universities will contribute to the economic growth of the country and create employment opportunities and competition among public universities. In a developing nation like ours, the economic situation of the country should not be allowed to undermine the development via education. “This also serves as a platform for competition among universities, especially private universities. It is a trite law that where there is competition in a particular sector, definitely there will be  reduction in prices. The same goes for the private university, once there are options for a student  to leverage a lesser university where he will get the necessary knowledge which he would have gotten in an expensive university, such a student will definitely opt for a cheaper university,” he said. Jimoh Abdullahi, a 400-Level student at  University of Ilorin(UNILORIN) said some parents would not be able  to afford huge amounts paid  these universities. “ The private owners are conscious of the appalling condition of the public tertiary schools so, they see that as an opportunity for their business. I am highly disappointed at the action of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) who gave them a nod of approval. This  is  an attempt to deepen the open wound of ASUU.  If it continues like this, the children of the rich only will have access to qualitative education while the children of the impoverished parents may not be able to afford private universities when  public tertiary institutions become moribund,” he said. Oluwapelumi Olajiga, a final year student at the Ekiti State University (EKSU), said, the Federal Government needs to work towards having better public universities, especially in the face of the present economic situation. “What we need now is not more private universities, we need better universities. There is no greatness in having more private universities and we are still dealing with a dysfunctional education system. Nigeria should work towards having better universities than having more universities with the nation’s economic situation,” she said. Joseph Adeyinka, a 300-Level student,  Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), said: “There is no need for the Federal Government to establish more universities whether it is private or not. There is an ongoing strike by ASUU that needs to be addressed, government is yet to address it.  The creation of private universities will add to the number of universities we have in the country but won’t help to reduce the number of roaming students on the streets due to the exorbitant amount needed to pay. I will urge the Federal Government to focus on reaching an agreement with ASUU rather than creating more universities in a time like this.” Lekan Dipo, a 100-Level Mathematics student, OAU, said:  “What does it cost Federal Government to approve those schools? It is not a bad idea if it gives the go ahead for the establishment of these universities. The Federal government cannot carry the affairs of the whole country alone,hence the need for private institutions to help the education sector.   Niger owes WAEC N295m 2021 exam fees     Looking beyond the 2023 elections     Europa: Leicester beat PSV to reach first European semi   “When it comes to government and ASUU,we should all understand there is more to the crisis. However, I believe the establishment of the private universities will improve and enhance the education sector.” Chime Augustine, a final year student at Modibbo Adama University of Technology (MAUTECH), Yola, said it is a good for the education sector since government lacks the capacity to bring the needed development to the existing universities. His words: “Quality is more important than quantity. Even though quantity isn’t necessarily a bad thing, More private universities means that private entities see the education sector as a viable and profitable sector which in a way is a good thing. “Without proper monitoring and regulation, you are looking at cash grabs trying to profit off people without giving proper education. I believe the government does not see value in our education and gradually wants to place the sector in the hands of private entities.” Another student at EKSU, Salako Emmanuel said the approval of new private universities is a misplaced priority. He said the government should be focused on improving and revitalising public universities. He said: “I  think the action just described the level of urgency towards raising public universities to a standard that would ease learning and put an end to the incessant strike that happens almost every year. ” It is a misplacement of priority because, for now, all plans should be  how to improve and revitalise public universities; create conducive learning environment while  working towards meeting the demands of ASUU. “We don’t  we need more private universities for now. There are records of graduates   looking around for job opportunities but could not find one after having paid huge amount of money to study. “Will less privileged parents  still be motivated to ‘hustle’ and send their wards to  a private university knowing full well that it doesn’t guarantee a well-paid job after school? Well, if this system of government is true democracy and patriotic as it claims to be, then the interest of the people should come first; not what they think would add to the list of their achievements.” Okiki Moses Okikiola a student at Ogun State Institute of Technology  (OGITECH) Igbesa, said the move is a recipe for discrimination, though it will boost the economy. His words:  “Why will Federal Government keep approving schools  that are  not benefitting the majority? This simply is passing a message to the majority that education is not for the poor.  This might lead to discrimination as time goes on since our Federal schools are always on strike. ” However,  it will help our economy because it will allow students in neighbouring countries  to study in Nigeria.” Ayo Genesis, a student at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, said: “Our education is in a terrible state. How will  private universities provide solutions? Government should try to  restructure the education system instead of creating private universities. Truth is, it cannot work.” Zainab Yetunde Adam, a student at  University of Maduguri, urged Federal Government  to settle   with ASUU before approving more universities. “The time, energy and money that the new ones need to function can be used to improve he education sector. This seems like a misplaced priority,”  she said. Olajuwon Olamilekan, a student at The Polytechnic Ibadan, hailed the Federal Government,saying it would give students opportunity to gain admission without delay. Abdulmumeen  Adetimirin, an AAUA student noted that  there was nothing wrong in the  action of Federal Government because  private universities  don’t run like  state or federal  universities. “They  sort out their issues, generate their revenue internally and as we know they are not under any federal association involving universities like ASUU. Their decisions are taken by board members which usually involves many people unlike federal universities or state where decision can solely be taken by the governor or president,” he said. He noted  that their calendar runs smoothly unlike federal or state universities which are affected by incessant strikes,  though they may have internal crises but overall, they are preferable in terms of manpower, comfort, conducive environment, easy access to learning facilities etc. “However, something unfavourable about private universities is the exorbitant school fees which makes it the sole preserve  of  wealthy people,” he added. Folarin Semilore Deborah, another  OGITECH student said: “This is not the best idea at this point in time because we already have enough schools. We don’t need additional institutions in Nigeria but the existing ones should be well run with  adequate infrastructural facilities.” Michael Uzoma, a student at  Landmark University, Omu Aran, Kwara State said: “We are supposed to look for a way to make education better in this country not trying to cover it up with private universities. Private universities or not the education system has failed us and is still failing us.Are private universities the solution to a dysfunctional education system?” Favour Samuel, a student of the University of Uyo in his words said: “We do not need only private universities but any universities because thenone we have, what good has it done? Let the government rebrand our education system instead of erecting more buildings.” Abubakir Jamiu, a student at EKSU said:  “The government should give more attention to the existing public universities. When public universities are running smoothly, nobody will think of going to private schools. The education sector remains in shambles. This should be the priority of government.” Amusan Latifat,  a student at  Bayero University Kano said: “Lack of proper planning for the educational needs of the country leads to proliferation of schools. However, proliferation  of universities creates more problems than it solves. “As a country, even with the steady, unbroken string of civilian administrations, funding remains a major challenge in education. ” In the 2022 budget, valued at N17 trillion, only 7.2 per cent was allocated to education, even with the proliferation of universities. It means that for education to fulfill its role of increasing economic efficiency and social consistency to the point of helping to raise the poor from poverty, it will continue to suffer dearth of  funding that will stifle running costs, truncate research advancements, result in lack of infrastructural development, encourage further brain drain, prevent institutions from having laboratories, electricity, staff offices, libraries, students’ hostels, administrative blocks, recreation centres, good road network and undoubtedly lead to more strikes as is currently the case between government and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). Iyanuoluwa Emmanuel, a student at Federal University University Oye-Ekiti(FUOYE),  noted that this was a wrong decision by the Federal Government. His words: “How will they approve 12 new private universities when the public universities are suffering neglect? It is  indeed the wrong time to give such approval when ASUU is yet to be settled.”