It is a consensus that the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations Qualifying campaign allows the Super Eagles to erase the heartbreaks suffered by Nigerians after they surrendered the 2022 FIFA World Cup ticket after they lost on the away goal rule to the Black Stars of Ghana but they have been warned to take all the six qualifiers seriously. Nigeria was drawn in Group A alongside Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissau, and Sao Tome and Principe or Mauritius at the draw ceremony held in Johannesburg and conducted by CAF Director of Competitions, Nigerian Samson Adamu with the assistance of African legends South African Lucas Radebe and Ivorian Solomon Kalou . Yet , there’s a disciplinary procedure involving Sao Tome and Mauritius and the winner of this petition will now feature in the qualifiers as the fourth team in Group A. The Dodos of Mauritius had protested the ineligibility of one of Sao Tome’s players who played a key role in helping his team qualify. He was alleged to have been fielded despite contracting Covid-19 before the game. The first sets of matches are billed to resume in June and both the Djurtus of Guinea Bissau as well as the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone would be no strangers to the Super Eagles having met in recent outings. While the Super Eagles subdued Guinea Bissau 2-0 at the 2021 AFCON in Garoua, Cameroon John Keister’s led Leone Stars got two morale boosting draws against Gernot Rohr’s Eagles to qualify for Cameroon 2021 AFCON. The Eagles were embarrassed by the Leone Stars at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City after they fought back from 4-0 down to finish the tie 4-4 to the chagrin of Nigerians while the reverse fixture played at the Steven Siaka Stadium in Free Town ended goalless. Both games were played in November 2020. While reacting to the draw, Kalou who won the 2015 AFCON with Cote d’Ivoire , Salomon exuded confidence that the Super Eagles were the team to beat in Group A , adding they should not break bones to pick a ticket to Cote d’Ivoire 2023. “Nigeria are the favourites to qualify from Group A. They have always tried to qualify for previous tournaments and this won’t be different,” the former Chelsea striker told SuperSport. “They must prepare adequately to avoid a major upset. All African countries are trying to measure up and anything can happen.” However, former Nigeria international midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju, has warned that the Super Eagles not to underrate any of their Group A foes in the build-up to the 2023 Africa Cup of Nations. “We cannot underrate any team now. We just have to take all the qualifying games as seriously as ever. No team is a pushover,” Adepoju, who earned 54 caps with the Super Eagles, told NationSport. “Every team is improving every day and we can’t say that the Eagles already have the AFCON on the platter. They must work harder to earn the points.” The veteran of four African Cup of Nations and three World Cup appearances hailed the new composition of the Super Eagles’ coaching crew, adding that the new additions would galvanize the team who is still recovering from the pain of missing out on the ticket to the 2022 FIFA World Cup slated for Qatar in November. He said: “I don’t have any problem with the choice of the Eagles technical crew. We have Finidi George who I know would add value to the bench and also Ike Shorunmu and Usman Abd’Allah among others. “All the games are very important and they must be approached with the same mentality and seriousness.” Similarly, former international Edema Fuludu admitted that the Super Eagles were drawn in an easy qualifying group for the 2023 AFCON but need not underestimate their opponents.   Oboh keeps eyes on Paris 2024 Olympics     One ‘killed’, vehicles razed as tanker explodes…     No economic democracy, no political democracy    “There are no easy countries and easy games now, if you don’t take the games seriously, you may be shocked, even at home. It is a tricky draw and we need to be prepared from day one, to avoid permutations. We must get our points from the beginning and prepare very well,” Fuludu noted. “We cannot afford to suffer another heartbreak having yet to recover from the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup debacle brought to us by our inability to beat the Black Stars of Ghana to the ticket. We must focus on our build-up to the 2023 AFCON qualifiers so that we do not rely on the results from other venues.” Meanwhile, former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Dele Aiyenugba, has harped on early preparations for the games, stressing that the Eagles could use the 2023 AFCON qualifiers to ease the pain of their 2022 FIFA World Cup failure. “Ordinarily it’s supposed to be a very easy one for us,” Aiyenugba explained. “But our preparation for these matches is important and the frame of mind of the players is also important despite the fact that this is an easy group.” “Sierra Leone, Guinea Bissau, and either Sao Tome or Mauritius are no match to the Super Eagles, and being paired with them affords them the chance to show Nigerians that their elimination by Ghana from the 2022 FIFA World Cup ticket was just an unfortunate setback.” Equally Godwin Okpara, the former Paris Saint-Germain defender and AFCON 2000 finalist, added: “That’s supposed to be a very easy group but in football, you can never predict a match until it’s been played. Look at the 2021 Nations Cup and see what Sierra Leone did. You can’t look down on them. We must not underrate any team; we must prepare well and get the best players.” In the meantime, speaking to Sports Brief, Union Berlin striker Taiwo Awoniyi explained that the Super Eagles must do all within their reach to qualify for the 2023 AFCON . ”There is nothing like an easy Group as every African nations want to play at the AFCON and we must take all the games seriously so as for us to pick the ticket,” Awoniyi who bagged his first Super Eagles goal against Guinea Bissau at the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon, said. Yet former Green Eagles skipper, Christian Chukwu, has tipped the three-time African champions to qualify for Cote d’Ivoire 2023, but reckoned getting the ticket won’t come cheap. “On paper, the draw seems like an easy one for Nigeria but the truth is that qualification will not come easy – we have to work hard for it,” Chukwu, who led Nigeria to her maiden AFCON title on home soil in 1980, warned. “We have played Sierra Leone and Guinea Bissau in recent times. They know us so well and they will be coming to hurt us. “Either Mauritius or Sao Tome and Principe are dark horses but this is football and we must watch out for them because they can be a surprise package. “I am a Nigerian and I will be proud to see us play in Cote d’Ivoire 2023, but football is no longer about wishful thinking. Our administrators and players must show that we merit to be there.” He also gave useful tips on what the country must do to secure early qualification to Cote d’Ivoire. “First, we must take every game seriously and make sure we win our first game,” he continued. “Nigeria looked content scoring two goals then go on to relax. That being said, we must convert every chance that comes our way. Doing this will send a big warning signal to other opponents. “Let me point out here that Nigerians are still angry that the Super Eagles crashed out of the Round of 16 at Cameroon 2021 coupled with the fact that we will not be at the 2022 FIFA World Cup “Securing an early ticket in AFCON 2023 will be a good way to appease all disappointed football enthusiasts globally.” However, the NFF has said that the Eagles will commence their qualifiers with a home fixture against Sierra Leone before heading to either Sao Tome and Principe who are eyeing a maiden appearance at AFCON, or Mauritius whose only appearance at AFCON was in 1974.