President Muhammadu Buhari, on Friday, received the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming June 18, 2023 governorship election in Ekiti State, Biodun Oyebanji, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The candidate was led to the President by the National Chairman of the party, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the National Secretary, Senator Iyiola Omisore, and Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Governor Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State. According to a statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said “you have served Ekiti State in many capacities, including as Chief of Staff, Commissioner, and Secretary to the State Government. Being governor will just be continuity of service. I honestly wish you the best of luck.” The National Chairman said APC was planning to win the contest, “by the grace of God,” adding that it was the reason the candidate was being presented for presidential blessings. “With us here, we present to you the reason for our being in the Presidential Villa this morning. We have, to my immediate right here, for now, Mr. Abiodun Abayomi Oyebanji, who is the gubernatorial candidate of our great party, APC, in the forthcoming election on the 18th of June, this year. “We came to present him as the successful candidate after our very thorough, transparent primaries  that was held in Ekiti, to present him as a candidate for Mr. President’s blessing, and the President, as the father and leader of our party, present him formally, the flag of our great party, APC. That is what we’ve just done and I’m so happy, the President was very happy, very hilarious, in receiving the candidate and by the grace of God, the governor to be in Ekiti State.   Khafi Kareem: A reckoning for ex-BBnaija housemate     Yul Edochie’s surprise: A second wife!     Terrorists, bandits facing difficulties over NIN/SIM linkage…   “We thought it appropriate to stop over with you, to give you some of these backgrounds as to why we’re here and how it went. It went very well and we’re very grateful to our President for the very warm reception that he gave us at very short notice. It is our hope that we will find you partners in this journey for entrenching and deepening Nigeria’s democracy. Governor Fayemi said Oyebanji had been involved in governance in Ekiti in the past 20 years, and has acquitted himself creditably. Oyebanji, speaking to State House Correspondents after the presentation, said, his manifesto is to foster prosperity in Ekiti State, and continue with the project of the Kayode Fayemi administration. He said “we are confident of victory. Because we are sure that if performance is a yardstick for electoral success, we have nothing to fear.” Asked if Nigerians will continue to see the cordial relationship between him and Fayemi or politics will tear them apart, he said “well, we have never had that history in Ekiti state. “You will recall that Governor Fayemi and Governor Adebayo had a very excellent relationship, and we’ve been lucky in Ekiti State because we have had successful succession. And I hope, and I believe strongly that we are going to follow that trajectory, we have never had such a history in Ekiti state, you can check your records”, he said.