The candidate of the Social Democratic Party(SDP) in the June 18 Ekiti governorship poll Segun Oni on Wednesday narrowly escaped assassination in Efon Alaye in Efon local government area. It was gathered that gunmen suspected to be thugs stormed the SDP Secretariat located in the heart of the town where Oni was expected to meet with his supporters in continuation of his consultation tour ahead of the poll. A source in the town told The Nation that the thugs shot sporadically into the air forcing people to scamper for safety to prevent being caught in the web of the melee. According to the source, vehicles were damaged and several members of SDP sustained varying injuries. They are receiving medical treatment in undisclosed hospital in the town. The Director of Media and Publicity of Engr. Segun Oni Campaign Organisation, Adebayo Jackson said it took the intervention of security operatives attached to the ex-Governor to repel and dislodge the arm-weilding attackers He said: “The convoy of the Segun Oni Campaign Organisation was brutally attacked with gunshots, cutlasses, sticks and stones by the fierce-looking thugs at Efon Alaaye in Efon Local Government Area of Ekiti State yesterday.   UCL: Villarreal stun German Champion Bayern 1-0 in Spain     BREAKING: Benzema scores hat-trick as Chelsea bow to Real…     Two die in ex-President Jonathan’s convoy crash   “The campaign train which had toured nine local governments since Monday and fully received by large turnout of members and supporters of the Social Democratic Party ( SDP) was attacked with gunshots, cutlasses and other dangerous weapons at the center of the town around 3.30pm. “Shortly after the Efon Local Government members and supporters of the SDP had converged at the venue to wait for the arrival of the party’s governorship candidate, Asiwaju Segun Oni, the thugs started to shoot guns and attacked the SPD supporters with sticks and cutlasses. “Some supporters were badly injured and vehicles in the convoy were damaged by thugs before the arrival of a detachment of police which overpowered the thugs An officer of the Nigeria Civil Defense Corps was not spare by the thugs as they attempted to snatch his gun. He was wounded but refused to surrender his gun”, he said. When contacted, Ekiti Police spokesman. ASP Sunday Abutu, confirmed the attack. Abutu said the gun-wielding political thugs invaded the campaign ground of the former Governor and made spirited efforts to disrupt it. “Yes, the hoodlums came to the venue with dangerous weapons to disrupt the consultation process of the SDP candidate, Engr Segun On but our men were able to out the situation under control. “The police have begun investigation and arrest will be made and those behind it will surely have a case to answer”.