No fewer than three hundred orchestral  thronged the West and Central Africa (WECA) Headquarters of the Apostolic Faith Church, Anthony Village, Lagos on Sunday, April 16 for the 67th annual Easter concert. Themed “He Lives,” the choir delivered a soul-lifting performance from orchestral to drama titled “Mercy Walked In” to the delight of the attendees. Not swaying away from its purpose, all ministration was geared towards the death and ascension of Christ. The church’s District Superintendent for West and Central Africa of the church, Rev Isaac Adigun said that the take-home for the attendees worldwide is the resurrection of Jesus Christ and the hope for believers. “Well, the theme of our concert tonight is ‘He Lives’ and that is the message that we want to pass around both for all the visitors that have come as well as even for the whole world,” said Adigun.   Adaorah secures Andre Vibez for new single Rock My Borry     ​​PHOTOS: Actress Rita Dominic dazzles in wedding attires     My resolution ahead of 30th birthday, by DJ Cuppy   “We have so many people I don’t have the number right now but I believe we have many people that have joined us on our webcast we usually have them in thousands so the same message we are sharing here we also share with them and that is Jesus Lives and we too shall live if we allow that spirit that was in Christ that made him rise to dwell in us even if we had died by the time the judgment of God would come, we would also rise and we are not going to face that judgment. “We need to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ that he came, he died, he was buried and he rose for our justification and if we will call upon his name to have mercy upon our soul he would save us from our lives of sin.” Also giving his quota, the Director of Worship of Apostolic Faith WECA headquarters, Rev Dotun Ewumi says the church boast of over three thousand orchestral choirs but had a fewer number for the Easter concert while also noting that the Apostolic church derives its love for large musical instruments from the scriptures. Ewumi said: “This number is very small, this is only Anthony choir, we are not talking of Lagos state and not the National choir. The strength of our choir and orchestra is going to about three thousand. During our convention, there had a been a time we are about one thousand two hundred choirs on the platform with different musical instruments. “Well we took our lead from the scriptures, David was a musician who had two thousand strong choirs and orchestra that praised God during the dedication of Solomon Temple he had one hundred and twenty trumpeters played in one accord and the spirit of God filled the house. So when we praise God in one accord the power of God descends just as we experienced tonight. “In a year we normally have three concerts; during Easter, our convention in August, and during Christmas. So after this, from tomorrow, we start preparing for the next concert on August 20 at Faith City, and once we finish that start preparing for the Christmas concert. “We are selective in the type of music we play. We pick songs that will lift the soul of men towards God”.