The National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) has sought the support of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) to stop the operations of illegal satellite campuses of polytechnics and monotechnics. Its Executive Secretary, Prof. Idris Bugaje, made the call when the board’s delegation visited the ICPC Chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) quoted Bugaje as saying that the operations of the satellite campuses was one of the major challenges confronting the Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) sector in the country. He noted that he created the Polytechnic Inspectorate Department when he resumed office in 2021, to monitor illegal operations on satellite campuses. “We have identified 12 of such illegal institutions that have been admitting students without approval from the NBTE, outside the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board System and illegally collecting fees. “They are not offering the required training but issuing certificates. This is going to destroy the TVET sector. “We wrote to them, asking them to close shop, but they remained adamant. This is why the collaboration with the ICPC is very crucial,” the ES said.   Kidnapped FCT monarch, two others regain freedom     Tinubu is God’s choice for 2023 presidency – Bishop…     Northern elders and Buhari’s resignation   He added that the board had resolved to convert Vocational and Enterprise Institutions (VEIs) and Innovation Enterprise Institutions (IEIs) to Monotechnic, following recent meeting with stakeholders on the VEIs and IEIs Responding, Owasanoye thanked the board for the visit and pledged to support it in curbing illegal satellite campuses across the country. He called for a meeting with rectors of polytechnics across the country for all to be on the same page. “As you are probably aware, we do have a platform of collaboration in the education sector. “We will be glad to do what we can with NBTE to curb the menace of satellite campuses of TVET institutions,” the ICPC boss said. In 2015, Kazaure said there were over 65 of illegal and unaccredited private monotechnics, polytechnics and Innovation Enterprise Institutions. NAN also reports that in 2014, no fewer than 50 illegal polytechnics and monotechnics operating without government’s approval across the country was shut down by the board.