The #BBNaija platform has churned out stars that thrive in different fields ranging from business, music, modelling and acting.  Here are five ex-housemates who have leveraged the platform to become movie stars: · Bisola Aiyeola  Bisola was the first runner-up on #BBNaija in 2018. She got the AMVCA Trailblazer Award at the 2018 Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards. The 36-year-old actress has featured in different blockbuster movies such as SugarRush, This Lady Called Life, The Kujus, Dinner at my place and many more. Bisola is a nominee in over three categories for AMVCA 2022. · Venita Akpofure    The British-Nigerian video vixen gained prominence as a housemate in the fourth season of #BBNaija and was evicted on day 41 of the show as the 11th of the 20 housemates to be evicted. She plays the lead role of Nengi in Africa Magic’s Unmarried. In 2021, she was nominated by the Net Honours award for most popular actress. Venita has featured in different movies   I’m tired of Grammy nominations without winning – Femi Kuti     Wizkid perfects shooting skills after double Grammys loss     Four foods to avoid during Ramadan   · Tobi Bakare    He rose to fame after finishing up as a finalist in #BBNaija (season 3) reality TV show in 2018. Tobi has acted in movies with Nollywood veterans, including Fix Us, SugarRush, Mokalik, Jenifa’s diary, among others. In 2020 and 2021, the 28-year-old actor was nominated as Best supporting actor –English and Most promising actor and Most popular media personality (Male) · Pere Egbi      The Nigerian- American became popular for participating in BBNaija 6 Shine Ya Eyes where he emerged the second runner up. Pere starred in numerous Nollywood movies before contesting on the show. Some of the movies are: Gem of the rainforest Pound of flesh, Page 36, Nikki: A Hip Hop Love Story, Lonely Heart, All that glitters, Dead President Society and many more · Iheme Faith Uloma        Ifu Ennada as she is popularly known won the AMAA award for Best Young and Promising Actor in the movie O-Town. Ifu Ennada has starred in movies like O-Town, Hire a Woman, Jane, The Lost Okoroshi, Sarafina, Tinsel – Prisca, Lonely Heart, Mad About You and many more. In 2018, she was nominated by Best of Nollywood Awards as Best Supporting Actress – English Most Promising Actress and Best Kiss in a Movie.