Transcorp Plc recorded growth across metrics.  Its Group Gross Earnings increased to N111.2 billion in 2021, from N75.3 billion in 2020. Profit Before Tax increased to N27.99 billion, from N1.6 billion.  Profit After Tax recorded in 2020 was N3.8 billion, while 2021 figures saw an increase by N23.8 billion and total assets grew to N416 billion in 2021 from N319.2 in 2020. Transcorp Plc Group Chairman, Tony Elumelu expressed his delight in the positive performance, across all sectors within the Group. He told the shareholders that the company has continued to surpass its past performance, despite the macroeconomic difficulties. The Group’s priority in the year, he said, is to continue optimising its assets and pursuing growth opportunities as this is critical to ensure growth. Elumelu underlined the Group’s corporate responsibility to its communities, adding:  “At the core of Transcorp’s purpose is a commitment to building socially responsible and impactful businesses, in key strategic economic sectors that serve our diverse stakeholders.”   IMF okays $40b trust fund for Nigeria, 11 others     MTN issues N127b series 1, 2 commercial papers     PDP ticket: Atiku, Saraki, Tambuwal, Obi, 13 others for…   Transcorp, as a responsible corporate citizen, he said, “has consistently embraced and sustained a corporate culture and social commitment by driving the integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) criteria in all aspects of the business’ dealings and investment decisions. As a Group, we remain unwavering in our commitment to sustainable growth, driven by a mission to delivering long-term value and good to all our stakeholders.” President, Transcorp Group, Mrs. Owen Omogiafo, spoke to the Group’s innovation in the hospitality business demonstrated by the launch of its digital hospitality platform, Aura by Transcorp Hotels last year. She highlighted the ongoing investment in assets in 2022, with the commissioning of a best-in-class Spa, and a 3,000 person capacity multipurpose hall, both at the Transcorp Hilton Abuja. According to her, “we are optimistic about the Group’s strategic direction and ability to deliver value.  Our performance underlines the success of our long-term strategy of sustainable growth, diversifying our revenues, and accessing new business opportunities to deliver superior returns to all our stakeholders”. She also lamented the legacy debts inherited by Transcorp Plc as it acquired some government assets through privatisation. “Legacy debts are there and we are engaging with relevant authorities on it. Ughelli Power plant has N60 billion debt on its neck, Afam Power plant has N5 billion. On the Group’s oil business, Omogiafo said: “We want to drill one of the wells this year, which is OPL 281,” she said.