The photo-book impressively comes in an exciting photo-album-like package that encases the hardcover book. It does not just come in an earthy calm mixture of brown, blue, red and black dominant colours; there is an alluring picture of an African woman with her unique gap-toothed effervescent smile with unmistakable sharp eyes that tell a story of a certain level of fulfilment and excitement.  Under her picture comes the title of the book; Stories of Impact: Real Women, Real Lives, Real Growth. In a global community that is now more than ever focused on gender justice, equity and empowerment of women, this photo-book title arouses both social and intellectual curiosity and the repetitiveness of ‘REAL’ aligns with the visual impact of the cover of a woman so bare of any cosmetic alterations of her womanhood and Africanness.  The visual impact of the photo-book packaging and cover deftly prepares any reader for the content it encases. The core characteristic of a good photo-book is the profound communication that authors try to achieve with visuals in pictorial format. The photo-book under review achieves this communication style from the cover deep into almost the first twenty pages of the book. The few textual insertions were mainly the preface by the Founder & Chief executive Officer, Godwin C. Nwabunka and some quotations inserted for clarity. The choice of the very symbolic first picture of a woman tending a growing agricultural plant speaks to the deeper impact of the Grooming Centre and heralds every other visual narrative and the accompanying texts. The picture of the various economic sectors with female beneficiaries of the Grooming Centre speaks to the economic and social impact the publishers intended to communicate. The adoption of the first-person narrative style by the women was effectively done in ways that translations from local languages and Pidgin English did not affect the content of the stories/testimonies. Given the number of beneficiaries, there was an effective selection style as almost all socio-economic sector beneficiaries were represented with on-site, in-person pictures for clarity.   Wamakko, Uzodimma fault Afe Babalola’s interim govt call     Ngige, Nnamani declare to run for president     Kukah: my criticism of Buhari not personal   The photo-book is divided into five chapters and one hundred and twenty-nine pages.  The first chapter, Grooming Nigerian Women in Business seems to encapsulate the core mission of the Grooming Centre. Starting with the UN statistics of the percentage of Nigerian women that have never accessed loans (73%) was a brilliantly intellectual way to start such a story. Even though there is no folkloric bent to it, it speaks to the fate of Nigerian women and the exclusion game even when other UN statistics show the potential of women as economic power houses in any economy. As an NGO that provides microfinance services for indigent women, the pictorials of the book must be a subtle indictment on other bigger financial institutions and their roles in excluding and disempowering women. The other four chapters are all stories around the success of the Grooming Centre even beyond the women to their families/communities. I love that the photo-book adhered substantially to the qualities of such an aspect of art. The packaging of the book is excellent and like such artistic materials like painting, films, and others, it is an archival material. The quality of the production is very good. There was a good use of visual effects, and the story-telling style resonates. The book speaks very loudly about women empowerment beyond the popular rhetoric without action. There is a show-and-tell style with faces, names, and states. The spread of the beneficiaries is commendable. However, there is an almost utopian narration that says nothing about the challenges of the Grooming Centre as an institution or even from the beneficiaries. Financial investments and businesses are not as seamless as the narration looks, but there would be room in future editions for corrections. It is a veritable tool for both a re-orientation and introspection about the value of women empowerment for a sustainable economic growth. The stories are as real as the story tellers. Good work.