Scores of All Progressives Congress (APC) members in Kwara state yesterday announced their defection to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). The defectors were led by all the 193 ward chairmen, 16 local government chairmen and state working committee members of their erstwhile political party. National Publicity Secretary of SPD, Ambassador Rufus Auyenigba and a National Executive Committee (NEC) member of the party, Lekan Alabi, graced the defection ceremony in Ilorin. Addressing reporters at the event in Ilorin, the state capital, Kwara South factional Senatorial chairman of the APC, Rasak Alabi said “we have all jointly decided with our numerous supporters to announce to you today our official defection and mass movement of our supporters and party members from APC to SDP. We want to assure the people of the state that the storm in the tea cup is over but our resolve will not falter. Finally, we hereby direct all our teaming supporters and members to go to their various wards and obtain the party’s membership card. We pray that in our eyes, our vision will ripe and break into a new dawn.”   Sule raises the alarm over Adamu’s, Al-Makura’s supporters…     Bola Ahmed Tinubu     State House in Dodan Barracks to be revitalised —…   Alabi attributed their defection to the exhibition of attitude inimical to the development and growth of the party by Governor AbdulRazaq since he assumed office, adding that the national leadership of APC failed to address their concerns. “We seize this opportunity to thank our men and women and our numerous supporters for their courage and faith in standing with us. In the past few months, they have become agitated about our continued stay in the party. The delay in our response has been a product of a rather long and far reaching consultations and dialogue with majority of our leaders, elders and supporters across the state,” he said. Welcoming the defectors into SDP, Ambassador Auyenigba said rather than envy APC, “I sympathize with the party for losing the mammoth crowd to SDP. It is a pleasure to receive this mammoth crowd of the loyal group that have decided to move a pan Nigerian and people-oriented flagship political party. I assure everyone that SDP’s trademark is fairness, rule of law and social justice for all. A platform that warmly receives everyone and gladly provides a lovely play ground for all who want to express their political aspiration without let or hindrance.” APC has since it came to power in 2019, been wracked by internecine war of attrition between the camp of the governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq and supporters of Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Minister for Information and Culture.