A professor of Accounting, Francis Iyoha, has advised the Federal Government to mainstream spirituality into the tertiary curriculum so as to further check the spate of corruption and fraud in the country. Iyoha gave this advice at the 27th Inaugural Lecture of the Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State. Tagged: ‘Actuating Spirituality for Ethical Accounting Practice,’ brought together scholars, clerics, students, and traditional rulers, among others. He noted that the introduction of spirituality into the institution’s curriculum would help to tackle error, and sharp practices and reduce unethical practices in the country. He stressed that no profession would be wholesome if the professionals lack awareness, motivation, courage and judgment rooted in spirituality. Before the profession cascades toward implosion in ethical matters, all hands must be on deck to make it glow with spiritual fervor by coming to the understanding that the place of God in our profession should always be emphasized The accountant added that this would also lead the accounting profession to return to the path of honour and address moral decadence in the system.   MultiChoice: What’s the Senate’s muscle-flexing…     Ugwu joins presidential race, urges North to concede ticket…     Aliko Dangote @ 65   Iyoha said the issue of unethical practices leading to corruption and fraud had become a concern as many companies both local and international have closed down due to false declarations of audited results. “The private and public companies need to emphasise spirituality in the jobs schedules and offering when hiring accountants and auditors. “In addition, the Accounting Standard Setters and Professional Accounting Organisation should also emphasise spirituality in their conceptual framework and develop standards that encourage spirituality,” he said. In his Welcome address, the Vice-Chancellor of the Covenant University, Prof .Abiodun Adebayo lamented that several businesses and organisations have shut down due to unethical accounting standard such as manipulation of figures, lack of courage to blow the necessary whistle and sin of omission, among others. Adebayo said that this concern informed many government and regulatory agencies around the world to review regulations governing accounting standard and finance and corporate governance. The Vice-Chancellor said that the Institution had set up Spirituality Centre that would train a new generation of leaders on impactive leadership.