After three years, experts are asking, where is the Lagos State Transportation Policy unveiled with fanfare? ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes Experts agreed that Lagos State couldn’t have been luckier. Successive governments since the take-off of the Fourth Republic have prioritised transportation, with this administration making it the first critical pillar of its six core focus under its THEMES agenda. They lauded the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration for its commitment, which has continued to shine brighter with the initiatives aimed at making the sector more responsive to the needs of a growing population, which is projected to hit 40 million by 2042, from its 25 million. But that is where it ends. The government had remained less than transparent in its expenditures in the sector. Billions of Naira, would, undoubtedly, have been sunk in the provision of the Blue and the Red Line Lagos Urban Rail Transit system (LURT), the charting of more waterways and introduction of modern ferries, and the initiatives under the Lagos Bus Reforms (LBR), which sought to make public sector transit more attractive, and removing more people from the captives of okada/tricycles, rickety small buses and personal car shuttles. Yet, they wondered what continued to keep the government from releasing the transportation policy midwifed by the past administration and submitted shortly before it wound up in 2019. Addressing a stakeholders’forum, which held at Alausa, Lagos, Ladi Lawanson, the then Commissioner of Transportation, had said the desire to develop a policy for the sector was to address the challenges plaguing it. He said the state is already bearing the weight of its 23 million population with 93 per cent of them being active road users who made an average of 40 million trips daily. He said the absence of the policy has been weighing against the development of the sector. Stakeholders are, however, beginning to wonder why a government which seemed determined to improve the lot of the sector had continued to shilly-shally on its implementation. The least the Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, could offer, recently, was that the government had been  reworking the document. He said an amendment was necessary before the document was reintroduced into the public. “What I can say is that we are working on an amendment of the transportation policy and very soon, the governor will unveil it to the public. When it is eventually released, we would have a policy document that would be more robust and would address the gamut of transportation options and alternatives that will optimise transportation and traffic control in a sustainable manner in line with THEMES agenda,” he said. Oladeinde, former director in the Lagos Metropolitan Transportation Authority, LAMATA, was a member of the panel of experts who drafted the policy. A member of the panel at the weekend wondered why it was taking the  government too long to implement. “I have had cause to ask the commissioner on no less than three occasions why the policy is being delayed and the answer has been the same – that the government is reviewing it to make it more robust. My question is: ‘if the main document took us less than six months to put together, why would amendments, which are just meant to make it more robust taking the government almost four years?’” Professor Iyiola Oni of  the Directorate of Transportation, University of Lagos, said.   INDEBTEDNESS 1     Sanwo-Olu gets GAC’s nod for second term     Lagos govt, NPA streamline checkpoints to ease gridlock in…   Oni, who put together the road component of the policy, said, many of the panel members are seeing the assignment to develop a transportation policy for the state a “mere waste of time”, adding that one of them, Dr Tajudeen Ba’walla, who lived all his life in the service of the sector, died three months ago without seeing the policy implemented. Ba’walla, a Russia-trained railway engineer, was a former Managing Director of the Lagos State Mass Transit Service (LSMTS), and pioneer Dean of the Lagos State University School of Transportation (LASU-SoT). Another member of the panel, Prof. Samuel Odewunmi, agreed with Oni, carpeting the government for delaying the implementation of the policy. Odewunmi, who drew the nexus between transportation and the economy, said Lagos has lost much ground in its failure to implement the policy, adding that  such policies could be amended every five years to reflect demand or trend and develop the state’s capacity to address the needs of the population. Odewunmi,who drew the framework of the policy, added that the state wants to professionalise the Ministry and make it the supervisor over agencies in the sector. Odewunmi, who wondered how a large state like Lagos, with a population of 23 million, would be operating without a road map. He stated that a weak road map is far better than none, adding that the state would continue to run in cycles where there is no strategic road map. He called for the ironing of scope of responsibilities between the Ministry of Transportation and its Works  counterpart, adding that while 80 per cent of the scope of work of the latter revolves round road works, it exercises no authority over the regulation of road activities, a development that has continued to generate friction. Odewunmi,  a former dean, LASU-SoT, said: “Political wire-pulling might be behind the continued hesitancy of the government to release the all-important element that has the potential to develop the sector. With the way the government is going, I do not see this government releasing the document.” For experts, a nexus exists between transportation and the economy. According to them, to move the economy, you need to fix transportation. The way to go, they said, is a properly planned public transportation system. “There is the need to open up the transportation system, expand the infrastructure base and target the masses, who need one form of public transportation or the other to move every day,” Dr. Oladayo Timothy said. Managing Director, Planet Projects Limited, Mr Biodun Otunola observed that of the 20 million population in the state, nine use public transportation daily. “If commuters pay just N100 per trip, about N9 billion exchanges hands daily within the state’s economy.That is about N270 billion monthly.” The huge revenue, according to Otunola, goes into private hands, as the sector remains unregulated and grossly underfunded. Describing transportation as “a leveller between the rich and the poor,” and an infrastructure that cannot be provided by an individual, Otunola, whose firm is helping Lagos to troubleshoot its transportation and urban renewal challenges, said the answer lies in the government focusing on providing “safe, convenient, comfortable and affordable” mass transportation alternatives. “The road is where the rich and the poor meet. Both classes of people are usually held in traffic congestion. The future is not in the provision of “free education or free health”, but in providing innovative solutions to traffic congestion, which is the challenge facing modern day governance across the world.