Manchester City have reached the Champions League semi-finals after a 1-0 aggregate win over Atletico Madrid. Last year’s finalists needed just the one goal in the first leg to beat Atleti, with Kevin De Bruyne finding the net late on at the Etihad Stadium and finally breaking down a stern side that had every man behind the ball. Fans scolded Diego Simeone for playing a 5-5-0 formation, his side not managing a single shot on goal and breaking an unwanted Champions League record as a result. They had their noisy fans behind them in the second leg at the Wanda Metropolitano and made it much more uncomfortable for City on home soil. But Ederson in the City goal was rarely tasted and the Premier League champions dug deep to claim a 0-0 draw that booked their place in the final four. Atleti defender Felipe was sent off late on for two horrendous challenges on Phil Foden, who ended up sporting a bandage around his head for the first half collision. Former City player Stefan Savic sparked quite the fracas in the corner when he tried to drag Foden to his feet, leading to bookings and nine minutes of added time in a chaotic finish to the game. City, who showed real resilience, will be back in the Spanish capital imminently as they will play Atleti’s neighbours Real Madrid following their thrilling 5-4 aggregate victory over holders Chelsea.   Organisers set for MASA Isonyin Marathon     EUROPA LEAGUE: Rangers’ Bassey available to face Braga     BREAKING: Man City qualify for UCL semi-finals   Karim Benzema’s extra time header added to Rodrygo Goes’ strike to secure progression for the 13-time European champions after Chelsea took a shock lead 3-0 lead at the Santiago Bernabeu on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, Liverpool bested Benfica 6-4 on aggregate over two legs to set up a final four clash with Villarreal. Roberto Firmino scored twice as Liverpool progressed to the semi-final after a 3-3 draw with Benfica at Anfield. Due to the way the draw was made, Liverpool can now face ‘rivals’ (a debate for another time) Man City in what would be an astonishing all-English Champions League final – the fourth all-English final in the competition’s history. Meanwhile, if Real Madrid and Villarreal manage to make it through to the showpiece event, it’ll also be the fourth time an all-Spanish tie graced the final.   RESULTS Atletico 0-0 Man City (0-1) Liverpool 3-3 Benfica (6-4)