Ukraine’s economy will shrink by 45 percent this year, the World Bank has said. The bank blamed this on Russia’s invasion. The global bank, in a statement issued in Washington on Sunday, said the war against Ukraine and sanctions on Russia are hitting economies around the globe, with emerging market and developing countries in the Europe and Central Asia region expected to bear the brunt. The World Bank’s Economic Update for the region released on Sunday said the region’s economy is now forecast to shrink by 4.1 percent this year, compared with the pre-war forecast of 3 percent growth. It added that the economic shocks from the war compound the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This would be the second contraction in as many years, and twice as large as the pandemic-induced contraction in 2020. “Ukraine’s economy is expected to shrink by an estimated 45.1 percent this year, although the magnitude of the contraction will depend on the duration and intensity of the war.   Gunmen kill Miyetti Allah chairman, four others in Abuja     Electoral Act 84 (12): Appeal Court stops Malami     Beneath the NIN-SIM partial deactivation   Hit by unprecedented sanctions, Russia’s economy has already plunged into a deep recession with output projected to contract by 11.2 percent in 2022,” the statement said. The statement quoted World Bank Vice President for the Europe and Central Asia region,  Anna Bjerde, as saying: “The magnitude of the humanitarian crisis unleashed by the war is staggering. The Russian invasion is delivering a massive blow to Ukraine’s economy and it has inflicted enormous damage to infrastructure. “Ukraine needs massive financial support immediately as it struggles to keep its economy going and the government running to support Ukrainian citizens who are suffering and coping with an extreme situation.” The report said the war has added to mounting concerns of a sharp global slowdown, surging inflation and debt. It added: “The economic impact has reverberated through multiple channels, including commodity and financial markets, trade and migration links and adverse impact on confidence. “The war is also hitting hard the emerging and developing economies of Europe and Central Asia, a region that was already heading for an economic slowdown this year from the ongoing effects of the pandemic. In addition to Russia and Ukraine, Belarus, Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova and Tajikistan are projected to fall into recession this year, while growth projections have been downgraded in all economies due to spillovers from the war, weaker-than-expected growth in the euro area, and commodity, trade and financing shocks.” According to the World Bank Chief Economist for Europe and Central Asia, Asli Demirgüç-Kunt, “the Ukraine war and the pandemic have once again shown that crises can cause widespread economic damage and set back years of per capita income and development gains.” Demirgüç-Kunt advised governments in the region to fortify their macroeconomic buffers to contain risks and deal with potential fragmentation of trade and investment channels.