The scourge of COVID-19 and its attendant ravages that have thrown the Nigerian economy into a spasm in the last two years apart, one other issue that the managers of the economy must increasingly worry about is how foreign investors have also been shunning the local economy. Here, we refer to the latest Nigerian Capital Importation report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showing that the value of capital importation shrunk by a whopping 30.78 percent – from $9.68 billion in 2020 to $6.7 billion in 2021. Far more revealing however is the situation in the states. Of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, 24 had nothing to show by way of capital importation. The states are Adamawa, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue, Borno, Cross River, Ebonyi, Edo, Enugu, Gombe, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, Ondo, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba, Yobe and Zamfara. Of these, 10 failed to attract foreign investments in the last three years. These are Bayelsa, Ebonyi, Gombe, Jigawa, Kebbi, Kogi, Plateau, Taraba, Yobe and Zamfara states. Although the Kaduna State government has faulted the report with the claim that the state attracted Zipline, a United States-based medical drone supply company within the year in reference, we dare state that the report largely approximates the reality across the states – the situation of which most are only a little more than leeches on the federally-distributive pool. By and large, we must state that the report reflects not just the quality of governance, but the lack of any real interest in making the states investment-friendly by successive administrations that have presided over their affairs. And the situation has persisted mainly because there is the free oil money to go round. Now that a new reality of shrinking oil revenues has finally dawned on all, the future, particularly for the states, can only be imagined. Yet, it bears stating that the trend, which underlies a lack of conscious effort to diversify states’ revenue bases, have always been there, and this long before the onset of the current insecurity across the federation. Rather than the hard decisions to stimulate local economic activities, most state authorities have over time chosen to do no more than whine about low accruals into the allocation pool; not for them the necessity to create the enabling environment for businesses – local and foreign – on which future diversification and revenue could be assured. The corollary to this of course is the relatively low level economic activities with corresponding high unemployment, mass poverty and poor internally generated revenue that have been their lot over the years.   No time for memos and memory     A people’s leader     Ebenezer Obey at 80   Foreign capital inflow or not, the issue is that the states need all the help they can get even more so now that oil revenues are shrinking. They need a thriving private sector to help absorb the army of the unemployed; they need their taxes to shore up their internally generated revenue just as the social impact of their operations can make a lot of difference in their domains. To say that there are boundless opportunities available is merely to restate the obvious; from agriculture to agribusiness; from solid minerals to manufacturing and related industrial activities; all that is required to turn things around is for any serious state government to put on its thinking cap, enlist the partnership of interested investors in the shared mutually-beneficial goal of wealth creation. We expect the states so named to take the report seriously. For us, the task before them as indeed the others is a relatively simple one; make the states more investment-friendly and opportunities will come knocking. The other quest is to push for peace with greater vigour. Although the quest for peace – as an enabler and a critical pillar on which any quest for societal development could be anchored – has remained a tall order at this time, it remains a goal worth pursuing by all, citizens and governments alike. In case anyone is still in doubt, gone finally is that era when the states could afford to fold their hands and expect manna to fall from heaven.