Anambra State Governor Charles Soludo yesterday named a 15-member Truth, Justice and Peace Commission to dialogue with agitators. It is headed by former National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) Chairman Prof Chidi Odinkalu. Former Nigerian Ambassador to Spain Bianca Ojukwu is the Secretary, according to a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu. Other members are ace musician Charles Oputa (Charley Boy), music icon Onyeka Onwenu, Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, Dr. Udenta Udenta, Dr. Uju Agomoh, Rev. Jerome Madueke and Dr. Okechukwu Obi-Okoye. Others are Dr. John Otu, Mr. Ngozi Odumuko, Dr. Joe Abah, Mr. Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu, Mr. Sam Egwuatu and Prof. Joseph Ikechebelu. They will deploy a restorative justice approach for the healing of victims of violence, advise on conditional mercy for repentant perpetrators as well as restitution for certain losses and their rehabilitation. The overall aim, the statement says, is the “restoration of peace and justice as well as the promotion of development in the state, and the region/Nigeria”. The statement adds: “Given the cross-border nature of the conflict, the focus goes beyond Anambra, and possibly covers the entire Southeast. “Specifically, the terms of reference for the committee are: to identify the remote and immediate causes of the agitations, restiveness, violence, and armed struggle in the Southeast since 1999; Read Also: Ekiti 2022: Oni escapes assassination as thugs invade SDP secretariat   Two die in ex-President Jonathan’s convoy crash     CBN fines four banks over crypto transactions     Zoning : Ohanaeze lashes PDP as Fayose faults consensus   “Document victims/circumstances of death, brutality and incarceration; identify stakeholders and groups who have played critical roles in the agitations and conflicts, their roles, capabilities and demands; “Address any other issue(s) that may be germane to unravelling the extent of the crisis and chart a roadmap for the future; “Make recommendations for sustainable peace and security in Anambra state/Southeast.” The committee shall have a direct reporting line to the governor or his designee and will be provided with administrative support. The committee shall be free to draw up the methodology to accomplish its assignment, the statement says. The committee is expected to submit a preliminary report within two months of the inauguration and the final report within six months. A date for the inauguration will be communicated to the members, the statement adds. Soludo had on Monday announced an amnesty for the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and promised to set up the reconciliation committee. He said: “Following the unanimous agreement of our leaders across board, and the endorsement of the entire body of Christ, I am pleased to inform our people that today, Monday April 4, 2022 marks the official end to the ‘Monday sit-at-home’ in Anambra State. “Shortly, I will be announcing the membership of the Peace and Reconciliation Committee that will look into addressing all areas of sincere challenge, including interfacing with the Federal Government on behalf of all prisoners of conscience. “I have also offered amnesty to all our brothers in the various forests around us. Give us your guns, and trust us to help you forge a meaningful living.”