A chieftain of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC), Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, yesterday called for a new crop of leaders to develop Nigeria. He said Nigerians cannot afford to choose a president among those who have made a career in living on government since 1999 and expect positive changes in the country. Olawepo-Hashim, a former presidential candidate, told reporters in Lagos the importance of maintaining a clean break from the past. The APC chieftain also hinted about his intention to run for President. He said: “The truth is that some of those who have stayed too long in the status quo have become part of the corrupt system, and it is an illusion to expect corruption to fight corruption.” The business mogul stressed the need for Nigerians to have an effective change from the past in order to make progress. He said: “Either in the APC or the PDP or any other party, those whose only job has been to change from one government office to another and have never done any other productive thing apart from squandering government money, driving convoys of cars around that they do not fuel themselves, escorted by security paid for by government, are far removed from the true realities of Nigeria. They are, therefore, incapable of comprehending the urgency and depth of transformation Nigeria needs. “I laugh when I read about someone who has never set up even a barber’s shop in his or her life promising young people employment. These are people who do not even understand how businesses run.” Olawepo-Hashim noted that the “solution to national security challenges, the unemployment problem, high cost of petroleum products and basic items requires new approach to handle that those who have never paid for anything they consume in the past 23 years cannot understand”. The aspirant said one of the things that attracted him to the APC is President Muhammadu Buhari’s belief that corruption must be crushed in Nigeria. But he added that sadly, corruption has become one of the major reasons for the slow progress, and the underbelly of some of the nation’s security problems, such as banditry and kidnappings. Olawepo-Hashim said: “Nigeria loses a lot to corruption. According to PriceWaterCooper (PWC), a global consulting outfit, if not arrested by 2030, corruption will be costing Nigeria 37 per cent of her GDP; that is, $200 billion, a whooping N100 trillion (Naira), about 15 times our national budget. “This will translate to $1,000 per capital; five hundred thousand by each Nigerian. The significance of this on our lives, in terms of avoidable death, is staggering.”   INEC voids 1.1m voter registrations     The Holy Communion – the master key that opens all…     N700m grants for 13,243 Taraba women   Olawepo-Hashim, who is set to officially declare his presidential ambition before the end of this month, promised to release to Nigerians his perspectives on important matters they want answers to. These, he said, include security, jobs, availability and affordability of petroleum products, stable electricity supply, how to tackle corruption, health, education, infrastructure. Also, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday held a closed-door meeting with Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. It was gathered that there was no mention of the visit of the governor, who is also the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) on the President’s schedule for the day. But it was learnt that Fayemi used the visit to inform the President of his intention to run for president in 2023. Sources said the President, though non-committal in his response, wished the two-time governor the best as he pursues his ambition. Also, unconfirmed sources said last night that former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, is likely to join the presidential race. There were speculations that some forces outside the Southwest are encouraging more politicians from the zone to throw their hats in the ring in a bid to split potential votes by delegates from the region during primaries. It is believed that with his latest move in informing the President, the stage is now set for Fayemi to enter the fray and joined the list of presidential aspirants, like Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi, former Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha, who have all joined the race on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Other sources have informed that Fayemi had since been extending his consultations to some critical stakeholders on his ambition to run for president, though he still will not make it public. Fayemi, who was earlier in Gombe for private discussion with Governor Inuwa Yahaya, said he would announce his ambition after the ongoing fasting by Muslims and Christians. “For us in Christendom, this is the period of Lent, and for the Muslims, this is also Ramadan. It is very rare for the two to come together. Now that they have come together, in our country, it is a period of sober reflection. “And deep thinking, I don’t think it is a period for political declaration at a time that people are into themselves and introspective about how we can build a better country,” he said.