The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has granted MTN Nigeria Communications (MTN Nigeria) Plc the final approval to start operations of its payment service banking subsidiary, MoMo Payment Service Bank (MoMo PSB) Limited. This follows the initial approval-in-principle earlier granted the telecoms company last November and allows MoMo PSB to roll out immediately. With the payment service bank licence, MTN Nigeria will offer a wider range of mobile financial services beyond the traditional person-to-person mobile money transfers, such as lending and bill payments. MTN Nigeria’s share price rose by N2.50 to close yesterday at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) at N208.50 per share. MTN Nigeria had recently sold its shares to Nigerian investors at N169 per share. Through the offer, more than 6.6 million Nigerians became shareholders of MTN Nigeria, through direct acquisition or indirect acquisitions by pension administrators and other collective schemes. The final approval comes as MTN Group is on track to spin off its lucrative fintech business. The telco group had set this quarter as the deadline to spin off its financial services unit. The Board of MTN Nigeria stated that it was excited about the final approval, reaffirming the commitment of the telco to the financial inclusion agenda of the country. The board stated that it would inform the CBN the date of the commencement of MoMo PSB in line with requirements. The MoMo PSB is a key thrust of MTN Nigeria’s strategic growth initiative as the group seeks to fully explore the opportunities in its vast network. Latest audited report of MTN Nigeria showed mobile subscribers of 68.5 million, with active data users of 34.3 million and active fintech subscribers of 9.4 million. The approval of the banking licence in Nigeria comes as MTN Group is on track to spin off its lucrative fintech business. The telco has set the second quarter (Q2) of this financial year as the deadline to spin off its financial services unit. Chief Executive Officer, MTN Group, Ralph Mupita said the commencement of MoMo PSB and the structural separation of the fintech and fibre units are key parts of the group’s ‘Ambition 2025’ plan.   EU envoys seek increase in gas supply from Nigeria     FCMB Group’s revenue hits N212b     Fed Govt recovers N53.5b from N5.2tr MDAs’ debt   “We are grateful to the CBN for granting the final approval to commence the operations of MoMo PSB, which is an important milestone for our Ambition 2025 strategy. We are excited about the opportunity for MTN Nigeria to support the CBN and the Federal Republic of Nigeria in fulfilling the agenda of driving financial inclusion in Nigeria,” Mupita said. MTN Group will provide more details next month regarding commencement of operations, along with related matters and timelines. Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria Communications (MTN Nigeria) Plc, Karl Toriola has said the company is focused on building on its success as the group ramps up gross connections through its rural connectivity drive and CVM initiatives. As part of its rural connectivity programme, MTN Nigeria plans to connect approximately 2,000 new communities in 2022. He noted that in line with the accelerated growth being seen now, the company expects service revenue growth of “at least 20 per cent” over the medium term. He pointed out that in delivering on the service revenue growth guidance, the company will continue to focus on capital expenditure (capex) efficiencies, margin expansion, operating cashflow growth and improving returns to shareholders. “We are seeing structurally sustained data growth. As a result, we are investing in network and information technology infrastructure, and have secured the relevant frequencies to meet the higher demand. This involves accelerating the expansion of our 4G coverage and providing home broadband to capture a significant share of market growth. “We will commence the initial rollout of 5G services once the acquisition process is completed to further deepen broadband penetration in Nigeria, enhance customer experience and unlock new revenue streams. “We have made significant progress with our super-agent licence, expanding the agent network across the country. However, as the business transits to MoMo PSB once the final approval is obtained, we remain focused on developing the range of additional services we can offer customers to drive digital and financial inclusion. “We will sustain our drive for cost management across the business through our expense efficiency programme and strengthen our operations and financial position to unlock efficiency and support margins. Although the availability of foreign exchange remains a constraint, we strive to minimise its impact on the business,” Toriola said. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of MTN Nigeria for the year ended December 31, 2021 showed that gross revenue increased by 23.3 per cent to N1.7 trillion. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) grew by 27.9 per cent to N877.1 billion with EBITDA margin increasing by 2.1 percentage points to 53.0 per cent. Profit after tax rose by 45.5 per cent to N298.7 billion, implying earnings per share of N14.67. The granting of a banking licence in MTN’s most lucrative market is set to bolster the group’s operations in Nigeria. The country remains MTN’s biggest market and contributor of the lion’s share to the group’s revenue.