Although the Executive Order 11 signed by President Muhammadu Buhari on April 6 has not generated any controversy, the question is whether we need any such order to address the lack of maintenance culture that it was meant to address. The president signed the document at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, shortly before the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting. He said the order gave legal backing to the country’s maintenance policy and that the government had started implementing the policy with the facelift of its facilities like the Federal Secretariat, Abuja, and other secretariats in 24 states of the federation, with about 40 people employed daily in each of the secretariats. “Since the approval of the policy by the Federal Executive Council, the Federal Government has consciously started the implementation of maintenance of strategic facilities like the Federal Secretariat, Abuja, and federal secretariats in 24 states of the federation, where at least 40 people are now daily employed in each of those 24 secretariats”, the president said. Consequently, the Head of Civil Service of the Federation has approved the establishment of a department of federal public assets maintenance to facilitate the implementation of the order. An apparently confident President Buhari added that “By this order, I expect ministries, departments and agencies to set out and ensure the operation of their maintenance departments and make necessary procurements for their maintenance in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act.”   Political parties, party system and 2023 elections     School meals in Nigeria, India: comparing two approaches     ‘We build luxury homes not houses’   The question now is; now that we have an executive order on maintenance of public buildings, should we expect another order on public bridges, etc., since it is not only buildings that have issues of maintenance? Only people who are not conversant with how the country is run would be upbeat about the executive order achieving its aims. The problem of maintenance of public facilities is not about lack of orders or laws or official guidelines. After all, we have, for instance, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) to maintain federal highways in the country. Yet, many of the roads are riddled with craters that render the roads prone to avoidable accidents. So, just like other spheres of our lives where we duplicate laws in order to address specific problems as if it is lack of laws that are responsible for the problems, so it is with maintenance of public buildings now. The issue with the buildings is about the wrong maintenance culture that Nigerian public officials have imbibed over the years. Another is corruption. We are aware that many of the public buildings have provisions for maintenance in their annual budgets. Unfortunately, this is either not used for the purpose or where it is used at all, it is only a fraction of the approved sums that is so applied. More unfortunate is that monitoring agencies are either derelict in their duties or are complicit in the corruption chain. This facilitates the stealing or misapplication of the maintenance funds. Moreover, we all know that regular maintenance will prolong the lifespan of facilities. But this entails spending only a fraction of money, unlike when the facilities break down irretrievably such that we need to replace them. Replacement of the facilities entails award of contracts, which is the area through which many public officials make more money illegally, as they seize the opportunity to inflate the contract sums, padding it with their own cuts. In the past, we used to talk of ’10 per centers’; these days, however, the greed has grown beyond the conservative 10 per cent bribe embedded in the contract sums. In some cases, contracts are just awarded with contractors pretending to move to site only to leave as soon as substantial sums have been paid to them. The issue of maintenance of buildings reminds us of the various assets of the Federal Government that are lying fallow all over the country, including the Federal Secretariat in Lagos, the old Defence Headquarters, etc. Some of these assets could fetch the government billions of naira in rental sums because of their prime locations. Unfortunately, the revenue from crude oil seems to have blinded the government to the money-spinning potential of the buildings. Or do we attribute this to our wasteful nature? Even where the Lagos State government had requested that the Federal Government pass on some of these buildings to it to renovate and put to better use, the latter had never shown any serious intention of yielding to such request. Meanwhile, these assets keep depreciating in value, having been overtaken by weeds and reptiles. However, now that the president has signed the executive order on maintenance of public buildings, it is incumbent on him to ensure that the appropriate agencies follow up and ensure that the order is executed to the letter. That is the only way to avoid the order going the way of extant rules and regulations guiding the maintenance of the public facilities.