Six Nigerian entertainers of Islamic faith have taken a break from the norm to preach and urge fans to be of good behaviour while observing Ramadan fasting. As the month comes to an end ahead of the Eid-l-Fitri (festival of breaking the fast), OLAITAN GANIU writes about how the celebrities have amplified messages of positivity and engaged in charity works. Naira Marley Controversial singer, Azeez Fashola aka Naira Marley, has always been vocal about his faith during the holy month of Ramadan. The singer took to his social media handles to warn female fans to desist from sending erotic content to him. “Salam Alaikum ladies and gentlemen, let’s be cautious on what we post, share, and send to each other as Ramadan fasting is ongoing. Please, we would patronise each after the Holy month but for now, there is fasting,” he noted. Naira Marley also revealed that his forthcoming album is being delayed till the end of Ramadan. Laide Bakare For Nollywood actress Laide Bakare, one of the ways of reaching out to fans is by sharing anecdotes from the Holy Quran. Some of her Instagram post during the month of Ramadan encourages fans to be steadfast and committed to the teachings of Ramadan. “Ramadan Kareem lovers, we have started with Bisimilahi Rahamoni Raheem, may we all end it with Aliamdulilai robilihalamin,” the 41-year-old actress who recently attended Ramadan lecture wrote. Ali Nuhu Since the fasting begins, popular Kannywood actor, Ali Nuhu has been lending his generous voice to inform and influence the Northerners, especially the youths. The 48-year-old thespian encouraged people to be prayerful and shun gossip. “Don’t make it your business to gossip about those who are trying hard to improve themselves this Ramadan. Pray for them instead. Motivate and encourage, add good words but never put them down. Don’t be arrogant and think you’ve got it all good. No one is perfect,” he said.   It’s my turn to shutdown 02 Arena – Uzo     Kemi Oyedeji speaks on new book, ushering     I’m happy to be back after 10 years, says Shan George   Saheed Osupa One of the leading Fuji musicians in Nigeria, Saheed Osupa urged his fans throughout the globe to imbibe the teaching of Islam and desist from every immorality during and after the holy month. The ‘Olufimo’ singer recently made this assertion while appreciating fans and colleagues who attended his Ramadan lecture that was held at the OSTRA Hall, Ikeja, Lagos State. Although the singer was far away in the United State of America when the lecture was held but he had several colleagues in attendance. Pasuma Fuji music star, Wasiu Alabi Odetola aka Pasuma delivered his homily, stressing the need for prayer and patience. While receiving an award on behalf of his aging mother at Alhaji Semiu White Ramadan Lecture in Alagbo, Lagos, the Oganla Fuji urged his fans to be prayerful. He was quoted saying, “You want to be famous like me? You need to be prayerful.” “Persistence, consistency, and prayer will lead you to success. I make sure I don’t involve myself in satanic ritual activities because I solely believe in the oneness of Almighty Allah and the Quran. The Holy Quran is superior to anything.” Lateef Adedimeji  Nollywood’s finest actors, Lateef Adedimeji has continued to get involved in charity works as well as passing motivational tips across to the Muslim faithful. Despite his marital status, the ‘Last Man Standing’ star has been spotted at different Ramadan lectures to deliver sermons about the importance of Ramadan to his faith. “Prove yourself to yourself, not to others. Ramadan Kareem,” he once noted in many of his social media posts during Ramadan. Other entertainers who engaged in Ramadan activities include veteran actors, Jide Kosoko, Oga Bello, Yinka Quadri, Femi Adebayo, Saidi Balogun, Sule Alao Malaika, Kabirah Kafidipe.