With human beings, certain things are impossible, but with God, all things are possible (Matthew 19:26). God has the capacity to reverse the medical embargo which stipulated that a lady that had reached the stage of menopause, inflicted with fibroid or encumbered with severe infection, or a man with a low sperm count can never have a child because in Him, “stones can talk”  (cf Genesis 18:9-15). The laws of economy that guaranteed success only when a business has the right resources, empowered with the right tools, supported with the right team or qualified workforce and operated in the right time can also be suspended and change to a flourishing business, because in Him “stones can talk” (cf Luke 5:1-11; Genesis 26:12). It therefore doesn’t matter what your Doctors, your family or your church members, your friends or associates have concluded about your case, be rest assured that they don’t have the final say concerning your life issues because your ‘stones will talk’, the story of your life will change and your sun will shine again. This is suffice to say that, with Him, there is no hopeless condition; and in Him, anybody can become anything! In Him, human laws that some ladies can never have husbands based on whatever circumstance can be suspended because “stones can talk” and your darkened sun shall shine again. When Jesus Christ approached Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, He discovered an ass whose life purpose had been destroyed by her owners. He therefore sent His disciples and ordered release of the ass together with the colt from the junction of destiny distortion. He removed the injunction placed on them by people that have decided that “their mouths must not speak”. When they brought the ass to Jesus Christ, clothes were placed on it and for the first time, “the stone spoke” and the sun was up again. Halleluyah! The sight of Jesus Christ on that ass into Jerusalem heralded ecstasy and songs of praises from the people but when the Pharisees in the crowd heard the noise, they said unto Jesus, “..Master, rebuke thy disciples”. Jesus answered them and said, “I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out” (Luke 19:39-40). With that statement, Jesus Christ introduced another theology that, with Him nothing is impossible, that ‘stones can talk’ and that the sun can rise again (Luke 1:37; Psalm 62:11) – He can bring water from the rock (1 Corinthians 10:4 cf Exodus 17:5-6), He can open heaven to release ‘bombs’ to destroy adversaries (Joshua 10:10-11) and with a stone He can silence fierce opposition and intimidation (1 Samuel 17:45-49). Beloved, Jesus Christ has the final say and not any human being, not any politician and not any spiritual leader or head. He has promised that “weeping may endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning” (Psalm 30:5; Job 22:29). Beloved, your sun will shine again. In Jesus Christ, there is no hopeless case and anyone can become anything. Even, a dead tree has hope of resurrection at the scent of water (Job 14:7-9). In Christ, a generally agreed underdog can become a celebrity; and, a clinically dry or dead bone can rise, walk and talk (Ezekiel 37:1-10 cf Psalm 1:1-3). God has capacity to “… make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert” (Isaiah 43:19). He can create an expressway in the river (Exodus 14:21-22; 2Kings 2:13-15) or a pathway on water for His children to walk on majestically (Matthew 14:29).   ‘Politicians should be diligent’     APC will win Rivers in 2023, says Peterside     ‘Africa can solve food insecurity through…   Dear brothers and sisters, don’t allow anyone play God in your life because it is only God that has the final say. During this passion week, His suffering can, and shall, change your story for His glory. This is your season to manifest His glory and a season for your Divine Satisfaction. Either the devil likes or hates it, you are going to be lifted and your sun shall shine again. There is no person that can determine your future because it is God who has the final say. Please note that whatever position that God had destined for you to get to in life, you shall get there effortlessly, no matter the gigantesque opposition against you. People that are boasting to deal with you or hinder your lift up are being emboldened by sheer ignorance of God and what He is capable of doing. God who sent ravens to feed Elijah with roasted meat from the heaven’s abattoir and His divine kitchen every morning and evening, is a God that can make “stones talk” and cause the sun to shine again ( 1 Kings 17: 1-7). The God who replaced the heat of a fiery furnace with the cool breeze of an air conditioner for His children is the God that can make “stones talk” and make the sun to shine again (Daniel 3:22-27; Isaiah 43:2-4). The God who literarily turned carnivorous lions into herbivorous lions is a God that can make “stones talk” and make your sun to shine again (Daniel 6:21-22). To be a partaker of the miracle of stuttering of stones and shame powers that don’t want mouths to speak, you need to give your life to Jesus Christ, surrender your battle to Him, ask Him to free you from every road junction injunction, liberate you from known and unknown captivity, frustrate whatever satanic judgment placed on you, deliver you from inherited challenges, give you latitude to eat what you want and not what you see and make you a celebrity like that ass. As the Lord lives, your stone is going to talk, your sun will shine again, and it shall shine brighter for all eyes to see in the name of Jesus Christ.