Jurgen Klopp is wary of the threat Samuel Chukwueze and his teammates at Villarreal will pose when his Liverpool side comes up against the Spaniards in the Champions League semi-finals. The Reds made it past Benfica on Wednesday evening, drawing 3-3 at Anfield and progressing past the quarter-final stage 6-4 on aggregate. It means Liverpool have reached the Champions League semis for the third time in Klopp’s six-and-a-half-year reign, which is a phenomenal achievement – one which Klopp isn’t taking for granted. While the Reds’ progress ended up being fairly low-key, Villarreal’s overthrowing of Bayern Munich was the upset of the round. Villarreal, whose population is less than the capacity of Anfield, scored a late equaliser through Chukwueze at the Allianz Arena, clinching a 2-1 aggregate win in the process. In the 88th minute, Chukwueze made the dream come true with a great goal from Villarreal. A fantastic counterattack started by Dani Parejo, led by Lo Celso and Gerard, and masterfully finished by the Nigerian striker, who did not forgive Manuel Neuer. Villarreal CF qualified for the semi-finals of the UEFA Champions League.   2023 AFCON: Radebe, Kalou to determine Eagles fate     Calabar agog for Osim memorial kitty     Watford, Dennis win EPL nutmegs   Someone who isn’t resting on his laurels though as Klopp, who told reporters after the Benfica game about his respect for Unai Emery and the “tough, tough, tough” opponent to come: “I saw the Villarreal result. It was really impressive. They kicked out Juventus and Bayern so deserve it. “It is really good, the manager is the king of the cups when we play them we will be ready but give me time to prepare properly. “We never take something like this for granted. I am really happy. I know people talk about goals conceded and all these things and the day I am not over the moon about getting to the semi-final, something is really wrong.” Meanwhile, Emery said they hope to enjoy their semifinal tie against Liverpool. “We have to go little by little. We are going to enjoy the semi-finals. We plan this tie as very difficult and we got an advantage at home. We plan the semi-finals the same, whoever the rival is. We are a people, we want to go through. We have a very stable project that has played in the semifinals before and a team that is preparing and working to have an important journey,” Emery said.