Some irate youths at weekend took over the Affor- Ntueke road in Ideato South Local Government Area of Imo State to protest against a Divisional Police Officer(DPO) who allegedly shot and injured Emeka Dike at a beer parlour in the area. The youths demanded justice for Dike, said to be an only son and a father of four kids. He was reportedly shot by the DPO of the Ideato-North division, Chris Ikemere, at a popular joint called Emma Ocha’s beer parlour in Uruala community, Ideato-North, Imo State after branding him an IPOB/ESN member. The youths said the victim, who hails from Ideato South came to the beer parlour to have a drink with his friends after attending a burial ceremony in the area. According to them, they had an argument with the DPO who angrily pulled a trigger and shot the victim on the shoulder at close range. The victim was said to have been rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. The DPO, also an indigene of Isiekenesi in the Ideato-South Council Area, on sighting the victim had been hit by the bullet reportedly drove off. Speaking on behalf of the protesting youths, the Central Youth President of Ntueke, Ifeanyi Obiekwe, said Dike in his forties was shot on Wednesday, April 20, around 7:45 pm.   I will stop banditry, kidnapping as President – Saraki     We won’t spare anything to give Alaafin befitting…     Osun 2022: Why I will be re-elected, by Oyetola   The protesting youths, who blocked the road, also displayed placards with different inscriptions calling for justice for Dike. Obiekwe also called on relevant authorities to ensure the culprit is brought to justice. Narrating how the incident happened, Obiekwe said: “Both the victim and his friends were in a bar parlour, where they came to have some evening comfort and relaxation, when the DPO arrived and was trying to park his Jeep when suddenly, there was a face-off between the two. According to him: “The trigger happy police officer could not hold his anger when the young boys demanded that he park his jeep properly, he reached out for his raffle and shot one of them. And drove off immediately to take refuge at the police divisional command, very close to the scene of the event.” The youth President said: “If not for the prompt and mature intervention of the Area Commander of Ideato Police Area Command, who rushed the young man to the hospital and ensured that he received prompt treatment, he would have been dead by now.” Another youth leader who did not give his name said ‘that is how the security operatives brand young men in the state IPOB/ESN members and kill them.” Imo Police spokesman, CSP Michael Abattam, while confirming the incident, said “the matter is under investigation.” #