To improve the business environment in Nigeria through reforms, the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) has extended the completion date for the Seventh National Action Plan (NAP 7.0) by 30 days. The new completion date is May 6. The extension of the 60-day window is to enable affected ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to improve on their overall performance, which has so far been suboptimal. PEBEC Secretary and Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Dr Jumoke Oduwole, said: “The Council is deeply concerned about the situation and accordingly this extension was granted to provide ample time for ministries, departments and agencies to conclude on their outstanding reforms.” The PEBEC is chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment as Vice Chair. It consists of 13 ministers, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, the Head of Service and the Central Bank governor. The PEBEC also enjoys among its expanded membership high-level representation from the National Assembly and the Judiciary, as well as state governments, local governments and the private sector.   School meals in Nigeria, India: comparing two approaches     Senators, Reps to court: sustain Electoral Act 84 (12)     Navy thrills Ota residents with musical show   Dr Oduwole said that based on recent interventions by the Head of Civil Service of the Federation and Permanent Secretaries, there was the likelihood that more reforms may be delivered by the new deadline as affected MDAs are given additional time for the completion of their reforms. The PEBEC, at its meeting held in January, had approved the commencement of NAP 7.0 to run from February 7 to April 7, with a target to deliver 57 reforms within the 60-day accelerator window. As of the mid-way point on March 8, the completion rate was 26 per cent. Oduwole said the NAP 7.0 aims to further reduce the challenges faced by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) across four areas – agro-export implementation action plan, automation reforms, regulatory reforms, and Executive Order 01/Report Gov.NG compliance reforms. The reforms include the streamlining and simplification of agoexport regulatory practices to boost the competitiveness of Nigeria’s agro-exports while enhancing Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings as stated in the Agro-Export Plan. She added that NAP 7.0 seeks to intensify efforts at improving the travel experience at airports and to strengthen the automation of the business incorporation process of the Corporate Affairs Commission. Other reforms include a drive for increased adoption of electronic filing of taxes by taxpayers. “It is expected that, at the end of the 30- day extension, a number of reforms would have been delivered as part of efforts to make Nigeria a progressively easier place to do business,” Dr Oduwole said.