An oil services expert, Mr Victor Ekpenyong, has advised the Federal Government to boost oil production ahead of the 2060 energy transition date it set for net zero emission. Ekpenyong, who is the Chief Executive Officer, Kenyon International West Africa (KIWA), gave the advice in a statement endorsed by the company’s Public Affairs Manager,  Mr Ifechukwu Muonyili, yesterday. The advice followed the decisions reached at the just-concluded Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum in Abuja. Recall that Nigeria at the 2021 COP 26 Climate Forum in Glasgow pledged to achieve a net zero carbon emission by 2060. The country also plans to use gas as its transition energy source due to its low emission of greenhouse gases. Ekpenyong urged the Federal Government to leverage the upsurge in oil prices to earn more revenue.   UNESCO, African ICT Foundation partner     World Bank votes $17b to tackle food insecurity     SPE, NCDMB praise Dangote Petroleum Refinery on technology…   He proposed the deployment of idle well-management strategy and remote well-control as key solutions in combating oil theft which could maximise oil production to increase revenue and facilitate Nigeria’s energy transition. He noted that the lecture, with the theme, ‘Global Energy Transition: Implications for Future Investments in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry’, had in attendance industry dignitaries. He said oil theft had been the bane of the economy as it had led to loss of revenue and environmental pollution. Ekpenyong said since oil accounts for the major source of revenue in Nigeria, it behoves the Federal Government to maximise its oil production through putting measures that will deter oil theft and vandalism. He explained that an idle well-management strategy would enable a well to be decommissioned safely to protect it from being vandalised and restore an abandoned well to full its potential when necessary. On remote well control, he said it was a technology that could be deployed to protect oilfield facilities and environment from hazards such as blowouts. Ekpenyong appealed to the federal government to integrate the idle well management strategy and remote well control to help reduce the number of emerging idle wells. He said the approach would boost oil production which could in turn help fund and facilitate a smooth transition into clean energy.