Nigeria international Victor Osimhen has enthused that Napoli is still in the race for the Serie A title despite his team’s 2-3 home loss to Fiorentina at the weekend where Milan were held goalless by Torino. With two points separating the top three teams of Milan, Inter Milan and Napoli, Osimhen said via social media platform that he was not discouraged by the loss to Fiorentina.  “We will not let our hope be shattered,” Osimhen who struck his 12th goal of the season posited via Instagram after the loss to Fiorentina at the Maradona Stadium. “We continue to believe it.” Similarly, Napoli through its Instagram page , has also expressed optimism in aiming for the Scudetto for the first time in the last 32 years. “It’s not over until it’s over,” SSC Napoli wrote on its Instagram page.   Heineken UEFA Trophy Tour begins in Lagos     Leicester 2-1 Crystal Palace: Lookman dedicates Foxes’ win…     UEFA CHAMPIONS LEAGUE: Real won’t underrate beaten Chelsea,…   Napoli are currently in third position with 66 points behind 66-point Inter Milan who has a game at hand while Milan tops the table with 68 points from 31 matches . With seven matches left to end the league this season, the Italian media has underlined the importance of Osimhen towards Napoli’s title challenge even as they acknowledged the Nigerian excellent performance against Fiorentina . “For almost an hour he plays alone, ignoring his teammates: he must participate more in the game,” wrote La Gazzetta dello Sport. Corriere dello Sport confirms his difficulties by writing: “The goal (Osimhen’s goal) will be used exclusively for the statistics but up to that moment it has been a tough fight with Igor.” Tuttosport’s report card is more positive: “All muscular duel with Igor and, despite the iron marking, he collects a goal and an assist.” Il Mattino quipped: “Irritating for a long time, in his useless attempts to cheat Igor on the run” but then “he always does the department all by himself. If the team gets on fire, he is always there in front of him damning his soul.” Finally, TMW’s evaluation: “It is so hard to fight between Igor and Milenkovic and the Brazilian limits him a lot even in speed. Last to give up in the second half. First the assist to Mertens, then the goal that keeps Napoli’s hopes alive until the end. Alone, however, it cannot be enough .”