A support group in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Concerned APC Members Forum, has taken took a swipe at Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors for demanding the resignation of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele. The PDP Governors, according to the Forum, are “insincere”. The group also accused the opposition of playing the ostrich in their open criticism of President Muhammadu Buhari’s economic policy only to secretly curry his favour. It insisted that PDP’s recent moves to disparage the APC-led administration cannot earn the party victory at the polls come 2023. Reacting to the PDP Governors Forum’s call for Emefiele’s resignation at a briefing in Abuja, Convener of the Forum, Comrade Okpokwu Ogenyi, called on President Muhammadu Buhari and Emefiele not to be distracted by “the falsehood of some Governors who could not pay salaries of their workers and pension of retirees. “The CBN Governor should concentrate on his monetary policy to stabilise the economy. We are convinced that Emeifele will leave the bank better than he met it.” Ogenyi said: “Few days ago, we read on the pages of newspapers and watched on National Televisions how some groups claimed responsibility for the campaign posters and branded vehicles of Emeifele’s 2023 presidential bid. “Some of the groups which claimed responsibility are Green Alliance Movement, Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard, Arewa Alliance, Emefiele Support Group and Unified Northern Nigeria Forum.   I’ll assemble best team to fix Nigeria’s…     ‘Why Oladejo deserves to represent Mushin II at House of…     Phillips: I am best for Ekiti West Constituency   “While Green Alliance Movement claimed responsibility for the branded vehicles, the Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard insisted that it would continue the agitation until the CBN Governor accept or reject the offer by Nigerians to run as President in 2023. The groups distance the CBN Governor from the campaign materials and even went further to say that, the CBN Governor is not directly linked to those materials. “It is more worrisome that after the open confession by these groups, the PDP Governors still accused Emeifele of funding his 2023 Presidential campaign with public funds, all in a bid to smear the image of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration at a time the Nation is battling with insecurity. The PDP Governors should be supporting the President by providing solutions to our collective problem instead of generating tension. “The statement by the PDP Governors is malicious, baseless and unfounded. This is not the process to unseat a government in power, and definitely, PDP Governors’ recent lies and fiction can’t unseat the APC government. Moreso, Nigerians are tired of the PDP and may never wish to return it to power in the nearest future.” Commending Emefiele’s commitment to the economic revival of the country, the APC group called on Nigerians to ignore the PDP governors. “Let it be known that the Central Bank of Nigeria is working very hard on revamping the economy. The Buhari administration took over the government when the country was in an economic recession, the same Emefiele has survived the economy throughout the economic recession, he brought Nigeria to the best and strongest economy in Africa. “The PDP Governors are yet to openly commend President Muhammadu Buhari for this achievement, and to make it clearer, most of these double standard governors only criticize the President and CBN Governor in the day, they secretly go back to curry one favour or the other in the night. They are insincere. “Ordinarily, the PDP governors should commend Buhari’s administration for reviving the economy from where PDP almost killed it, instead, the Governors shamefully abandoned their respective responsibilities to falsely criticise a working system that has restored dignity to the Country before the international community.”