Presidential hopeful, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, says he has the political will to secure Nigeria. Moghalu a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and presidential aspirant on the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC) said this in a statement on Tuesday in Lagos. “If I become Nigeria’s president from 2023, I will secure Nigeria and the lives and property of Nigerians in the North, South, East and West of our country. “This means putting our security above all else: no security, no country. Political will is the willingness and ability to take tough decisions to secure Nigeria, including not succumbing to or being deceived by vested interests that may be profiting from the killings. “It also means putting Nigeria’s security above ethnic or religious interests. It means loyalty to the lives of Nigerians and the territory of Nigeria first, no matter where within our country,” he said. Moghalu, a political economist, promised to expand the strength of Nigerian Armed Forces by vastly increasing their numbers in order to take control of land territory occupied by terrorists. “Tucano jets alone won’t win the war against terrorism,” he added. According to him, there will be massive reform of the Nigeria Police in terms of training, equipment, specialisation, intelligence capabilities, force expansion to one million men and women.   You are not son but ‘goat’, Adeboye’s son…     IWD 2022, Bianca Ojukwu, Finesse, other most searched items…     Gunmen kill two in Anambra after Soludo’s prayer…   Moghalu said that he would also create jobs for the unemployed who must first be properly trained. He pledged to reform border security in Nigeria to protect the Nigerian territorial space more effectively. “Terrorists cannot be allowed access into Nigeria on a wrong interpretation of the ECOWAS Protocols on Movement of Persons in the West African sub-region or on the basis of ethnic affinities separated by the artificial boundaries created by colonial powers,” he said. Moghalu promised to improve, with strategic communication and official government policy, the nation’s sense of nationhood to become one another’s brother’s keepers across the length and breadth of Nigeria. He said that he would create a unified psychological and nationalistic response to terrorism while also improving the collection, coordination, and use of intelligence. Moghalu said that he would re- professionalise Nigeria’s security architecture. “Right now, it is based on ethnic-religious affiliation, and regime security versus real national security,” he said. The aspirant said that he would ensure proactive rather than reactive national security stance. “We will take the battle to the evil people and not wait for them to strike first while we write the Book of Lamentations,” Moghalu said. (NAN)