The Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi has said he would bring his wealth of experience to bear in advancing the economy if he is elected the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential flag bearer. Amaechi also explained he possesses the requisite knowledge and technical know-how to tackle insecurity and provide better governance for Nigerians with his over 20 years in public office. Amaechi stated this when he visited the Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari, in Government House, Katsina. The Minister, while recounting his achievements as Rivers Governor, said he was able to tackle insecurity, championed development and stabilised the economy of the state. He assured that such a feat would be replicated if elected the president. He said: “Your Excellency, you are the first governor I’m visiting after declaring to run for the President of Nigeria in 2023. I will visit others as I progress with my consultations. “I have visited three to four Emirates that are under your jurisdiction. I have come to also brief you on how far we have gone with the railway construction, an assignment given to us by the President.   NDLEA destroys 17 suspected cannabis sativa farms in Edo in…     Tinubu rallies governors in mission for APC ticket     APC NWC gears up for primaries guidelines   “I am here to also tell you that I am interested to run for the office of the President of Nigeria. “Sir, I am qualified and I am the only candidate who has governed a State when there was militancy and within one year it reduced drastically. “Companies who left the state due to high level of insecurity returned. Shell Petroleum Company reopened and normalcy returned to the State. “So, I have the experience to manage crises and provide good governance and I believe that with this kind of experience, having been in public office for eight years as a governor, and two times as Speaker of the State House of Assembly, seven years as Minister and also chaired the Nigerian Governors’ Forum and the Speakers’ Forum, and also the DG, President Buhari Presidential Campaign twice, I should be in the best position to run for President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and there is a need for you to assist me in actualizing this ambition”, he said. Masari, who said that he did not doubt the Minister’s leadership qualities, wished him well in his political aspiration. “Now that you have formerly declared your intentions to run for the office of the President, I do not doubt that you are active, and in your style of inclusiveness, I wish you well,” he said. The Minister has visited the Emirs of Daura, Katsina, Bichi and the Alh. Aminu Ado Bayero of the Kano Emirate Council as part of his political consultations in the northwest.