The House of Representatives yesterday accused security agencies of ignoring intelligence reports that would have prevented the attack on communities in Plateau State at the weekend. The House also reaffirmed its earlier resolution calling for a declaration of a state of emergency on security in the country. It asked President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately implement recommendations submitted to him in July 2021. The House said the recommendations would go a long way in addressing the security challenges in the country, if they were implemented. Its resolution followed two motions of urgent public importance by Yusuf Adamu Gagdi on the killings in Plateau State, and by John Dyep on the massacre in Benue State.   Buhari rejects Bill converting Auchi Poly to varsity     NBTE seeks ICPC partnership to curb operations of illegal…     Pastor Enenche opens up on Osinachi’s death   The House frowned at the failure of security agencies to act on a report that bandits were relocating from Zamfara State to Plateau State, saying that acting on it would have prevented the Sunday attack on the communities. The lawmakers urged President Buhari to hold some people responsible for the worsening insecurity in the land, to stem the tide. They also demanded the removal of the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, and the Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, for their inability to provide leadership for the security agencies in the country. Deputy Speaker Idris Wase, who presided over the plenary, expressed concern about a possible collaboration between some security personnel and bandits. He said: “The early warning that was given, I brought the motion and it was well debated. This situation is not about politics. Anyone that wants to politicise this is making a huge mistake. “I want you to understand the complicity of security agencies in this matter. Why would you give your personnel six months pass? Even when we raise motions, it’s sufficient for securities to act. But they are adamant. Drastic actions must be taken against some officers.”