Schools in Lagos resumed for the third term of the 2021/2022 academic session on Monday with low turnout of students seen in some primary and secondary schools monitored. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Lagos State Ministry of Education had directed all public and private schools in the state to resume on April 25. A correspondent of NAN who monitored the resumption in some schools within Alimosho and Ikeja axis observed low turnout of students early in the day. Schools visited include Alimosho High School, Abesan Junior and Senior Secondary School, Ikeja High School and State Junior and Senior High School Alimosho. Similar situation was also observed at Honeyland Schools, Daystar Montessori School and Sophem High School. At Honeyland Schools, Ipaja, few parents were seen coming in to drop their children and the school security did not allow parents to wait behind after doing so. Mr Oluyemi Faleke, Principal, Honeyland Schools, Ipaja said that some of the students had not resumed due to school fees. Faleke said that some parents were also skeptical about resumption because they wanted to observe before bringing their children back to school. A parent, Mrs Aminat Rasaki, said that she allowed her children to resume today because school was ready for the resumption.   Kwara students to represent Nigeria at World Schools debate     Kidnapped FCT monarch, two others regain freedom     Man held for transporting 250 parcels of Indian Hemp from…   Mr. Akintoye Hassan, Chairman, Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT), Lagos State chapter, said that low turnout was not strange on resumption day in public schools. Hassan said that another issue was the forthcoming public holidays, which might have made some of the students not to resume. “During my monitoring this morning, I noticed the low turnout in some schools within Ikeja but majority of the teachers have resumed,” he said. At St Gladys Private School and Grimes International College, Suberu-Oje, Alimosho, however, the attendance of students was high. Mrs Gladys Grimes, Proprietress of the Primary section, said the school, on resumption day, holds assessment tests, to ensure compliance. She said that the measure had always helped to ensure compliance with the directive of the Lagos State Government. “The school officially resumed today, being a directive by the state government, and as a government approved school, it is fundamental that we comply. ” Almost all students in the primary and secondary schools resumed this morning because we always hold resumption test for the students, which is recorded in their continuous assessment,” she said.(NAN