AJALA: Greetings to the Director-General of PenCom and the staff. My name is Ajala, a para-military officer. I retired in June 2009. My Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) is Sigma Pension. My complaint is: The non-payment of the 2.5 per cent okayed by the Federal Government and its arrears. Kindly help me. TAYO: Good day, my name is Tayo. My late mother had two RSA PINS with two different pension managers. How do I go about the matter? EKPE: My name is Ekpe. I retired from the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in 2015. My complaint is: On August 2021, I received a message from NPF Pensions that my 2.5 per cent shortfall on pensions approved to federal retirees by President Muhammadu Buhari was credited to my RSA account. I moved to my PFA, Premium Pension, to confirm and they said there was nothing like that in their system. They advised me to apply to NPF Pensions where I got the information to transfer the fund to my PFA. This was done on October 20, 2021 and I copied Premium Pensions and PenCom. To my dismay, I discovered that the money was  received by them since July 2021. But, up till this moment, I have not heard from them. Even though the template was issued by PenCom, Premium Pensions refused to pay us. The most annoying thing is the deduction of their administration fee on receiving the money. They forgot that this fee is  deducted monthly when pension is paid. Kindly use your good offices to instruct Premium Pensions to refund the fee and pay the arrears. OTI: My name is Oti, a former staff member of Skye Bank Plc. I left the the bank since December 2009 and applied for the 25 per cent of my accrued benefit. But up till now, no response from them.   Lagos pays over N38b pension in 4 years     2023: On the men who want Fintiri’s job     Premium Pension profit drops for 3 years   My letter of non-indebtedness was sent to them from my former employer since January 19, 2022. I am based in Calabar. But the Calabar office manager refused to pick my calls or talk to me. I have health challenges. I need the money to fund my surgery. Kindly order them to pay my 25 per cent. ANNONYMOUS: Last year, l applied for the payment of additional lumpsum of 2.5 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 10 per cent approved by the president to federal pensioners. Surprisingly, nothing has been done about it. My PFA, Premium Pension, is not treating us well. They  told us that we should sign an empty template which they had not reflected. Why sign templates then? I am a retired police officer. Is it a crime to serve this country? Premium Pension should pay our arrears and others. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, Ajala, Tayo, Ekpe, and Oti should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PenCom. MRS OKON: I am Mrs. Okon. Before I retired on September 25, 2020, I took promotion interview to Director in the Federal Civil Service. The result came in last year. I have done the verification in my former office. Please, how do I upgrade my pension? PENCOM: A copy of the promotion letter indicating grade level and step and effective   date should be forwarded to PenCom along with a copy of your registration slip obtained during enrolment. DANIEL: My name is Daniel and I am a next-of-kin. I received payment of N1,591,877.64 in my UBA account which we believe is RSA contribution with Sigma Pensions. We are waiting for the death/life assurance benefits of the late Mrs Grace. She served over 10 years and died on active service of Fed Poly Idah in February 2015.     PENCOM: Sir, you are advised to contact Mrs. Ameh’s employer who should process the proceeds of the Group Life Insurance Policy and    ensure payment by the insurance company to her beneficiaries since she died in active service. Thank you.