Less than a year to the Nigerian general elections, the political parties seem unconscious of the efforts that they are expected to show Nigerians that truly, there is a lot at stake. Nigeria is at the edge of the precipice, economically, socially and politically. The seeming consolation that the country is less than a century old as an independent nation veers towards the puerile narrative that sounds very escapist. Some Nigerians born in 1960 are today accomplished in different fields. While most of those who have failed the country politically tend to comfort themselves with the nascence rhetoric when it suits them, we all know that bad military and civilian leaderships have been the bane of the Nigerian story. From an oil boom era of a post-independent Nigeria where the then naïve Head of state, Yakubu Gowon shocked the world by declaring that money was not the problem of Nigeria but how to spend it to the profligacy of subsequent military and civilian administrations to a Nigerian that is beset by gloom and despair as the poverty capital of the world in a 21st century world of innovation and technology. The question the Roundtable Conversation is asking then is, can’t the Nigerian political elite notice that there might be something wrong with the leadership evolution processes in Nigeria? Is it not time to look at that area of our national life to at least attempt to do something differently if we want a different results? Is sixty two years not enough time for a national introspection? Can we take a cue from other nations in all the continents? A Dubai is today a global city on the hill, an influential Middle Eastern business, tourism and investment hub that has defied all set rules and development prejudices of a desert region. Israel, a country of less than fifteen million people is today a country with leadership position in the fields of agriculture, technological innovation military and security sectors. Rwanda the African phoenix has risen under the proactive President  Paul Kagame to take a valued position in Africa as a fast-rising nation with a firm grip on foreign direct investment and tourism. Their economy has wowed the global community because they are nothing like what they passed through in 1994 with the tragic genocide that numbed the world. It was no miracle that these aforementioned countries and some others stand out in global political economic discussions.  Lee Kuan Yew took Singapore from the third world to the first not through divine miracles on the face of it but through human efforts. In essence therefore, leadership is everything. When a country bothers about its leadership, the result is development. The Roundtable question then remains, what are the Nigerian political parties doing as vehicles to drive Nigerian leadership to a progressive level through the way their selection processes work? It is not enough to make a song and dance of ‘our heroes past’. Nigeria deserves present and future leadership excellence that lifts. The democratic party processes must be fair. The parties are therefore in a position to realize that much that happens after elections depend on the values they ascribe to democracy through actions. As the two most prominent political parties, All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) work towards their primaries, the searchlight is on them. The world wants to know whether there is adherence to the finest tenets of democracy as a government of the people by the people and for the people. Every citizen is free to vote and be voted for and as such there must be a human face to the party processes including nomination fees. Nomination forms must not be used to exclude. Inclusivity is a core value of democracy. If the report that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC is demanding a N100m for presidential nomination, N50m for governorship, N20m for Senatorial, N10m for House of Representatives and N2 million for House of Assembly aspirants is indeed true and implementable, then our leadership evolution process at this stage is in peril not just with the APC but all political parties with such mindset. The Roundtable Conversation spoke to Ibrahim Faruk,  a democracy and good governance advocate and the Program Manager for the Governance and Development Programme of TIAGA Africa, a leading advocacy group for  the popular “Not too Young to Run” bill that fought for the changes to electoral laws to make it more inclusive of youths, women and citizens living with disabilities. They have raised the consciousness of the Nigerian Youth to be more active in the political space. Today, most of the political parties are recognizing   Youth Wings as an influential demographic. Most political parties have realized that the global political tone has changed greatly and young people across and women  are accessing leadership at all levels and leading their countries to economic development. The older politicians have realized the value of their roles not as their mere followers but as participants in their own rights whose voice in a social media world has amazing power.   2023: Tinubu, Sanwoolu have done enough to win for APC…     2023: The trouble within Oyo PDP     Delta 2023: Omo-Agege’s mother of all declarations   According to the movement, the exorbitant fees by political parties works against democracy because it reduces or even totally excludes young people, women and those living with disabilities whose economic power cannot support  a purchase of cosly  nomination forms. To YIAGA, elections must not be for the highest bidders in a country where the population  of youths stand at about  60% with 54% of registered voting demographic. While the movement believes that political activities require money, they equally understand that the political parties as mere vehicles  that candidates must have a human face considering that young people, women and those living with disabilities are equal stakeholders too. They believe that the political parties should realize that the passage of the ‘Not too Young to Run bill’ passed into law in 2019 means that the young people do not expect a political ambush by political parties. Inclusivity must not be on paper and be relegated in practical terms. The Roundtable had a conversation with Chief Frank Nweke Jr. a former Minister of Inter-governmental Affairs, Special Duties and Youth Development and later that of  Information and National Orientation  who has indicated interest in contesting for the governorship of his Enugu state in 2023.  Chief Nweke believes that high charges for nomination forms is neither good for us or the image of Nigeria as it presents the political process as being only available to the highest bidders, it sends the wrong signal that it is actually a part-investment because getting forms is merely the first step. After the Primaries, candidates have to campaign, they have to set up campaign offices, get staff, pay for logistics and the rest, when the office is accessed, the winner might then see his or her position as a business investment that must earn him or her returns. So if at the end candidates are expected to cough out hundreds of millions or billions in the case of the presidency, then we are in for a business transactions.  We must ask what would be the psychology of candidates who emerge after spending such huge sums? They might have possibly borrowed or gotten some people to donate illegally to their campaigns and that should be a red flag for the fight against corruption. According to Nweke, Nigerians must begin to consider the political, social and economic implications of our electoral processes because that holds the ace. The psychology of those we elect at all tiers of government is very important. Do we want to at any level be saddled with people with the warped sense of entitlement to the national, state of local government treasuries just because their political parties squeezed them dry financially? The psychology of leaders at any level often determine what they do with leadership  and as such political parties are advised to be mindful of taking wrong steps so that our democracy can thrive. To Nweke, as we practice democracy, the political elite must realize that there are other nuances that shape the democratic processes in different countries. Being rich by any means must not be qualifying criteria for political participation. Political parties are like trustees in the national project and as such must be in a position to look beyond the financial proceeds. As a former Minister that dealt with the youth development and national orientation, Nweke said experience has shown him that the young people tend to stay away from political participation because there is the unspoken fear that politics is for the old and rich. No country can develop progressively when the wrong political signals are sent to the young population who are seen as the leaders of tomorrow. Political parties must therefore learn from other countries like the United States that has a system in place that campaign funds are monitored to avoid money bags owning the system surreptitiously through excessive investment in campaign funds. We must build a system that is productive in ways that raising funds would be easy for any qualified candidate to run and access leadership positions. At the moment, the poverty level is too much and as such even if a candidates wants to mobilize for donations, it might still be difficult to reach certain benchmarks. We as a nation must ask ourselves why we seem to be repeating the same process each election year and havesting flawed electoral processes that turn very litigious and distractive. We must be ready to build systems that work and putting exorbitant price tags for nomination forms cannot do that. We must maximize the value of our human capital in a world ruled by the power of ideas that might not always reside with the richest. Change happens when leadership emerges out of those with the best vision and policy  ideas, Our party administration must work hard to streamline campaign funding in ways that money does not prevent our best from contesting elections. Democracy is about freedom, the freedom to vie for office must not have a cut-throat price tag. The dialogue continues…