First it was the farms and then the roads which were occupied by arrogant and mindless violence and terrorism of which I was a victim on March 17, 2017. Then it was railways and now it is airports, damaging the international record of the country.  Government agents and agencies have grown hoarse and appear insensitive and impotent by almost daily repeatedly sending condolences, with an occasional visit, to families and communities robbed of loved ones with destruction of livelihood and life expectation truncation for the dependents. It has been an outstanding pity that we face an  unacceptable growing number of dead – 1500+ in three months in Kaduna area- and Internally Displaced Persons easily now more than five million registered and unregistered unable to go homes. Sadly, the government quibbles over semantics with journalists and human rights advocates and rages against the use of, and sequence of the words ‘Boko Haram’, ‘Fulani’,  ‘herders’ and  ‘farmers’, ‘insurgency’, ‘war’, ‘clash’, ‘bandits’, ‘terrorists’ and the ‘Unknown Gunmen’. Government always disputes the numbers of dead and displaced when it should be as concerned as the citizens when violent loss of property and life occur. Yes, the government and Nigeria have evidence of ‘trying to cope’ and can sadly announce many lost officers and other ranks of both sexes and also a quantum of military material as tragic demonstration of their commitment to the battle. But sadly, this is a war and not a battle requiring a declaration of war and massive manpower recruitment and weaponry acquisition and mobilisation. Whatever the truly gallant efforts on land, sea and air of the armed forces, they  have not stopped the onslaught on the widening terrorist-declared ‘Terror Fronts’ – now including road, rail and airports – victims of mindless violence and terror. Why has it taken this ‘Tripod of Terror’ – the ‘Road, Train and Airport Attack’, for government to announce upgraded patrols when such attacks have happened before and been predicted by even casual terror analysts. Is it manpower, material, moral lapse, or ‘underestimating the enemy’? The murderous airport attack in Kaduna must have been anticipated by the military. Routine drone security surveillance and network rings around villages for surveillance and communication of movements of columns of 100-300 motorcycle criminal gangs should have brought out a swift airborne pre-emptive response. We have satellite, google and rapid communications and friendly foreign satellite coverage worldwide. In Nigeria, it should not be nuclear physics to track the heat signals of 300 motorcycles advancing or retreating. It has been said repeatedly especially by military professionals. So why are we murdered by armies of free-roaming murderous terrorists? I listened to the Minister of Justice on DSTV Channel 419, NTA announced a contract to buy ‘Night Vision Equipment’ NVE and trying to explain the need for them and thus tell the enemy what we are planning. Excuse me, does it really require a TV appearance in 2022 to buy such basic equipment, like why you need nappies for babies? NVE should have been part of our military basic equipment immediately after the lesson of the Chibok girls kidnapping eight years ago, April 14. Who, military or political, has deliberately cancelled requests oy our armed forces of such war-winning equipment?   The semiotics of GCIOBA’s takeover of GCI     PAP student emerges overall best, four others get first…     Why SMEs owners need micro pension   This confirms that the military remains underequipped and undermanned for the task of night fighting. If this mass gang attack continues, covering hundreds of kilometres as killing fields, the menace will recruit more unemployed youth to the terrorist fold and even more innocent, hard-working, honest citizens will die a tragic, terrorist death. This train terror took members of many professionals, their lives cut short while doing their job, their families right now plunged into unexpected mourning. But we must add the effect of ‘being terrified and fearful’ infecting most Nigerians. Every death is a tragedy to family and friends. Every single terrorist death is one murder too many and is a tragedy of unimaginably painful proportions to loving parents, brothers and sisters, wives and husbands and children all left behind after preventable violent circumstances against which military resistance did not occur in time. Sadly, Nigeria is a country with some leaders acting as if everything is alright because they personally are not dying or do not hear the gunshots or see the bloodstained clothes and their relations appear to be safe. Already our ‘election dance’ has started even though in some areas, an election in the foreseeable future will be impossible in the current circumstances. Nigeria, INEC staff, voters, politicians require campaign and election security. In fact, government must review the distribution of NYSC members to ‘safer zones’. Condolences are not enough. Investigate the Amaechi Surveillance Contract. Sadly, Nigerians are more upset by the loss to Ghana in the World Cup qualifier than our human losses and the unbridled terrorism most recently demonstrated in Plateau where 10 were killed and 19 injured at a festival. ‘How much is spent per school on sports equipment, promotion and competition? For most schools, it is ‘zero or very little’. Some private schools do better but most do not. Worldwide sports champions are the result of a combination of ‘Discovery-talent scout, Exposure, Personal Talent, Talent Hunt, Opportunity, Training-Coach/funds, Equipment and Willingness’. You can’t identify the best footballers or athletes in Nigeria if your education and youth programmes do not give all youth footballs and equipment to practice and pyramid or ladder placing progress.