William Butler Yeats, Irish nationalist and 1923 Nobel Prize for Literature winner, wrote “Easter, 1916”, a poem with that terrible yet terrific refrain: “A terrible beauty is born”. For the Oko-Oke boys, it would be Easter 2022.  It was 50 years after they entered school in 1972.  It was 46 years after they left in 1976. Beauty was born all right — in new amity and new dreams, to toast and give back to  their old school, the Odogbolu Grammar School (OGS), Odogbolu, Ogun State. It was a reunion to remember, for all 17 present, at the palace of Oba Adebisi Adedotun Okubanjo, the Obiri of Ayepe-Ijebu. But unlike Yeats’s “Easter, 1916”, pain-pleasure rendition of the Irish rebellion savagely crushed by the British, which nevertheless birthed sustained Irish ultra-nationalism against British domination, there was nothing terrible about the beauty of Easter 2022. Holy Saturday, 16 April 2022, was all sweet glad-handing and uproarious backslapping; with even sweeter reminiscences by the old boys of yore, now turned fathers and grandfathers, most of them meeting one another again, 46 years after. As they did, with Ebenezer Obey’s classics purring in the background — His Royal Highness, the Obiri, is a life-long Obey fan — something Biblical merrily played out. Joseph, the 11th of Jacob’s 12 boys it was, that had the dream that his ten seniors crowded around him; and all bowed to him.  Only Benjamin, his sole younger sibling, didn’t feel piqued by Joseph’s colorful dreams. Indeed, those audacious dreams; and Father Jacob’s unabashed doting upon his 11th child, would fire the conspiracy by Joseph’s seniors to sell him into slavery but lie to heart-broken Jacob that a wild animal had devoured his favourite son! Well, there was nothing dreamy or arrogant or cocky about the young Bisi Okubanjo back at Oko-Oke, the OGS rather extensive compound. Yet, here we were, all of his old mates including one or two Ayepe-Ijebu natives, merrily bowing before His Royal Highness, the Obiri, and humming Kaaabiiieeessssssiiiii o! Indeed, 20 kids as the Yoruba say, can’t frolic for 20 years!  Each and every of them would go their different ways! Oba Okubanjo had become a monarch; and pulled out all the royal stops to host a most memorable reunion of his old mates.  That earned him the unanimous honour of Grand Patron, OGS Old Boys Association (OGSOBA) ’72/76 Family. But the other 16 too, in the ensemble, had all gone to make names for themselves in different fields.  That much was clear from the monarch’s quiet mien and gracious gait, as he lapped up the rare honour his old classmates were doing him. Indeed, the proverbial 20 kids had gone on to excel in varied fields, over the proverbial 20 years, though the assemblage would appear skewed in favour of retired bankers.   Now is the time for a new non-aligned movement and peace     Will Africa become Russian oligarchs’ new safe haven?     How to stop moneybag politics   Otunba Rotimi Onafadeji, who emerged the OGSOBA 72/76 President, is a barrister-at-Law, well-known and applauded in Ogun legal circles. But Wasiu Balogun, aka Balinga, the powerful-voiced crooner that used to wow his old mates, while rendering Sunny Ade’s hits, is a retired banker but still practicing chartered accountant. Besides, beyond his boyhood musical promise and career accomplishments, Balinga appeared comfy with new organizational talents that would put veteran politicians to shame, in how he masterfully nudged his old mates towards consensus, en route to the affirmative elections, for the new OGSOBA executive. Omoba Olumuyiwa Akinola, debonair fellow and a social worker in the UK, who emerged the Vice President, represented the diaspora legion. His constituency powered instant recollections of other mates in the diaspora realm. Adeyinka Layemo was Head Boy and later orthopaedic surgeon of first crust.  But after retirement, as consultant surgeon, at the National Orthopaedic Hospital Igbobi (NOHI), he is now relocated to Canada. Layemo echoed another, Dotun Ogunnaike, aka Esse (for eccentric): a teenage kidder like no other, who brutally teased you and virtually left you for dead!  After earning a first degree from the University of Ife (now OAU), he left for the UK.  The happy company broke into fresh animation, at the recall of the rascally exploits of Ogunnaike. Layemo and Ogunnaike might be hundreds of kilometers away across the seas, but thanks to Balinga and his pre-election consensus caucus, Akinola was elected Vice President to spread the OGSOBA gospel overseas and rein in his diaspora colleagues. But full credit for the reunion must go to the trio of Alaba Olusoga (General Secretary), Ademuyiwa Obisanya (Financial Secretary/Treasurer) — both ex-bankers — and Bamidele Ogunde aka Tony Anthony (Social Secretary), Fine Arts teacher at the Yaba College of Technology (Yaba Tech). The fizzy Tony Anthony is the set’s institutional memory: you want any rare school days reminiscences?  He’s your go-to guy.  Obisanya framed the OGSOBA tag and launched the body’s WhatsApp interaction hub.  Olusoga, gentle and deep, is the quiet but efficient presence that got things done. Everyone was thrilled the three made the new executive — joined by Mudasiru Abujade (Welfare/Chief Whip) and practicing architect, who most were meeting for the first time in 46 years. Now, Tony Anthony brought old teenage passion into a future career.  He held the most nimble of brushes in the Fine Arts class, under the tutelage of our iconic teacher, Mr. Eggy N. Obaseki, who the boys dubbed “Gbedi-e-wa” — after his faltering Yoruba, meaning “bring your buttock”, for tanning in loving anger, anytime you misbehaved! Ripples was a member of that class of budding artists too, though he would build on another boyhood passion.  In William Wordsworth-speak, the child reporter of Oko-Oke sports events is the father of today’s newspaper columnist! But back to our iconic and beloved “Gbedi-e-wa”.  Mr. Obaseki became Tony Anthony’s life-long mentor, in the Fine Arts, sculpture and allied cosmos, as Tony Anthony blossomed in his career at Yaba Tech’s School of Art, Design and Printing. Beyond Tony Anthony, the mention of Mr. Obaseki jogged the boys’ fond memory of their old teachers: Chief Mamora, the incomparable “Meeeeerrrrrryyyyy Chief!” (of blessed memory), eternal favourite teacher and father of Senator Nimbe Mamora; and Messrs Aderibigbe and Otudeko, still alive and kicking in their Okunowa-Ijebu and Ibefun-Ijebu respective hearths. Besides, Gbolagade Oke and Ibukun Okegbenle, relations of old teachers, Messrs Oke and Okegbenle (both now of blessed memory), reminded the boys of old school authorities.  Mr. Oke was House Master while Mr. Okegbenle succeeded Mr. Otudeko as Sports Master. As the “boys” buzzed around HRH for the parting photo-op — Deji Cole aka ABC, Pastor Akin Tokoya (who offered the Christian opening prayers), the fasting Wasiu Yusuf (who said the closing Muslim prayers), Badejo Kujimiyo who proudly declared himself an “organic farmer”, property buffs Jamiu Adeyemi and Gab Sonowo — it was crystal clear to all: for OGSOBA 72-76, Easter 2022 is a treasure to remember!