The House of Representatives Committee on Aviation headed by Nnolim Nnaji has urged the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to put measures in place to avert a re-occurrence of power outage  at the D finger arrival of the international wing of the  Murtala Mohammed Airport, (MMIA), Ikeja, Lagos at the weekend. The D finger arrival was thrown into darkness for over 15 minutes about 11: 15 pm on April 1, 2022 when the disembarked Air France passengers were undergoing facilitations. Nnaji, at the meeting with the FAAN management and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), stressed that the committee had to invite the two organisations for explanations on the incident following a disturbing video that went virile at the weekend. The committee chairman said the Parliament was not happy with the development, adding that a prime airport like the MMIA ought to have standby generators that were supposed to switch immediately the public power source went off. FAAN Managing Director Captain Rabiu Yadudu said the problem was caused by the heavy rain which fell that night and it affected the underground cables that supply power to the affected finger.   Dangote Refinery ‘ll meet 100% Nigeria’s fuel…     Lagos Free Zone to invest $3.5b by 2024     Allow third party use gas pipelines, govt urges Shell,…   Captain Yadudu further said the international terminal of the Murtala Muhammed Airport has six 4.8 KVA generators which alternative power to the terminal and that they usually switch on within five seconds when there is disruption from the national grid. He also affirmed that the problem lasted for only 15 minutes before the light was restored, adding that it was blown out of proportion. The Managing Director said the greatest challenge facing the authority was that some of the underground cables had damaged and needed total replacements because they were laid over 40 years ago. Also, the Director-General, NCAA, Captain Musa Nuhu, said since the terminal was built in 1978, no major renovation had been done on it. He said the terminal needed remodelling and rewiring of the cables . Nnaji, however, maintained that FAAN and the NCAA should suggest how to address the problem to avoid future embarrassment.