The leadership of the Southeast zone of the All Progressives Congress(APC) has vowed never to allow the opposition’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) take back Ebonyi State. The party also said its target in the 2023 general elections is to win all states in the Southeast, starting from Abia and Enugu States. Addressing newsmen at the end of the party’s inaugural zonal meeting on Sunday in Enugu, the National Vice Chairman(Southeast) of the party, Dr Ijeomah Arodiogbu, expressed satisfaction with the judgement by the Appeal Court sitting in Enugu which dismissed the suit filed to remove Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi. The suit which was filed by the candidate of the APC in the 2019 governorship election, Sonni Ogbuoji and his deputy, Justin Ogbodo Mbam, demanded that the court declare the seats of Umahi and his deputy, Kelechi Igwe vacant on account of their defection from the PDP to the APC.’   JUST IN: Gunmen set Imo council secretariat ablaze     VIDEO: Osun monarch plays pipe organ during church service     Police operatives reject N500,000 bribe, seize busload of…   However, in a unanimous judgment delivered by Justice J. O. K. Oyewole on Friday, the court held that the appellants had no locus standi in their bid to supplant the respondents, adding that the constitution did not provide for their removal from office although the defection of the governor and his deputy might appear immoral. However, Arodiogbu said the party was happy with the outcome of the judgement and that it was part of its responsibility to defend all the states under the party’s control in the region. “Ebonyi is one of such states and we cannot let people come in through the back door and harass the governor,” Arodiogbu said. Arodiogbu maintained that the zonal office of the party has a target in the 2023 election which is to win all states in the Southeast, adding that the goal cannot be achieved without the support of the people. He called on residents in the Southeast to continue to support the party, particularly in the coming elections in order to attract more infrastructural development. He said, “We are appealing to our brothers and sisters in the Southeast to support the government at the centre because it has brought massive infrastructure to the zone. There are a lot of good things to benefit if we support the party”.