Contrary to speculations, the All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to decide on which part of the country will get its 2023 presidential ticket. Party Chairman Abdullahi Adamu said yesterday that the decision would be taken at a later date by the entire APC. He spoke on a day associates of the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, picked up his expression of interest and nomination forms for him. The day also saw the immediate past governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, buy his nomination form and a former senate president, Chief Ken Nnamani, declared his interest in the race. Speculations about a planned ‘declaration’ for presidency by a former national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole sparked confusion in the polity. Adamu, during a visit to the Presidential Villa, Abuja to present the APC governorship candidate in the forthcoming election in Ekiti State, Biodun Oyebanji, said he could not preempt the party on the zoning issue. “I am today privileged to be the chairman of the party. The party is greater than me. The party has not made a decision and I cannot preempt what the party decision will be,” he told State House Correspondents in contradiction of a statement by Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai just before the APC national convention last month. El-Rufai had said back then that “our expectation is that our presidential candidate will come from somewhere in the south.” He added: “It is up to the southern caucus of the APC to now propose to us an acceptable candidate.” Adamu declined to respond to another question from reporters yesterday on when ministers  who intend to contest in the election would resign ahead of the primaries. ”Thank you very much for your question. Our luck is that I happen to be a lawyer and the issue you are raising is in court right now. So, it will be sub judice for me to discuss it at all,” he said. But he replied critics who had taken the party to task over the N100 million fee fixed for its expression of interest and nomination forms for the presidential primaries. He said the party had no regret for its decision on the cost of the forms. He said: “Yeah, I’ve been listening, with rapt attention, to the hues and cries from our lovers and from our adversaries. We have no regrets whatsoever. “We did some homework, we know what it takes to go through primaries, go through presidential campaign, go through election for the President. We know what it takes. “We also do know that there are citizens who are qualified to contest, but who are not serious contenders, who will just want to take anything cheap by the roadside, and assert what they call their rights and create problems for our party. “We’re also aware that some parties that have no chance whatsoever to win presidential election in Nigeria, they will sponsor people in parties that have prospects for winning the election, to create problems for us, to divert our attention, whichever party is involved in that. “Over and above that, yes, we are the ruling party. Yes, we need to set examples in what we do. But I ask you: I don’t know which part of the country you come from. If, God forbid, your traditional ruler dies today, contestants to that office will go for more than N100 million. It’s no news. “When I contested for the Senate, all I paid was just a token: N5 million, N10 million, including the expression. When my colleague wanted to be chairman of the party, in the days of Adams Oshiomhole, it took him N500,000. “Today, for me, just as an example, to contest the national chairman of our party, I  had to pay N20 million to contest. “Alright, and even the enormity of work that has to be done, and this work will be done with money. We don’t want to continue going a begging. “So, I want to say that we’re able to mobilise sufficient funds to support our efforts to win elections. Some protests may be well founded, I have no quarrel with that. But the propensity of this, that people just assume it’s the ruling party. “I will not quarrel with that, every one of us has the right to express himself, and I’m in full support of these obligations. But we wear the shoes for our party and we know where it pinches us the most.” On fears in some quarters that the process of settling for the party’s presidential candidate could tear it apart if not carefully handled, he said “God will not allow that to happen to us. “We will come out by the grace of God, at the appropriate time [with] the candidate the convention will choose. “I do not want to speculate, but my duty as chairman is to listen to party men, party leaders, stakeholders, to see what is going to be the best when the time comes, and I’ve always found it easier and more noble to get to the bridge before I jump to cross it. We are not yet there.” The APC National Chairman was accompanied to the Presidential Villa by the Ekiti State governor and Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi; Kebbi State governor and Chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Atiku Bagudu; and the National Secretary of the APC, Senator Iyiola Omisore. A delegation of the Tinubu Support Group (TSG) yesterday picked his expression of interest and nomination forms for the May 30 APC Presidential primary. Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Babachir Lawal and Hon. James Faleke led a crowd of supporters and members to the International Conference Centre in Abuja to pick the forms. Speaking with newsmen after picking the forms, the former SGF said the APC National Leader was more prepared for the assignment than any of the other aspirants. “Nigeria under Tinubu will be better off economically,” he said. Lawal described Tinubu as the brand to beat at the party primary and in the 2023 general elections. On Tinubu’s chances, Lawal said: “If we were not sure we have chances to win this election, we would not waste our N100 million. Everybody is free to buy the forms if he has N100 million. The choice is his. He has the money. “But as far as we are concerned, we are only fulfilling the constitutional requirement of campaigning and going for election. We don’t foresee any opposition in the contest.” He did not see the large number of presidential aspirants as a problem, saying: “We are not worried in our camp. I am not worried as a person.” Also speaking, Faleke said: “Asiwaju at the appropriate time will deliver his address to us. But I know that this country under Tinubu will be better off. The economy will be better off because he is an economist. He is not a lawyer, he is an economist. “He will deal with the economic situation of this country. He did it in Lagos, and the security challenges in Lagos were solved by him. He will solve the same security challenges.   Awujale, tradition and good governance     Why always Peseiro?     2023: Sanwo-Olu picks APC governorship forms   “He is a man who rewards loyalty, who ensures that people who work are also taken care of. He will ensure that employment opportunities are better off; the issue of strikes will be a thing of the past. Also yesterday, the Senator representing Imo West, Rochas Okorocha, was presented with his own expression of interest and nominations forms bought by the New Nigeria Movement. He said at the event in Abuja that Nigeria, at this time, needed a wealth creator who could identify and stimulate the economic potentials of the country. He described the majority of those in the presidential race as mere wealth managers who are not perfectly fit for the task of reengineering the country to work. He said: “There are so many in the presidential race. I am not the best aspirant but I am who Nigeria needs to change the ugly narrative. “In Nigeria we are going through an abnormal situation; our country is associated with poverty, insecurity and others and an ideal person is needed to champion the nation. “Nigeria requires a builder, not a manager. What I see happening is that many managers are aspiring to manage the nation, but you must build first bringing in the managers. My only agenda is to create wealth for Nigerians.” Okorocha also advised APC delegates to vote wisely, adding that “I know you will be under intense pressure brought by religious, ethnic and political sentiments, but one question you must ask yourself is what has been your gain. If you cast your vote by sentiment, don’t blame anyone later.” Earlier, spokesman for the New Nigeria Movement, Prince Ebunola Martins, said the group was propelled to purchase the nomination form for the former Imo governor by the desire to rescue Nigeria. Formally declaring his interest in the presidential race yesterday, former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani, said he was propelled by his desire to solve Nigeria’s problems, just as he did as head of the National Assembly between 2005 and 2007. But he complained about the N100 million charged by the party for the expression of interest and nomination forms. He urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to set rules to regulate the cost of nomination fees as well as campaign expenses. He pledged that if elected as president, he would deepen democracy, defeat insecurity and entrench a new culture and structure of productivity that will grow the country’s economy, arrest social anomie and reinvent nationalism and democratic citizenship, even in the midst of global economic and social crises. Nigeria, according to him, needs to be reinvented to be a modern, democratic state that prioritises the socio-economic wellbeing of its citizens, to be restructured from inefficient consumption to production and to be led with integrity and compassion. He said: “In 2005, we met the problem of lack of credibility and effectiveness of the legislature. We fixed it and bequeathed to Nigerians a legislature that could protect democracy and promote stability. “My profile for the job of the president is not just degrees, it is not only my extensive experience in best global companies, it is majorly my performance in my last high office. “When you have held public office in the past, your next job audition should be based on your performance scorecard, not merely on your CV. My scorecard in previous leadership positions speaks for itself.” “Nigeria needs a man or woman who recognises that the strength of any nation in today’s world is human capital, and therefore is willing to give young people the platform to bring their innovation and passion to change the country. “With about 30 per cent of Nigerian young persons, we need value-based leadership that creates an environment of democratic freedom and fosters innovation. That is the leadership I promise to provide for Nigeria. “In 2015, we needed a Buhari to take Nigeria away from the misdirection of the Peoples Democratic Party. “We will all agree that President Muhammadu Buhari met enormous challenges. In spite of the challenges we face, we have to acknowledge Mr. President’s patriotism that manifests in the unshaken belief that Nigeria will move past the current problems and setbacks. “In 2023, we need a leader who knows how to work across the divides and lead a coalition for competent and dedicated Nigeria to lay foundations for social stability and prosperity.” The polity was jolted yesterday by speculations over planned declaration for the presidential race by a former National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The social media was awash early in the day with news that the former Edo State governor would make an announcement to that effect in Abuja by 3pm. However, his media aide, Victor Oshioke, said later in the day that the  “proposed formal declaration of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for the office of President, Federal Republic of Nigeria under the platform of APC which was advertised to hold today (yesterday), April 29th 2022 at the Cyprian Ekwensi Centre for Arts and Culture Abuja is hereby postponed. “The new date for the event will be communicated appropriately. “We are deeply sorry for the inconveniences this unavoidable postponement may have caused numerous supporters of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole across the country.” However, another source close to Oshiomhole dismissed news of the ‘declaration’ as unfounded. Oshiomole himself could not be reached last night. He did not immediately respond to a WhatsApp message sent to him on the issue. APC member asks court to disqualify Emefiele from primary An  All Progressives Congress  (APC) member in Rivers State has filed a suit at the State High Court,Port Harcourt seeking the  disqualification of  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor  Godwin Emefiele, from the party’s forthcoming presidential primary. Naapah Bariledum, who is a member of the APC in Ward 4, Khana Local Government Area,claims   Emefiele is  not eligible to participate in the process on the strength of provisions  of the 1999 Constitution. The APC Constitution and the CBN Act ,according to the plaintiff ,are also not in support of Emefiele’s participation in the primary election. He said the CBN governor has failed to meet the conditions stipulated by the CBN Act which would have given him the  legal right to have a valid membership of the APC before participating in the primary. He asked the court to declare any interest in the presidential race by the CBN governor a nullity. Other defendants in the suit are the APC, and the Independent National Electoral Commission sued.