Mr Pam Jang, son of the immediate past governor of Plateau, Sen. Jonah Jang has declared interest in contesting the Jos East/Jos South Federal Constituency seat in 2023. Junior Jang said on Tuesday in Jos that he was never interested in politics until his friends put pressure on him to contest and even bought the expression of interest and nomination forms for him. Jang, a pilot, said he could not go against the wish of his people which is for him to represent them at the National Assembly on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The aspirant thanked his friends for buying the forms, a gesture which he said he considered an honour and as a rare privilege. “It is a common fact that our people are in dire need of genuine and effective representation at the House of Representatives. “As I humbly accept this clarion call to serve my great people at the National Assembly, I wish to state clearly that I believe in the concept of effective representation. “I do not see this contest as a do-or-die affair because leadership and power come from God. “The work of a legislator is not an easy one considering the present state of the nation and a constituency like ours, but am confident that by the grace of God we will do our best,’’ he said. Dr Dagwom Dang, a friend of Jang said the friends conducted a Strength, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis and realised Jang was eminently qualified to represent his people at the National Assembly.   Alleged N5.2b fraud: How ex-JAMB Registrar Ojerinde funded…     I’ve never considered leaving APC- Lai Mohammed     2023: How I’ll secure Nigeria as President -Moghalu   Dang presented the forms on behalf of the league of friends to Jang and noted that as a pilot, precision is one of the tools of flying safely. “And as a pilot and leader, you have your crew members or you have the people in the flight and definitely you have to arrive at destination safely. “He is a pilot. Definitely, he is going to employ those skills in leadership. “One of his strengths as a leader is the appreciation of professionals around him and I have no doubt that he will succeed as a lawmaker,’’ Dang said. Another friend, Mr Victor Akajah, said Jang is a man full of compassion and empathy. Akajah stated that the aspirant is always calm, cool and collected. “I can assure you, the good people of Jos East/Jos South that he will do you proud if elected,’’ he said. Mr Itse Ajiji, Director-General of Pam Jang Campaign Organisation thanked the friends for igniting and fanning the spark. Ajiji urged all not to relent until Jang emerges victorious at the party primary and general elections. (NAN)