Popular gospel singer, Nathaniel Bassey has reacted to the death of Osinachi Nwachukwu via microblogging app, Instagram. Reminiscing on the memories he shared with the late singer, Nathaniel cited how she cheerfully exchanged pleasantries with him at a worship event where they were invited to minister. Bassey said marriage is good but not by force while reacting to Osinachi’s death. She encouraged women to pray whenever they notice consistent traits that do conform with God’s will in their partner. He wrote: ”In the past few weeks, I have had to share very hard posts. Posts of very wonderful ministers of the gospel who have passed. Attended two services of songs of young folks. And the harsh realities of life just stare in the face. Death is inevitable, but we don’t pray for it before time. “However, this one has been very annoying, hearing the circumstances surrounding the death of our sister. One Whose voice thundered and reverberated powerfully in worship.   2022 slangs rocking Nigeria’s streets, social media     Singer Jaywon backs Osinbajo for president     Nollywood suffers from lack of structure, says Dakore   “I remember how she’d come to me with a smile and humility saying hello when we had to minister at worship events. But #he’s with our Lord now. But I can’t help but say, a little early. ”Let me pray this again my friends, “MAY YOU NOT MARRY YOUR ENEMY” And that you also don’t become an ENEMY to someone else. In Jesus’ name. Marriage is good and Honorable. But also not by force. To those about to marry, SHINE YOUR EYES. Love is not blind. Because God is love. And God is not blind.” Admonishing women in similar situation, he said: “Don’t ignore red flags. Even when you say, or they said, “God said” but you identify some traits very inconsistent with godly character, PRAY AND CHECK AGAIN. ”And to those in horrible marital situations, both men and women, I pray for you today, May God give you the WISDOM to make the right decisions before it is too late. In Jesus’ name. Amen. To the family, friends and well-wishers I close with “Can anything ever separate us from Christ’s love? Does it mean he no longer loves us if we have trouble or calamity, or are persecuted, or hungry, or destitute, or in danger, or threatened with death? (As the Scriptures say, “For your sake, we are killed every day; we are being slaughtered like sheep.”) No, despite all these things, overwhelming victory is ours through Christ, who loved us. Romans 8:35-37 NLT.”