Jurgen Klopp’s new Liverpool contact extension to 2026 is huge for Fenway Sports Group (FSG) and everyone connected with the club – both on and off the pitch. The 54-year-old has sign a new deal to extend his stay with the Premier League title challengers for a further two years, having previously suggested he could call time on his Anfield tenure when his contract expired in 2024. The much-loved coach was trusted to steadily build his own team, which has come to fruition with the Reds getting their hands on the club’s sixth Champions League in 2019 and then the Premier League title in the 2019/20 season, ending a 30-year wait to be English champions. This season has already seen the club lift the Carabao Cup and Liverpool are now just a possible eight games away from making history with an unprecedented quadruple still on the cards. Klopp’s extension is likely to see continued success on the pitch, but it will also increase the chances for the club to leverage their position off it, with commercial revenues and engaging with new partners. The Reds are soon set to begin discussions over their shirt sponsorship, with their current £40million-a-year deal with Standard Chartered ending in 2023. The British banking firm began their long-standing partnership with the club in the 2010/11 season – becoming only the club’s fifth shirt sponsor in their history after iconic deals with Hitachi, Crown Paints, Candy and Carlsberg. According to Liverpool Echo, the club have already begun to ‘sound out other partners’ over their shirt sponsorship, with Standard Chartered ‘also part of the conversation’ and ‘engaged in ongoing talks’ over a possible renewal. Why Klopp’s new contract is good news on this front, is that it puts the club in a period of stability as they head into a vital negotiation period. Of course, the team’s recent results and silverware success will also help the club command top-tier deals from any incoming partners, with that success only likely to continue with Klopp still at the helm. With the shirt deal ending in 2023 and Klopp’s previous contract ending in 2024, that uncertainty over the manager and the team’s future would likely have worked against the club as they look to negotiate for the best price. The agreement with the American sportswear giant also sees the Reds receive 20 per cent from global sales of Nike/Liverpool merchandise, which is believed to raise the value of the deal closer to the £60m-£70m mark. Klopp being at the helm will aid the club when it comes to retail sales, too, as a successful team on the pitch means fans will continue to purchase merchandise regularly on a global scale.   Power, merit and Nigerian leadership choices     No tears for Orji Uzor Kalu     Education, ethnicity and progress   Potential sponsors will have plenty of visibility, given Liverpool are challenging on all fronts including the Champions League. There is also the fact they are one of the most broadcast clubs in the Premier League when it comes to live games domestically and internationally. Klopp’s new extension could mean the likes of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino sign new long-term deals to remain at Anfield, which will also increase revenue through shirt sales. With Klopp extending, Liverpool are a hugely appealing proposition to commercial partners, with success both on and off the pitch set to continue. Meanwhile, Klopp  has explained  impact of his  new Liverpool contract on Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane deals , saying: ‘I don’t think this would be the decisive thing’. The Reds boss was asked whether his renewed commitment to the club could see two of his best players  follow suit. As recently as last month, the German was talking about walking away when his current deal expires in 2024 – and his decision to stay marks a huge boost for the Reds as they chase a historic quadruple. When asked whether his commitment to the club could inspire Salah and Mane to sign on, Klopp said:“That’s a question for the boys, to be honest. “It’s all fine, my relationship with both is great. In life there is more to think about, but knowing who is the manager and coaching staff is important. “There is no 100 per cent in this business but it’s very likely I will stay here for a while. “Everything is clear at the moment, and if it’s a positive sign for the boys, great. But I don’t think this would be the decisive thing. They have their own lives to consider. “We just need to make sure that everyone who wants to be here knows what they can expect.” Asked about his own contract, Klopp added that it ‘made sense’ to confirm his commitment to the club now before the end of the season, revealing it may aid the club’s transfer business in the summer. The coach was speaking in yesterday’s  conference ahead of Liverpool’s Premier League clash away at Newcastle – which is LIVE and EXCLUSIVE on talkSPORT. “It makes sense doing it now because it’s important a lot of people know early what’s going on,” Klopp added.“It’s good for transfer windows. “We cannot guarantee success, we can guarantee stability, and in these difficult times that’s a big thing to guarantee. “And that’s why at the moment it’s the right one.”