Food and beverage manufacturer Rite Foods has thrown its weight behind the environmental conservation initiative of Popbeachclub’s “rite on the beach,” which promotes the collection of ocean plastics on beaches for recycling. Rite Foods Managing Director Mr. Seleem Adegunwa, who made this known in Lagos, said proceeds from this initiative would be doled out as scholarships to children in beach communities. The initiative by Popbeachclub sets up recycling ecosystems in coastal communities that lack disposal infrastructure and have high rates of pollution coupled with poverty. It also trains the youth in the beach communities in green jobs, environmental services, tourism as well as entrepreneurship to work in jobs created on the island and other coastal areas of Lagos. The project, also intended at riding beaches of plastic waste that adversely affects aquatic lives, marine activities as well as a healthy environment, was embarked upon at the Ilashe Beach in Lagos. At the Ilashe beach, over a ton of plastics was recovered for recycling, in partnership with Omnik Limited Polyethylene converters. Adegunwa said the company would continue to support worthy platforms aimed at ensuring the well-being of Nigerians as demonstrated in the Popbeachclub Scholarship Programme for children in beach communities.   Zenith Bank gives N93.33b dividends     CBN fines four banks over crypto transactions     FMBN introduces non-interest rent-to-own mortgage loans   This, he said, would help increase literacy and empowerment through employment. “Our support, I believe, would help in sensitising the inhabitants of Ilashe on the importance of having a clean environment, creating jobs, supporting grassroots education and economic growth in communities around the shores of Lagos,” Adegunwa affirmed. The founder, Lagos Eco-Resort, Popbeachclub, Akin Disu, said 1.5million plastics were collected at the recent Ilashe Beach clean-up for recycling with Omnik Limited and that the gains would be used as scholarship for 1,800 children as well as 12, 000 community impact. Disu commended Rite Foods for throwing its weight behind the project, just like last year when 30 children were trained in Ilashe community. He avowed that “the company’s immense support has given him the willpower to do this because they underwrite the risks involved and makes the initiative easy for execution.” Disu added that with the “rite on the beach” project, Popbeachclub has been able to establish a Momsch School, a grassroots-based learning system that engages parents in communities to share their knowledge of local languages. He said there is also an Ocean School, a three-year project creating a cyclical, ethical ecosystem based around education and ocean plastic. The other is a Club School, a grassroots-based capacity building initiative, providing vocational training, up-skilling and entrepreneurial guidance in the community focused on young adults and services in the hospitality and tourism sector.