All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Dr. Dakuku Peterside yesterday said the party will defeat Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State in 2023. He also predicted victory for APC at the presidential poll. Peterside, a governorship aspirant, spoke at the party’s Thanksgiving at the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital,  to thank God for successful congresses at all levels and  APC’s national convention. Dakuku hailed the state APC for its recovery and victory to end the “sad breast-pocket governance style  of Peoples Democratic Party  (PDP). He observed that every indicator of an APC victory in 2023 was positive, adding that recent success by the party in the state from the ward, council and state congresses, reinvigorated its membership in readiness to kick out the ruling party in the state.   ‘Africa can solve food insecurity through…     EFCC urges court to dismiss Ibeto’s suit     Robbery suspect arrested in Ogun   “Youhave seen the crowd here which points to a new height in APC’s renewed movement towards ending the  breast-pocket governance Rivers people found themselves  in since 2015. Our people have suffered in the hands of Wike and PDP but APC is set to end all that and reset the state to achieving its full potential. That PDP must go in 2023 is our resolve, and working in harmony, we shall achieve that. ‘’Today is a statement in the party’s resolve to terminate the directionless regime of Wike and his PDP and in turn entrench good governance and grow our beloved state.” Present at the event were  former and serving governors, senators, House of Representatives members, serving and former legislators, ministers, captains of industry, the clergy, and APC faithful from the 23 councils. Speaking further, Dakuku hailed Transportation Minister Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for heeding calls by Nigerians to run for President. Describing Amaechi  as “most fitting, competent, and pan-Nigerian”, Dakuku hoped Nigerians will  support Amaechi’s aspiration. “I commend Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi for taking this decision to serve Nigerians in heeding the call of Nigerians to succeed President Buhari…”  Dakuku said.