Good politicians are blessed with the power of foresight. Their priority is winning political control,  either in form of party power or legitimate authority. They never sleep on guard. Foresight is their watchword. Former Governor Godswill Akpabio and Senator James AkpanUdoedehe had periscoped into the future, working on how to sustain their relevance in the chapter. They are long standing rivals. Both of them defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Akpanudoedehe left the PDP  for the defunct Action Congress (AC). Akpabio joined  APC later. It never resulted into a reunion. The former governor became Minister of Niger Delta Affairs after leaving the Senate in 2019. Akpanudoedehe, a former Minister of State for FCT, was selected as national caretaker committee secretary. Their paths, once again, crossed at the top echelon. But, it never led to renewal of contract. Both returned to the drawing board to perfect their antagonistic scheming strategies. A fierce battle ensued in the chapter over the control of the state executive committee. Akpanudoedehe deployed his influence. Akpabio also  pushed  his power. The state congress became the battle ground. The two camps held parallel congresses  last year. Since then, peace had departed from the chapter.  Stephen Ntukekpo, backed by the former governor, emerged as factional chairman at Kara Event Centre, Uyo, the state capital. Also, Austin Ekanem, supported by the former national secretary, Don Etiebet and Umana Umana, became a factional chairman. Consequently, the battle shifted to court. On March 7, Ekanem was sworn in as chairman by Acting Caretaker Chairman, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello. Akpabio cried foul. Later, on March 17, a Federal High Court in Abuja nullified the swearing in of Ekanem and ordered the inauguration of Ntukekpo.   FCTA seals Federal Ministry of Works, Character Commission,…     Alleged gang sex: Chrisland denies pregnancy test claim     2023: Conversations with God   Akpanudoedehe claimed that he is on appeal. Therefore, Ntukekpo cannot be sworn in. National Chairman Abdullahi Adamu disagreed. The former secretary is nursing a governorship ambition, which the camp of Akpabio has threatened to abort. He faulted Adamu for flouting a court order, maintaining that the Court of Appeal has directed all parties to maintain the status quo. Akpabio rejected the argument. He alleged that Akpanudoedehe was threatening the party, alluding to its dire consequences. While Akpanudoedehe has his eyes on the Government House, Akpabio, a source said, is planning to join the presidential race. Having succeeded in bringing Ntukekpo on board, he becomes the leader of the divided Akwa Ibom APC, to the consternation of Don Etiebet, who is held in reverence as leader, courtesy of the Akpanudoedehe camp. Akpabio is joining the presidential race, probably as a decoy. His main motive is to maintain dominance and relevance, with an intent to savour the added advantage of controlling delegates from the chapter for the purpose of poliical bargaining ahead of next year’s election and beyond. He has replied the salvos fired by Akpanuoedehe. The minister wondered which party Akpanudoedehe was threatening to sue. He said:”We are sticklers for the rule of law and the APC national body obeyed the rule of law and I believe strongly that it is better to have a country that is made of people who obey the law than strong men.” Anyone that controls the State Executive Committee of the party controls the delegates. This is the crux of the matter. This is the bone of contention. Akpanudoedehe believes Ekanem is the authentic chairman. Akpabio says Ntukekpo is recognised by the National Working Committee (NWC). Who blinks first?