Otunba Adetunji Oyabambi was a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State up till last week. The former gubernatorial candidate, after months of urging the various gladiators in the ruling party to end the crisis currently bedeviling the party, jumped ship and joined the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with his supporters. In this interview with ‘DARE ODUFOWOKAN, Assistant Editor, the youthful politician who is aspiring to represent the people of Oyun/Offa/Ifelodun Federal Constituency in the national assembly, insisted that APC as a party in Kwara state has lost focus and currently lacks any form of ideology. Excerpts. You were a chieftain of the APC in Kwara State; but you along with other members of the party joined the PDP last week. What informed your defection? Thank you very much. Firstly, you will understand that every individual has a threshold of patience up to which he or she can condone irregularities. This is what prompted our defection. APC has wallowed deep in irregularities as a ruling party so much that some of us decided that we do not want our names to be associated with all of that disappointment, all in the name of politics.  The APC in Kwara State has been in crisis since the last general election. Can you shed light on the happenings within the party? Remember I said it earlier that some of us in this political arena cannot afford to allow our names to be tarnished. Saying that APC is not in crisis would be living in denial. This is because at every level, the party has indulged in a number of actions that one would not consider democratic at all. Even within the APC, members are not happy with the way things are going in the party. Leadership crises, tussles for hierarchy among party ExCos, selections and impositions of preferred candidates, betrayal, and so many other crises have eaten deep into the party.  Do you share the view that the crisis has made the ruling party unpopular in the state and may affect its chances at the next election? Yes indeed it will. Even as small as a family is, if crisis is rocking that family, it will affect their progress and level. APC has reduced itself to a party that the masses no longer want to associate with. At the Local Government, State and across the country, everyone is looking forward to voting them out in the next election.  Pointedly, who will you blame for the inability of party leaders to reconcile these differences? It is not a one-sided blame, really. The leadership and followers alike are responsible. Some leaders are not interested in carrying members along in decision making processes, while others are totally deaf to the yearnings of their constituencies. On the part of the members and followers, some are so obstinate and never follow instructions from the leadership. Others deliberately peddle falsehoods and fuel crises to satisfy stomach infrastructure. And on and on like that. So really, the blame is for both the leaders and followers. After all, if there are no followers there can be no leaders.  Do you sincerely see PDP as a better alternative or you merely left due to the crisis? Of course, PDP shows prospects of being a better and credible alternative. No one will see a better abode and not move to such a place. Aside from the crises, decamping to PDP was also motivated by the party ideologies which are mostly in tandem with the people-oriented programs we have in our blueprint. In addition, we are also pleased with the cordial leadership-cum-followership relationship and structure that exist in PDP.  How comfortable are you in your new party? Are you sure you will be fully accepted by leaders and members?   APC convention: Buni returns home to rousing welcome     Appeal Court dismisses suit challenging defection of Umahi,…     Edo PDP: Obaseki, Orbih, take supremacy battle to LG polls   The answer to that question has already been demonstrated to us as we joined the PDP. We were received in a very welcoming and hospitable manner at all levels. From the time of our consultations with our Leaders, we knew that we were coming to a welcoming place where family is cherished. Nothing really feels like being around people with like minds politically.  Your aspiration to seek the House of Rep seat, Is it still on course? I can tell you yes. However, I cannot say yes in totality because I do not intend to work against the decision of the party and my esteemed leaders. As you are aware, I am under the political tutelage of political titans like His Excellency, Dr. Bukola Saraki, Sen. Rafiu Adebayo, party Excos and stakeholders. We cannot go against decisions that will make our party better and greater.  Why do you think you are the right man for the job? If an individual is in school and doing well, he doesn’t need to be told. If otherwise too, he still doesn’t need to be told. So many things that I have done in antecedence have qualified me to be eligible to contest. Aside this, my acceptability, popularity and direct bond with my people are among the things I consider as making me eligible. I stand a chance to pick the party ticket, if given the opportunity to pick the party to pick the party ticket (laughing). All I know is that when the game begins, I won’t be found wanting. As regards defeating APC, that will be easy by the special grace of God. In PDP, we believe power belongs to God and to the people. And that is why we are confident we will be victorious. What will you say about the performance of Governor Abdulrasaq in Kwara State He has tried his best. But wait and see the best of performances when our party, PDP win elections and deliver a government that is second to none.  What’s your take on the unending debate over the new Electoral Act? Do you think the Court was right on its latest order? I believe the judiciary has done the best they could to see that the Electoral Act comes out without blemish. I know each time an amendment is made it is for the benefit of all. So I can say the latest Court Order was in the best interest of the common man. Tell us about yourself and how you got involved in politics. My name is Otunba Adetunji Oyabambi an indigene of Ijagbo in Oyun local government area of Kwara State. Though I was born in Zaria, Kaduna state, I grew up in Ilorin Kwara State. My family and I relocated to Ilorin Kwara State when I was 10 years old. It was in Ilorin that I completed both my primary and secondary schools. I proceeded to Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin Kwara State for both of my Ordinary and Higher National Diplomas. Then, I was deployed to serve our fathers’ land in Akure Ondo State as a Youth Corper in 2006. I relocated to the United States of America in 2009. While working full-time, I went back to school to further my studies in Criminal Justice and I came out with an  Associate Degree. Prior to leaving the shores of Nigeria I have been involved in politics even as a youth. You know, involving myself in grassroots youth forums of couple of political parties back then. I have always be a proponent of a Better Nigeria. I believe that youths are the answers to our county’s problem. So, by the time I settle down in the US, I knew I have to go back home equipped with whatever I have learned here in the US. I have been in the United State for over 12 years and my desire for a better Nigeria has always wax stronger. I believe we cannot all sit back and just fold our hands believing for a change without action. I know that even though it is called dirty, politics is important in the change we clamour for in Nigeria. So, I would not say I am new to politic, and as you know now the rest of my story is what we are seeing now.