The National Universities Commission (NUC) has granted Kano University of Science and Technology (KUST) Wudil, full accreditation of 21 academic programmes in five faculties. The NUC’s substantive credence to KUST academic programmes came after critical inspection and validation of manpower resources and modern facilities available for the training of highly skilled graduates. In the letter of approval, signed by NUC executive secretary of the commission, Professor Abubakar Abdulrasheed, through the director of accreditation, Dr. Maryam Sali, the commission said the full credence is valid for the next five years. Some of the approved academic programmes fully accredited, according to NUC, include agricultural education, education Biology, education Chemistry, education Physics, education Geography, Health Education, Human Kinetics and Library and Information Science. Others are Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Food Science and Technology, Urban and Regional Planning, Biology, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, Microbiology, Physics, Statistics and Computer Science. KUST had earlier secured similar clean bill of health from the NUC for the establishment of 14 new academic programmes and one postgraduate programme in the university.   JUST IN: Makinde arrives Alaafin’s palace for…     Buhari orders man-haunt for sponsors of Imo illegal refinery     NDLEA seizes cocaine hidden in teabags at Lagos, Abuja…   The NUC full time mode approval for the new programme came after a successful resource verification exercise conducted by NUC team to ascertain the readiness of human and material resources to run the programmes. The new academic programmes that scaled through resource assessment include Bsc Forestry and Wildlife Management, Bsc Fisheries and Aquaculture, BSc Quantity Surveying, BSc Estate Management, BSc Building Technology among others. “The 100 per cent accreditation of academic programmes under my stewardship is another milestone achievement that would remain in the sand of time,” Vice Chancellor of the university, Professor Shehu Alhaji Musa, said on Sunday. A statement by the spokesman of KUST, Saidu Na’Yahaya, said the Vice Chancellor expressed satisfaction that the successes over the years were only dreams come through, not without the support and commitment of the visitor and Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, and Pro-Chancellor of the university. Professor Shehu renewed commitment to diligence and strong dedication to building a centre of global extraction and citadel of excellence essentially in the areas of science and technology. —