The Rector of Delta State Polytechnic, Otefe-Oghara in Ethiope West Local Government Area, Prof. Emmanuel Ufuophu-Biri, is planning to  partner international and local bodies to boost academic activities in the institution in the next five years. Unveiling some of his plans during a chat with reporters, the professor of Mass Communication and Journalism, who took over the helms of affairs in the institution on March 28, listed the American Space among other bodies as prospects. He explained that the American Space would attract a well-equipped building by the American government through its consulate in Nigeria “for learning, for interaction with the outside world and for linkage with the American institutions, government and embassy. “Then, occasionally, we can bring the American officials here to come and speak with them (students).” The new rector added that a promise of assistance has already been made by the International Visitor Leadership Programme (IVLP), of which he is a pioneer alumnus. “They render help and they have already made promises. I will try to explore the promises made through the American Government and through the Santander Bank, which I’m an alumni of the Brown University International Advance Research Institute in Providence Rhodes Island,” he said.   NBTE seeks ICPC partnership to curb operations of illegal…     Lagos commissioner hails MTN Foundation Scholarship     Ogun school gets Rotary’s $35,000 toilet facility   He assured that the institution, under his watch, will explore interventions from Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and particularly, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). He said he intends to “expand” on the established vision of the institution by producing graduates who are self-reliant and experts in their various fields; improve on staff and students welfare; expand infrastructural development and improve on academic excellence such that students will participate in international conferences amongst others. On tackling cultism, he promised to deploy his experience in DELSU as Associate-Dean of Students and a member of the university’s Anti-cult Movement, to address the menace. “How we handled ours then is simple. We don’t know who is called a cultist or not, but we treat indiscipline or breach of matriculation oath base on the merit of the offence. So, for every activity, there’s provision for it in the Criminal Code or in the law of the land. “If it goes beyond that, the law enforcement agencies will take care of that. But whatever the case, it is better to prevent crime before your cause. Thus we need constant orientation of students. Let them know this is a vice and this is a virtue. So you tend to get them internalised,” Ufuophu-Biri stated. He mentioned three ways of eradicating the vice among students to include “compliance, imitation and the most important being internalisation.”