Getting slapped is not a pleasant experience. But many people have been slapped in recent times. Here are four popular people who have been hit:  Twitter socialite and content creator Pamilerin received a slap from music artist Perruzzi in 2019 when they met in Bayelsa State. The Twitter socialite was a known critic of Perruzzi’s music. He often claimed that Teni was a better singer and always talked about damning the consequences and a ‘resetting’ slap was one of it According to Perruzzi, he met Pamilerin in Bayelsa State and had tried to initiate a harmless conversation which the latter objected to. He said he did not have the intention of hitting him but the slap happened as the only resort he could turn to. He however apologised and advised Pamilerin to stay away and stop making inciting comments about his career. Pamilerin, on the other hand, narrated the singer had confronted him with his bouncers and they waylaid him to where the slap took place.  During the season 5 lockdown season of the Big Brother Nigeria reality TV show, Kaisha was slapped by her colleague Lucy. Kaisha was one of the quietest and most loved housemates but viewers were all surprised when at the reunion she became loud-mouthed. Her ex-housemates, Tbaj and Vee, had an argument and the former flung a throw pillow at the latter. Vee however did not respond to this gesture. She maintained that she would not get physical with Tbaj.   Eight signs you’re dating a narcissist     Seven famous Nigerian artistes off the radar     Five celebrities whose marriages, relationships broke after…   Kaisha probably found this cute and in the middle of an argument with Lucy repeated Tbaj’s gesture at her. She flung a throw pillow at Lucy but Lucy was not Vee. In retaliation, Lucy slapped her. That was the very last episode of the reunion where Kaisha appeared. There was pictorial evidence of the slap and Lucy did not come to play.  Former Anambra First Lady was slapped by the wife of Late General Ojukwu, Bianca Ojukwu. The incident took place at the inauguration of Prof Charles Soludo as Anambra Governor. Everybody was seated at the event when all of a sudden, the pink-laced wearing former First Lady majestically cat walked to Bianca’s seat. It appeared the duo was having an exchange of pleasantries but in no distant time, the gold-wearing Madam Ojukwu took a standing position. Within seconds, she slapped the former First Lady. It was a battle between colour gold and pink.  Stand-up comedian Chris Rock was slapped by his colleague Will Smith at the Oscar award-winning night. Chris was trying to make a joke about Jada’s haircut that did not sit down well with her husband. Will Smith stood up from his seat, went to the stage and gave Chris Rock a slap. He however later apologised and was banned for 10 years from attending the award ceremony.