The Women Commission under the auspices of the Olympic Solidarity and the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) will hold a two-day seminar for Women in Sports at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja between April 12th and 13th. The seminar is in two phases and is designed to enhance the productivity of women in the administration and management of sports. The aim is to foster collaborations in communication and interpersonal relationships with mentors and sponsors while paving way for continued growth and success. In a release signed by the NOC’s  Public Relations Officer, Phemmy Adetula, the theme of the seminar is, “Effective Career Enhancement for Today’s Women in Sports” with the objective of understanding and exploring more deeply the current professional and career challenges and discovering new effective solutions to the most pressing issues.   Fans brace up for Heineken’s UCL Trophy Tour with…     Man City keep  title lead after thrilling draw with…     Spalletti laments Osimhen’s missed chances   Engr Habu Ahmed Gumel, President of NOC, said the seminar was solely for women at management and administrative levels that are aspiring to grow in their careers as sports managers and administrators. “It is a seminar for women at a high level of their career aspiring for the leadership cadre into Executive Board of International Federations, National Federations, etc. It is in line with the International Olympic Committee (IOC) clamour for more women’s participation in sports politics. So, I implore our women to come out in large numbers and participate in the workshop. I will be there personally to declare the seminar open,” Gumel concluded. The course directors are; Professor Florence Adeyanju, from the Department of Health Education and Human Kinetics, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaira who is also President, the National Association of Women in Sports, and Dr. (Mrs) Toyin Aluko. Invited speakers are Hon Agboola Dabiri of Revenue Generation & PPP, Federal Capital Territory Administration, Abuja, and Chief Abiodun Odusanwo, President, Institute for Tourism Professionals of Nigeria.