The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has stated that Nigeria must fight banditry and terrorism with all its energies. He spoke on Tuesday during a condolence visit to Kaduna on Tuesday over the last week’s terror attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. Tinubu, who said he was in Kaduna to commiserate with the government and people of the State over the attack, announced a donation of N50 million to the victims. Declaring that Nigeria is bleeding, Tinubu said: “We are facing the current challenges seriously and we have to do more. Nigeria bleeds on behalf of everybody. “We need to fight terrorism with all our energy and whatever we have. It’s not shameful for people to be poor but it’s unacceptable to accept poverty as a norm. It’s shameful to be callous, wicked and be a bully or terror to instill fear in humanity and it’s not acceptable. “I am here on a condolence visit to Kaduna to sympathise with the Governor and people of Kaduna and entire Nigeria. What happened to the people on the Abuja to Kaduna train on Monday last week was a disaster for all of us, a sad day. “Whatever happens to Nigerians happens to all of us. I understand that some people are still missing. Innocent people maimed, killed, family suddenly thrown into sorrow it’s frustrating. But we must submit to the will of God.” He added: “Malam El-Rufai, the Governor we walk with you in every aspect of the way because you are the symbol of unity. We cannot forget that in a hurry. It’s a symbol of Nigeria’s unity. “It’s about service but if enemy of progress feel they can deter you from that service and human development, we would all say no. “I am here with my entourage to support and pledge that whatever we need to do, we will do to make reasonable contribution to the welfare of the victims.   Oromoni: No request to test blackish substance found on…     Orji Kalu’s performance as senator best in history of Abia,…     2023: Fayose withdraws for PDP zoning committee   “I urge Nigerians to contribute to the welfare of the victims either in hospital recovering or in their homes.” The APC presidential aspirant was accompanied on the visit by former Borno Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima; former Kaduna military Brig-General Jaafaru Isa (retd); Senator Abu Ibrahim from Katsina State and former House of Representatives Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, among others. Responding, Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed appreciation to Tinubu for cancelling his 70th birthday colloquium as a mark of respect for the victims of the train attack, saying the gesture was a show of good leadership and empathy for the people. The Governor said: “This visit preempted my planned visit to Asiwaju to thank him for solidarity with people of Kaduna for cancelling his colloquium the day it was to take place. This gesture by Asiwaju is a show of powerful leadership, empathy and concern for the lives and property of Nigerians. “It is unprecedented in our history in Nigeria. The government and people of Kaduna state will never forget this gesture. We are very grateful to you for service, sacrifice and commitment to the unity and that of our country. We appreciate your call for people to contribute to enable us rehabilitate the victims of this tragedy. “We are aware of your aspiration to be president of this country. We look forward to further engagement so that we can progress that aspiration. “Nigeria is at crossroad, critical crossroad, and we must take very difficult decisions to get the right leaders that would take us out of the multiple quagmires that we are going through. “These are human challenges and they can be solved by human ingenuity. I pray for God to choose who is best for Nigeria so that we will be the better, united, progressive and exemplary country that is fair and just to everyone.” Tinubu later visited the St. Gerard Catholic Hospital, Kaduna to commiserate with victims of the attack.