The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday, decried the rising insecurity across the nation, referencing the series of attacks and killings in Kaduna State. Adeboye, during his sermon titled: ‘Waiting without wasting,’ at RCCG National Headquarters, Ebute-Metta Lagos, expressed concerns over worsening affairs in security, economy and leadership.  In his sermon, he dropped nine posers around oil and gas, the state of the economy and the incessant attacks of terrorists on Kaduna State. On Kaduna, he said: “You can’t go to Kaduna by road, you can’t go to Kaduna by air, they can attack you at the airport, you can’t go to Kaduna by train, I have been so heavy in mind, as a man who is a man of prayer.” Question 1. Why Kaduna? Question 2. Who is trying to isolate Kaduna? Question 3. Why? Question 4. After Kaduna, where next? On 2023 general elections he said: “Some of you are killing yourselves about 2023; some of you Christians, you don’t even know may be the rapture may have come before the end of this year.    Buhari celebrates Oshiomhole at 70     BREAKING (Grammys 2022) : Wizkid, Femi Kuti, son lose to…     M.I Abaga announces engagement to Eniola Mafe   “Can’t the rapture come before then? We are talking of Kaduna, today. That is one point, prayer point for my (prayer) partners, take note.” On oil and gas, he said: “It is in the news, nobody has denied it that as of now, more than 80 per cent of the oil we are producing has been stolen, or you didn’t read that in the news?  “More than 80 per cent of all the oil we are producing has been stolen. Nobody had denied it, it came from the government. That leads me to several questions. Question 1. Who is the one stealing the oil? Question 2. Where is the money going? 80 per cent of what should have been the income of a Nation, is going to the hands of some people, that’s a lot of money! Question 3. What do they want to do with the money? Question 4. Who are the foreign nations buying this stolen oil? Question 5. How many of these nations of the world are your friends? “So, you can see the reason why I am not thinking of 2023. Maybe that is why God has not spoken to me about that because there is a lot to deal with now,” he stated.