Hundreds of Youths staged a solidarity rally in Jos, the Plateau State capital recently, in support of the presidential bid of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The group, under the aegis’s of Tinubu Middle Belt Vanguard, urged APC faithful in Plateau State to back the presidential aspiration of the man who has the capacity to win the election for the party. The convener of the Tinubu Middle Belt Vanguard, Solomon Ndam urged the people of Plateau State to rally their support for Asiwaju Tinubu as the person to solve the myriads of challenges and take the country to greater heights. Ndam said: ” As critical stakeholders in the, we are duty-bound to lend our voices to the great movement about to take the whole country by storm and the APC in Plateau State is in tune with the country’s mood about the presidential aspiration of the indefatigable Asiwaju Tinubu.   Soludo working with IPOB to end insecurity     APC National Assembly aspirant provides succour for youth,…     Sokoto Speaker dumps APC for PDP   “We have seen the good, bad and ugly. The coming on board of Asiwaju Tinubu is a good omen for our great country because of his numerous contributions to the sustenance of our nascent democracy over the decades.” Ndam said Tinubu’s aspiration presents an opportunity to turn the fortunes of the country around for good, owing to his leadership style that speaks volumes. He said the name Asiwaju Tinubu is a household one in Plateau State because of the tremendous love and respect he has demonstrated for Plateau people over the years. He said: “We wish to reiterate that Asiwaju Tinubu is a Plateau man. Therefore our support for him remains unflinching. We can feel your excitement and we are convinced that he will emerge as a consensus candidate of the APC in the 2023 presidential election. We have looked everywhere and come to the desirable conclusion that the APC in Plateau State must be uniform in adopting Asiwaju Tinubu as the party’s consensus candidate for the 2023 presidential elections.” Ndam said the Plateau APC support group strongly believes that if Tinubu emerges as the consensus candidate, the party is indeed guaranteed a resounding electoral victory in the presidential elections. He said: “Let us make no mistakes; this mammoth crowd seen here today is not a fluke. It reflects the true Plateau spirit that values friendship and rewards loyalty. And that is the atmosphere experienced here in this rally today.”