All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Rotimi Ogunwuyi has called on Nigerians to support the aspiration of the former Lagos State Governor and National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, who will be completing his tenure by May 29 next year. Ogunwuyi made the remark while declaring his intention to contest for the ticket to represent Alimosho Constituency I at the Lagos State House of Assembly in next year’s general election. He described Tinubu as a politician that has done so much to stabilise the country’s democracy over the past two decades. His words: “Asiwaju has contributed immensely to the success of our great party. I must confess that it is his input that is making our great party outstanding and successful. We need him in this period to restore the lost hope of the country. I, therefore, call on all and sundry to support and vote massively for his emergence as the next Nigeria president.” The  Senior Legislative Aide to the Deputy  Senate President promised to deliver quality representation for the people of Alimosho and rebuild the lost trust of the constituents if allowed to serve. He said: “I am a servant-leader who evangelizes selfless and participatory governance. My life’s mission is to represent the people and speak for them at all strata.”   I’m not negotiating to be vice president, says Wike     Tinubu’s excellent footprints in Lagos     PDP zoning committee submits report to NWC   Ogunwuyi, who is also the former Sole Administrator of Mosan-Okunola Local Council Development Area (LCDA), promised to embark on programmes and empowerments that will make life meaningful for the people, especially widows, widowers, orphans, the less privileged and internally displaced persons within and outside his constituency. He said he will also empower the people by supporting and initiating bills that will promote employment programmes for the youth. He added: “I will ensure that our party men and women are better equipped to meet the challenges of time. I will organize periodic town hall meetings to determine relevant and immediate issues and I will also bring for discussion the constituency bills that will directly affect our constituency positively at all times.” The former legal adviser to the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) in the old Alimosho Local Government vowed to operate an open-door policy to carry everyone along. The event was witnessed by APC stakeholders from Alimosho and beyond. They include APC Chairman, Mosan-Okunola LCDA, Mrs Rebecca Onasanya; Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Urban Development, Ganiyu Ayuba; APC Chairman, Ayobo-Ipaja, Dele Ojo; and the Director-General, Ogunwuyi Campaign Organisation, Olutayode Aina Gold. Others are Folahan Balaja, Prince Olusegun Aje, Capt. Samuel Ketiku (rtd), among party leaders and party faithful.