Georgia Oboh’s valedictory as an amateur golfer came at the age of 17 when she travelled to Buenos Aires in Argentina for the Youth Olympic Games in 2018, finishing in 22nd position. Now at 21, Oboh remains the only Nigerian competing on the Ladies European Tour (LET) where she has stamped her feet as the face of golf in Africa hence her consistency should inspire more young golfers from the continent. “This is now my fourth season on the tour,” she said. “I am a much more player and person than when I turned professional thanks to experiences gathered on the tours. “It has been a great experience playing as a professional golfer on the tour for the past three years. “I thank God that I have been blessed with the opportunity to pursue my passion at a young age with the full support of my family. “The major challenge for professional golfers is sponsorship and there are several costs I must incur before I can even play my first stroke in any tournament. “Things are much better now than they were a few years ago thanks to more media coverage especially live television coverage and social media,” she said. Oboh won her first and only title at the professional level in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire in 2018 but she is not giving up yet. She enthused: “I am not worried that I have not won any other title as a professional golfer since 2018 but I have steadily progressed as a golfer from the time I won my first professional title. “I have been preparing myself for the breakthrough; God’s time is the best time so when he puts me in the position to win I will be ready, “Traveling is one of the few constant within professional golf. As there are many tournaments this season, I have altered my playing schedule to allow my body to rest and recover properly. “I have learnt that consistency is key to performance at this level in golf. “Golf is a game of misses; not great shots, as a professional golfer I strive to make my bad shots still good. You must be patient, determined, and passionate to play golf at such a high level. “I’m grateful to God that I have such a supportive network of people around me. “I have steadily progressed in my status on tour since joining in 2019. My driving is more consistent, my long game overall has tremendously improved. Putting has been a strength of mine since joining the tour, with more room for improvement.   One ‘killed’, vehicles razed as tanker explodes…     No economic democracy, no political democracy      Abuse of presidential pardon   “With more tournaments this year, along with my experience from the past three seasons. This year is going to be a great year by God’s grace “I don’t think competing on the Ladies European Tour is unique to golfers like me. All I can say is that as an African living in the Diaspora, I have been blessed with the great privilege of being able to compete on such a global tour.” Meanwhile, Oboh said she cannot do without the support of her family, adding that encouragement from her immediate family has helped her to remain focused as a professional golfer. “Until recently, I had never really thought about how I cope with being one of few Nigerians at this level,” she further explained. “My main interest is how I can improve as a golfer and compete with even better players on bigger tours in the future. “The good news is that I am not alone, Anita Uwadia is doing the country proud playing on the Epson Tour in the United States. In fact, she came very close to becoming an LPGA member last December from Qualifying School. “My parents and I are a recognisable part of the tour now. Thanks to their support, I have been able to not just cope but thrive on tour.” Oboh hopes to continue to inspire young Africans to aim high in the European-dominated sport. “I like to think that my presence on tour these past few years has been inspirational. Recently I was featured on CNN’s monthly program titled Living Golf and talked about golf on the continent. “All I can do is continue to play professional golf and mentor the younger players in the ranks, helping develop them into better golfers and people. “For upcoming golfers from Nigeria (and Africa) aiming to compete on the Ladies European Tour. Many roads will lead you onto the path to tour but you must have the determination, patience, and persistence to keep on the road. “I can assure you that you will at times feel disappointed, discouraged, and exhausted but you must continue towards your dreams. “Be your own prayer warrior and God will see you through the end. It is only by His Grace that you play the game called golf,” she said. When she hopes to win a LET title, she said: “In terms of winning, God’s time is the best time. All I can do is to prepare myself for the circumstance with more training, more tournaments, and more experience.” On the dream of competing at her maiden Olympic Games in Paris, she said: “One of my next goals is to qualify for Paris 2024 and win the gold medal. “The next Youth Olympic Summer Games will be hosted by Senegal in 2026, so I want my triumph at Paris 2024 to inspire and motivate Africa’s young golfers to win in Senegal 2026. “I see myself on the Ladies Professional Golfers’ Association (LPGA) tour in the US as one of several Africans/African-Americans on tour. “Pursuing my dream of female world No.1 professional golfer, the first African to do so. Playing golf and enjoying my opportunities through to the fullest,” she said of her expectations in the next five years.