Former President Olusegun Obasanjo approved the out-of-court settlement between the Federal Government and Malabu Oil & Gas Limited over the OPL 245 dispute in 2006, it was learnt yesterday. The approval formed the basis of the transfer of OPL 245 from Malabu to Shell and Eni in 2011 for $1.1 billion. Obasanjo had revoked the oil block and awarded it to Shell in July 2001 but agreed to return it to Malabu in 2006 following six years of litigation. In the final resolution agreement approved by Obasanjo, the Federal Government asked Malabu to pay a signature bonus of $210 million. A copy of the request for approval sighted by our reporter yesterday, with reference number HMSPR/DPR/PI/LD/245, was made by Minister of State for Petroleum Resource, Dr Edmund Daukoru on October 3, 2006. Obasanjo gave approval the same day. He simply wrote on the memo: “Minister of State – Approved. OO. 03/10/06.” In 2011, the out-of-court settlement was implemented by the Federal Government and Malabu subsequently relinquished interest in OPL 245 and the international oil companies acquired the block in a deal that has led to a criminal trial over alleged corruption by the Italian government. All the defendants were discharged and acquitted by the Court of Milan in March 2021 after nearly three years of trial. Nigeria is now seeking the award of $1.7 billion against JP Morgan Chase Bank for allegedly failing in its Quincecare duty when it transferred $810 million to Malabu from the OPL 245 sale proceeds.   The government argued that the bank ought to have known that it was “a corrupt and fraudulent scheme” and should have withheld the payment.     Stakeholders in disability sector for training     NNPC subsidiary NETCO posts N4.31b profit     Maritime practitioners decry fake members   Nigerian lawyers are specifically accusing former Attorney-General Mohammed Bello Adoke, of corruption, which he has always denied the allegations.   In a letter addressed to Malabu and Etete dated December 2, 2006, Dr Daukoru, conveyed presidential approval of the settlement.   Before the out-of-court settlement, a document dated November 3, 2006, revealed that Daukoru brokered a similar settlement agreement with Malabu on behalf of the Federal Government.   The letter, with the title: “Malabu Oil and Gas Limited – out-of-court settlement in respect to OPL 245”, read: “The above subject refers and we are delighted to convey to you that the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces having concluded a review of your legal claims for the return of the oil block 245 has graciously approved and directed as follows: