Univasa has launched Verify and Pay, an innovative digital payment system to reshape the Lagos yellow taxi transport system in Nigeria and ease the payment system. The platform was launched recently at the Lagos State Taxi Driver and Cab Operators Association, (LSTDCOA) Oshodi, Lagos. The event was graced by the President of LSTDCOA, Mr. Otunba Taiwo Omolekan, General Secretary of LSTDCOA, Mike Oladipupo, and other high-ranking members of Association. The Verify and Pay is a new face to transportation in Nigeria, it has currently been launched for the Lagos Yellow Cabs but will also cut across other forms of transport within the state, Abuja, Kano, and Port Harcourt before the end of the year.   Despite economic headwinds, Nigerian Breweries records…     SON unveils four year strategy plan     FoodCo berths in Arolugun   Speaking at the event, CEO of Univasa, Dr. Ben Adeniyi said “the verify and pay platform initiative was born out of the need to be an “Enabler” to service providers and consumers. “For us at Univasa, providing innovative services is at the helm of our operations and we continue to hold it as a top priority. As a driver-partner with Univasa, you get to enjoy the convenience of receiving your payments instantly with our instant withdrawal feature, so “Cash or Card e no matter” as we like to say and for the riders, we are offering you a chance to own your experience while hailing a ride.” Earlier in his words, the president of LSTDCOA Mr. Omolekan Taiwo, who gave an analysis of the journey so far for yellow taxi drivers in Lagos, said that he has been working on providing solutions to the issues affecting taxi drivers and their services. Taiwo, who commended Univasa, expressed optimism that it would help improve the reputation of the association as riders will be more assured of their safety. On his part, the representative of Universal Insurance Plc, Mr. Ayodele Kumolu, spoke in detail about their flexible insurance packages where drivers can apply and make payments in installments either a weekly, monthly, or yearly package.