Osun Governor Gboyega Oyetola has said keeping to the promises he made with people in the last three and half years of his administration within the limited resources will give him victory in the forthcoming July 16 governorship election. The Governor said this during an engagement programme organised by theCivic Engagement Centre with Association of Master Bakers Osun Chapter on Sunday in Osogbo. Oyetola, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Civic Engagement, Olatunbosun Oyintiloye, said that the masses could testify to his achievements in all areas, which would made them to support his re-election. The Governor, who noted that he would continue to focus on quality service delivery to the people, said that the will of God would prevail through the popular support of the people. Oyetola said that with the available meagre resources accrued to the state, he had turned the economy of the state around positively for the benefit of those who elected him. The Governor, who described the masses as the pillar of his administration since inception, said he would continue to make sacrifices that will make life more comfortable for them. Oyetola also said he remains the candidate to beat in the election, adding that Osun belong to the progressives and nothing can change the status quo.   Lawan mourns Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi lll     Court freezes alleged transnational drug traffickers’…     ‘How I emerged Rivers APC gov consensus…   ” My re-election is God’s project because the masses are behind me and they will return me to office in the next election. ” I kept the promises I made with the good people of the state within the limited resources and I know that they will keep date with me on the election day. ” I will not in anyway relax in my second term in office but rather continue to build on the solid foundation we had laid”, he said. Oyetola appealed to members of the association who are yet to pick their Permanent Voter Cards at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office to do so and use the same to support his re-election. He said he would continue to provide the enabling environment for the growth and expansion of their businesses. Chairman of the association, Bakare Ganiyu, commended the Governor for various developmental projects in the State. Ganiyu promised that members of the association would support the re-election bid of the governor for his administration to continue with the good works.