Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB) at its 54th Regular Meeting in Abuja yesterday approved the promotion of 3,466 General Duty and Support Staff officers. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning and Chairman, NCS Board, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, who presided over the meeting, highlighted the importance of discipline and engendering a work ethic based on transparency and an all-encompassing reward system. Among Comptrollers promoted are: A. Bomoi, A. A. Anthony, B. O. Olumo, C. K. Niagwan, M. M. Tilleygyado, M. C. Ugbagu, C. D. Wada, A. Bako, A. M. Adegbite, K. I. Adesola (Mrs), N. P. Umoh, O. O. Orbih and R. C. Nwankwo.   Police dismiss nine personnel over failed strike     Who becomes next Kaduna governor?     13 aspirants eyeing Niger Government House   NCS Public Relations Officer, Deputy Comptroller, Timi Bomodi, made this known in a statement. A breakdown of the 3,466 Officers whose promotion have January 1, 2021 as effective date is as follows: Deputy Comptroller to Comptroller of Customs (GD) – 31; Deputy Comptroller to Comptroller of Customs (SS) – three; Assistant Comptroller of Customs to Deputy Comptroller of Customs (GD) – 84; Assistant Comptroller of Customs to Deputy Comptroller of Customs (SS) – one; Chief Superintendent of Customs to Assistant Comptroller of Customs (GD) – 212; Chief Superintendent of Customs to Assistant Comptroller of Customs (SS) – three; Superintendent of Customs to Chief Superintendent of Customs (GD) – 196; and Superintendent of Customs to Chief Superintendent of Customs (SS) – six. The statement also included  Deputy Superintendent of Customs to Superintendent of Customs (GD) – 668; Deputy Superintendent of Customs to Superintendent of Customs (SS) – 16; Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 to Deputy Superintendent of Customs (GD) – 1,258; Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 to Deputy Superintendent of Customs (SS) – 39; Assistant Superintendent of Customs II to Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 (GD) – 759; Assistant Superintendent of Customs II to Assistant Superintendent of Customs 1 (SS) – 48; Inspector of Customs to Assistant Superintendent of Customs II (GD) – (109); Inspector of Customs to Assistant Superintendent of Customs II (SS) – 33; According to the statement, the minister commended NCS management for breaking new grounds in trade facilitation and revenue generation in the year 2021. She urged the newly promoted officers to redouble their efforts in achieving the goals of the Service in the current year.