Minister of Labour and Employment Dr Chris Ngige and former Senate President Ken Nnamani yesterday joined the presidential race. Ngige said he had a burning desire to see a prosperous, united and equitable Nigeria. Nnamani hinted of his plan to contest for President. Speaking on Channels Television, Nnamani spoke of plans to pick the nomination and expression of interest forms to contest for the APC ticket at the primary after the unveiling of the party’s timetable today.   United Capital grows Q1 profit by 39%     ‘Poor climate change compliance may lead to dearth of…     ‘Dangote Cement has 20% capital gain potential’   Ngige, who unveiled his presidential ambition before a crowd at St. Mary’s Catholic Church, Alor in Idemili South Local Government of Anambra State, promised to build on the infrastructural efforts of the current administration. In a statement by his media office, the former Anambra State governor promised to stand on the manifesto of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to actualise and execute his programmes, if he gets the party’s ticket. Addressing the crowd, comprising APC faithful and other supporters, Ngige said having served 40 years in the public service, he was fully equipped as an administrator, with huge wealth of experience, capacity and energy as well as a large heart to accommodate the differences among Nigerians. Ngige, who recounted his numerous achievements as a former governor, ex- senator and two-time minister, described himself as the “Jack of all trade and master of all that Nigeria needs now.” He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for the opportunity given him to serve as a minister, which broadened his knowledge of the ministries, departments and agencies. He said his stewardship in the difficult and complex Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment as the chief conciliator, enriched his knowledge of the problems of workers, the difficulty the industrialists and entrepreneurs faced, why industries closed down, and why some ran far below their installed capacity and in turn employed less hands.