Mr Godwin Akhagbokhai was elated with the completion of his residential building at Lanre Bus stop in LASU/ Isheri area of Alimosho Local Government area of Lagos State. The location is one that any estate agent would easily use to convince would be tenants to secure accommodation or acquire property there. Less than an hour drive to the Murtala Mohammed Airport and less than 15 minutes’ drive from Lagos State University (LASU), the area, a stone’s throw to the capital city, Ikeja, is paved with well tarred road and enjoys regular power supply among other advantages. So, for Mr Akhagbokhai and many others, the area was a very good place to live in. And it proved to be so until the state government converted an expanse of empty land in the area to a refuse dump. The refuse dump started with small drops of garbage that grew gradually into a mountainous heap polluting the area and causing serious environmental cum health challenges for residents. Akhagbokhai said: “I have been a landlord here for over 15 years. When I moved into this area, the dumpsite was not there. I dug a well and we were drinking from the water. “The same applied to other people who built houses in the area. We were all drinking the water from the wells and boreholes we made in our various houses. “Suddenly, they created the dumpsite and after a while, it started polluting our waters. “The dump site is causing a lot of environmental problems for us, especially the kids. “Rashes, cough and respiratory problems, among other health challenges, are widespread. “Personally, the challenges occasioned by the dumpsite have affected my health condition. At times, my breath would cease. My legs are the most affected. I cannot do my work again because of ill health. “There was a time I went to the General Hospital here at Igando and doctors had to admit me. They asked me to do 21 laboratory tests. “After the tests were done, nothing was found. Somebody merely said it was the environment that was responsible for the challenges. “I have a son who is in Part Four in the university and is about to be asked to leave because I couldn’t pay. My health condition stopped me from working.” The Chairman of Zone 6, Owodunni Community Development Association, Mr Ige John, corroborated Akhagbokhai’s claims. A visit to his compound reveals how the polluted water has corroded the water storage tanks and everything it touches.  John said: “I have been living here since 2009. It has been challenging living here. Our environment has grievously suffered from the challenges posed by the dumpsite. “The dump site has polluted our water.  We cannot drink the water, cook or do anything meaningful with it. “The water in my house is a borehole and not a well, yet it is polluted. Whenever one uses polluted water of this nature to bathe, it causes infections. “I suffer from typhoid from time to time, and it is a common sickness in this neighbourhood.” He recalled that “there was a time some Lagos State Government officials came here and later people from a department in Lagos State University (LASU). “They said that they learnt that our water is polluted. After all said and done, they took samples of the water. But since they came three years ago, we have not set our eyes on them again. “Most often, I buy water from truck pushers. A truck costs between N1,000 and N1,200 and it doesn’t take time before we exhaust it. ” He added that fire outbreaks are often recorded at the dump site and the experience is better imagined. “Whenever there is a fire outbreak, nobody will be able to pass through our road. In fact, the fire can burn for a week. “There was a time the fire from the dumpsite burnt three cars parked in a mechanic workshop. “The cars were brought for repairs but they got burnt by the fire from the dumpsite. “A cobbler also had his shop and all the shoes, including the sum of N36,000 he left in the shop, were burnt by the same fire from the dumpsite.” The ugly development, it was learnt, has forced some landlords to sell their houses. According to John, “a landlord who built one of the most beautiful houses in the community had to sell it when she came from abroad and found that it was in front of a messy dumpsite. “The naval officer who bought the building also had to sell it off after robbers came from the dumpsite to rob him and his household of their valuables. “There is hardly a building in the neighborhood that has not been robbed by criminals mostly operating from the dumpsite. Aside from dumping refuse on the dumpsite, people dump dead bodies of both old and young there. At times, new born babies are abandoned there.” The expression on the face of a petty trader, who gave her name simply as Bose, tells all about the ugly experience she is having in the area. Reliving her experience in an interview with our correspondent, she said: “Each time we come to the shop in the morning, we are confronted with the sight of nylon bags filled with different colours and shapes of human faeces. “Aside from faeces, we also find bags of refuse carelessly dropped all over the place every morning. I spend personal money to throw them away. “I have a scavenger who I give money to help me pack and throw those rubbish away because I cannot touch them with my hands. It comes at a huge cost to me, but if I don’t do that, I will not be able to open my shop and do business.” Added to the environmental and health challenges the residents are suffering is the menace of armed robbery and invassion of their homes by deadly animals living f8 the dumpsite. According to the Owodunni Zone 6 CDA chairman, John Ige, “bush cats disturb the area a lot. Their cries at night are scary and disturbing. “They came to my compound two weeks ago and left bloodstains of birds and chickens that they killed. “I don’t know where they got the  birds and chickens from because I don’t rear them in my house. “We have also killed snakes in my compound. They come from the dumpsite which has become a breeding ground for all manners of dangerous human beings and animals. “Hoodlums are using the dumpsite as   hideouts. “Some years ago, some armed robbers came from there to attack the community. When our security guards confronted them, they fled through the same place.” He noted that during former Governor Babatunde Fashola’s tenure, there was an arrangement made to ease the community of the inconveniences.  Owodunni added: “They used to fumigate the dumpsite in the midnight, but that stopped even before Fashola left office. “Cockroaches, mosquitoes, snakes and other dangerous animals now invade our community at will.” Also expressing concern over the invassion of the community by deadly animals, Bose, the petty trader, said: “A boy was walking around recently at about 6:30 pm when suddenly, his leg kicked something. “When he looked at it, it was a snake. He screamed and alerted us. I quickly went with a stick and killed the snake. “Aside from the shop, I have also killed snakes in my house. “My daughter was walking in the compound at night when footwear inexplicably slipped off her legs. “When we pointed a torch at the place, we saw a snake rolled up near the spot where the slippers were. I immediately fetched a stick and killed it. “It has been a very unpleasant experience having this dumpsite in the neighbourhood.” Akhagbokhai also told of how he killed a snake in his house, saying: “The stench from the dumpsite is horrible, especially when it rains and snakes come from the refuse site. “I recently saw a snake in my kitchen. I killed the snake. We were lucky that it did not harm anybody in the house.” An artisan, who gave his name simply as Mutiu, decried the deplorable state of the community and the activities of hoodlums who use the dumpsite as hideout. “Hoodlums have continued to terrorise the community at will,” he said. “They broke into one of the houses and stole six generators in one night. “When you look into the dumpsite, you will see over 200 people there. All manner of shaddy activities occur at the place.” Sequel to the myraid of challenges confronting them, the residents said they had reached out to the state government on occasions but got no fruitful response. Akhagbokhai said when he noticed that his water source had been polluted, he reached out to the state government with hope that the challenge would be addressed.   2023: Tinubu, Sanwoolu have done enough to win for APC…     2023: The trouble within Oyo PDP     Delta 2023: Omo-Agege’s mother of all declarations   He said: “When this happened, I personally reported to the Lagos State government during the tenure of Governor Babatunde Fashola. They responded by sending some engineers to take samples of my water. But up until this time we are talking, nothing has been done. “At some point, engineers from the water corporation suggested that I should dig the well again. I called people to clear it but nothing changed. “On the surface, the water looks clean, but it is actually polluted.” After his efforts yielded no fruits, he said, “I later connected my house with the public tap but it stopped  working for no reason. “We  have water in our houses but we spend a lot of money buying water because the one we have in the house has been  contaminated.” John, the Chairman of the Zone 6 CDA, recalled that “the management of LAWMA came around as well and held meetings with the members of the community and the executive. Subsequently, they came and dug two boreholes for the community but they never worked for a day. “There was a time they told us that the dumpsite was not ripe to be shut down and that when the time comes for them to  do that, they would come with certain equipment that they would use to press the whole rubbish down. “They said that when this is done, we would not know that the place was ever a dumpsite. “They said they would turn the place into a recreational centre where children and adults would be able to relax and enjoy themselves. “We have yet to hear from them since then.” Given all the challenges thrown at them by the refuse dump, John said, “the  state government is supposed to put measures in place to help us. “In developed climes, this kind of dumpsite will be used  to generate electricity which would be beneficial to the people. “If that is done here,  power supply will not be a problem for us and the entire Igando area and beyond.  We seriously need urgent government assistance  now more than ever because the troubles created by the dumpsite are becoming unbearable daily.” While the dumpsite at Lanre was said to have been officially shut down, the one beside the General Hospital at Igando was a beehive of activities when our correspondent visited. The heap of refuse was monstrous while the smell in the area was odious. The unbearable stench leaves one to wonder how the residents survive in the midst of the environmental pollution bedeviling the area. Even the reporter experienced some stomach discomfort during the visit to the dumpsite. It took hours after he had left the area to experience a relief. A resident of Afenifere community, who gave her name as Comfort,  said the dumpsite was making it difficult for them to access good water. “Our water is worse than the one that is flowing inside a gutter. All the houses in this area don’t have good water. We always go to other communities to buy water,” she said. One of the community leaders, Deacon John Gbologe, said that life had not been the same since the dumpsite was moved to the area. He said: “At times, to eat in your house is a problem except you close your windows. “We have written about three letters to the state government and even to the general hospital. They promised that they would come and pour chemicals on it but they are yet to do so. “Unfortunately, this pollution causes diseases. The dumpsite attracts a legion of mosquitoes and other insects to our area. It causes malaria, typhoid and even cholera. “Some people who live close to the site complain of stomach challenges. The stench is always horrible during the rainy season or whenever they are turning the garbage. “Most of the time, you will have to lock the windows and other places. It is a serious matter.” It was also a tale of pains and frustration for the people residing around Oko-Filling, another community facing the imposing refuse dump. Not only are some of the wells polluted, the air around the community is also compromised by the unhealthy smell from the garbage. One of the residents, Omosuzi Obeto, said her family had been having running battles with malaria and typhoid since they moved to the area. Obeto said: “We weren’t falling sick the way we are doing here where we were before. “There is hardly a month we don’t take medication for malaria and typhoid since we came here because the water is not so good. “At times, it produces a foul smell. We have stopped using it to brush or wash things like fruits without boiling, just to avoid infection and other attendant health problems.” Israel, a resident of Itoko Avenue, said: “The refuse dump affected our water to the extent that it changed the colours of our toilet seats, buckets and other things we use in the house. It was when we dug it further that the water became better. “So many other buildings have similar problem and that makes it challenging for them to have water for domestic use.” A medical and environmental expert, Dr Fasipe Olumuyiwa, had told the reporter that the residents are susceptible to skin problems now and skin cancer later in life if they are continuously exposed to the polluted water. Explaining the implication of what the people are going through, he said: “The implication can be divided into environmental and biological\medical. “The environmental implications are as a result of pollutants that are being released from the breakdown of the degradable wastes that is in the component of the refuse. “This involves the release of green house gases which is mainly Co2 into the atmosphere and lead to green house effect. “This is a sensitive issue in the whole world as we speak. Co2 leads to the accumulation of heat and raises the temperature of the environment. “This  is capable of causing physical hazard in the environment. “Medically, there are some of the wastes of the broken down materials that are not being released as gas into the air. This produces toxic chemicals that are capable of polluting the underground water. “For example, we have not made use of the water in the well in my house for the past three to four years because the underground water has been polluted totally. It can cause a lot of skin diseases. “Over a period of time, exposure to that kind of water can cause skin cancer.” He added: “With the pollution, there is a release of noxious gas into the environment. This is very dangerous to human health, because when you breathe it in, it can cause serious damage to the lung and other vital parts of the body. “Some people would be prone to all manner of ailments because they go ahead to consume this water as they don’t have the means of getting supply from water tankers. The consumption will automatically cause diarrhea and other skin diseases. “Some of the children can also suffer from pneumonia as a result of the noxious gases that are being released into the environment. “Pneumonia is associated with cold to some extent, but there has to be a pathogenic organism, a bacteria or a viral agent which this refuse dump can serve as a breeding ground for.  They can propagate the spread of infections to the environment. “These pollutants are common causes of what we sometimes call unknown illness. “Here in Nigeria, we don’t have the facilities to carry out some tests. Some of the toxics being released are organic toxic substances that require special tests.” While management of refuse dumps  has remained a huge problem in this part of the world, countries in the developed world have identified it as veritable means of generating power. In fact, a country like Sweden is said to be importing garbage from Europe to boost its power generation. According to a report by Al Jazeera, every day, some 300 trucks arrive at a plant outside the city of Göteborg on the west coast of Sweden. They carry garbage, but they are not there to dump the cargo. Instead, they deliver it to the plant’s special ovens, which burn it, providing heat to thousands of local homes. “The only fuel we use is waste,” says Christian Löwhagen, a spokesman for Renova, the local government-owned energy company operating the plant. “It provides one-third of heat for households in this region.” Across Sweden, 950,000 homes are heated by trash; this lowly resource also provides electricity for 260,000 homes across the country, according to statistics from Avfall Sverige, Sweden’s national waste-management association. Swedes (as well as Germans, Danes, the Dutch and Belgians) have become so good at recycling that there’s no longer enough garbage to meet the heating plants’ needs. Sweden now has to import the trash that most other countries are trying to dispose of — some 800,000 tons in 2014, up from 550,000 tons in 2010, according to Avfall Sverige. Reacting to the complaints, the Director of Public Affairs, Lagos Waste Management  Authority, LAWMA, Mrs Folashade Kadiri, said: “The authority will continue to do everything within its power to mitigate against any risk that may come on the people living around the dump site. Plans are concluded to decommission the landfill and relocate the dump site so that the people can have a breathing space. Efforts are targeted at preventing any potential exposure  and epidemic among  the people. “When that dump site was situated there, there were no  houses there but because of the population explosion  that we have in Lagos State, people have built their houses around that place and they are actually complaining as you said.  That is why the authority is doing everything within its powers to ensure that the landfill is not only decommissioned but also relocated.  Plans are on to do that come 2023. She added: “There is capping that is going on presently and what that does is to ensure that there is no hazardous smell.  Of course we do our fumigation every  month so that  people will not be exposed to any  kind of risks. An alternative site has been found and once the commissioning is completed , the complaints that we receive from the site will be a thing of the past. “You may want to ask what will happen to the waste when we relocate. We are into a partnership with a company  that will convert the waste to energy.  That is presently at the final stage of completion. Another company wants to convert it to bio fuel so that people in that area can use it to generate energy.  Even now we have started an extensive rehabilitation of our dump sites.We just want to appeal to the residents to bear with us because the government is doing everything humanly possible to close down that site “I am not sure about the allegation that it harbours armed robbers because we have our enforcement team that go into the site. The dump site closes by 6pm and they ensure nobody stays in there. The government is concerned about their plight and doing everything  to ensure it is a win-win for everybody.”