President Muhammadu Buhari has felicitated with Chairman of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, on his 65th birthday. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, on Sunday morning, Buhari noted the immense contributions of the business mogul to the economy as well as touching millions of Nigerians through his industry. The President, who expressed appreciation of Dangote’s patriotism, simplicity and wisdom so far displayed, wished the mogul and philanthropist greater service to God, country and humanity. “President Muhammadu Buhari rejoices with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, on his 65th birthday, April 10th, 2022, joining family members, friends and associates to celebrate the milestone with the business magnate.   Peace Mass Transit won’t flout court judgment…     Experts endorse CBN’s intervention to make petroleum…     Lagos promises support for rubber industry   “The President shares the memorable occasion with the Dangote Group, which includes management and members of staff, and the many visionary leaders that daily redefine the livelihood of Nigerians for the better, and drive competitiveness in the economy with clear ranking of excellence in provision of goods and services. “As Alhaji Dangote turns 65, President Buhari affirms the footprints of the consummate businessman in key sectors of the economy, and the remarkable results achieved in production and supply of food items, making him a household name. More recently, his dynamism in buoying the economy through heavy investments in building Africa’s largest refinery, fertiliser manufacturing company, and cement factories. “President Buhari appreciates the patriotism, simplicity and wisdom that Dangote has consistently displayed, making Nigeria and Nigerians his first priority, while setting example for many that charity truly begins from home. “The President wishes him greater service to God, country, and humanity,” the statement reads.