The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s (CIBN’s) Internationally Generated Revenue rose by 20.3 per  cent  to N1.766 billion in 2021 from N1.468 billion recorded in 2020, the institute announced at its Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos. The year closed with a Net Operating Surplus of N800.14 million and this reflected a 40.31 per cent increase from N570.26 million recorded in 2020. At the event, the institute  elected Kenneth Opara as its 22nd President/Chairman of Council. He succeeds Bayo Olugbemi, whose two-year tenure will end next month. The institute also elected other officers and reviewed the 2021 financial and reports. Olugbemi said the institute   promotes banking education and professionalism in Nigeria. The number of individual members of the institute grew from 144,922 as at last April 30 to 149,967 by March 24, 2022,  an increase of 3.5 per cent over the previous year. In the implementation of the Competency Framework, he said the institute had received a boost as it was appointed as the Secretariat for the Bankers Committee, Sub-Committee on Competency and Industry Standards. The CIBN, according to him,  collaborated with Wrights & Co. to conduct the Anti-Money Laundering & Countering Terrorist Financing (Basic and Advance Level) and Enhanced Product Development & Customer Relationship Management Training  where 23,274 members  benefited. Olugbemi said the institute has executed of a long-desired collaboration Agreement for the MBA/SMP/ACIB Linkage Programme with Lagos Business School. The agreement will afford candidates the opportunity to run the MBA/SMP programme at the Lagos Business School and qualify with dual qualification of MBA/SMP and ACIB. He said the institute has commenced the first phase of its Learning Legacy with  six institutions and the best linkage school in each of the geo-political zone were identified as beneficiaries which are follows: The Polytechnic, Ibadan (Southwest); Federal Polytechnic, Nekede (Southeast); Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi (Northeast); Rivers State University, Port Harcourt. (Southsouth); Kano State Polytechnic, Kano (Northwest); Federal Polytechnic, Nasarawa (Northcentral) .   Fed Govt recovers N53.5b from N5.2tr MDAs’ debt     Stanbic IBTC creates N2b special fund for health sector     CBN okays DLM Group’s acquisition of Links MfB   Olugbemi also told the gathering that efforts were made for members and banks to embrace the Code of Professional and Business Ethics in the industry. In 2021 alone, a total of 8,829 attestations were executed by staff of banks to make the institute as the compass of the industry, to remain steadfast and committed to the promotion of ethics and professionalism among practitioners. In addition, he reported that the judiciary has recognised the mediation of the institute and has continued to refer cases to it for the expression of an independent professional opinion on cases to facilitate equitable judgment, adding that the institute’s panel under review considered cases against members of the  who were culpable of unethical/unprofessional conduct. Two of such cases were considered while one was referred to the Disciplinary Tribunal. Furthermore, the number of completed cases on corporate matters by the Bankers’ Committee, Sub-committee on Ethics & Professionalism was 49. The CIBN, according to him, has continued to engage the Presidency, National Assembly, state governments, Central Bank of Nigeria and the National Deposit Insurance Corporation to play its advocacy role in line with its mandate as the conscience of the Industry. Other elected officers are: Prof. Pius Oladeji Olanrewaju,  First Vice President; Oladele Alabi, Second Vice President; Mrs. Mojisola Bakare-Asieru, National Treasurer; Victor Aguwah; Olayinka Odutola; Mrs. Mary Oluwakemi Aina and Segun Oshadare. Alabi said the institute was moving towards becoming financially independent. The external auditors of the institute,  Kayode Sunmola of Messrs. Moore Stephens Rosewater, the gave report for 2021 financials and stated that the financial position of the CIBN was in agreement with the book of account. The Chairman of the CIBN Audit Committee, Babatunde Oduwaye affirmed that the accounting and reporting policies of the institute were in accordance with legal requirements and ethical practices. Registrar/Chief Executive of the institute, Seye Awojobi,  said 291 graduates were conferred with MCIB, 380 candidates received ACIB; 320 candidates via the regular ACIB Examination route, 41 candidates via the Chartered Banker MBA route and 19 candidates via the MSc/ACIB Linkage Programme route. Members commended Olugbemi’s leadership and made suggestions on enhancement in membership drive and others.