Some soldiers were feared killed and others injured when terrorists at the weekend attacked a military base in Kaduna. Three vigilantes were killed in another attack in the town. It was learnt that during the attack on the military base in Polewire, Birnin Gwari Local Government Area, two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) were destroyed. But the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) did not confirm the attack when contacted last night. Director, Defence Media Operations, Major General Benard Onyeuko, told The Nation that he was yet to get details of the incident. He promised to furnish one of our reporters with information when available. A military source said the terrorists invaded the base on Sunday evening and engaged the soldiers in a shootout for over two hours. The source said the terrorists, who came in their hundreds on motorcycles, were armed with AK-47 rifles and Rocket-Propelled Grenades (RPGs). “The terrorists also burnt down three APCs,” he said. Another military source said the wounded victims of the attack were taken to 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital, Kaduna. Other sources said some of the wounded soldiers were taken to the Birnin Gwari General Hospital and 271 Nigerian Airforce Medical Center. Chairman of Birnin Gwari Emirate Progressive Union (BEPU), Ishaq Usman Kasai, confirmed the death of three vigilantes in the attack, which he said occurred at about 3 pm. According to him, the terrorists suspected to be members of the Ansaru likely came from the direction of Niger State.   Kaduna: The boiling city     El-Rufai, Tinubu seek stiffer actions against bandits,…     2022 UTME: We allowed CBT centres to increase service…   Kasai said: “Most of the residents slept outside Birnin Gwari town due to fear of being attacked. “BEPU is deeply concerned and disturbed by the deteriorating security situation in many rural communities and major roads of the Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna state. “The security situation is becoming increasingly alarming whereby a large swath of Birnin Gwari is now at the mercy of marauding bandits who usually roll into towns and villages in convoys of motorcycles mostly riding three on each, brandishing AK-47 rifles killing and abducting people including women and children. “The terrorists usually spend hours operating with impunity and unleashing terror, especially in rural communities. “As it stands today, the eastern part of Birnin Gwari is fast becoming headquarters of terrorists where they operate and seem to govern. “It is frightening that many communities in Birnin Gwari are falling into the governance of terrorists. “With the series of attacks on most communities in Birnin Gwari LGA, thousands of people are rendered internally displaced persons.” But the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt -Gen. Faruk Yahaya, yesterday reiterated the commitment of the Army to dealing with all forms of insecurity. He spoke at a one-day seminar on “Intensifying Warrior Ethos” organised by the Army Headquarters Department of Transformation and Innovation in Abuja. Represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans (Army), Maj.-Gen. Anthony Omozoje, the COAS said the volatile and complex security emergencies facing the nation had necessitated the continuous review of the national security architecture to contain the threats. Yahaya said the troops had continued to respond assiduously to contain and decimate all adversaries. “The successes recorded in the fight against terrorism and banditry as well as general conduct of its operations across the country is a testament to this. However, much is still required from us. “Let me also seize this opportunity to reiterate the unwavering commitment of the President, Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces for his invaluable support to the Nigerian army towards ensuring success in our various operations. “We must on our part, continue to justify these resources and goodwill by consistently executing all assigned tasks swiftly and in the most efficient and professional manner as warriors,” he said.