Who blinks first in Akwa Ibom All Progressives Congress (APC) between Niger Delta Affairs Minister Godswill Akpabio and former National Caretaker Committee Secretary Senator John Akpanudoedehe? The two camps in the chapter are loyal to the two gladiators, who are locked in a big battle for the control of the chapter. Parallel congresses were held in the chapter last year. Stephen Ntukekpo, backed by Senator Akpabio, emerged as factional chairman at Kara Event Centre, Uyo, the state capital. Also, Austin Ekanem, supported by Akpanuoedehe, Don Etiebet and Umana Umana, became another  factional chairman. Consequently, the battle shifted to court. On March 7, Ekanem was sworn in as chairman by Acting Caretaker Chairman, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello. It was evident that Akpanudoedehe was deploying his influence in the defunct national caretaker committee. But, the days of the Buni-led Committee were numbered. Former Governor Akpabio, a lawyer, objected, saying that the inauguration was done in error. On March 17, a Federal High Court in Abuja nullified the swearing in of Ekanem and ordered the inauguration of Ntukekpo. The crux of the matter, according to the camp of Akpabio, was that Akpanudoedehe bought forms for those seeking party offices, a blunder was committed. Those against him  said he purchased the forms at the expiration of the deadline. Although the money for the forms was paid into the coffers of the party, it paled into a mere donation to the chapter by a party leader. The money could not pick the form because, according to Akpabio’s supporters, the regulations on timing was not obeyed. The implication is that Akpanudoedehe and his co-travellers-Umana Umana, Don Etiebet and Ekene Nsire-may have lost out. Akpanudoedehe tried to counter the verdict of the court. He claimed that he was on appeal. Therefore, Ntukekpo cannot be sworn in. The National Chairman, Abdullahi Adamu, disagreed. APC is conscious of its tribulation in Rivers State. Ahead of 2019, supporters of Transportation Minister Rotimi Amechi claimed to have held congresses. The court later ruled that the exercise was faulty. As the congresses became null and void, the Rivers chapter could not field a governorship candidate for the poll. The thinking of the National Working Committee (NWC) is that the mistakes that robbed the party of victory during the 2019 elections in Zamfara and, probably Rivers, should not be repeated. The pitfalls should be avoided ahead of 2023. 		 			Obiano’s wife must be a Senator		 		 		 			Emefiele lists conditions for stable exchange rate		 		 		 			Katsina deputy governor Yakubu resigns as agric commissioner		 		 The fear is that if an illegal State Executive Committee is allowed to participate in nomination of candidates for elections, it is fraught with dangers. Adamu’s nod to Ntukekpo continue as chairman is distressing to the rival camp. It may put Akpanudoedehe’s governorship ambition in jeopardy. Also, time is running out. The former caretaker secretary is angry with Adamu. He complained that the Court of Appeal has directed all parties to maintain the status quo. On Wednesday, Adamu advised party chieftains in court against the party to withdraw the cases. He said the multiple litigation constituted a big headache for the platform. Akpabio also rejected the Akpanudoedehe’s argument, claiming that he was threatening the party. In his view, it has some consequences. While Akpanudoedehe has his eyes on the Government House, Akpabio, a source said, is planning to join the presidential race. Having succeeded in bringing Ntukekpo on board, he becomes the leader of the divided AKwa Ibom APC, to the consternation of Don Etiebet, who is held in reverence as leader, courtesy of the Akpanudoedehe camp. Akpabio is joining the presidential race, probably as a decoy. His main motive is to maintain dominance and relevance, with an intent to savour the added advantage of controlling delegates from the chapter for the purpose of political bargaining ahead of next year’s election and beyond. It is also public knowledge that in the Southsouth, there is no amity between Akpabio and Akpanudoedehe’s benefactor, Amaechi, who has joined the presidential race. Akpabio has replied the salvos fired by Akpanuoedehe in an uncommon way. He holds firmly to law and judicial verdict. He is not indulging in unnecessary noise making. The minister wondered which party Akpanudoedehe was threatening to sue. His camp believes in reconciliation premised on the acceptance of Ntukekpo as authentic chairman. Anyone that controls the State Executive Committee of the party controls the delegates. This is critical to nomination and party primaries. Akpanudoedehe has insisted that Ekanem is the authentic chairman. It is devoid of logic. No basis can also be found for the position in law. Akpabio has maintained that Ntukekpo is recognised by the NWC. He is in a vantage position; as minister and arrowhead. Judging by Adamu’s pronouncement two days ago, he is also the leader of the chapter as a former governor. So far, Akpabio is having a upper hand.