United Kingdom (UK), independent child-centred not-for-profit organisation, Jose Foundation has commenced a sensitisation campaign targeting secondary schools in Borno State. The foundation noted that the sensitisation campaign seeks to address the poor prevention practices observed across some government schools in conflict affected North-eastern States of Borno and Yobe as regards to COVID-19 prevention and general water, sanitation and hygiene practices. This, it also said, would enhance safe practices around Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH). Recall that the organisation had earlier conducted the COVID-19 sensitisation in Government Girls Secondary School, Damaturu, Yobe State. The Foundation in a statement yesterday signed by its president, Dr Martins Abhulimhen, expressed commitment to eradicating extreme poverty, advancing children’s rights, and ensuring girl child equality across the globe. The statement noted that the foundation is currently implementing a global sensitisation aimed at creating awareness and ensuring safe practices around Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in a bid to address the global pandemic arising from COVID-19.   CBN to Nigerians: beware of dubious financial institutions     NIDCOM condemns profiling, detention of Nigerians in Poland     Peterside urges Amaechi to declare for president   According to the statement, the organisation held the sensitisation programme at Muhammadu Buhari Academy, a mega boarding school in Maiduguri Metropolitan Council (MMC) where students were sensitised on the symptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention measures to observe within and outside their learning environment. The statement read: “The first phase of the global sensitisation campaign targets public schools to ensure children are aware of, and equipped with the basic knowledge to protect themselves from the coronavirus and also carry-out the basic WASH practices to stay safe. “Even though the wave of the pandemic has reduced, and the government has relaxed the restrictions, an assessment conducted by Jose Foundation UK programme team in the Northeast shows poor or non-adherence to basic COVID-19 prevention measures especially within public schools. “It is on this premise that the Foundation has not relented in its efforts to ensure that children, especially girls in Northeast Nigeria are supported with the necessary COVID-19 awareness and prevention and basic Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sensitization to ensure that they stay safe and protected within their learning environment.” The Jose Foundation UK team led by Ms Joy Otuonye donated facemasks, washing soaps, disinfectants and other PPEs to the school girls as well as to the school management. In her remarks, the headmistress, Muhammadu Buhari Academy, Maiduguri, Hajia Amina Mustapha Haruna, noted that the sensitisation was lifesaving and critical for the safety of the children and also noted that the items will also be used to strengthen the WASH practices in the school. The students were sensitised on the symptoms of COVID-19 and the prevention measures to observe within and outside their learning environment. The facilitator also trained the school girls on handwashing and safe use of latrines in their schools to prevent transmission of infections.