A new movie, “Ikemba”, was premiered on Sunday at the Orientals Hotel, Lekki, Lagos, to an array of “A” list actors and movie enthusiasts. The movie which had actors like Pete Edochie, Ramsey Noah, Yul Edochie, Zubby Michael, Patience Ozokwor, Chiwetalu Agu, Kanayo O. Kanayo and others, was produced by Mr James Oguejiofor. The star-studded movie tells the story of how the white men came into Nigeria. Oguejiofor told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the movie had “A list actors” because he wanted the best and also for the message in the script to be perfectly interpreted. “Ikemba movie is about happenings in Africa. If you observe, the colonial masters are still around, they like to cause chaos whenever they intend to get something from Africa. “The young ones don’t know all these, that is why we are writing these stories to educate our people and also open their eyes. It is not always about making money but to enlighten the people,” he said. The producer added that one of the challenges of shooting the movie was getting actors to location due to insecurity, as the movie was shot in Enugu, Abia and Calabar. Veteran actress, Patience Ozokwor, popularly known as, “Mama G”, said, “Ikemba is a one-stop movie that gives you everything you want in a movie. “It talks about tradition, culture, education, foreign touch and everything that has happened to us. The message cuts across cultures. “It is a star-studded movie but most importantly, it passes an important message on how the foreigners came in and what they did. “I hope people will learn to make movies with great stories like this.”   Full list of winners at Grammy Awards 2022     2022 Grammys: Alicia Keys, Cece Winans win 4 Grammys     Five Nigerian skitmakers into music   Actor Kanayo O. Kanayo, also described the movie as being unique, adding that it looks back to the days when the white men came and those on the ground did not understand them. “Africans are great people who don’t unnecessarily suspect you but then, the Whiteman came with Bible in hand and before we opened our eyes, we had the Bible and they had the lands. “They came with entrenched interest, it caused division amongst us, which has not gone till date. Now, we hardly trust people around us. “There is always this tendency of playing the politics of supremacy, these are the stories told by Ikemba which makes it a unique one,” he said. The movie lead director, Godwin Obiora, popularly known as, “Boko Indentention”, said it wasn’t easy directing a star-studded movie, especially those that are well-grounded with tradition. He said he had to do detailed research to effectively guide the actors and also tell the story in a way that would be easily understood. “I did a lot of research to make me connect with the script. I wanted to make something that invalidates some of the teachings we were taught about the Whiteman in school. “I decided to change the narrative so that my children and other generations to come would know the true story,” he said. Emmanuel Eyaba, the Assistant Movie Director, said that directing Ikemba was a big project and that there would be a subsequent premiere in Abuja and Port-Harcourt. “Ikemba is another step closer to making movies that promote our culture, heritage and tradition so that they do not go into extinction. Ikemba is just one of a kind,” he said. Sylvester Madu, who also acted in the movie, described Ikemba as unique and a must-see for everyone. Madu said the movie tells why Africa needed to come together and harness its resources rather than let other people do it. (NAN)