With the dire need for policy direction to catalyze sports development and repositioning in Nigeria, Minister for Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare has restated his commitment to ensuring total implementation of the Policies and Plans to drive sports development in Nigeria. Dare stated that two major all-encompassing documents which would further catalyze his sports development drive will be ready in time and implemented to the letter. The Minister said: “The National Sports Industry Policy (NSIP) and Football Masterplan Committee will be producing two wholesome documents that will further foster sports development, as well as provide a comprehensive framework to guide sports development in the country.” According to him, “We have been able to successfully re-classify sports as a business and this is just a small part of a larger plan. The final draft of the National Sports Industry Policy has been submitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice and we are positive it would change the face of sports in the country. Policies are well-thought, necessitated by a need for direction and wholesome in its approach, so while it may take a lot of time, it would leave a lasting impact,” the Minister added.   Ikoyi Club agog with Easter junior tennis clinic     Ronaldo announces death of twin son     Aribo tipped to replace Gallagher at Crystal Palace   The Minister further stated that the Committee on Football Masterplan development which was set up to develop football in the country will submit its report in the first week of May, as part of the plans to re-think Nigerian football. Recounting the distance covered so far, through the Minister’s Adopt-a-Sports Facility Initiative, after 11 years of neglect, the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja has enjoyed comprehensive rejuvenation, getting CAF/FIFA’s pass mark, as well as hosting major national and international sports activities. Also, the National Stadium, Surulere is currently under revamp after suffering 19 years of abandonment. Sports infrastructure in Daura, Abuja, and Lagos have all benefitted from the drive. Dare said this initiative was conceived to revitalize sporting infrastructures in the country and ensure their proper maintenance.