Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle on Wednesday, in Gusau, distributed 260 vehicles to traditional rulers in the state. The flag-off was performed by the Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar lll. The cars included Cadillac 2019 Model for 17 Emirs, 13 Senior District Heads and 230 District Heads. Governor Matawalle said the gesture was in recognition of the role of traditional rulers in maintaining peace in the state. “The role of traditional rulers in fostering national unity, safeguarding our values, and serving as moral compass for our society cannot be over-emphasised. “As premier leaders in our communities, traditional rulers play key roles in resolving conflicts and in assisting the government to provide fatherly advice to their subjects in the interest of promoting peace and harmony. “As our leaders, we would stay steadfastly committed to providing for your welfare, safety and any essential support that will enable you to carry out your duties without incident and with bigger successes,” Matawalle said.   Akeredolu’s wife: Why I’m contesting Imo East…     Former Miss World Agbani Darego celebrates wedding…     I was never married to Falegan, Nkechi Blessing confesses   The governor said the gesture was made also in recognition of the status of traditional institutions as custodians of religion and culture as well as vehicles of cohesion and peace. He expressed his willingness to strengthen the traditional institutions and appreciate their efforts in tackling challenges arising from conflicts to build a more peaceful and prosperous state. Matawalle explained that his administration had never taken critical decisions regarding issues of public concern without due consultation with the royal fathers. “We rely on you for feedback regarding the impact of our policies as they affect the general public. “We always sit together with you to evaluate our policies, debate new options and strategise towards achieving the common objective of building a new Zamfara. “This, we shall continue all the time, by the grace of God,” he said. According to him, the government will continue to work with the traditional institution to create a friendly environment for those wishing to contribute their fair share to the progress of Zamfara State. Matawalle said the government was also rehabilitating and reconstructing some of the palaces of the emirs, noting that some of the projects would soon be completed.