Security agencies need to adopt new measures to battle banditry and terrorism, National Association of Online Security News Publishers (NAOSNP) has said. In a statement by its National President Samson Oki, NAOSNP said beyond aggressive confrontation, this is a time to explore local intelligence gathering and employ sophisticated security technology. “The military should watch its deradicalisation programme not to shoot itself on the foot as many of the so-called ‘repentant terrorists’ may still be loyal to their traditional lineage – terrorist network,” the group said. NAOSNP said the spate of attacks, especially on critical infrastructure, is worrisome. The statement reads: “The attacks on critical infrastructure, such as airports and railways, show how audacious the terrorists have become. “The bombing of a Kaduna-Abuja bound train last Monday night and preventing Azman airline from taking off at the Kaduna airport are indications that terrorists have advanced their technological innovations.   Lagos Cooperative College to graduate 104     Court affirms expiration of farmers association exco     Cleric makes case for service   “If not checked by security forces, it might not only be calamitous but will spell doom for the country. “Could it be that the military has lowered the guard as some critics believe? Or the ‘technically defeated’ axiom has gone into their consciousness and they think they can obliterate the terrorists without resistance? “Though the military is not clueless, every effort seems not to have been enough to comprehensively knock the criminals out of proportion or existence. Every day, terrorists are inflicting pain on Nigerians. “The more proactive our military becomes, the deadlier the criminals assume. The more of them that our troops obliterate, the more they seem to regenerate and multiply. “Despite the procurement of weaponry and armament by the military in the last few years, terrorist attacks have pointed to the fact that whatever strategies evolved need sharpening and redefinition. “Again, the military must not ignore disgruntled elements within the ranks that might want to obstruct progress by divulging classified information to the terrorists either as sympathetic followers or for monetary gains.”