Six of the eight Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) southern governors rose from a meeting in Abuja late Friday, insisting that the party owed it a duty to zone its presidential ticket to the south. Governors Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Duoye Diri (Bayelsa), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), and Udom Emmanuel (Akwa Ibom) hinged their demand on the need for the leadership of the PDP to toe the line of equity, justice and fairness regarding zoning. Four PDP presidential aspirants from the South East, namely Peter Obi, Pius Anyim, Sam Ohuabunwa and Nwachukwu Anakwenze, at a meeting of their own in Abuja yesterday, expressed support for the governors on their position on zoning. The PDP is currently in a fix on the issue of zoning of its presidential ticket for the 2023 elections. The Governor Samuel Ortom-led committee set up by the leadership of the party to advise it on the matter last week turned in its report but left the final decision to the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) to take. Abia State Governor Ikpeazu, who briefed journalists at the end of the Friday meeting, recalled the joint resolutions taken by the 17-member Southern Governors Forum (SGF) last year in which they advocated that Nigeria’s next president must come from the south. The SGF, which cuts across party lines, had met twice in Lagos and Asaba in 2021, stressing the need for power to shift to the South in 2023, after President Muhammadu Buhari would have served out his two terms of eight years. Speaking against the backdrop of recent developments in the PDP, Ikpeazu said: “We have watched with keen interest the development in our party, especially concerning zoning. “Our position is that first, we are committed to the unity of our party and we have worked hard to make sure that this party remains a strong and viable vehicle to rescue Nigeria come 2023. “Be that as it may, we want to draw your attention to the fact that we had agreed as Southern governors in Lagos and also in Delta that this party has to respect the zoning principle as enshrined in our constitution. “And to that effect, we insist that the first thing to do is zone the presidency to the south, and we stand on that position. “We have not seen any reason to change that position, because the party was founded on the basis of equity and justice. “And we also think that equity and justice are important pillars that will ultimately stabilise our polity towards our journey in rescuing Nigeria.” Asked about northern aspirants who have already purchased nomination forms for the PDP presidential primaries, Ikpeazu said it was up to the party’s leadership to take a firm decision on the matter. His words: “If you want to take a decision on policy, you don’t look at problems on the face and you take a decision; you take a decision and remain firm on that decision. “We think that what this country lacks today is our ability to dispense equity and justice. It may be difficult, it may be a bitter pill, but we need to stand with the truth.” On the pressure being mounted by some other PDP governors and other stakeholders to have the ticket zoned to the North, Ikpeazu said it was not his duty to speculate on what others were doing. “It is not my duty to speculate on what others are doing,” he said. He added:”But you must ask yourself what is the truth; that if we do it today, will it serve the tenets of equity and justice?” Governors Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta) and Godwin Obaseki (Edo) were absent and did not send representatives.     APC will retain power if it gives Tinubu ticket -Northern…     Vandalisation of power lines caused electricity grid…     Expose bandits in our midst, Lai Mohammed begs Nigerians   Obi, Anyim, Ohuabunwa, Anakwenze back Southern Govs on power shift Four PDP presidential aspirants from the South East, Peter Obi, Pius Anyim, Sam Ohuabunwa and Nwachukwu Anakwenze, expressed support  for the governors’ position. Obi, Anyim, Ohuabunwa and Anakwenze met in Abuja yesterday and agreed to work together to ensure that one of them emerges the PDP flag bearer. They did not say how they intend to go about it. Anyim, who addressed journalists after the meeting, said the four aspirants have been meeting for some time, hinting that more persons might soon join the race. He said: “We are pleased to have you this morning with us and we are to inform you that all the presidential aspirants from the Southeast met this morning. “However, it is our knowledge that more aspirants may have obtained forms under the PDP. We hope that they will join us a little later. “So in the interim, four of us are presidential aspirants on the platform of our great party, the PDP. “We have agreed to work together as a team. We will work together to ensure that a South Easterner emerge as PDP flag bearer for the 2023 presidential election. We intend to consult with other zones on this issue and it is based on fairness and equity. “In doing so, it is important to note that we have always supported other zones and we now expect them to reciprocate.” Anyim tried to go round reporters’ questions on how they would produce a consensus candidate from their group. He only said: “When we get to the bridge, we will cross it. But we will work together in the interest of the party, in the interest of the nation, and in the interest of the Southeast.” Asked if the four aspirants were working in tandem with the Southern PDP governors, Anyim directed that the question should be put to the PDP Governors’ Forum. He said: “Whatever they (Southern Governors’ Forum) are doing or whatever they are not doing is not necessarily before us. So when you meet them in their own meeting, you can ask them. “If our position tallies with that of the Southern governors, good luck. But we are taking this position in the interest of national unity, in the interest of PDP, and in fact in line with the PDP constitution. “We believe that the PDP constitution favours what we are doing and we have to boldly step out with this decision.” No fewer than 14 aspirants have so far purchased the party’s presidential nomination forms. They include former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President Bukola Saraki, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed. Also in the race are Ovation magazine publisher Dele Momodu; financial expert and technocrat, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen; former Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose; Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike; Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel and a lone female contender, Tariele Diana Oliver.