Commisioner of Police, Police Special Fraud Unit (PSFU), Lagos, Anyasinti Josephine Nneka, has appealed to the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Kazeem Olanrewaju Alogba, for the designation of a court that will attend to applications filed by the unit. She said this would expedite action on fraud and other criminal applications. CP Nneka made the request during the PSFU’s courtesy visit to the Chief Judge in Ikeja. She assured the Chief Judge that the unit under her supervision would always partner with the state judiciary towards ensuring that the prevalence of fraud-related cases is brought to the barest minimum through fair and diligent prosecution The CP, PSFU along with her team also expressed appreciation to the Lagos Judiciary for creating time for the interraction, despite their busy schedule, saying, particularly the cooperation the unit receives from the various courts within the Lagos State judiciary in respect of applications for court orders relevant to investigation of cases of fraud reported to the unit are most appreciated by PSFU. “We acknowledged, with gratitude, the application of the provisions of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2005; by the Lagos State Judiciary in respect of interim/final forfeiture of properties, which are identified and/or proved to be proceeds of fraud. “This makes restitution possible to ameliorate the sufferings of the victim of such fraud,” Nneka said.   Gunmen kill two security men in Anambra     Kano court sentences atheist to 24 years imprisonment     Six injured in Ondo NURTW clash   In his response, the Chief Judge, expressed gratitude for the visit, just as he alluded to the fact that law enforcement agencies and the judiciary are partners in addressing criminality in society so that justice is served and seen to be served. The Chief Judge also commented on the fact that the PSFU has been coming to court with competent lawyers/prosecutors, who make the job of the court less difficult. He advised that the present crop of competent lawyers being paraded by the legal section of the PSFU’s unit should groom others to ensure continuity and position them to take over. On PSFU’s applications, the chief judge said all criminal matters are generally deemed as “urgent” and are treated as such by the administrative judge. He noted that expeditious hearing is always given to such cases but that lack of compliance with due process during filings is what normally hinders proceedings. “Every application must come through a legitimate process and a prima facie proof must be presented before the court,” he said. The chief judge, however, appreciated the commitment and sacrifice of personnel of the unit and also promised the CP PSFU his fullest cooperation.