Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti, his Deputy, Bisi Egbeyemi and Minister of Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo are to lead the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign for the June 18 Governorship election in the state This is comtained in a statement issued by Mr Segun Dipe, the Ekiti APC Publicity Secretary on Tuesday in Ado-Ekiti. While Fayemi is to lead the 20-member Campaign Council as Chairman, Egbeyemi will as the Vice Chairman while the Candidate’s Advisory Council is to be co-chaired by Adebayo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the immediate past Secretary to the Ekiti Government (SSG) Mr Biodun Oyebanji is the party’s candidate for the governorship election. Other members are renowned grassroot mobiliser, Cyril Fasuyi, as Director-General of the campaign organisation, two former Deputy Governors, Prof Modupe Adelabu and Surv. Abiodun Aluko. Others are Bisi, Fayemi’s wife, State Chairman of the party, Paul Omotosho and a former APC State Chairman, High Chief Jide Awe. The APC named the 10 directorates as Administration and Human Resources; Strategy Research and Planning; Welfare, Protocol and Logistics; Contact and Mobilisation; Women Mobilisation; Youth Mobilisation; Media and Publicity; Security and Intelligence; Campaign Coordination; and Legal Matters. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released the final list of candidates for the June 18 governorship election in Ekiti. Festus Okoye, INEC national commissioner and chairman, information and voter education committee, in a statement said the publication of the final list of candidates by the commission is in line with the electoral act.   ‘Anyone fielded by APC will displace Makinde in 2023’     Tiv group endorses APC Gov aspirant     Dakuku, Cole, Princewill, George, six others join Rivers APC…   According to the published list, 16 political parties presented governorship candidates alongside their running mates, for the June 18 Ekiti election. Out of the 16 candidates vying for the governorship position — 14 are male while two are female. For the deputy governorship position, seven female candidates are vying for the position as well as nine male candidates. “In compliance with the Electoral Act 2022, the commission hereby publishes the final list of candidates for the election following the close of nominations by political parties,” Okoye said. “The commission wishes to remind political parties that under Section 32(2) of the Electoral Act 2022, any party that observes that the name of its candidate is missing from the list “shall notify the commission in writing, signed by its national chairman and secretary, supported with an affidavit not later than 90 days to the election” “Furthermore, the attention of parties is drawn to section 32(3) of the Electoral Act 2022, which provides that failure to notify the commission “shall not be ground to invalidate the election”. NAN reports that the Governorship candidates are Cheif Ajagunigbala Olajide of the AAC, Oluwole Oluyede of the ADC, Elebute-Halle Josephine of the ADP, while the APC candtdtae is Abiodun Oyebanji and APGA has Benjamin Obidoyin. Others are Fagbemi Adegbenro of the APM, Christiana Olatawura of the APP, Daramola Olugbenga of the LP, Fatomilola Abiodun of the NNPP, Iyaniwura Ifedayo of the NRM and Olabisi Kolapo of the PDP. Others are Agboola Ben of the PRP, Olusegun Oni of the SDP, Adebowale Ajayi of the YPP and Adeolu Akinyemi of the ZLP. (NAN)