As parties continue to strategise ahead of the 2023 political activities, an emerging Third Force has not been ruled out, as stakeholders in the opposition have joined forces to present a presidential candidate from a yet-to-be announced coalition of parties. The coalition, according to the leader of a political group under the auspices of the ‘Big Tent’, Prof. Pat Utomi, will  present an acceptable candidate who will possess the qualities of a honest, knowledgeable, competent and committed leader that will join hands with other members of the ‘Big Tent’ to usher in a new Nigeria in 2023 Utomi, speaking at the meeting of the group at the Aso Radio’s Katampe Hill premises in Abuja, said the ‘Big Tent’ comprised members from opposition parties, stressing that it had a membership list that surpassed the number of Nigerians that voted in the  2019 general election. Utomi, a former presidential candidate, said the group would pitch its tent with one of the member- parties, adding that it would make its position known next week. He said: “We need to set an agenda for this country, otherwise, we go the same wrong way. These problems we have all seen face to face, so what do we plan to do?  What we have tried to do is to bring together social movements, political parties. We are trying to bring together vast cooperatives, including Labour. “Our group members have been meeting, we have registered members with a number that is twice more of the number that voted in the 2019 general election. I mean, registered members that belong to this group we call the ‘Big Tent’. Assuming we are able to manage this number that belongs to this our frame, educate them properly, it is clear that we can win the next election, or we are very likely to win the next election. “So, we are doing our methodical work to ensure that the needful gets done. We have met and met. What I can tell you is that we have a frame, and based on fusion and coalition, several political parties who are part of this ‘Big Tent’, we are on top of the INEC programme. The political parties have different programmes, some want to fuse, some want to be part of a coalition to rescue Nigeria. There is no gainsaying that Nigerian rulers have divorced Nigerians and the nation is at a crossroads. “There have been attempts to bring together committed Nigerians from across the political divide, CSOs, Labour to discuss issues on how to liberate Nigeria. We will develop the issues which anybody who will want to lead the nation must listen to. “We have the ‘Big Tent’ frame work that includes the ADC, PRP, NRM and others. We will present one presidential candidate from this coalition. It has happened in Zambia, Kenya and other African countries, it can happen here and we will do that. We have a platform and the umbrella name for the platform is ‘Big Tent’. We will have one presidential candidate next year. Utomi said “more importantly, we think that this arrogance of one man coming out to say I am going to be your leader is pure arrogance and it must have to stop. I think we need to change the narrative of how people come out to seek elective offices. So that they will know that they are not going for themselves, but for the public. It is a matter of duty and service. We should be very honest to ourselves and country. “Our desire to run from this ‘Big Tent’ is not for our selfish interest unlike the others, but on how Nigeria can be better. We are going to do it again this year. If the ‘Tent’ says I should go, I will because I am ready. If they say it’s another person; I will support the decision as we have done in the past. All we at the ‘Big Tent’ are looking for is how to entrench a new and better Nigeria.” 		 			Obiano’s wife must be a Senator		 		 		 			Emefiele lists conditions for stable exchange rate		 		 		 			Katsina deputy governor Yakubu resigns as agric commissioner		 		 A member of the group, Dr. Usman Bugaje, said Nigerians must move away from the current ‘Big men’ politics. He said Nigerians would be plunged into further doom if those he described as ‘big men’ politicians were allowed to stay in office beyond 2023. Bugaje regretted that the political ‘big men’ in power had destroyed the country, saying “now is the time to bring in people with knowledge, commitment, and competence into the administration of the country.” He said Nigeria had preferred eligibility ahead of suitability, stressing that Nigerians with a big idea must join hands with the ‘Big Tent’ “to deliberate on issues that any person that wants to lead Nigeria must listen to.” “We are going through an unprecedented crisis and we have an impotent administration that lacks ideas and has failed to deliver Nigeria from any angle. It is important to remember that we have a very serious problem; insecurity, economy, education, corruption, infrastructural deficiency, facing the perceived new Nigeria that we are currently working for “Our politics in the last 20 years has remained empty, we have got to stop the politics of big men and concentrate on big ideas. Citizens have to take decision at the moment “Big men in politics have destroyed our country. If we make the same mistake in 2023, then we will have no cause to complain again. If we vote in these big men in power again, we may not be alive in 2027 to begin this process again. “Things can only be done by those who have the knowledge, honesty and competence irrespective of tribe or religion. We must agree on the character, emotion and knowledge of the people we will put at the helm in the country “There are many of us who believe that if Nigeria is led by honest, knowledgeable and competent leaders, we will double our GDP in five years. “What Nigeria needs now is no longer eligibility, but suitability. Our big men politicians are only eligible, but not suitable for governance. We must sit down and agree on how to find a suitable leader who will have the moral duty to deal with corruption, poverty. We cannot continue to live in a rich country with more poor people than the rich “Electricity is a problem that was solved more than 100 years ago for everybody in the world, except in Nigeria. So we must do everything within our reach, change the system and save Nigeria. Our prayer is that this new thinking will help us change the country,” Bugaje said.