No fewer than 100 suspected terrorists have been killed in airstrikes launched by the military across the north in response to Monday night’s attack on a Kaduna-bound train. The coordinated security operations are continuing with Police Inspector General Usman Alkali Baba deploying more men and weapons yesterday to secure the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway, which kidnappers have turned into a nightmare for travellers. Baba, accompanied by other top officers of the police, embarked on a patrol of the axis for a personal assessment of the situation on the road. But the Federal Government has ruled out the use of foreign mercenaries in the fight against terrorists. Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi separately outlined some of the security measures being put in place by his ministry to secure the Kaduna/Abuja rail line while the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) yesterday confirmed the safety of about 170 passengers that were on board the attacked AK9 train. It said 21 passengers were reported missing by relatives. The defence-oriented online publication –PR Nigeria – said yesterday that 30 terrorists were eliminated at New Kusawa, Kaduna State while another 50 terrorists were killed at Sangeko Forest in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State. About 50 others were killed in Tumbuns, Borno State. Forty-eight hours after the train attack, the military reportedly conducted an overnight intelligence, surveillance, target acquisition and reconnaissance (ISR) in parts of Kaduna State, which revealed four motorcycles approaching a slightly forested area southward of Kusasu. “Since the coordinates tallied with previous intelligence earlier received that the location is a hibernating point for terrorists, a NAF aircraft was scrambled,” PRNigeria said. The strike left about 33 terrorists dead while others scampered to safety. In nearby Zamfara State, troops of Operation Hadarin Daji reportedly carried out ‘aggressive bombardments’ after a fighter jet sighted over 50 terrorists on motorcycles at Sangeko Forest, in Maru Local Government Area. The terrorists, upon sighting the aircraft immediately dispersed in confusion. “It was, however, too late as the fighter jets took decisive turns in engaging the terrorists with cannons in successive passes, leading to the decimation of the miscreants and destruction of their motorcycles,” an intelligence operative was quoted as saying. Similarly, intelligence in Tumbuns near Bukar Meram and Kollaram in Borno State revealed heightened terrorists’ activities with the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) said to have converted the area into a meeting point for its fighters. It had also stockpiled a large quantity of weapons in the area apparently in preparation for some terror attacks. The intelligence source said: “Subsequently, NAF aircraft were authorised to attack the locations. In coordination with other platforms, bombs and rockets were simultaneously dropped on the targets, while surviving and fleeing terrorists were mobbed up.” NAF Spokesman, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, confirmed the three operations, saying the objective of the simultaneous kinetic air operations was to ramp up the pressure on terrorists’ elements in the North East and North West with a view to ensuring that relative peace is achieved. Police Inspector-General Usman Alkali Baba, accompanied by other top police officers, yesterday patrolled the entire 163km stretch of the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway for hands-on assessment of the security challenges. He also supervised the deployment of officers from the police tactical squads to ensure the safety of travellers along the route, the Force Public Relations Office said on Twitter. It said: “In the course of the patrol, the IGP mapped out some salient and strategic points along the express which were immediately fortified with the deployment of operatives drawn from the Police Mobile Force (PMF), Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Forces (SF), Intelligence Response Team (IRT), the Special Tactical Squad (STS), as well as air wing operatives in charge of unmanned aerial vehicles of the Nigeria Police Force.” The IGP also visited personnel of the Armed Forces and Police deployed at Rijana to secure technical crew of the Nigeria Railway Corporation undertaking repair works at the damaged train coaches and rail line in the axis, to boost their morale and assess the state of their post. He pledged that with the strategic and operational deployment of officers along the route, normalcy would be restored while asking the public to keep sharing intelligence with the law enforcement agencies for effective policing of all spaces. Speaking in an interview with BBC Pidgin, Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi said military presence would henceforth be a permanent feature on the rail track to secure lives. Local hands will also be engaged by the NRC to protect the rail line, he said. “We are not reopening the train track until there are surveillance equipment. We will also ensure that army officers are on the rail track to secure the place and make sure passengers are safe,” Amaechi said. He added: “We will employ local vigilantes who would protect the rail track and the Nigerian Air Force has also agreed to always fly by train.” The minister promised to represent his rejected proposal on the procurement and installation of surveillance equipment to monitor the tracks, coaches and passengers. He said: “Prior to the attack, we had intelligence that the bandits may strike anytime. So we went to the cabinet to approve money for the surveillance equipment but approval was not given. “That day, I acted like a prophet. I told the cabinet that if the approval was not given, and the train is attacked, passengers may die, and now we have lost eight persons. We are going back to them next week.” Meanwhile, Amaechi has stopped night rail service. “Yes, the night train service has been stopped, “a source in his ministry said last night. It was not immediately clear how long the ban on night service will last. The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) yesterday confirmed the safety of about 170 passengers who were on board the attacked AK9 train last Monday. Managing Director of the corporation, Mr Fidet Okhiria, said in a statement that the NRC was collaborating with relevant authorities to ensure safety of the other passengers. His words: “The Corporation, in continuation of its concerted effort through repeated calls, has been able to confirm the safety of 170 passengers while 21 passengers are reported missing by the relatives who made calls to us. “The corporation is seriously collaborating with the security agencies who had already swung into action, in line with the directive of Mr. President to do everything possible to rescue all those that are still missing.” Okhiria stated that the corporation had also heavily moved human and material resources to the accident site to ensure resumption of train services without further delay. He said the move was meant to reduce the stress currently faced by its passengers in getting to their destinations. He said: “In practical terms, a high powered restoration team led by directors has been working round the clock to re-rail the coaches affected by the bomb blast. “There is a coordinated two-pronged simultaneous restoration approach. While Loco 2702 with re-railment and restoration materials departed Idu Station, Abuja, to the bomb blast site, another team with Loco 2502 departed Rigasa Station, Kaduna, with re-railment and restoration materials to the same site. “I am happy to inform you that as at the close of work on the 1st of April 2022, Coaches SP00004, SP00009, SP00012, SP00013 have all been re-railed and safely taken to our Rigasa Station in Kaduna.” On safety, the NRC boss said arrangements had been put in place for increased security along the track and on board the train to prevent a reoccurrence of the unfortunate incident.   Oyetola, Kwara First Lady, others to grace Eko Chocolate…     Mother of Leadership Newspapers founder dies at 80     BIG graduates another batch of bakers under UNDP, LSETF…   He consoled families of victims of the attack, saying: “Be assured that the corporation is with you in this challenging time.” The North West states are not likely to have their way regarding their plan to procure the services of mercenaries in the fight against terrorism, The Nation gathered yesterday. An authoritative source in Abuja said the federal government was opposed to the deployment of mercenaries in the country. Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, who dropped the hint of the plan to hire mercenaries during a vist to the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Friday, had followed up with a meeting with the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor over the attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train which led to the death of eight people. The CDS assured the governor of ending the insurgency and banditry in the Kaduna axis of the North-West. The source said the Presidency has faith in the ability of the Nigerian military and other agencies to tackle the security challenges in the country. The source said: “The Presidency does not contemplate the hiring of mercenaries to tackle insurgency and banditry in some parts of the country. President Muhammadu Buhari has faith in the ability of our Armed Forces and security agencies to address our security problems. “In fact, it was Buhari’s administration that terminated the ambiguous contract with mercenaries from South Africa. And since then, the military has risen to the challenge. “The facts and figures before the President were sufficient enough to prove that the military and other security agencies have been doing their best. Buhari also gets constant briefing from military chiefs and other security heads. “I think the government believes that the war against insurgents and bandits is winnable. The results indicated that Nigeria is capable of addressing the security problems at hand. “So far, the President has not changed his position on mercenaries. We do not need them as a nation. But the political leadership at the state level is always impatient. “Initially, it was Governor Babagana Zulum who sought for mercenaries but the situation in Borno State is now better.” Moments after departing the Presidential Villa on Friday night, Governor El-Rufai had a session with the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, over Monday’s attack on the Abuja-Kaduna train. It was learnt that the session was part of efforts to find a solution to the rising incidents of banditry and insurgency in the Kaduna corridor of the Northwest. A source said: “Although at the session the governor debunked some media reports credited to him, the CDS, Gen. Lucky Irabor, assured him that the military was on top of the situation. “Irabor took time to give the details of the military operations in the Northwest and Kaduna State. The session was mutual and fruitful.” The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) yesterday took exception to the proposal by Northwest states to employ mercenaries to help tackle terrorism in the geo-political zone. The proposal was revealed by El-Rufai who said the Northwest states might resort to the use of mercenaries should the federal government fail to end  the reign of terror in that part of the country. Reacting to the development yesterday, CAN in Kaduna State asked the federal government to call the governor to order. Chairman of CAN in the state, the Reverend John Joseph Hayab, said if the El-Rufai statement had been made by any other Nigerian, he would have been accused or arrested by the government for undermining the security agencies and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. He said: “While CAN agrees that terrorists have had a field day, CAN reckons that if any other Nigerian had made or muted such an idea in public space, such would have been accused or arrested by the government for undermining the security agencies and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. “Accordingly, CAN doubts if any section of the Nigerian Constitution allows any office holder apart from the C in C to invite a foreign combatant into the country. “Moreover, it was a similar strategy that El-Rufai employed years back when he claimed to have compensated some herdsmen, which led to the escalation of the security situation, particularly in Kaduna State. “For CAN, the approach to give gunmen money so that they would stop attacking the populace has backfired and Kaduna State is paying dearly for such a miscalculation at present. “CAN acknowledge that what Nigeria needs currently is a sincerity of purpose from all stakeholders and the citizenry towards finding lasting solutions, not subjective statements that could further heighten the presence of bandits in Nigeria. “CAN will continue to pray and urge citizens to be on the watch against any erroneous direction that could do this country no good but harm.” The youth wing of the Arewa Consultative Forum, however, expressed support for El-Rufai. President of the group, Comrade Shetima Yerima, speaking in a telephone interview yesterday, said: “I am 100 per cent in support of the governor. “We are tired of a situation where the governor as the chief security officer of the state cannot give instruction to the commissioner of police. “If we don’t take drastic steps to stop this problem, it could lead to a situation where individuals will resort to self-defence, and when that happens, there would be anarchy. “Governor El’Rufai has my support and should go ahead with the decision, because that is what makes him the Chief Security Officer.” Speaking in a separate interview, a former governor of Anambra State, Dr Chukwuemeka Ezeife, said the Kaduna State governor was not serious. “They don’t want to handle the matter. All they are waiting for is when ISWAP and Boko Haram have taken over the country.” The Defence Headquarters declined comments on the threat by the Kaduna State governor. The Director Defence Information, Major General OJ Akpor, declined to respond to questions from The Nation when he was contacted yesterday. The President, Ijaw National Congress (INC), Prof. Benjamin Okaba, has told the Federal Government to halt the incessant killing and destruction of public infrastructure and communities by bandits and terrorists across the country. Okaba expressed worries that the heightening challenge of insecurity had assumed a more frightening proportion with gory tales of violence, killings, abductions and armed-ransacking of villages by dare-devil gunmen recorded everyday in many parts of the country. The INC boss spoke on Friday in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital, as chairman on the occasion of the inaugural edition of the Boyloaf annual lecture, formal launch of the Boyloaf Foundation and 50th birthday celebration of Ebikabowei Victor-Ben also known as ‘General’ Boyloaf. He condemned the dastardly acts, saying: “On a daily basis, Nigerians are hit by reports of killing, kidnapping and violent attacks by bandits and insurgents who invade communities and slaughter hapless people without any form of resistance by security agencies. “The madness is taking a more frightening dimension as these hoodlums have taken over our roads, airports, waterways and railways, making life unbearable for the average Nigerian and movement difficult in most parts of the nation. “The government must, as a matter of urgency, halt the wanton killing and destruction of property and save citizens from agony and misery.” He reiterated that restructuring remained the panacea for rescuing the country from imminent collapse, urging the Federal Government to listen to the clamour from various quarters for restructuring. Okaba also decried the magnitude of oil and gas pollution in the Niger Delta which had destroyed the marine environment and the livelihood of the people. He noted that sustainable peace and development in the region could only be achieved through justice, equity and fairness.