If you have followed the on-going debates on the amendment of the Pension Reforms Act 2014, you are most likely to be struck by how much has changed in terms of the tenor, substance and everything in-between of the subject matter. A revolutionary piece of legislation that has changed the face of pension administration in Nigeria, that the Pension Reforms Act has remained one of the most solid, or if you like, enduring dividends of our current democratic experience is not only beyond debate; even the tilted dynamics, now very much in favour of the retiree as against the pension authorities is something that Nigerians ought to be proud of. Thanks to President Olusegun Obasanjo and the technical crew led by former top banker, Fola Adeola, the country has certainly come a long way. By this I mean of course the transition from the so-called Defined Benefits System (which assumed – rather recklessly then and, as it turned out, most unrealistically long after – that governments will always have the will, mechanism and the means, to settle their obligations to pensioners in their grey years); to the current Contributory Pensions System (under which future retirees and employers are mandated to set aside a fraction of current earnings to guarantee certainty in meeting pension obligations). Only those who are probably either too young or perhaps uneducated about the sheer agony that retirees had to put up with under that old system, would describe that transition as anything but revolutionary. There is therefore a lot to celebrate in its coming and evolution. The original legislation in 2004 that set the pace of the reform, the subsequent amendment of the law in 2014 which further raised the stakes and now a solid pension structure with an impressive N13 trillion in RSA to boot has become a living proof of its unqualified success. This is where the latest quest by the National Assembly, to make things even better particularly for the retiree can best be situated for better appreciation. At issue – and this is yours truly’s way of framing it –is Section 7 (1) (a) of the Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014 which allows for only 25 per cent of the retirement savings to be paid as lump sum to a retiree. Now, the National Assembly seeks to push for 75 per cent of the RSA instead; to be paid upfront to the retiree, convinced as it were, that the retirees deserve a fairer deal than what the current paltry one-quarter of the whole would permit. Both parties surely, have done their bit to press their cases.  To the regulator – the Nigerian Pensions Commission, Pencom, those behind the agitation actually miss the point. “That suggestion”, it argues “converts the CPS into a Provident Fund and leaves such a retiree with no periodic pensions, contrary to the requirement of Section 173 of the 1999 Constitution’’. That was Pencom boss Aisha Dahir-Umar in her widely publicised objection to the amendment as presented to the National Assembly. She would carefully remind that the provision of monthly pensions is central to the objective of mitigating old age poverty under the CPS particularly as the retirement benefits payment template ensured that the RSA had enough balance and should be sufficient to provide at least 50 per cent of the retiree’s terminal pay as monthly pensions. ”It is”, she said, “inaccurate to suggest that there is a fixed lump sum for all retirees; rather the lump sum is determined after securing a minimum replacement ratio of 50 per cent of last pay as monthly pensions.”   Local content or local champions?     Now is the time for a new non-aligned movement and peace     Easter 2022   “It is doubtful if the 25 per cent balance in a retiree’s RSA, after deduction of 75 per cent lump sum, would be adequate to reasonably cater for his livelihood in old age. And this: “It is important to note that the payment of 75 per cent of RSA balance as lump sum upon retirement is not obtainable in other jurisdictions operating the CPS”. To her, he way out of the agitation for the payment of “at least 75 per cent lump sum’’ is the full “implementation of the provision of Section 4(4) (a) of the PRA, 2014 dealing with payment of additional benefits upon retirement. It provides that notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Act, an employer may agree on payment of additional benefits to the employee upon retirement. Fine, unassailable arguments, no doubt. And she’s probably right up to a point – except that the other side of the debate would appear just as persuasive. Beginning with the whole idea behind the pension reform; those pressing for the amendment have argued that this was primarily to serve the interest of the retirees as against the interest of big business represented by fund traders or custodians. Second, that it was ludicrous, if not entirely unjust, to hand the retiree a mere 25 percent of his savings – call it a pittance – leaving the balance in the custody of the fund administrators.  Point is, many people can’t understand why an individual at a relatively ‘youthful age’ of 60 – the public sector’s mandatory age of retirement –couldn’t be allowed to exercise the discretion of drawing a minimum of 50 percent – at the very least – from his/her Retirement Savings Account (as against the prescription of 25 percent under the current law) to engage in profitable activities, which aside potentially guaranteeing higher returns also serves keep the mind and body of the retiree healthy and active. Third, is the usual fear of institutional subversion at some point; a living reality in an environment where nothing is guaranteed or held as sacrosanct. Here, Nigerians recall the nation’s ordeal in the hands of bankers; how can anyone forget that era of institutional lapses and outright delinquency under which some hitherto vibrant institutions were plundered by their supposedly savvy minders and which took nearly a trillion naira to underwrite? From here I guess flows the question – why should the individual, who after working his hands to the bones to put the funds in his RSA, shouldn’t be given the benefit of the doubt when it comes to exercising the options to deploy his funds for future welfare and economic interest? And now that the government and other powerful interests are swooning over the huge pension outlay supposedly to fund critical infrastructure and what they argue as best serving the public interest, who on earth can guarantee that the government actually mean well or isn’t up to its usual mischief? That we are no longer discussing issues of unfunded pensions, the endless bouts of verifications and the attendant indignities suffered by our citizens on pension verification rounds is one sure sign of progress. But that that progress, for it to endure must seek to preserve the primacy of the retiree’s interest as against that of the Pension Funds Administrators. Except there is something that the pension establishment have not yet told the National Assembly and the rest of us, nothing in the current amendment which is essentially about making the current ‘good’ to be ‘better’ can be said to be objectionable. If anything, it seems to me as part of the dynamics of change that the pension establishment would have to embrace.