NIGERIAN teenager Confiance Victor has emerged as the 2022 Miss Teen Global Beauty Nigeria at a keenly contested pageant show that had high flying teenage beauties with brains and brawn. The grand finale of Nigeria’s biggest teen beauty pageant is held in the ancient timber city of Sapele, Delta State, to climax an intense week-long camping activity that involves leadership training, etiquettes, life’s soft skills, and entrepreneurship training for contestants. The audience erupted with tumultuous applause, when the delectable and beautiful Miss Confiance Victor, representing Imo State, defeated 9 other beautiful teenagers to emerge the second edition winner. The contestants who came out in five appearances, traditional customs, introduction, swimwear, talents display, and evening gowns, wowed the audience with their colourful displays.   Jaywon features Portable on Zelle remix     Glo Battle of the year finale holds today     Davido, Perruzi, Reekado Banks thrill football fans on…   The 2022 edition of the pageant had Bernard Effiong, former Mr. Nigeria Universe, and Mr Tourism Nigeria, as a head judge while Hon. (Miss) Sandra Bassey and Miss Blessing Ebbah supported as co-judge. Miss Confiance Victor will represent Nigeria in August 2022, on the world stage where the Miss Teen Global Beauty International 2021, will be held in Paraiba, Brazil, courtesy of an all-expense-paid trip by Awaritse Nigeria Limited, the official sponsor of the 2022 edition. National Director of Miss Teen Global Beauty Nigeria, Gwendolyn Tagbarha expressed delight at the success of the second edition of the pageant. While speaking on how the winners emerged, Tagbarha stated that in the first edition, 70% of scores were taken right from the auditions, home task assignments, behavioral assessment, hard work, attitude, camp activities were all put together and submitted to the judges while their stage performances during the Grand finale has the other half of 30%. Tagbarha also announced that the winner got the prize sum of N200,000 in cash, amongst other prizes, while runner-ups that included Aghunaife Fiona, Alkali Hannah, Mayungbo Oluwatobiloba, all walked home with N150,000, N100,000 and N100,000 in cash, respectively.