Lecturers, teachers and other stakeholders have decried the negative effects of Mondays’ sit-at-home order by Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) enforcers. They are seeking a way forward. NWANOSIKE ONU, AWKA, DAMIAN DURUIHEOMA, ENUGU, OGOCHUKWU ANIOKE, ABAKALIKI, CHRIS NJOKU, OWERRI, EMMA ELEKWA, ONITSHA AND SUNNY NWANKWO, ABA, report. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) first introduced the sit-at-home order in the Southeast to add pressure to their quest for the actualisation of an independent nation of Biafra and to show that most people in the Southeast support their quest for freedom. It soon transformed into a tool for achieving other goals, including raising of awareness for other Biafran-related issues and, of recent, it has become a tool to draw attention to the plight of the leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu. The order has become so frequent that it has triggered a backlash and a diminishing return. Resistance to the order has led to fierce enforcement with the use of arms. The IPOB also, during the week, warned Anambra State Governor Chukwuma Soludo, the Obi of Onitsha, Alfred Achebe, and leaders not to dare it over the order. The group declared that it was waiting for the planned Truth and Reconciliation Commission to be set up this week, to know its next line of action. The pro-Biafra group further warned that it was not part of the proposed prayer session scheduled for Monday in the state, adding that anybody who planned to be at the venue was on his or her own. This was contained in a ‘message’ from some members of the group, which was circulated in Awka. On Saturday, the Southeast Traditional Ruler’s Council, led by the Obi of Onitsha, in conjunction with Anambra State Government, held a stakeholders meeting in Awka to deliberate on how to put an end to the Monday sit-at-home in Anambra and the region. It was held at the Prof. Dora Akunyili Women’s Development Centre, where Soludo, Obi Achebe and other high-profile ndi Anambra were present, including security chiefs in the state. In their communique, which was signed by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Solo Chukwulobelu, stakeholders said they had declared Monday, April 4, as a Day of Prayer for Peace for ala Igbo. But, the IPOB, in a reaction, said “we, the Biafrans are not against your prayers, but if you want to do it, stay in your house. Anybody we see outside should know he or she is calling for another thing. “We are serious in what we are doing and we are not joking. This is the last warning we are going to issue on this. Don’t incur our wrath.”But, this latest development has ignited controversy over those behind the warning. Stakeholders in higher institutions, just like operators in other sectors of the Southeast’s economy, have raised the alarm on the devastating negative effect of the sit-at-home on tertiary institutions in the zone, while offering remedies. Some of the stakeholders said though public universities were on strike called by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU), the order was distorting the lives of students in various institutions in the region. Soludo said not only had the exercise crippled activities in the region, it had devoured the zone’s economy. The Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UniZik), Awka, Anambra State, is seriously affected, but it keeps marching on. Its Acting Public Relations Officer, Mrs. Chika Ene, told The Nation that students and lecturers were willing, but it was difficult to access the institution because drivers to take them to the campus were not available as a result of the sit-at-home. Besides, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Charles Esimone, she said, did not want to risk the lives of students or lecturers’. Both Igbariam and Uli campuses of the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu University, Anambra State, always witnessed skeletal academic activities on Mondays. A senior lecturer, who preferred anonymity, said major activities were deliberately not fixed for Mondays due to the near-absence of members of staff and students. “Initially, we tried to force students to attend lectures and other activities on Mondays. But when we discovered that students scarcely came to school, we had to leave out Mondays,” the lecturer said. For Prof. Obasi Igwe, apart from the negative impact on the economy of the region, education sector is on the line, as the exercise now leaves institutions empty. Igwe said: “When this sit-at-home started last year, I warned that it would be used against the Igbo. Today, that is exactly what is happening. It is leaving tertiary institutions empty. It has no positive effect at all because it is distorting the lives of youths in schools. “This exercise has increased the propensity for crime among children in the Southeast while parents are facing hard times in terms of their businesses. Recall that some of the students are getting arrested as members of ESN when they know nothing about that. “The sit-at-home is also helping the migration of students from here to other regions of the country. I’m glad that it is gradually stopping. I believe it will stop soon. The first sit-at-home was the main one used to register solidarity for Kanu. But the subsequent ones should not have been declared. That is what is causing the problems now.” A lecturer in one of the tertiary institutions in Enugu State, Dr. Ifediora Uzoma, lamented that the sit-at-home had denied institutions in the Southeast opportunities. “Sit-at-home has negatively impacted academics in tertiary institutions in the Southeast in many ways. Except private universities in the Southeast, which have their academic activities unhindered, others which are government-owned have succumbed to the threats of sit-at-home on Mondays and other days IPOB announces as sit-at-home. “Apart from the University of Nigeria, which has some of its staff and students living inside the institution, all other tertiary institutions in the Southeast have their staff and students living off campus. This is why you can’t find anyone in any school on Mondays or any day IPOB may determine as sit-at-home day. This means that no teaching or learning takes place on these days. “Another evil this sit-at-home has brought upon us is that no conference or seminar holds anymore in the Southeast because of the fear of the attacks that might result from sit-at-home. “So, people now use the sit-at-home thing to deny us certain opportunities that have to do with hosting certain programmes. I want to tell you that if the academic system is still as sacrosanct as it used to be in the past, students from the Southeast would not be able to compete with others from other regions because, so far, we have lost four straight months to sit-at-home. “If you calculate how many Mondays our students have been out of school since August last year, you will begin to appreciate how fast the education system in the Southeast has been descending into the abyss,” Uzoma said. He urged “the Federal Government to help us by negotiating with the agitators and release Nnamdi Kanu”. “You can imagine what we would have lost in the next one year if Kanu continues to be held in detention,” he said.   Lagos appoints MC Oluomo, AIG Odumosu, 23 others into Parks…     107-year-old woman remanded over boy’s plucked eye     Governor’s aide in N760m sexual assault court battle   A lecturer at the University of Nigeria Enugu Campus, Dike Amara, also said apart from instilling fears among staff and students, the sit-at-home has affected the quality of education in institutions. “In some institutions, lecturers will brave the odds and come to school, but won’t find any student to teach. In that instance, it is the students that lose because most of them don’t get to cover what they have for the semester as a result of some of these things,” Amara said. On the way forward, Dike said: “There must be compromise and dialogue for this whole thing to end. I still insist that the government should look into the agitations and see what the complaints are if not you will continue to kill the people you are supposed to be protecting. “Everything is not about exercise of power. You should listen to the people you are ruling and know what their complaints are.” The Nation gathered in Ebonyi State that the sit-at-home has no effect on education activities in higher institutions in the state. A student of Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike, Ikwo (AE-FUNAI), Chisom Obi, said academic activities were always taking place in higher institutions on Monday before the strike embarked upon by ASUU. A student of Ebonyi State University (EBSU), Ngozika Eze, said the only negative effect the sit-át-home had was that lecturers or students couldn’t come into the state on Mondays. “If you travel and can’t return on Sunday you are likely to miss your Monday lecture or whatever programme you may have on Monday. “This is because you may not get any public transport to bring you to Ebonyi on Mondays as the sit-at-home is active in other states on Mondays. Apart from that, we always have our usual lectures and other activities on Mondays,” she said. In Imo State, the Public Relations Officer, Imo State University (IMSU), Ralph Obi-Njoku, said some students living outside the campus adopted the strategy of leaving their houses early to beat the IPOB order. He said though majority of their students lived within and around the school, those who come from far areas had resorted to leaving their houses around 6am before hoodlums start enforcing the order. “We have our students living within and around the campus. So Mondays don’t pose much problem to our students. But those who live far away like Emekuku, Irete, Orji, Akabo, Avu and Obinze leave their houses very early to beat the enforcers of the sit-at-home,” he said. As a remedy, he suggested that the Federal Government should as a matter of urgency release the leader of IPOB to bring the situation under control. “We are losing billions of naira in commerce to the situation,” he said. Higher institutions of learning in Abia State, including state, federal and private polytechnics, colleges of education and universities have continued to hold their academic activities despite the order. The Nation gathered that managements of various higher institutions in the state, apparently because of the violent turn its enforcement was taking, adhered to the sit-at-home earlier. The schools, however, gradually began normal academic activities as the enforcement relapsed. A visit to some of the schools by The Nation showed that students of the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike (MOUAU) had gone home because of ASUU strike. According to the students and lecturers, the order at the earliest stage was observed because of the dangerous turns the enforcement of the sit-at-home was taking. For Sunday Okoro, the students, after the effect of the #ENDSARS protest and previous ASUU strikes,  were ready to sacrifice anything to ensure that there was no further extension of their stay in school. A staff of the Abia State Polytechnic, Aba, who craved anonymity, told The Nation that they had been having their normal lectures over time, adding that they were about starting their second semester examination. At Abia State University, The Nation gathered that lectures had been going on till last week when the institution got a threat letter from people suspected to be members of IPOB The source said the IPOB members threatened to come hard on schools, including ABSU, should they hold academic activities on Mondays and any other day Nnamdi Kanu would be in court. In Anambra State, primary and secondary schools have been under lock and key since August last year, including private ones. At a time, the schools resorted to going to school on Saturdays. A teacher in one of the public secondary schools in Awka said their main concern was the lives of the children. According to the source, “those people are heartless. If we failed to close schools, they would come here one day and set everywhere ablaze. The situation has made the students to lose track of many things and it made many of them, with the help of Anambra State Government, to replace Monday with Saturday for the children to cope.” The same was applicable in Imo, Abia and Enugu states, where Monday sit-at-home has been severe. But in Ebonyi, primary and secondary schools were always in session, but with caution, according to one of the teachers, who spoke with The Nation. The source, who pleaded anonymity, said the situation made it difficult for them to concentrate in teaching the wards, as they were always afraid of what would happe the next minute. In Abia State, stakeholders noted that the activities of the hoodlums have negatively affected teaching and learning. A private school owner in Aba told The Nation that they have not only extended their lecture hours, but have also included Saturday lectures into their teaching programme since they no longer go to school on Mondays. Also, Imo State has been the hotbed of the activities of the hoodlums. Pupils of Comprehensive Secondary School Nkume Njaba in Njaba Local Government Area of Imo State were chased out of the examination hall by suspected IPOB operatives during one of the sit-at-home. The students and staff were pursued by enforcers of the order while they were about to write the West African Examination Council (WAEC) English Language Examination. The situation has been bad in the Southeast for a long time and the students need help.