It was like a horror film: gunmen in the Ihitte Uboma local government area of Imo State stormed a registration unit, where continuous voter registration was going on, shot sporadically and ordered everyone to lay face down. When the smoke cleared, Anthony Nwokorie, a staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), lay dead.  One of the impassioned gun-wielding lunatics  was bawling and screaming: “no more election!”, “no more election anywhere!”, though his “election” sounded like “erection”. First thing first: this lunacy must be arrested.  Security agencies must nab these murderers and make them pay for their crime.  No citizen, no matter how deluded, should disrupt a legitimate exercise and bump off helpless citizens. Still, this Imo State case is umpteenth reminder of how Nigeria’s voting precincts and seasons are progressively becoming graveyards of election officials and voters, instead of glorious maternities to deepen Nigeria’s democracy. The stats that INEC released are stark.  In three elections covering 12 years, 1, 149 were killed in election-season violence: 520 in 2011 (including nine National Youth Service Corps member hired by INEC as ad hoc election staff); 626, during the 2019 election period and three, during the 2015 exercise in Benue State. The regional spread, of this orgy of killings, is no less shocking: 172 in the North West; 146 in the North East; 120 in the South-South and 111 in the North Central.  Deaths from the South East and South West were not represented in the stats, suggesting that these two geo-political zones might have had far less casualties. But for the South East, the situation has dipped for the worse, given the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and sundry separatist violent campaigns which, as the Imo case clearly showed, has somewhat been mixed up with election matters.  At a time, such anomie targeted INEC facilities in that zone, for high propaganda value. Indeed, since the 2019 election, attacks on INEC facilities and materiel have flared in the South East.  Of the 41 attacks nationwide, the South East accounted for 10 — almost a quarter.  The specific states involved were Enugu (three), Ebonyi (three), Imo (two), Anambra (one) and Abia (one).   Elder statesmen urge Southeast to back Igbo aspirants in…     NGO sensitises community on malaria prevention, treatment     ‘Ikorodu deserves better representation’   But the South East holds no monopoly of these senseless attacks on INEC and its assets, human or material. In Ondo State on September 10, 2020, before the off-season Ondo State gubernatorial election, some 5, 141 card readers were destroyed in a blaze at the INEC Akure state head office.  No less than N900 million in crucial election materials went up in smoke — and no one could say if it was an accident or plain sabotage. Also in 2021, the INEC office in the Essien Udim local government area of Akwa Ibom State was razed.  Gone with the blaze were 345 ballot boxes, 135 voting cubicles, water tanks, office furniture and megaphones. The long and short of all these stats is that INEC is fast becoming an endangered enclave; the elections it conducts, endangered exercises; and its personnel and assets, endangered species.  So, with this grim profile, how does INEC prepare to deliver a credible exercise in the 2023 general elections? The dire prognosis: no easy task.  Yet, with meticulous planning and clinical analyses of nationwide troubled spots — a reality not alien to INEC even in the best of seasons — the task is not insurmountable.  But the keyword here is credible intelligence. Working closely with the security agencies, INEC should have, at the ready, a nationwide map of troubled zones.  Collaborating with security agencies too, it should launch preemptive strikes on such areas to clear them of the marauding hoodlums.  But the plan should be dynamic.  The attention on those black spots should not be one-off but a continual exercise. INEC should also obtain intel that lays bare the illicit support groups to these hoodlums: pimps, dealers and suppliers of hard drugs; and malevolent local politicians that often arm the hoodlums as brutal enforcers.  The more of people that are weeded out, the safer and more secure the elections are likely to be. Threat to the 2023 elections should be treated as an emergency, to which INEC and indeed the Federal Government, collaborating with the states, must stoutly rise and promptly act.  Our preference is the total safety and security of every voter and all INEC election staff.  But should there be any incident, INEC should review its insurance policy to ensure the families of its endangered staff are fully compensated. A few felons, no matter how rash or misguided, must not be allowed to torpedo Nigeria’s democracy and plunge the country into further instability.  Delivering a safe, fair and credible set of elections in 2023 is, therefore, a task that must be done.