Lagos State government has urged the private sector to drive innovations in the renewable and sustainable energy sectors. Addressing participants at Circular Lagos Challenge, a project launched by the  state to grow the market for  businesses that benefit alternative energy producers, consumers, and communities ,  an Assistant Director at the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, Mrs. Toyin Odutola, said Nigeria’s sustainable growth is possible only with sustainable energy sources. She said Lagos supports projects to scale up production and use of renewal energy and its derivatives. Odutola reiterated the commitment of the state government to continued support for innovative solutions to position Lagos as a Circular Economy. Six winners emerged from the finals of the  challenge. The flagship event of this project is the Circular Lagos Challenge, supported by the German Development Cooperation (GIZ), designed to unearth innovative solutions that could change the way we design, make and use the things in Lagos State. The challenge brought together industry players such as BASF, Sweepsmart, Coca-Cola and Growing Businesses Foundation, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance and New Generation Nutrition (NGN) as challenge owners to engage entrepreneurs in the Circular Lagos challenge to provide solutions to waste challenges affecting the different sectors of the economy.   ‘Access Bank, supporter of women-led businesses’     535,815 depositors of distressed banks get N220 billion from…     Absa: Telecoms sector attracts more FDIs, deepens…   The winners who emerged at the end of the pitch session are Babatunde Adebayo of Eco Circular Solutions Provider; Joshua Attat of Lyvin; Sunday Sholanke of PETsPoint Technology Limited; Doyinsola Ogunye of Mental and Environmental Development Initiative for Children; Taiwo Adewole of Wastexchange Limited; and Gbenga Olasehinde of Stylus-Simplex Design.  Each of these entrepreneurs emerged as the winner in their respective challenge categories. Speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria Climate Innovation Center, Bankole Oloruntoba, said the idea of the initiative is to create an ecosystem that is functional, structured, and can create access to finance export and jobs. “The whole idea for us is how do we stimulate and kick-start the Lagos circular economy from a more structured perspective. There is a whole plethora of opportunities when you look at the different value chains of waste in Lagos state,” he said. “It is a seamless opportunity for the winners to get into a more corporate structure to provide waste recycling solutions. The owners of the challenges will continue to work with the SMEs and move them forward. There will be a few additional financial supports for those businesses to be able to jumpstart the different ideas they have,” he added. The Executive Director of Circular Economy Innovation Partnership, Nathalie Beinisch, said this is a programme where large organisations and companies have articulated challenges, while entrepreneurs present their solutions. She said seven of the 12 SMEs that made it to the finals will go through a six months LoopLab Incubation program where they will be supported to develop their business plans and secure funding to implement their different solutions. Representative of GIZ Nigeria, Jennifer Seydel, commented that the Circular Lagos challenge seeks to grow the market for circular economy businesses in ways that benefit producers, consumers, and communities across the Lagos state with the aim of stimulating local economic growth and creating meaningful job opportunities for Lagos State.