Darey Art Alade, singer and Chief Creative Director of Livespot 360, has hinted at the theme of the recently premiered reality TV show, the Real Housewives of Lagos. In a brief chat with The Nation, Art Alade noted that the Lagos franchise of the world acclaimed reality TV show is poised to showcase the strength and beauty of the six characters, who are bosses in their chosen fields. The popular music star said the characters of the reality TV show, Carolyna Hutchings, Laura Ikeji-Kanu, Chioma Ikokwu, Toyin Lawani-Adebayo, Iyabo Ojo, and Mariam Timmer, live an opulent lifestyle while keeping their homes and business topnotch in Lagos. “You would see the lifestyle these women live in real lives. Their beautiful faces, their downtime and many other things you wouldn’t ordinarily see about them but in all, these are boss women, who hold their homes and businesses together. They are all successful in their own chosen field and it’s pure entertainment for fans and Showmax audience,” he said.   Academy announces presenters as 64th Grammy holds today     ID Cabasa, Naija Ninja complete late Sound Sultan’s 9th…     Actor Alesh gifts self new home on birthday   Art-Alade also hinted that almost all the six characters are either married, seeing someone or in entangled relationships. The show premiere with an exclusive launch party at The Jewel Aieda on April 2, 2022. Hosted by Toke Makinwa, the premiere had in attendance, Tolu ‘Toolz’ Oniru, Bolanle Olukanni, Noble Igwe, Shade Ladipo, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi, Kunle Remi, Akah Nnani, Uzoamaka Aniunoh, and Basketmouth. Also in attendance were BBNaija stars, Whitemoney, Erica Nlewedim, Elozonam, Prince Nelson Maria Chike Benjamin, Pere, and Vandora. The Real Housewives of Lagos follows the lives of 6 opulent women in Lagos, Carolyna Hutchings, Laura Ikeji-Kanu, Chioma Ikokwu, Toyin Lawani-Adebayo, Iyabo Ojo, and Mariam Timmer. These women did not hold back in bringing all the glam and fabulousness to the premiere. The Real Housewives Of Lagos is produced by Livespot 360 is exclusive to Showmax.