Constituents from 52 towns and seven local governments of Anambra Central yesterday bought nomination forms for the member representing Njikoka/Dunukofia/Anaocha in the House of Representatives, Dozie Nwankwo. A delegation, led by Chief Ndubuisi Isiadinso (Kpakpando) and Chief Okechukwu Ayika (Atu Enugu-Ukwu na Umunri) visited the lawmaker in Abuja to present the form. Isiadinso said the form was donated by the district in appreciation of the quality representation Nwankwo demonstrated in the House. He noted that having  shown himself as a worthy voice for the people, Nwankwo deserves elevation to the Senate. “We have come to register our appreciation for the able way you have carried yourself and represented Njikoka/Dunukofia/Anaocha federal constituency in the past six years. Members of your constituency, comprising also the grassroots of Anambra Central, have decided to buy the forms  for you.   My plans for Delta South, by aspirant     Governorship aspirant condemns cult killings in Ogun     Court declines to order elections into Benue constituency   “This is our way of showing that democracy is the government of the people for the people by the people. Our people have resolved that since the reward for good work is more work, you should represent us in the Senate.” Isiadinso said Nwankwo’s endorsement also corresponds with the rotation arrangement in Anambra State and the zone, adding that Nwankwo’s experience and wide national network of contacts are advantage to his candidacy. Recalling the public-spirited and philanthropic disposition of Hon Dozie Nwankwo, he recalled how the lawmaker has continued to render various social interventions to indigent persons in the constituency, including scholarship awards and free medical care for less privileged members of the society even before he was elected to the House of Representatives. “Even as a lawmaker, Hon. Dozie Nwankwo has more than doubled his philanthropic gestures through a bottom-up constituency project conception and faithful implementation. The many boreholes, classroom blocks, ICT centres, culverts, solar street lighting, health centres and provision of transformers that transverse the constituency show that Onye Ndozi is a blessing to our people. “The 2023 general election is therefore a golden opportunity for constituents to raise their voices either in praise or condemnation of their representatives. We are happy to announce that in the case of Hon Dozie Nwankwo, we have never had it so good. “We the undersigned have therefore willingly contributed the needed fund and purchased the expression of interest and nomination forms for Hon. Dozie Ferdinand Nwankwo to contest the 2023 Anambra Central Senatorial election and as a gesture of support and commendation for job well done in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly,” Isiadinso told Nwankwo.