In the third year of the Ninth National Assembly, and the seventh year of the Muhammadu Buhari administration, 44 bills have been passed by the federal legislature towards amending the 1999 Constitution. As the bills are being transmitted to the states Houses of Assembly, it is expected that many confusing sections that have affected the practice of federalism and constitutionalism in the country would be made clearer. Although it is not the first time that the constitution would be amended, it is the first time that such a wide range of sections would be considered. When the final votes were to be taken, 48 bills were presented, out of which 44 were passed. All amendments introduced to empower the women were thrown away by the male- dominated chambers of the National Assembly. One introduced to make it possible for at least one woman to represent each state of the federation was rejected on the ground that it would amount to discrimination against men if a senatorial zone is reserved for women. Another was to expand women participation in running the political parties. Those who proposed the amendment and pushed it through the public hearing stages explained that unless women were made to bring to bear on the political scene their knowledge and competence, the country would be losing. It was pointed out that the existing system is skewed in favour of men who have always been in charge of the political structure. Women, under the colonial authority, were not accorded the right to vote at the same time as men. Besides, there have been cultural inhibitions against the female gender in Africa over the centuries. These ought to have been abrogated in the past six decades of independence.   NIN-SIM linkage     Governance vs. sentiment     Check that kidney   It is good that the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, is passionate about reintroducing the bills. Even the Bills to open the space for parity between men in terms of citizenship and indigeneship was rejected by the men. While foreign men married to Nigerian women are legally entitled to citizenship, foreign women married to Nigerian men are not granted the privilege. The women have since been protesting the hindrances. Other critical provisions passed by the previous assembly, including autonomy for the local government councils, state legislatures and the Judiciary are part of the reintroduced sections. When the provisions of the constitution were last altered by the eighth assembly, autonomy was granted them, but, at the instigation of state governors, they were shot down by the state lawmakers who were expected to be the major beneficiaries. Not much has changed since then as an attempt by President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve the same purpose through Executive Order 10 met with stiff opposition from the governors who received the backing of the Supreme Court that the President acted ultra vires, as only the legislative arm could make or amend laws. Whereas Nigeria is presented as a Federal Republic, the current constitution does not allow for practice of true federalism. Much power is concentrated at the centre as is characteristic of the unitary system of government. Policing, security, railway, electricity, among other things, are on the exclusive legislative list that bars the states from operating them, thus affecting the running of the sub-national governments adversely. The constitution addresses state governors as chief security officers while granting full control of the relevant agencies to the Federal Government. This is an anomaly that this amendment seeks to correct. The proposed amendment, however, did not go far enough as command and control of the security levers are still in the firm grip of the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. This should be reopened expeditiously. All those involved in the amendment process in line with section 9 of the constitution should ensure that the amendments are effected immediately, in view of the 2023 general election that is fast approaching.