Zenith Bank Plc has emerged the Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance Magazine’s Best Banks Awards. The bank was recognised for its resilience and profitability in the face of Nigeria’s challenging macroeconomic environment. The Tier-1 bank retained the award for the third consecutive year. The bank joined others from 36 countries in Africa at the prestigious Global Finance as winners in the 29th Annual Best Bank Awards. The editors of Global Finance made the selections after consultations with corporate financial executives, bankers and banking consultants, and analysts worldwide. They considered factors that ranged from the quantitative objective to the informed subjective in selecting the top banks. The objective criteria included growth in assets, profitability, geographic reach, strategic relationships, new business development and innovation in products. Subjective criteria included the opinions of equity analysts, credit rating analysts, banking consultants and others involved in the industry. The bank’s Group Managing Director/Chief Executive, Ebenezer Onyeagwu said: “This award is a testament to our tenacity despite a very challenging macroeconomic environment. Indeed, being recognised, for the third consecutive year, is an acknowledgement of the resilience of the Zenith brand as the leading financial institution in Nigeria.”   IPOB declares war on fleeing cultists in Abia     Ex-Kwara Gov Lawal’s son defects from APC to SDP     What I’ll do when I buy over Coca-Cola, by Elon Musk   He lauded the contributions of the bank’s founder and Chairman, Jim Ovia, for his pioneering role in building the structures and laying the foundation for an enduring and successful institution, the Board for the outstanding leadership they provide, the staff for their commitment and dedication as well as the Bank’s customers for their unwavering loyalty and support. Global Finance’s “Best Banks Awards” are recognised amongst the world’s most influential banking/finance and corporate professionals as the most coveted and credible awards in the banking industry, with winners chosen in 150 countries and territories across Africa, AsiaPacific, the Caribbean, Central America, Central & Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, North America and Western Europe. Founded in 1987, Global Finance regularly selects the top performers among banks and other financial services providers, and the awards have become a trusted standard of excellence for the global financial community. Joseph D. Giarraputo, publisher and editorial director of Global Finance, said: “With the financial world in a state of turmoil from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, corporate leaders face a new set of challenges concerning the choice of their banking relationships.” According to him, “following on the enormous difficulties wrought by the pandemic, these changes demand increased attention to global commercial relationships. Our awards support decision-makers in selecting the best financial partners.” Zenith Bank’s track record of excellent performance has earned the brand numerous awards, including being voted as Best Commercial Bank in Nigeria in the World Finance Banking Awards 2021, Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance World’s Best Banks Awards 2020 and 2021, Bank of the Year (Nigeria) in The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards 2020, and Best in Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ Africa 2020 and 2021 by the Ethical Boardroom. Also, the Bank emerged as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria in the Banker Magazine Top 500 Banking Brands 2020 and 2021, Number One Bank in Nigeria by Tier-1 Capital in the “2021 Top 1000 World Banks” Ranking by The Banker Magazine and the Retail Bank of the year at the BusinessDay Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Awards 2020 and 2021. Similarly, Zenith Bank was honoured as the Bank of the Decade (People’s Choice) at the ThisDay Awards 2020 and emerged winner in four categories at the Sustainability, Enterprise, and Responsibility (SERAS) Awards 2021, carting home the awards for “Best Company in Reporting and Transparency”, “Best Company in Infrastructure Development”,”Best Company in Gender Equality and Women Empowerment”, and the coveted “Most Responsible Organisation in Africa.