THERE was outrage in Tudun Fulani, Bosso Local Government Area of Niger State on Tuesday with the discovery of the lifeless body of a 28-years-old businessman, Hassan Shehu, in the house of a man regarded as his best friend. The police are on the trail of the suspect identified as Bashir following the discovery of the decomposing corpse of Hassan Shehu in his (Bashir’s) house. Family sources said Bashir had made a phone call to Hassan, telling him that he had a stock of gold worth about N5 million for sale. Since that is the business the two friends do for a living, Hassan did not suspect any foul play. He told Bashir that he only had N3.5 million and Bashir asked him to bring it. The family source said Hassan went to Bashir’s house with the money in his red Peugeot 206 with Lagos number plate EPE141 EG. That, according to the family source, turned out to be the last they would see of Hassan until the family was informed about the discovery of his lifeless body in Bashir’s house.   Family agonises over N10m ransom as bandits abduct…     Our battles with global warming, by herders     Intrigues, suspicion as fire outbreak consumes 50 corpses…   The Nation investigation revealed that Hassan was stabbed by Bashir in the neck, which led him to bleed profusely until he gave up the ghost. Confirming the incident, the spokesperson of the Niger State Police Command, Wasiu Abiodun, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, said Bashir was seen by neighbours driving away in Hassan’s car apparently with the large sum of money in it. DSP Abiodun said: “On 12/04/2022, at about 1700hrs, a distress call was received that a male lifeless body was found at an apartment in Tudun-Fulani area of Bosso LGA, Minna. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the deceased was stabbed in the neck and that he was invited to the area by one Bashir, presently at large, to sell some gold items to the deceased. “The said Bashir, who is suspected to have stabbed the deceased, was allegedly seen to have driven the victim’s vehicle with a sum amount of money therein away.” Abiodun said the case was investigated while efforts were being intensified to apprehend the fleeing suspect. Hassan has since been buried according to Islamic rites.