Internal clean-up within the All Progressives Congress (APC) is delaying the release of the party’s timetable for the presidential, governorship and other primaries ahead of next year’s general elections, it was learnt yesterday. The party’s National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu has initiated plans to restructure the party’s secretariat ahead of the primaries, a source confirmed to The Nation. Adamu has raised a committee, headed by a former Jigawa State Governor Ali Saad Birnin Kudu, to come up with recommendations that would put the party in better shape. The Birnin Kudu panel may submit its report anytime this week. But Adamu has consulted President Muhammadu Buhari on the ongoing reforms and the timelines for the primaries. According to investigation, Adamu, who met President Muhammadu Buhari last week on the timelines for the primaries, said the exercise cannot be successfully conducted without cleaning up the party. He said although Birnin Kudu’s committee had submitted a preliminary report, he was expecting the comprehensive copy of the report this week. Speaking in confidence, a source said: “The national chairman has told the President that he will be fair to all aspirants at all levels be it presidential primaries and others. “He, however, pleaded with the President to allow him to clean up APC National Secretariat to create an environment for free and fair primaries. He said he does not want business as usual in the party again.   Youths give Amaechi 48-hour ultimatum to resign     NCC: SIM-NIN linkage pre-condition for unbarring call     MTN gets CBN’s nod for payment bank   “This was why he set up ex-Governor Ali Saad Birnin Kudu’s committee to come up with recommendations that will make the secretariat functional and responsible to all members. This implies that bad eggs or loafing staff may go. “Although the committee has submitted an interim report, its final copy will be out this week for the consideration of the National Working Committee (NWC). “The ongoing clean-up is what is delaying the release of the timetable for APC primaries. I think in the next one or two weeks, the timetable will be released.” Another source said the new NWC was also trying to study the amendments to the APC Constitution at the recently-concluded National Convention and its implications for the forthcoming primaries. The source said: “With the amendments approved by the convention, there might be need for some ward congresses in some states. ”So, the party will take cognizance of the amendments to avoid its primaries being nullified by any court on technical ground. “I can tell you that all these actions will be taken with the speed of light because time is not on the side of the new team.” A governor, who spoke in confidence, said: “At our forum, we are aware that the new national chairman, Adamu and his members have been working round the clock to settle down by putting things in shape. “We are all waiting for the timelines and guidelines for primaries. We know aspirants have been emerging at all levels and our party is up to the task.”