A total number of sixteen officers of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC ) in Anambra state were on Friday decorated by the Corps following their recent promotion. The officers included one Deputy Corps Commander to Corps Commander, three Assistant Corps Commander to Deputy Corps Commander, three RC Route Commander to Supridendent Route Commander and seven Deputy Route Commander to Route Commander. Also, the officer killed during recent gunmen attack at Igboukwu, Aguata local government area was laid to rest at his country home in Umuefi Village, Nteje in Oyi Local Government Area. Speaking at the decoration ceremony, Zonal Commanding Officer, RS5HQ Benin, Assistant Corps Marshal, Andrew Kumarpayi, congratulated the officers, describing their promotion as reward for hard work, commitment and perseverance. He appreciated the FRSC management and board for approving the promotion, urging the officers to reciprocate the gesture through increased dedication and loyalty to their superiors. He said: “Promotion is not easy in FRSC. Today records the largest number of officers to be promoted in the history of the Zone while the command has the highest number of promoted senior officers.   Police foil suicide attempt in Ilorin     IGP to deploy special squads to tackle land grabbing in Edo…     2023: Osinbajo seeks Olubadàn’s blessings on presidential…   “This is clarion call to work harder. You must prove yourself, at the same time be examples to your surbordinate. For those yet to be promoted, I urge you to be patient, it’s a matter of time.” Earlier, Sector Commander, Mr Adeoye Irelewuye said two important dates were significant in the life of uniform men, date of salary payment and that of decoration. He encouraged those who did not benefit from the exercise not be discovered but to keep hope alive as they join others in celebration. One of the promoted officers and Command’s Public Relations Officer, Margret Onabe, promoted from Deputy Route Commander to Route Commander, said the new ranks called for more diligence, promising thier readiness to keep giving their best to quality service. Present at the event were representatives of the Nigeria Police Force, Anambra State Command, as well families and friends of the newly-promoted officers. The corpse of the deceased, Kenneth Nwafor, was received by officers and men of RS5.33 Nteje Unit Command his family members in Umuefi Village, Nteje at about 1100 hrs. Late Nwafor, a Road Marshal Assistant 1 officer, was buried amidst tears and agony.