From detention to incarceration, Mubarak Bala remains a victim of persecution and injustice. His detention for about two years, from April 2020, without charges or trial, was unconscionable persecution. His eventual conviction, on April 5, after his unjustifiably lengthy detention, was a travesty of justice. He faced an 18-count charge including blasphemy, incitement, contempt of religion and breach of public peace at the Kano State High Court. Bala, 37, atheist and president of the Humanist Association of Nigeria, was arrested at his residence in Kaduna State and taken to Kano State after allegedly posting comments critical of Islam and religion on Facebook, which had attracted accusations of blasphemy and threats. The people who petitioned the police leading to his arrest had accused him of posting things on Facebook that were “provocative and annoying to Muslims.” The prosecution argued that he contravened sections 114 and 210 of the state’s penal code, and Justice Farouk Lawan sentenced him to 24 years in prison after he unexpectedly pleaded guilty. It was reported that Bala had refused to reconsider his guilty plea when the judge asked him whether he understood the consequences. Why did he plead guilty?  After he had spent about eight months in detention, in December 2020 the High Court in Abuja ruled that his detention violated his rights to personal freedom, fair hearing, freedom of thought and expression. The Abuja judge declared his detention illegal and ordered his immediate release following a “fundamental rights” petition describing how he had been detained without charge for more than seven months, and denied access to lawyers for five months. The court awarded him N250, 000 in damages. The authorities disregarded the court ruling. His long detention without charges attracted international attention, and campaigners for his freedom regarded him as a Freedom of Religion or Belief (FoRB) victim. Significantly, a group of seven United Nations (UN) human rights experts issued a statement in April 2021, after Bala had been detained for a year, which highlighted the violation of his fundamental freedoms and supported the Abuja court ruling. “The government must take action to ensure that the responsible authorities respect the due process and enforce the judicial ruling,” they said. Nobelist Wole Soyinka, a globally respected defender of fundamental freedoms, lent his voice to the campaign for Bala’s release from detention. In a letter of solidarity marking his 100th day in detention, published by Humanists International, Soyinka said: “You are not alone; there is a whole community across the globe that stands beside you and will fight for you. We will not rest until you are free and safe.” The literature laureate added:  “You have lived. You have stood against the tide of religious imperialism. You have fought for all Humanity, to ensure a better, fairer, world for all. You have not sought to appease those that treasure scrolls. You have not bowed to pressure to revere their unseen deities.” The International Humanist and Ethical Union (IHEU), which also campaigned for his release from detention, observed that the real reasons for the “outrageous and inhumane action” against him were that he had renounced Islam and openly called himself an atheist.   Amaechi’s monkey business     Anti-terrorism lessons     Obiano’s troubles   Bala is a Kano State indigene from a Muslim family. But he is not on the same page with his family members on religion.   His relations put him in a psychiatric hospital in 2014 after he renounced Islam and embraced atheism. It is striking that the Kano State High Court that convicted him did not view the charges against him as a violation of his rights to freedom of thought and expression as the Abuja High Court did. This may well be because of the principle that courts of concurrent jurisdiction are not bound by each other’s decisions. But it is puzzling that a secular court convicted Bala of blasphemy in contradiction to the country’s secular constitution, which is supreme. How can blasphemy be a crime in a secular country? It is strange that he was convicted under a state penal code that contradicts the constitution and its supremacy. There is no question that his conviction violates some of his fundamental rights under the country’s constitution, especially his rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and freedom of expression. It is noteworthy that his vocal atheism is offensive to many people in the country’s Muslim-dominated northern region. The Facebook post that led to his arrest reportedly read, “Fact is, you have no life after this one. You have been dead before, long before you were born, billions of years of death.”  This view opposes religious belief in an afterlife. The allegation of blasphemy evokes Islamic law, also known as Sharia, which operates in 12 Muslim-majority states in the northern part of the country alongside a secular justice system. Sharia has been controversial in the country since its introduction in 1999. There are fundamental problems about the operation of Sharia in a multi-religious but secular country such as Nigeria. In 2020, for instance, the Upper Sharia Court in Kano State found Yahaya Sharif-Aminu, then 22, guilty of “insulting religious creed,” based on a song he circulated via WhatsApp, and sentenced him to death by hanging. Also, the same court sentenced Omar Farouq, then 13, to 10 years in prison with hard labour for blasphemy. He was accused of making derogatory statements about Allah in a public argument. Even under the Islamic system of justice, the accusation of blasphemy stands in contradiction to the country’s secular constitution, which is supreme. Bala’s conviction for blasphemy is wrongful and preposterous because it essentially goes against the constitution. Importantly, his guilty plea is of no consequence because the blasphemy charge against him has no basis under the constitution, and he should not have faced such a charge in the first place. He is in jail because he is an unbeliever and his position on religion conflicts with the religious beliefs of those in the majority and those in power. He is a victim of abuse of power based on religious intolerance. This is condemnable. His conviction should not be allowed to stand. His wife, Amina, was reported saying “We will appeal the case. I don’t accept that judgment against my husband. We will pursue it to the Supreme Court.” It is high time the apex court determined whether blasphemy is punishable under the Nigerian constitution. Ultimately, Bala is innocent of the charge of blasphemy because the offence should not exist in a secular country, which Nigeria claims to be. His imprisonment, therefore, is nothing but injustice.