Chieftain of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and leader of Arewa Community in South- South and South–East, Alhaji Musa Saidu, has cautioned Northerners against supporting the presidential aspiration of Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, alleging the Minister has hidden hatred for the North. Speaking to journalists in Kaduna at the weekend , Saidu alleged Amaechi was only pretending to love northerners. He said his antecedents as Governor did not attest to that. According to him, all northerners living in Rivers State can testify to what Amaechi did to them, especially in the area of politics and appointments. According to him, Amaechi discriminately appointed people of other major tribes as special assistants but refused to appoint any northerner despite their long stay and role in the development of the State. The ACF chieftain said it was on record that Amaechi demolished mosques, cemeteries for northern Christians and Muslims as well as frustrated businesses of northerners in Port Harcourt.   FG approves review of education tax to 2.5 per cent     Youths protest DPO’s alleged shooting of father of…     I will stop banditry, kidnapping as President – Saraki   “Everyone knew when former Head of State General Yakubu Gowon and ex-information Minister, Labaran Maku came to Port Harcourt and begged Amaechi to rebuild the mosque and cemeteries he demolished, but he refused. “You can imagine someone who could not unite Nigerians as Governor is now aspiring for presidency. For God sake, what do you think will happen when he emerges victorious?’’. He said the efforts of some northern politicians to market Amaechi was a mischief and act of ignorance. According to him: “I have been living in Port Harcourt for more than 52 years, All politicians including Amaechi himself know me very well, as such I will never be deceived by anybody. “I have participated in the politics and economic development of Rivers State. I am the only Northerner who headed a presidential committee against oil bunkering during Obasanjo administration as well as founding member of South- South Conference. “Amaechi should apologise to our father Gen. Yakubu Gowon and entire Northerners for what he did to Northerners when he was a Governor,before we can change our minds towards him,” Saidu said. He said Nigeria requires trusted, intelligent, accommodating, detribalised and transparent leader to streamline and salvage the nation from the current political and economic quagmire. The ACF chieftain debunked the notion that Amaechi’s support for Northern candidature in 2015 was based on love for the northerners, noting it was only for political interest.