A group, The Network of Advocates for Digital Reporting (NADIR), has criticised the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) over the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS). It dismissed as “laughable” and “ill-advised” the threat by the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) chapter of ASUU to withdraw the degree of National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Director General, Kashifu Inuwa. NADIR Publicity Secretary, Bello Shehu, said that no one should not be intimidated for doing their job. NADIR said Inuwa was being opposed despite NITDA’s explanation that ASUU’s preferred payment platform, UTAS, failed the vulnerability (security integrity), User Acceptance Test and stress load tests. In a statement, Shehu noted the lecturers should know better than throwing caution to the wind and making a fundamental blunder. “This action seeks to portray ASUU as a sole authority in conferring or retracting degree awards, rather than limiting itself to protecting the rights of university workers. “In a desperate bid to blackmail a public official into lowering the bars of his mandate and succumbing to selfish inclinations, ASUU have resorted to threats. “After unsuccessfully hounding the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Professor Isah Ali Pantami, the union has turned to Kashifu Inuwa Abdullahi.   No N198b diverted in Sokoto     Kano Water Resources Commissioner Wali quits     Osinbajo praises originator of Nasarawa varsity Keffi   “Both are working hard for digital transformation. We are not sure to what extent ASUU is willing to bare its fangs as a clog in the wheels of Nigeria’s progress. “Their leadership should answer some fundamental questions: Has the union now usurped the mandate of University Senate in awarding degree certificates? “Is there a legally recognised marriage of convenience between labour unionism and award of degree certificates in ATBU? “Is ASUU not overstepping its boundaries and arrogating to itself an authority outside its jurisdiction? “Beyond the NUC regulations, each university self-regulates its academic programmes through the power vested in its senate. “Precedents have severally shown that only the University Senate has the powers to do what ASUU is ignorantly threatening to do. “NITDA, has over the years, issued a series of regulatory instruments including the Software Testing and Quality Assurance Framework and Guideline, issued in 2016. “This regulatory instrument, currently under review, provides guidelines for the design, development and testing of software projects in Nigeria. “If institutions can threaten their products who are standing up for what is right, and get away with it, excellence and sterling track record is endangered.”