Leader of the Middlebelt presidency agitations and presidential aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Moses Ayom, has urged former Governors of Taraba and Plateau States, Jolly Nyame and Joshua Dariye, recently granted state pardon to join him in the race. Ayom, who hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for the state pardon, explained the entrance of Nyame and Dariye into the race will “actualise Middlebelt Presidency”. He said the two leaders of the Middlebelt suffered the fate because they were minorities, pointing out that many more from larger ethnic groups stole even more but were not sent to jail. “The more the merrier for the minorities so that head or tail we coast home with victory having either the presidency or Vice presidency,” he said. He also alerted the nation of a grand plot in the leading political parties to use a hike in the fees of nomination forms to scare away more honest potential leaders, particularly from the Middlebelt from contesting. The people of the Middlebelt, according to him, had suffered from serious neglect and deprivation and as such would not be able to afford such fees for nomination forms, warning the party to be mindful not to take any decisions that will further disenfranchise the zone. Proposing a strategic partnership across party lines in pursuance of the Middlebelt Presidency come 2023, Ayom charged the National Chairmen of APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abdullahi Adamu and Iyorchia Ayu respectively, to see their election as God’s intervention to halt decades of injustice, unfairness and political marginalisation against the Middlebelt. Ayom announced his readiness to sacrifice his presidential ambition for any of the Middlebelt leaders particularly the chairmen of the two leading political parties should they indicate interest in running for the Presidency in 2023. He said: “The emergence of the chairmen of the two leading political parties from the Middlebelt does not in any way solve the problem of political marginalisation against the region for decades. 		 			Senators eyeing governorship race in their states		 		 		 			APC and dilemma over micro-zoning		 		 		 			Sanwo-Olu: A nod for second term		 		 “It is not an accident that God chose two Middlebelt leaders to be chairmen of the two leading political parties. The Almighty God has vested in their hands the power to use their influence to insist on zoning of presidency to the Middlebelt to compensate for decades of marginalisation, oppression, cheating, molesting, raping, kidnappings and forceful take away of our farmlands, thereby causing abject poverty, starvation and mental slavery which is worse than leg-chain slavery. “In terms of knowledge and experience and being from the middle belt that has been reduced to a dust bin by the other regions by way of power-sharing, the two chairmen are hereby urged to hand over to their deputies and come out for presidency in their respective parties because I know that God will crown one of them.” On his capacity and competence, Ayom challenged the Osinbajos, the Peter Obis, the Atikus, the Wikes, the Amaechis and Yahaya Bellos, etc to a pre-primary election debate on national television for Nigerians to know, who has what it takes to navigate the country from total collapse. He also invited the former Benue Governor, Senator George Akume, to join the push for the actualisation of Middle-Belt Presidency, urged him to deploy the same strength deployed against “third term” in the current fight for Middlebelt Presidency. To incumbent Benue state Governor, Samuel Ortom, the aspirant sought the deployment of energy, fiber and traditional tactics coupled with the holy spirit in him as a true man of God, to make sure that the Middlebelt gets the Presidency in 2023. “Ortom should demonstrate his strong faith in equity, fairness and justice to make sure that this time around the Middlebelt does not suffer marginalisation and injustice. Ortom served as the chairman of the PDP’s zoning committee,” he said. Ayom called on the former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, Professor Armstrong Adeojo in Benue State University, not forgetting Plateau State governor, Samuel Lalong, to join the fight. He also called on Reverend Father Iormem Alia, who is a leading gubernatorial hopeful in Benue State under APC to support the Middlebelt Presidency fight. Others invited to join the fight include the Minister of environment, Mohammed Abubakar and the Commissioner of Works in Plateau State.