The last time a Nigerian player lifted the prestigious Champions League trophy was over 10 years ago when John Obi Mikel emerged victorious with Chelsea but this past week will remain ever fresh in the minds of many Nigerians; especially those in Lagos and Abuja who witnessed  the 2022 Heineken UEFA Champions League trophy tour. Aside from the glitz and glamour that was the hallmark of the trophy tour, Heineken through its loaded two-day activities also passed some salient lessons that would encourage Nigerian youth to aspire to achieve laudable set goals that can be likened to lifting the most-coveted trophy in global club football. Clarence Seedorf, the trophy tour ambassador as well as Nigerian legends Austin Jay Jay Okocha and Daniel Amokachi who are all history makers in their own right, shared experiences that highlighted that there is no shortcut to success except for hard work and dedication. For the trio, achieving something as great as lifting the UEFA Champions League trophy needed  a lot of hard work, discipline, and perseverance among other qualities which if imbibed, will also help in other spheres of life outside football. Seedorf who is one of the most successful players in UEFA Champions League history and the first and currently the only player to have won the trophy with three clubs, shared his inspirational experience that will definitely resonate with everyone that came in contact with him during his loaded short stay in Nigeria.   Tottenham held by Brentford to dent top-four hopes     Arsenal beat Man United to boost top-four hopes     Pogba: My career with Man Utd not over   The Dutch legend had his first experience of lifting the Champions League trophy as a 19-year old playing alongside the Nigerian duo of Finidi George and Kanu Nwankwo at Ajax Amsterdam. But while the 1995 triumph was the only one for most of his Ajax teammates, Seedorf went on to lift three more titles, the last coming 12 years later in 2007 with AC Milan. While in Nigeria, Seedorf said he was happy to be back ‘home’ with the trophy that meant a million things to him. “We have the opportunity to bring this trophy close to those who never imagined or dreamt about getting close to the trophy. It’s beautiful to send that message to dream big, work hard, stay away from drugs and be a person that believes in himself and this is how I came to realise my dream.” the football legend stated while addressing reporters in Lagos. For Emmanuel Oriakhi, Marketing Director Nigerian Breweries PLC, he succinctly captured the importance attached to the Heineken Champions League trophy tour which remains one of the biggest events on the calendar of the international premium beer brand. He said: “As always Heineken always has something spectacular for Nigerians and once again we are doing this. A lot of people argued that maybe the timing would have been more perfect concerning the disappointment Nigeria suffered a few weeks back.