Nigerian Breweries Plc, has declared a revenue of N437. 196 billion for the year ended 31 December 2021. This represented a 29.7 per cent growth from its revenue in previous year 2020, which was N337. 006 billion. Despite the steep rise in operating cost, the brewery giant’s profit for the year under revenue also grew to N12.927 billion in 2021, from N7.525 billion recorded in 2020, representing a 71.8 per cent increase. Results from the company’s operating activities also grew by 40.2 per cent, from N29,818 billion in 2020 to N41,812 billion in 2021. The Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Hans Essaadi, gave these figures during the company’s ‘Pre-Annual General Meeting (AGM) Media Briefing 2020′ held in Lagos on Thursday, April 7, 2022. Essaadi while admitting that “2021 wasn’t an easy year, because of the COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges,” said the company was able to weather the storm and post an impressive result because “it has been able to build a formidable brand portfolio in the past 75 years.” Apart from COVID-19, some other challenges that confronted the brewery giant in the year under review included rising inflation, rising interest rates, lack of access to Foreign Exchange (forex), insecurity and of late, Russia-Ukraine war, which led to steep rise in price of crude oil and grains. The increased oil price further worsened the cost profile of businesses, with the price of Automotive Gas Oil, also known as diesel, the main source of power for NB and other businesses doubling in some places. Despite the challenges, Essaadi said NB Plc was able to tide the storm, attributing the Company’s impressive performance in the year under review to management’s cost and value initiatives. He stated that the company was indeed, grateful to Nigeria and Nigerians for the unflinching support it received from its esteemed stakeholders over the last 75 years. According to him, there are very few companies in Nigeria today that can boast of being in existence before the country’s independence and are still standing tall and sustaining the leadership position in their respective industries like Nigerian Breweries Plc.   SEC working to combat cyber security risks     Fed Govt, FAO partner to boost agro-business     Glo, Airtel back in Kogi as govt unseals Lokoja offices   Essaadi said the Company owes its success story to its valued investors and shareholders, the consumers as well as the hardworking men and women who work across its nine breweries, two malting plants, sales offices and other locations across the country. He said as a major brewing company, NB Plc encourages and continues to play major roles in the establishment of ancillary businesses, including manufacturing of bottles, cans, crown corks, labels, cartons, and plastic crates. Other service providers including those in the hospitality sector, distribution, transport, event management, advertising, and marketing communication are also not left out. The CEO, therefore, said in line with the impressive results, the Company’s Board of Directors has recommended a total dividend of N12.9 billion, amounting to N160 per share for the 2021 financial year. This is, however, subject to approval by the shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) scheduled for April 22, 2022. Also speaking at the event, the Company Secretary/Legal Director, Uaboi Agbebaku, commended the management for placing the Company on the path to recovery from the debilitating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges faced during the year. He said that at the forthcoming AGM, the Board would also recommend for shareholders’ approval a right of election for Qualifying Shareholders to receive new ordinary shares in the Company instead of the final dividend in cash. Agbebaku revealed that the Company remains committed to delivering improved performance in the years ahead. He said it would also continue to deploy cost-efficient measures to keep its balance sheet strong and healthy while ensuring that the safety and welfare of its employees, customers, and partners remain well protected. The Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Sade Morgan,  said  the Company has a rich portfolio of high-quality brands that include Star Lager beer, Heineken, Guilder, and Maltina. Others are Fayrouz, Star, Climax, Legend Extra Stout, Amstel Malta, Goldberg, ’33’ Export, Life Continental, Malta Gold, Hi-Malt, Turbo King, and the recently launched Desperado.