Youths suspected to be thugs went on rampage on Sunday in Offa, Offa local government area of Kwara state. The police confirmed that two persons were shot dead. But a source said three persons died during the gang clashes. The bloody street brawls between rival thugs in the town, it was gathered, started around Olofa way area of the metropolis. It was also gathered that the clashes were allegedly caused by squabble over girl friends as the thugs allegedly freely used dangerous weapons. To prevent a degeneration of the bloody clashes, some naval personnel from the Navy School of Health Sciences in the town were drafted to the scene. It was gathered that the rampaging thugs attacked the naval personnel and in the process no fewer than three persons died.   Judas kiss     ICPC accuses federal lawmakers of converting public property…     Falana seeks cancellation of nomination fees   Authorities of the Federal Polytechnic Offa swiftly urged their students to stay away from the crisis areas. The institution’s Director of Information, Public Relations and Protocol, Olayinka Iroye, said that “reports received now indicate that there are clashes between some youth and military personnel around Popo/Oja-Ale and Olofa’s palace areas. “Staff and students are therefore advised to avoid those areas or preferably stay at home. Please be security conscious and stay safe.” Spokesperson of Kwara Police Ajayi Okasanmi said that the clashes started around 11:30 am. Okasanmi said: “The public disturbance experienced today started around 11:30am, when some suspected gangsters from Isale Offa and Ojale areas both in Offa clashed. “Before the arrival of police men dispatched to the scene, two of the clashing gangsters named Samad Adeyemi (21) of Isale Offa and one Abdulahi Mohammed (20) of Ojale had been shot dead. “The command wishes to allay the fears of members of the public, especially the people of Offa and its environs, that peace has been totally restored in the ancient city, the members of the public are therefore advised to go about their normal lawful daily endeavors. “Investigation into the matter is however in progress, adding that the command had stationed men from its Tactical Units, conventional police teams and operatives from the intelligence department to monitor the situation and ensure no further break down of law and order.”