The Delta State government has approved the upgrade of sporting facilities across the State to enable it successfully host the 2022 National Sports Festival (NSF).   Delta Information Commissioner, Charles Aniagwu who spoke to reporters yesterday in Asaba, said the facilities include a hockey pitch in Okpanam, Oshimili North LGA and hostels to accommodate athletes in Dennis Osadebay University, Anwai, Oshimili South LGA.   He said infrastructure built in preparation secondary and tertiary institutions for the national fiesta will be put to other productive uses after the sports meet by the state government.   He said: “You also do know that we will be hosting the National Sports Festival in November, this year hence, ExCo has approved the upgrade of a number of sports facilities, including hostels to accommodate the athletes.   “We have tried to situate some of the sports facilities in schools in order for these facilities to still be useful after the sports festival. ExCo has approved the upgrade of a hockey pitch at Okpanam.”   Meanwhile, Aniagwu said the State Executive Council meeting approved construction of road projects across the three senatorial districts.   He listed the road projects to include 2.05km Kokodiagbene Road in Warri South West; 10.85km Ute-Okpu/Ute-Enugu Road in Ika North East and 1.5km Ovie Palace Road in Mosogar, Ethiope West.   Other road projects earmarked for construction include Etua -Oliogo and Etua Etiti Roads in Ndokwa West; 4.9km Aviara – Bethel Road in Isoko South; 1.2km Abi-Ezionum Road and 12km internal roads in Uwheru, Ughelli North that cuts across eight agrarian communities.         Bundesliga: Aruna’s TTC chase third spot finish     Amaju Pinnick gets new FIFA role     Canada 2-2 Nigeria: NFF pledges investment in women’s…   His words: “We are still continuing with approval of projects, not just to enable us finish strong, but also, to reach several rural communities and urbanise them.   “At today’s Exco, we have approved the construction of Ute-Okpu/Ute-Enugu Road in Ika North East Local Government Area. It is about 10.85kms.   “This was a road awarded sometimes in 2010 during the time of late Hon. Sam Obi, but was abandoned over time and was later repudiated,”he said.   He said approval was given for the construction of landing jetty at kolofiagbene in Bomadi, and construction of a new office accommodation for the State Civil Service Commission.   He said the State Executive Council approved the appointment of a Financial Adviser on a public/ private partnership by a nail manufacturing company in Isselle-Azagba, Oshimili North LGA.   Aniagwu said: “we are also considering that if it scales through, we would not hesitate to participate under Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement.   “So, we have approved a Financial Adviser to advise the government on the viability of this particular investment.”   On failure by government to implement the anti-open grazing law, Aniagwu said the state government was fine tuning its strategies to bring to an end such illegal act.       He urged collaboration of all in fast tracking development in urban and rural communities.