Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has attacked his Ebonyi counterpart, Dave Umahi again for defecting to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Wike advised the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to scrutinise its aspirants for 2023 election to avert the mistake of handing its tickets to persons who would later join another party. The presidential aspirant urged PDP delegates to vote for him during the party’s convention because he lacks the propensity to defect with the party’s mandate to another party. The Rivers Governor spoke while wooing PDP leaders and delegates in Abakaliki, capital of Ebonyi State on Friday, according to a statement by his Special Asssitant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri. Wike expressed optimism that a day of reckoning awaited Umahi and those who defected from the PDP to the APC. He said the PDP would continue to fight against injustice meted on it by the defectors to strengthen the country’s democracy. He said: “My colleague David Umahi, wherever you are, wherever you may be, hear me very well. PDP had sleepless night, PDP won election, and you took the mandate of our people and go to another party. “If you know you are a man and you are very strong, and any day they fix election you will win, I challenge you to resign as governor and contest election whether you will win again.” On why he deserved the ticket, he said: “I have never left this party one day. When PDP was in problem, I stood firm and I said PDP will not die. “Don’t give (presidential) ticket to the person who will run from the party tomorrow . I am the only person Nigerians know will not run from the party.”   Linda Ikeji caused my failed marriage, Carolina Hutchings…     Dangote Refinery ready before Buhari’s tenure ends…     NASU walks out on FG/NASU 2009 agreement committee   The Governor urged Ebonyi delegates to support his presidential ambition because he was the only aspirant with the capacity to defeat the APC in the 2023 presidential election. Wike reiterated that PDP could not afford another defeat in the 2023 general election and advised delegates to shun ethnoreligious sentiment and vote for him to pull Nigeria out from the brinks. “What PDP wants now is who can win election. It is not about where you come from. What the party wants today is who can win election for PDP. Give me this ticket let me go and win APC for you”, he said. Wike lamented the spate of killings across the country, declaring that if he emerged as the next president, he would decisively tackle insurgency, banditry and grow the national economy. He assured as President, he would encourage women and youths active participation in politics. “If I am the President of this country, I will not have less than seven women as minister. I will not have less than seven youths as ministers”, he said. Enugu Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi commended PDP faithful for remaining steadfast despite the recent defection of some members of the party to the APC. Former Gombe Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, told the delegates that Wike has the requisite experience to provide good governance. He said: “Governor Nyesom Wike, is the person that is prepared for the job in terms of his training, in terms of his character, his courage, his commitment to the party and above all, his determination to work with all of you after he becomes the President of this country. He is strong, he has super energy. “I have worked with a lot of people including presidents but I want to assure today, Governor Wike is one of the real very active and strong people I have worked with in recent times. He is very strong, he is very committed and he is very determined.”