Democracy as a system of government can be as exciting as it can equally be intriguing. For a developing nation like Nigeria, a lot is obviously at stake at all the tiers of government. The political parties seem a bit lost about the value of democratic choices. The two biggest political parties, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have been following the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s pre-election timetables. Political parties are the vehicles through which political political actors can access the offices they seek. This is why intra-party democracy is very important in ensuring that the voice of the people is allowed to speak at all stages of the electoral processes. Sadly however, since 1999, the Nigerian political parties seem to have had a history of a few individuals sabotaging the will of the people in different political parties through their interferences with the emergence of party candidates. While we acknowledge the historical impact of the military in the Nigerian political space since after independence, the Roundtable Conversation believes that the civilian politicians ought to have weaned their psyche from the stranglehold of the military sensibilities. The idea of political party leadership, the presidency and governors acting like king-makers  for Nigerians has brought a lot of problems to the stability of Nigerian democracy. We can recall former President Obasanjo insisting on installing a late Umaru Yar’Adua even when he knew he had health challenges. He died in office. We can recall how governors and party leaderships became too powerful that they determined who gets to win some primary elections for both state and federal legislature. Then we watched the battle between governors and the National Assembly members in ways that almost destabilized some states. From Abia state then, we saw the rivalry between the then governor Orji Uzor Kalu and then Senate President Adolphus Wabara, Ebonyi state had the then governor  Sam Egwu, now Senator at daggers drawn with former Secretary to the government and then Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim. From the Ebeano governorship of Chimaroke Nnamani, it was daggers drawn with his former mentor, former governor of then Anambra state, Chief Jim Nwobodo and a whole lot of others. Make no mistakes about it, deft politicking goes on in all democracies but in Nigeria, due to systemic flaws, there seems to be some out-of the line interferences by individuals who on being inaugurated into offices swore to protect the constitution but end up not doing that. The idea of usurping the role of the people in a democracy has dire consequences as we can see with the level of violence during elections, apathy of voters, myriad of post-election litigations that often affect the performance and finances of the nation at various levels. As we prepare for the 2023 general elections, it is interesting that the party primaries are fast approaching and Nigerians expect that the elected members of the different political parties will understand democracy and play by the rules. Choice is an integral part of valid democracies and the Nigerian people deserve the right to elect people who they want. That way, they can be happy to vote and hold those they vote into office to account. As the party primaries draw closer, the Roundtable Conversation wishes that all the political parties realize that doing the same thing all the time and expecting a different result is a form of delusion. The beauty of intra-party democracy is the affirmation by participants in the process of their belief in the beauty of democracy. Imposition of candidates by any individual or group is a rape of democracy and the revulsion we feel about sexual rape extends to political rape too. Justice in intra-party politics creates a level playing field for everyone to test their acceptance with the people in ways that translate to those chosen owing their allegiance to the people in ways that make them serve according to the manifesto they presented to the people. That makes the candidates realize that their assessment by the people matters and as such they are often at their productive best. When parties do not follow the democratic processes to present candidates for the general elections, the obvious  result is the anarchy Nigerians experience during elections as thuggery and other forms of violence often truncate the process and the other candidates often head to court or in some cases instigate violence. The country needs all the peace democracy can present at this time when insecurity has disrupted the socio-economic progress of the people. The famous 1993 election that saw a victorious late MKO Abiola ought to be the benchmark for Nigerian elections. For an MKO to have defeated his opponent, late Bashir Tofa in his own state in the North says a lot about the liberty the people of all tribes and religion can exercise during elections. It was considered as the fairest and freest election in Nigerian history because of the freedom the people were allowed. The choice in any viable democracy remains with the people.   NASS-rejected gender equity bills: APC convention and the…     Soludo: A speech and the chaos from two women     #Breakthebias and the politics of it all   It is very sad that in most states in Nigeria, incumbent governors serving out their terms often impose their choice of candidates to succeed them  and in the process inflict untold socio-economic and political injuries on the states. Beyond their successors, they often influence those that go to the State and National Assemblies. This attitude has somewhat eroded the roles of the executive and legislative arms of government as in most cases the candidates so anointed owe their allegiance to those that anointed them rather than their constituencies. Nigerian political parties must treat their positions as very sacred. They ought to hold their positions in trust for the people as mere organizers of the political process. Interference in the choice of the people is a form of betrayal and this accounts for why the people seem to have lost faith in the political processes. The lack of trust has its dire consequences, it erodes trust which ought to be at the heart of patriotism and citizenship, it alienates the people from the political class in ways that the people see them as enemies and it fuels discontent and insecurity. The country is in such a space that the only road to progress must be paved with reconciliatory attitude that speaks justice and peace in the ways parties handle their affairs. Nigeria needs new heroes of democracy to be added to the much revered heroes of our independence. We need more heroes of democracy that can unite and heel the country through fairness and equity. Fair intra-party politics have many advantages. It opens up the political space for the best ideas to come to play in the political field. The song and dance about women, youth and people living with disabilities’  inclusiveness would be a normal situation when each demographic can freely access power and contribute and win or lose on their merit, This present process alienates as the parochial narrative about only men being leaders is pushed further with the closing of the competitive space through undemocratic processes. Every individual in a democracy is entitled to a choice and that includes the choice to seek office, vote and be voted for. Nigerian political parties must stop playing the ostrich and feigning to be practicing democracy when in real terms they are not.  When the field is made level, the varied groups of humans would realize that political participation is not an exclusive of any group but an open field where the best of ideas compete. Nation building is a collective duty that involves every capable hand and so each idea must be allowed to flourish. The state governors across the country must realize that the global political space keeps evolving and monarchical practice is not a synonym of democracy. Nigerian governors wield too much influence that makes them appear like emperors in the ways they monopolize party structures for their own political growth as they often seek higher offices like the presidency or even senatorial seats even when they have no legacies from such governorship positions for either after four or eight years. The vaulting ambitions of most governors is reason why Nigerian democracy seem stunted. Their eyes are often on the future position they intend to occupy.  Politicians must look beyond the next elections. We have to plan for the future of our democracy bearing in mind that life is not always about politics. There are many other variables that assist development. Nigerian democracy can only flourish with a deeper understanding and practice of the core tenets of democracy. The power of choice must be returned to the people and as such individuals are forced to build up the pedigrees upon which their political lives can depend and as such the field becomes open for everyone. Democracy is a journey of a people and more like a team game. Each individual in a team must contribute his or her part and the aggregate of all the parts make up the development of the nation.  The Roundtable Conversation is hoping that the primaries of the various political parties would be seen to be free, fair and credible. That way, winners would have the support of losers who understand that the people have made their choices.  That would be a precursor to free and credible general elections that can usher in a more prosperous and safer Nigeria. The dialogue continues…