Many Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) stakeholders in Akwa Ibom State were taken aback when Governor Udom Emmanuel recently named his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umoh Eno as his preferred successor. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the antecedents of the anointed candidates Until Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel announced that Pastor Umoh Eno is his preferred choice as successor, the latter was relatively unknown. Governor Emmanuel’s choice stunned everyone because he is not one of those that were initially touted as his likely successor. The governor’s choice of his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources surprised the people of Akwa Ibom. It also threw other aspirants for the plum job, including members of the cabinet who were hoping to succeed him completely off balance. It was former Governor Victor Attah, leader of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom that presented Eno before some party stakeholders. The following day, Governor Emmanuel defended his choice while fielding questions from reporters when he said it was God who picked Eno. He added: “Let me say this emphatically, I mean well for this state; that is why I waited for God to show me the man who would continue with the pace of developmental strides we have started in the last six-plus years and then move the needle even further. “Pastor Umo Eno is a highly respected person; he has enormous capacity, is an epitome of humility, and is blessed with the common touch, a compelling story and is God-fearing. He is a successful entrepreneur who has employed our people and lifted thousands from poverty to prosperity. He will be coming to the office of the governor with an economic blueprint that will further guarantee employment, development, and economic prosperity for our people. He is a man of peace and will ensure that the peace and security of life we have enjoyed in the last six-plus years will be maintained. His life story resonates with the story of most ordinary Akwa Ibom people.” What confounded many most was the fact that Eno appears apolitical. Those who know him, including his colleagues in the cabinet say he is a quiet and unassuming personality. Therefore, he is not among those that are generally referred to as professional politicians in and outside government. His profile suggests that he was a private sector player that was conscripted into government by Emmanuel who was keen on having him bring his business success to bear on the state on a larger scale. Before Emmanuel endorsed Eno, people like the former Vice Chairman of Exxon Mobil, Udom Inoyo, Akan Udofia, Onofiok Luke, Bassey Albert and Michael Onyon, among others, were the ones in the picture. They are still in the race for the position on the platform of the PDP, which implies that it is not over yet for them. But, if Governor Emmanuel eventually has his way, Eno may be the next governor of Akwa Ibom. Who is Pastor Eno? Born on May 10, 1964, Eno is a successful businessman and the General Overseer of the All Actions Christian Ministry International. The man’s story is the typical journey from obscurity to prominence, a journey that is punctuated by events and circumstances that have, at different stages, brought out the best in him in terms of making hard decisions and taking responsibilities that would otherwise have overwhelmed many in his shoes. To say that he was cut out for leadership at an early age would be to make an understatement. A deeply religious man, his emergence as a translator in his church at the age of 19 helped to position him for leadership in both the religious and secular worlds. Eno is described by those who know him closely as a shepherd who stays in the middle of his flock, directing the front and watching the rear. It is this attitude that he would most certainly bring into governance if he became the shepherd for the people of Akwa Ibom. Eno could be described as a self-made man. He spent the greater part of his youth life building himself educationally and economically to a stage at which he could build others, in fulfilment of the eternal truth that says you rise by lifting others. It was in Lagos, then Nigeria’s capital, that Eno cut his teeth in the private sector. He joined Bertola Machine Tools Limited in 1985 upon leaving Union Bank. By the time he left the company in 1990, he had risen to the position of commercial director.   Tinubu’s excellent footprints in Lagos     Oladejo promises quality representation for Mushin Federal…     Timing, nature of Amaechi’s presidential declaration…   Still seeking to garner more experience in that sector, perhaps for what he had in mind for the future, Eno joined Norman Investment Limited, a finance house, in 1990, as a finance and investment manager. He rose rapidly in his new working environment; he became general manager the following year. Subsequently, he was promoted to become the group general manager, Commercial Services Division, Norman Holdings Limited, in 1994; a position he held until 1997 when he bowed out of paid employment to begin his journey in entrepreneurship. From all indications, Eno loves Akwa Ibom. Upon leaving paid employment, it could have been relatively easier for him to start his business in Lagos, the nation’s commercial nerve centre or Abuja where knowing one or two people in government could have aided his foray into entrepreneurship. But he made the most unlikely choice – his home state – a civil service state that held no attraction for investment. With uncommon foresight and uncanny ability to see opportunities where they do not seem to exist, he headed home. So remarkable and outstanding was Eno’s success in hospitality that in 2004, Obong Victor Attah, the then governor, invited him to be chairman of the Akwa Ibom State Hotels and Tourism Board, a position he held till the end of his tenure that administration in 2007. Despite the attraction of money that was rolling in, Eno took time off to pursue education, obtaining Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Political Science and Public Administration from the University of Uyo, between 1998 and 2008. Subsequently, he enrolled for an Executive Team Leaders Programme at the Lagos Business School. Today, he is pursuing a doctorate programme at the University of Uyo. A close associate of the businessman and spiritual leader-turned politician who does not want to be named gave a graphic picture of the qualities he believes will help him in consolidating the achievements of Governor Emmanuel if given the chance. He said: “Eno’s entry into hospitality and water production is an interesting story on how to stick to a dream. While with Norman Holdings, he was given the task to do a study on possible areas the company could diversify into for more sources of income. He spent time, energy and resources on the assignment and came up with hospitality and water production, only to watch in horror as both ideas were thrown out at the executive meeting where the investment decision was to be taken. “The company gave two reasons for rejecting his ideas. Lagos was almost saturated with big hospitality brands that would not allow smaller ones to thrive. The state government was planning to provide pipe-borne water to homes, which made an investment in water production unviable. A dejected Eno felt the world crash on his head. The decision by the company must have compelled him to turn in his resignation. In a twist of fate, those two investment ideas that were rejected by his employers, but which Eno took to Akwa Ibom for planting, are what have given the governorship aspirant the name he has in the private sector in the state today. “Eno’s interest in hospitality was ignited by his experience when he travelled home to inspect the house he was building and found to his dismay that there was no hotel where he could pass the night. He slept in his car. He found it curious that Eket, the operational base of the international oil giant, ExxonMobil, had no hotel. He immediately recognized an investment gap that needed to be filled. And upon enquiry, he was told by those in position(s) of authority in the company that its major challenge was finding hotel accommodation for its staff when such facilities were needed. “With the practical assurance that his facility would be patronized if he was able to set up one, Eno returned to Lagos to source funds to set up a five-room hotel which ExxonMobil hired and paid for, upfront, for two years. With the money, he was able to expand the Royalty Hotel, spreading to other locations, including Uyo, the state capital. The Royalty Group has over the years grown into an Octopus with legs in hospitality and allied services such as apartments, eateries, coffee shops, industrial catering and table water production, operating in 12 locations in the state.” A consummate businessman who has demonstrated prowess in entrepreneurship and employment generation, Eno has hands-on experience on how to drive a private sector-led economy that the Emmanuel administration has worked in the last seven years to create in Akwa Ibom. He has provided direct employment for over 2000 people, as well as indirect employment to thousands of others. A Fellow of the Nigerian Hotels and Catering Institute, Eno is an alumnus of the Lagos Business School; a Three-Star Paul Harris Fellow and an honorary member of the World Conference of Mayors, the United States. Several persons have criticized the choice of Eno as Emmanuel’s successor, saying it lacks due process, equity and fairness. But, the aspiration of the governor’s Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources has equally been endorsed by people from different walks of life. For instance, the 26-member Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, including the APC member from Mbo State Constituency, Effiong Johnson, unanimously endorsed the aspiration to contest the next governorship election as the flag bearer of the party. At the request of the Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Aniekan Bassey, the Leader of the state legislature, Udo Kerian Akpan, moved a motion for the official adoption and endorsement of Eno as successor to Governor Emmanuel on February 17. The motion was seconded by Denis Akpan, who represents Etinan State Constituency and is Chairman of, the House Committee on Information. The Speaker said: “We did an analysis of all the aspirants and Pastor Eno was found worthy. You inspired and motivated me many years ago. We are on the threshold of writing and rewriting the history of the state. I am not surprised that the lot fell on Eno. He gave the best presentation of himself during his clearance and confirmation hearing as a commissioner.”