For the adorable folks of Esan West/Esan Central/Igueben Federal Constituency of Edo State, there could hardly be an excitement and propitiousness that tangible dividends of democracy beckon as Elizabeth Onome Ebosele, a selfless and proficient woman of great promises, is out to significantly give back to the people. Emphatically, it is a great-thing-to-certainly-come as she gets set to run for the seat of Esan West/Esan Central/Igueben federal constituency in the forthcoming 2023 election on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). She hails from Atuagbo community, in Esan Central Local Government Area (LGA) of Edo State, Liz Ebosele, as she is fondly called, is a public-spirited Business Management expert, Economist and humanitarian worker, who has, in no little measures, stamped her authority in these and several other fields. Presently serving as Technical Adviser on Budget & National Planning to the Honourable Minister of State for Finance, Budget and National Planning, there is no gainsaying that her meticulous training and vast experience in the disciplines would be put to test in the numerous areas of deficiency facing  “Okpebho”,  as the threesome LGAs of Esan West, Esan Central and Igueben, is commonly called. Enthusiastically, Elizabeth, who has a flair in project planning and financing, distributive development operations, renewable energy transition, ICT and charity work, etc., is an integral part of the winning team of experts, going by her unique schedules in the supervisory federal ministry. These include her valuable membership of the Technical Working Group for the preparation of the Medium-Term National Development Plan (MTNDP) 2021-2025 and the perspective plan, christened “Nigeria Agenda 2050.” She was appointed to serve in the thematic area “Cross cutting Issues (Employment, Gender and People with Special needs)” For the Plans. And for a Finance, Budget and National Planning ministry that superintends finance and budget issues, it is without a doubt  that the federal ministry, (the planning arm) presently supervised by  a seasoned administrator, Prince Clem Ikanade Agba as Minister of State, with its policy development leaps, has actually lived up to public expectation. It isn’t a mere coincidence that Ebosele was drafted in as an Advisor, who has also contributed her best in this regard. Of course, it is there to be seen that her suavity made her to be tapped from among the lots, as Advisor to the ministry, by the Minister, in the same manner Prince Clem, himself was appointed to the position by the insightful President, Muhammadu Buhari GCFR. Interestingly, for decades, the qualitative trainings of Ebosele would be glaringly seen to have stimulated her memorable work or practices in key sectoral establishments within the United Kingdom, and Nigeria, her birthplace. Ebosele has her first degree in Business Administration from the University of Benin, Edo State. She attended a Policy and Leadership course at the prestigious University of Oxford, in addition an MBA from Cambridge, both in the United Kingdom (UK). There in the U.K. she upped her trainings with Certification in Business Analysis, as well as becoming a member of the Uk’s Chartered Institute for Informational Technology (IT). Ebosele steadily perceives “elective political offices and leadership positions as the right steps, not to self-aggrandizement, but to give the best of life’s deals to the public, especially the needy.” She also sees herself and present aspiration as a big boost to Okpebho people, especially the women folks, whose participation in elective positions is very  minimal. She says that her aspiration is not just to increase the tally of female contestants, but to encourage others to do so.   Ekiti 2022: Integrity is my unique selling point –…     Enugu guber: A desperado’s smear campaign     Why Southwest should support Southeast to succeed Buhari   Of course, caregiving pursuit is her second nature, as exemplified by her with a burning passion to minister to the needy, especially the less-privileged of the society. She is Founder and one on the duty-post at the Elizabeth Ebosele Foundation (EEF), a charity, which provides education and other socio-economic empowerment to poor women, children and the impaired. On philanthropy, she represents and professes to the great humanitarian deeds of ‘Mother Teresa’ (Mother Mary Teresa Bojaxhiu), the late Albania-Indian Roman Catholic nun, who came to set the world’s benchmark in free giving. Indeed, Ebosele shares another interest with the late nun, herself also being a Christian of the pious Catholic influences, from birth to her adulthood. Ebosele flays the politics of self-service by most of those in elective and appointive leadership positions, the very reason she has volunteered to contest and make the difference. “If politicians are said to insufficiently deliver the right goods to the people and politics is full of deceits, it is therefore the good people that must sanitize it.” Calling for the participation of all and sundry, her further assertion was that Jesus Christ, in his homily to the world, enthused that “give to God what is God’s and to Caesar what belongs to Caesar.” Ebosele’s affable love for her immediate Atuagbo community, Esan tribe and the overall Edo ethnic nationality is obvious from her personal disposition. She speaks Esan dialect so fluently, as if she was brought up therein. But, for most children of her generation, who were brought up outside of her birthplace, even some of those raised from within, they are entirely or slightly oblivious of the language and culture. She further confesses: “I was not born and brought up in Atuagbo, my hometown. Still, from childhood, I and my other siblings, frequently visit home and hobnob with our kin.  There is hardly nothing more exciting than visiting home frequently and relating with one’s people. To free my Esan people from the shackles of poverty and ignorance are some reasons that informed my desire to go to the House of Representatives, Abuja, to represent my people. We must give back to our society and the people. We must make life much better than we met it.” Ebosele, the energetic and magnanimous woman, looks beyond the usual public complaints of non-performance of the House of Reps members and their lack of touch with the constituents, as their duty posts are mainly in far-flung Abuja. “As I am very used to going home and meeting my people, my election would only increase my frequency of visits. Frankly speaking, the primary business of the federal lawmakers is to legislate for their people and Nigerians. But, I could see that most lawmakers hardly deploy their constituency development funds in the benefit of their constituents. An elected Ebosele would see to the judicious use of the constituency funds for the people. And as a Technical Adviser to the Minister of Budget and National Planning, my present work and interactions with the various Ministries, Departments and Agencies, would avail me to lobby for more projects to my constituency.” She added: “I have seen that the lack of potable pipe-borne water and water scarcity is the bane of my constituency. Water projects at the three Local Government Areas should be brought back to serve my people in Edo Central Senatorial Zone.”