Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, is in the eye of a gathering storm, regarding his eligibility to seek re-election in 2023. Although he has declared his intention to run for a second term alongside his Deputy, Noimot Oyedele, the governor has to deal with an avalanche of questions about his eligibility . A petition, submitted by Ayodele Oludiran (an APC member from Abeokuta South Local Council, Ogun State), to the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, called on the governor to address the allegation that he committed criminal offences in the United States in the 80s and other possible constitutional infractions. The petition, is against the governor’s re-election bid especially pointing attention to alleged irregularities in the educational qualifications he submitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Oludiran noted that there were discrepancies in Forms CF001 the governor filled in 2015 and 2019 with INEC, especially discrepancies in the educational qualifications he submitted to the electoral body. According to him, while contesting for governor in 2019, Abiodun claimed he attended International Primary School Ayetoro in 1971. But four years earlier, while he was running for Senate, he submitted the name of another primary school, Comprehensive High School Ayetoro. “All efforts to locate both schools, which would have been in the present Ekiti State or Ogun State – of the Old Western Region of Nigeria – proved impossible,” Oludiran said. “I submit that if he indeed had attended any of the above-stated schools, he would have been consistent while filling the INEC forms. “His claim to have attended non-existent schools in 1971 also amounts to lying on oath and presenting a false certificate to INEC which are very potent grounds for disqualification as enshrined in Section 182 (1) (j) of the 1999 Constitution as amended.”   Pencom completes pension sector recapitalization     Ekiti 2022: Buhari receives Oyebanji in Aso Rock     Khafi Kareem: A reckoning for ex-BBnaija housemate   But reacting, Abiodun, asked Adamu, to disregard crime allegations in the petition sent to his office seeking his disqualification from participating in the 2022 governorship primary in the state. The governor through his legal team from the chambers of Afe Babalola, SAN, said the petition was a deliberate move to deprive him of the opportunity to set the records straight, claiming that the petition was characterised by falsehood and malice. It said: “The allegation that discrepancies exist in our client’s Forms CF001 for 2015 and 2019 is statute-barred. This allegation can only form the basis of a cause of action in court 14 days from the day our client filled and deposed to these forms. “Therefore, a suit seeking to declare the content of these forms false ought to have been filed within 14 days from the day our client deposed to these forms. Please see Section 285 (9) and Section 285 (14) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended)…” On the allegation that he was indicted and imprisoned in the 80s, the letter described it as false and misleading. “Our client has never been indicted or convicted for the commission of any crime. “Assuming without conceding that the allegation that our client was arrested and detained in 1986 in the US is accurate, we state that the fact of our client’s arrest and detention as far back as 1985 do not constitute a ground for his ineligibility to run for the 2023 governorship election,” the letter read, citing Section 29 (6) of the Electoral Act 2022. Meanwhile, the DA Mandate Group, led by Apagun Biyi Adeleye, have raised funds,  and purchased the Expression of Interest and Nomination forms for Abiodun’s second term bid. Ekiti Governor Kayode Fayemi, has also argued that Abiodun deserves to be elected for a second term in office, saying he had performed beyond imagination. An ally of the governor and former lawmaker, Kayode Oladele, dismissed the petition, describing it as “frivolous and legally deficient.”