Former Nigeria international and the country’s La Liga’s ambassador Mutiu Adepoju, has recalled some of his golden days in the national team set up starting with the Flying Eagles where he scored a brace against the supposedly invisible American goalkeeper Kessy Keller in the semi-finals of the FIFA U-20 World Cup at Saudi 1989. The Headmaster as Adepoju is fondly called, described one of the goals as his best goal ever in the famous green and white colours of Nigeria. Mutiu Adepoju is one of the few ex-internationals who blossomed from the Flying Eagles to join the Super Eagles. The former captain of the Super Eagles was part of the Flying Eagles team that stunned the world at the FIFA U-20 World Cup Saudi ’89 where he emerged as one of the competition’s top scorers, with three goals to his credit Known as The Headmaster for his knack for scoring vital goals with his head, Adepoju reminiscence about his unforgettable days playing for Nigeria, adding it was difficult to pick his best goal ever. “This is a very difficult question (picking the best goal) for me,” the 51-year-old Adepoju said matter-of factly as DAVID OLAMILEKAN prodded him on the margins of presentation of ‘ A Lifetime Achievement Award’ to the former Racing Santander midfielder.“ This is so because I have scored so many beautiful and match-winning goals in my entire football career, which spanned over 15 years. “ But, if I must answer your very difficult question. I’ll say my header against the USA team at Saudi ’89 is my best career goal ever. “ I chose the goal over any other goal because of its brilliant execution and perfect delivery. A cross came from my teammate and I leapt so high to connect my head with the ball and by so doing, deceived the American goalkeeper, who came out of his box and line, to stop me, but found the ball amazingly inside his own net! “ The American goalkeeper, Kessy Keller, was later adjudged as the best goalkeeper of the competition. He even went on to become his national team’s Numero Uno goalkeeper.” The master of his craft, Adepoju is in Nigeria’s ‘ Golden Generation’ of the 1990s and a member of the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations-winning team who also qualified the country for her maiden FIFA World Cup appearance at USA 1994. He later featured at the France 1998 and Korea/Japan World Cups and he further recalled with nostalgia his opening goal in the 3-2 win over Spain at Stade de la Beaujoire in Nantes. “Besides my header against the USA at Saudi ’89 World Youth U-20 Championship, another goal that is dear to my heart was my header against Spain at France ’98 FIFA World Cup,” Adepoju who amassed 175 games and 22 goals in the Spanish La Liga over the course of seven seasons and representing mainly Racing de Santander and Real Sociedad, further said. “I chose the goal against Spain as my second best because bookmakers tipped Spain to beat us in the match because of the avalanche of world- stars in their team then. “ They had players like Raul Gonzalez, Luis Enrique, Fernando Hierro, Kiko, and legendary goalkeeper Zubizarreta among others. “Another reason why I was so excited and elated about that particular goal against Spain was the fact that I was actively playing in the Spanish League then with Real Sociedad; and it was a way to show the Spaniards that I was good enough for their national team and best clubs like Real Madrid and Barcelona. “When I first got to Spain in 1989, I was actually signed by Real Madrid. But Real Madrid felt I was not good enough for their ‘B’ team, so they loaned me to Real Santander. “It was from there that I started moving from one Spanish club to the other until I finally left Spain, after about 13 years. “So, scoring against the Spanish national team at the France 1998 World Cup made me so happy and fulfilled,” Adepoju noted. Yet, there are still some other text-book goals for Adepoju during his odyssey with the Super Eagles where he earned 48 international caps with six goals in a career spanning over two decades between 1990 and 2002. He continued: “Another goal I cherished so much was my header against the Black Stars of Ghana at Senegal ’92 AFCON. “The Black Stars were one of the most dreaded teams in African football then because of their iconic and redoubtable playmaker and skipper, Abedi ‘Pele’ Ayew, who was then playing for the best French team, Olympique Marseille, and who had just won the African Footballer of the year title a year before (1991). “Playing against Ghana then, was like playing against Argentina or Brazil. So, scoring first with my head in a very important and crucial AFCON semi-final match against the dreaded Ghana at Senegal ’92, gives me great joy till today.   El-Rufai lauds  Kaduna Polo on Trade Fair Tourney     Lagos Community Shield Project  seeks support     Woods faces stiff test  as Masters begins   “I cherish that goal so much despite the fact that we eventually lost the match 2-1.” Indeed, Adepoju is one of the best of his generation being one of the longest serving national team players ever with three FIFA World Cup appearances and as many Africa Cup of Nations under his belt. “As a footballer, I saw it all at the highest level,” the Ibadan-born Adepoju explained. “I am one of the most consistent Nigerian national team players of all time, having played for the Super Eagles of Nigeria for a regular, consistent, consecutive, and uninterrupted period of 12 years, without a break; and that’s a record. “ I made my international debut in 1990, with my football ‘twin brother’ and friend, Dimeji Lawal (who is now the General Manager of 3SC Sports Club, Ibadan), and last played for the Super Eagles in 2002; that’s a record 12-year run. “In those 12 years, there wasn’t a single year that I didn’t play for the Super Eagles; I should be grateful to God Almighty for that. “ Out of all my Saudi ’89 set, I’m the only player that had the longest spell with the Super Eagles. This was made possible because of my disciplined lifestyle and nature, and also because of my flexibility. I always listen to, and respect my coaches, both at the national and club levels.” Though he passed through many coaching hands at both country and club levels, Adepoju could not hide his soft spot for Dutchman Clemens Westerhof whom he described as his best coach in Eagles. “In my own opinion, the best coach ever to coach the Super Eagles is Dutchman, Clemens Westerhof,” Adepoju said of the Tunisia 1994 AFCON-winning coach with the Super Eagles.“ He is by a mile, Nigeria’s finest gaffer of all time. Go and check the records and see for yourself. “We had our finest moments in football under him and during his reign, the 1994 Super Eagles of which I was a member, was adjudged by everybody as the best Super Eagles of all time, and I am so glad and proud to be a part of that wonderful team. “We won the AFCON in Tunisia and also went on to the USA and impressed the world with our style of play. “The 1994 squad is perhaps Nigeria’s best assemblage of players in history. Coach Westerhof did a lot of homework before arriving at that wonderful team, which later metamorphosed into the 1996 Dream Team that stunned the world in 1996, by winning the Atlanta 1996 Olympic Games Men’s Soccer Gold medal. “It took Westerhof four good years to put together that beautiful and wonderful 1994 team.” Despite the good days in the national team colours though, Adepoju could not hide one of his life’s regrets: “One regret is that I don’t have a male child. “All my four children are females; I wished I had a male child who would have taken over this game of football from me. “But, I take solace in the fact that all my four female children are all doing well in their various fields of human endeavours. “ That alone has erased the pain and regret of not having a male child and instead of pain and regret, I have joy and fulfilment in my heart.” Yet Adepoju is pained by the inability of the Super Eagles to make it to Qatar 2022 World Cup, adding the national team now needs a new set of disciplined players that will return the country to the top of the game. He said: “It pained me so much to see that we are not going to the World Cup. It’s a very bitter pill to swallow. “ The Super Eagles and its coaching crew (before their sack by NFF), as currently constituted, needs a total overhaul; something is definitely wrong with that team. “Had it been that we lost to a better side, I wouldn’t have bothered myself. But losing a precious and invaluable World Cup ticket to a struggling team like the Black Stars of Ghana, is an unpardonable error. “We honestly need a new coach, either local or foreign and a new set of dedicated and disciplined players. “ That’s all that we need right now,” the often calm Adepoju thundered.