Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, said the Northcentral State has attracted over $500 million investments into several sectors in the last three years through the ease of doing business and investment promotion. The governor, who stated this yesterday while inaugurating the Nasarawa Investment Summit, said the administration would continue to fashion policies and other interventions geared towards stimulating the growth of the state’s economy, create wealth and jobs for the people. The resolve to turn the economy of the state around, he said, is the basis of the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy (NEDS 2019-2023). Describing it as a testament of the state’s collective commitment to the implementation of a practicable economic transformation strategy , the governor said the administration is driven by a vision to pursue  accelerated growth translating into other key development outcomes. Sule said the Nasarawa Investment Summit would hold in Lafia, the state capital between  May 11 and 12, 2022, and would help to drive the agenda and solidify the state’s position  as a key investment destination in Nigeria and  the West African region. The summit with the  theme :  “Diamond in the rough; The making of a new investment frontier”, will have in attendance , the former  President of the Ghana,  John Dramani Mahama, who will deliver the summit’s keynote address. Besides, it will have in attendance captains of industry, renowned members of the business community, investors, international and domestic partners, diplomatic corp and politicians. According to the governor, the  summit, which would serve as a platform to present credible and bankable investment opportunities that are market-ready for investors’ engagement. would also foster closer collaboration and partnership between the private sector and the government in building a stronger business environment in Nasarawa. With participants from diverse backgrounds from across the globe, he said the summit would provide  a veritable platform for leveraging government and private sector synergy for the economic development of Nasarawa in  and Nigeria. The governor said: “The summit aims to position Nasarawa State as a top investment destination amongst the top three most competitive states in Nigeria by 2023 in terms of sustained accelerated growth, increased economic opportunities and prosperity, social inclusion, and improved quality of life of the citizenry.     “The Summit’s objective is hinged on promoting investment opportunities in the state as well as fostering synergies and partnerships between government institutions and private sector actors, who are critical players in the socio- economic development of Nasarawa State.   Russia-Ukraine conflict: Trade recovery at risk, warns…     Experts concerned over CBN E-invoicing     Buhari seeks Senate’s nod for adjustments to fiscal…   The Nasarawa Advantage “Like a diamond in the rough, Nasarawa State has shown great promise over the years overcoming numerous roadblocks as it inches toward its vision of becoming Nigeria’s top investment destination.” On the expected outcomes from the summit, the governor said : ”  It is expected to help us build and enhance private sector involvement in good governance and policy making, especially as it involves the delivery of the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy (NEDS), and also provide an inclusive platform and methodology that promotes the participation of all key stakeholders in the implementation of the NEDS; Inform ongoing efforts to facilitate technology development and transfer of technology to Nasarawa State. “Form development partnerships with public and private sector players that will stimulate production and have a developmental impact across the state; Identify impediments and obstacles to investments in Nasarawa State from the perspectives of governments, investors, international finance institutions, and businesses; Showcase multi-sectoral project-specific opportunities available to investors in the state; and . “Attract investment from local and foreign investors to facilitate projects and programs that will unlock sustainable socio-economic development of Nasarawa. “This is a unique summit in that it will bring together a diverse group of stakeholders, including leaders from a wide range of businesses, to discuss the state’s socioeconomic challenges and prospects over the next decade. On that day, we’ll demonstrate our enormous potential and investment opportunities in two of our most well-known industries: agriculture and mining. “The Nasarawa State Government recognizes the need for a robust private sector for economic development and revitalization, which is why we have built an effective Public-Private-Partnership framework that allows for long-term private sector participation. This has aided in the establishment of a favourable and enabling environment for increasing private sector investment, which has resulted in the creation of jobs, revenue, and overall economic development in the state. “Nasarawa is indeed a diamond in the rough and I am determined to make it Nigeria’s top Investment frontier.”