THE long knives are out. The messages are the same – they MUST go. Nothing good has come out of their misadventures bla bla, bla. The logic missing in most of these tirades is the fact all these problems didn’t start today. We have been papering over the pitfalls waiting every four years to point accusing fingers at people without proffering enduring solutions to a simple problem. But on Monday this week, a soul searching session was held between the NFF chiefs and the sports ministry to look at the problems holistically. It was a session where people have told themselves the truth to their faces. No punches were thrown but the messages sank, I want to believe. It was agreed that the federation rolled out its election timetable to further assure those aspiring to replace them that indeed the exercise would be in 2022 not 2023 as most of them have erroneously argued to start the crises which have destroyed the country’s quest for another World Cup ticket to Qatar. Most of the cynics are celebrating as if it is a personal vendetta, forgetting that a whole generation of Nigerians eking out a living from playing the beautiful game has been denied the honour of playing at the biggest football tournament simply because a few people want to undo the other. Monday’s meeting with the Sports Minister Sunday Dare situated part of the problems to the subsisting court matters which have to be resolved otherwise nothing good would be realised. The federations held its board meeting where members urged caution and patience and assured that in tandem with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, decisive steps will be taken in the next few days to reposition Nigeria Football in several areas, including the National Teams. It also disclosed that in line with the statutes, the roadmap for new elections into the NFF Board will be designed at the Annual General Assembly (AGA) of the NFF once the ex parte injunction suspends Congress from the meeting is vacated. Dear board members, most Nigerians had wished that you honourably resigned your membership on the board. But this writer knows such an action would create a lacuna that would have further destroyed the game. But this present board should consider the fastest way to approach the court to vacate the order with the next sitting is scheduled for 26th April, 2022. The committee has now proposed June 2022 for the AGA to statutorily set the roadmap for the NFF elective congress provided the order is vacated accordingly. The election is the heart of the problems at the NFF beginning with the board’s legitimacy – this includes whether to identify the federation as NFA which is what is known in the laws of the land or the contraption called NFF, which the government told FIFA years ago was the instrument we are using to run the game here. These legal issues are knotty with many people having judgments that they want to be enforced. But the truth in all of these legal dramas is that everyone with a judgment wants to be enthroned, raising the poser which of these stakeholders are legitimate? Did the government not tell FIFA that the instrument for running the game is through the statutes leading to the name NFF? Did the government not assure FIFA that the obnoxious Decree would be abrogated to make it in sync with what we have in the Nigerian Constitution? What baffles one is that each group has grounds to stalemate the running of the game until further notice. Unfortunately, they don’t care if the game is in abeyance. It is important to ask why it is taking so long to pass a bill into law knowing how over 200 million Nigerians are connected to the game. Everything stops here when our football teams are playing. The Muslims forget their religious differences to hug each other and sing Christian songs and vice versa. If we don’t get the government to fast track the process of enacting a law to govern the game in line with FFA’s set objectives those who lose out will return to the courts to stall whatever is in place. What suffers is the game. And the biggest losers are the boys and girls who would be denied the platforms to showcase their innate skills to the world.   APC, PDP: Pertinent lessons from Awo     Love for Ebenezer Obey at 80     Mo Abudu hosts UK top women officials   Shouldn’t the government challenge its chief legal officer to ensure that this document scales all man-made hiccups for the game to thrive? We continue to allow aggrieved people to hold the game hostage through the law courts, soon the axe will fall. Many people may damn the consequences but you need to ask these cynics what would become of our budding stars? Simple. They will change nationality.  The game won’t be played here because Nigeria would become a pariah nation. The leagues would be dead because the outcome of their matches would be voided since the games were played without FIFA badge referees. These critics can afford to destroy the game here. After all their kids and relations don’t play the game. They have nothing to lose. Our young kids deserve to earn a living playing football. Those stakeholders striving to hold the game hostage should consider these innocent souls who ought to use playing soccer to change the narratives in their families as the Okochas, Kanus, Odegbamis, Amokachis et al. One hopes that when government gets the courts to grant accelerated hearings to the matters in court, a truly new dawn awaits us here. Besides, until we make the NFF less attractive, interlopers would continue to make themselves relevant by heading to the courts to stalemate the workings of the federation. NFF should strictly be a clearinghouse sort, leaving the 37 State FAs as the place where football operates.  So, for you to qualify to be on the NFF board, your work at the state FA would suffice. It wouldn’t be out of place if prospecting members go through examinations to pick the best. Need I say that the quality of ideas and debates at meetings at all levels of administration would be robust and truly address the problems in the federation? AND THIS… Saturday Vanguard newspaper’s Editor Onochie Anibeze, a renowned sports editor responding to this column last week titled It is finished (1) wrote thus: ”Another good piece. True, our system of electing football administrators has to change. We can’t get the right ones with the current system. Those there now are empty and cannot take our football anywhere no matter the funds they raise. How come the federation is getting richer and our football getting poorer? They lack the knowledge to develop the game and they misapply the funds raised. Simple. ”If they had the knowledge of the game they would know the right coaches who can help our game, the programmes to pursue and how to face squarely our domestic league which you have been hammering on for long. The guys there now don’t just get it. They may raise all the money but may not get it right simply because they lack the knowledge of the game. The question now is who will lead the way out of this mess? Please, don’t give up writing on this. That’s your contribution. And we appreciate it. Anibeze argued further that: ”Amaju Pinnick pulls all the strings in raising money, getting sponsors to be part of the game. I commend him for that. But it’s clear he is deficient in technical matters and needs help in that area. Unfortunately, he doesn’t have knowledgeable people in this area on his board. That’s the biggest problem his board has and it’s affecting our football. And it appears they don’t know where the problem lies for them to address it. ”We did not fail to qualify for Qatar because we lacked the funds. We failed because we did not take the right decisions. In one of my discussions with Amaju, he appeared frustrated not being able to implement one thing he planned to do. I told him he would be the one Nigerians would blame if anything went wrong and not superior authorities. Now the decision we couldn’t take, Ghana has taken it for us. ”SAD,” Onochie Anibeze concluded.