Former Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice Chief Mike Aondoakaa has said he didn’t approach any court to revisit judgement against him. Aondoakaa, who is the All Progressive Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Benue, was described as a blatant falsehood online report linking him to a non-existent court judgement. In a statement by his Campaign Director Media and Publicity Dan Obed on Tuesday in Makurdi, the former Minister described the report as the handwork of mischief makers threatened by the consistent, formidable and stable glide of his governorship drive. He said: “We are not blind to the fact that this is a smear campaign funded by opponents who are gasping for air and losing sleep by the day over Chief Aondoakaa’s appealing, realistic, and unrivaled governorship blueprint’s frightening and growing prospects.” According to him as of December 10, 2021, it was stated unequivocally on pages 21-23 of the judgment of the Presiding Justice Hon Justice Mary Peter-Odili that the issue of the respondent (Aondoakaa) holding public office in the 2010 judgment does not arise.   Politics not a do or die affair, says Abia Speaker     Adeboye: Admonition from pulpit     2023: Group urges Osinbajo to run, donates N500,000   The ex-Minister said: “We know the sponsors are Aondoakaa’s opponents in the governorship contest and because they are anxious with fewer chances, they do not refer to pages 21-23 of the Presiding Justice judgment. “We want to make it clear that the frontline Governorship aspirant, Chief Michael Aondoakaa, SAN, has not approached any law court to revisit the case that has been faulted on numerous grounds. “The case filed at the Federal High Court by Aondoakaa relates only to the fraudulent claim that he made payment in the sum of N450million in 2006 to Utan Brama Fire Disaster Victims as Attorney General of the Federation and had a personal interest in the said payment. “But Aondoakaa was appointed Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice in July 2007. “However, we would want to state, for the purposes of knowledge and in the most basic form, that political appointees or holders of political office are not public servants under the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and elsewhere. “By virtue of section 318 of the Constitution, political appointees or political office holders are not included in the list of persons employed in the public service.”