An indigenous tech firm, Kasi Cloud Ltd (Kasi), has given a boost to Lagos State’s digital infrastructure with the groundbreaking ceremony of its fire campuses in the country in Lekki. This $250 million campus in Lekki is designed to hyperscale requirements and standards, and modeled similar to Silicon Valley technology parks. When fully developed, the campus will stand as one of the biggest of its kind in Africa. The ceremony was attended by the State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Mr. Uche Orji. The company said,  partnership will signal the beginning of construction on  its next-generation interconnection and data center platform for hyperscale and enterprise cloud. Speaking on the occasion, Kasi Co-Founder and Director, Mark Adams, said Africa continued to be the centre investment attraction to the big techs, adding that Nigeria has remained central to that growth. He said: “Sub-Saharan Africa is the largest growth market in the world. When you look at where Big Tech is investing, a major piece of that growth is coming through Nigeria and Kasi infrastructure is a key piece in the puzzle.” 		 			NNPC, SNEPCo donate ICT centre to Petroleum varsity		 		 		 			‘IMF austerity measures against developing countries’		 		 		 			Polaris Bank donates to Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic		 		 He said Kasi is a first-of-its-kind mass-scale data center and digital ecosystem platform company, bringing world-class design and critical digital infrastructure services to Africa via Lagos. The company designs, builds and operates hyperscale cloud data centers to support dynamic space, power, and connectivity at scale. For this purpose, Kasi has acquired approximately four hectares of land in the Maiyegun Area of Lekki, Lagos, the fastest growing deployment zone for commercial and upscale residential facilities in Nigeria. Also speaking on the occasion, Kasi Co-Founder and CEO Johnson Agogbua, said: “Kasi’s mission of building a digital platform to accelerate cloud and interconnect people, enterprises and governmental institutions in Nigeria and across Africa started here in Lagos, Nigeria. We are excited to have both the Lagos State, His Excellency Babajide Sanwo-Olu and NSIA CEO, Uche Orji, to celebrate this momentous groundbreaking with us and the community.” Mr Sanwo-Olu was the Special Guest of Honour at the ceremony. As one of Nigeria’s leading advocates for digital connectivity growth, Kasi identifies with the governor’s vision for Lagos’ future infrastructure development. “If Lagos is to sustain its Centre of Excellence status in the country, vital infrastructural development is critical to achieving human capital development. The economic impact that infrastructure improvement has on nation-building cannot be overemphasized,” Sanwo-Olu had stated at the 2021 Lagos State Infrastructure, Maintenance and Regulatory Agency Stakeholders Conference. Speaking on the project, Mr. Orji, said: “We congratulate Kasi on this momentous milestone. NSIA believes in the potential of digital infrastructure to serve as an enabler and accelerator for innovation. We expect that the transformative impact of this infrastructure on the domestic tech space will reposition Nigeria. The Board and Management of the Authority is proud to be associated with this development.” By looking to attract hyperscalers by solving the connectivity and scalability issues where others have been challenged, Kasi is on a mission to build the country’s leading sustainable interconnection and data center platform for Africa, specifically designed to support digital ecosystems and drive internet access for over a billion people.