This appears not to be the best of times for Khafi Kareem, ex-Big Brother (BBNaija) housemate, who is haunted for her past actions. She’s currently pulling out all stops to save herself from the dangling axe of her employer – Metropolitan (Met) Police in the United Kingdom. Khafi is undergoing a misconduct hearing for allegedly breaching the rules and regulations at her workplace. The 33-year-old, who took part in BBNaija 2019, was evicted from the ‘Pepper Dem’ edition after 77 days on the show. Her stint in the Big Brother contest came with its fair share of ups and downs. She was embroiled in a romantic entanglement with ex-housemate Gedoni Ekpata. Although they didn’t win millions at stake, they waded through the intrigues, struck a romantic deal and eventually got married after the show. Following her eviction, she announced she would be moving to Lagos from London and plans to go into acting and presenting. But her appearance was said to have caused outrage among senior Met officers by partaking in the show without permission. It was reported that the reality star had asked for permission to appear in the show but was denied. She, however, chose to accept a place in the house “without authority.” The officers were also said to have felt embarrassed when then 29-year-old ex-housemate allegedly had sexual affairs with fellow contestant Gedoni. But Big Brother Naija organisers denied that it happened.   Yul Edochie’s surprise: A second wife!     Terrorists, bandits facing difficulties over NIN/SIM linkage…     Billionaire Kano hotelier Tahir Fadallah is dead   Khafi who hails from Ekiti State, joined the London Metropolitan Police as a constable based at Lambeth Station in 2015. Before joining the force, she worked part-time as a special constable for four years. She had told BBNaija she joined the police after her friend was murdered in 2007, adding that she was on the Met’s female genital mutilation team. Her colleagues and bosses registered their concerns about the scandals that emanated from the show, saying it brought the force into disrepute. Responding to allegations, Khafi’s superiors noted that her conduct amounted to a breach of the Met’s Standards of Professional Behaviour. The embattled celebrity, a mother-of-one, explained that BBNaija was not like the UK version, saying that she saw it as a chance to promote the Met internationally. She denied allegations of rupturing merit concerning “orders and instructions” and “discreditable conduct.” The reality tv star also affirmed during the hearing that she failed to declare a business interest in the publicity and promotion of the show. She requested unpaid leave wages because she helped promote the Metropolitan Police. Matt Twist, Deputy Assistant Police Commissioner, said Khafi was asked not to participate in the show as a result of concerns over her mental health, the Met’s public image and her conduct within the house. Twist revealed that despite Met’s disapproval, she travelled to Lagos and informed him that she would be participating in the show.