Last week, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) presented a telling summary of the impact of the on-going insurgency on the educational sector. In a statement signed by its communication specialist Samuel Kaalu to mark the 8th anniversary of the abduction of 276 students at Government Girls’ Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, the UN children’s agency noted rather grimly: “In Nigeria, a total of 11, 536 schools were closed since December 2020 due to abductions and security issues. These school closures have impacted the education of approximately 1.3 million children in the 2020/21 academic year. This interruption of their learning contributes to gaps in children’s knowledge and skills and may lead to the loss of approximately US$3.4 billion in these children’s lifetime earnings… “Since December 2020”, the body further noted, a total of “1,436 school children and 17 teachers have been abducted from schools, and 16 school children lost their lives”. To describe the situation as alarming is to understate the tragedy forced upon the country by the band of terrorists. Yes, Nigerians would recall – with horror – the February 25, 2014, gruesome killing of 59 students of the Federal Government College of Buni Yadi in Yobe State and the torching of 24 buildings in the night-time attack on the school’s hostel facility. And then of course the April 2014 abduction of 280 Chibok girls in Borno State, which has remained not only unprecedented in scale and audacity but would reverberate across the entire world. Today, with the benefit of hindsight, these would turn to be mere dress rehearsals given the wave of serial abductions and destruction of school infrastructure by bandits and other terrorist gangs that would soon follow in the Northwest and North-central.   Census in crises     Age of putrescence     New banks, fake banks and dubious banking   From Sokoto to Katsina; from Zamfara to Niger and Kaduna, nowhere is safe as school children are hunted and killed with hefty ransoms exacted from the relations of those lucky to be taken into captivity. That situation – sad as it is – has since become the new normal. And this is a region whose out-of-school population is already at its highest levels ever. To us, the only inference that could be made is that the various strategies put in place to secure the learning environment under the Safe Schools Initiative have not worked. The initiative, were it to be properly implemented would have meant moving students in the highest risk areas to schools in safer parts of the country, provision and distribution of learning materials and rebuilding of schools with extra security measures. The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, admitted that much last year when he noted in a foreword to a document published by the Federal Ministry of Education that funds and logistics have hampered its implementation. If the indices from the schools are anything to go by, one comes to the grim but inevitable conclusion that it cannot be treated in isolation from the general security situation. In other words, to keep the schools safe means guaranteeing the safety of the citizens in and out of the school environment. This then takes us to the call by Minister of Defence, Maj-Gen Bashir Magashi (rtd), for God’s intervention in the fight against insurgents and other criminal elements in the country during the last Easter celebrations. He didn’t exactly spell out the nature of divine intervention expected. Is it to help the Generals draw up their battle plans or to provide the fighting men with the resources to execute their task? Or by some supernatural decrees, annihilate the enemy that the security forces have been rather shy to engage?  According to Magashi, the Easter prayer should focus on “remembering members of the armed forces presently engaged in various campaigns, for God to grant them total victory over all threats to national peace.” Magashi prayed that this year’s Easter, coinciding with the Ramadan fast, “will usher in the desired peace and prosperity as well as  a complete turnaround for the Nigerian Armed Forces to clear the doubts of cynics and return sanity to the dark spots in the country.” Whereas Nigerians may be a prayerful lot, there is clearly much room left for hard work in the business of fighting the insurgency. Much as we may not have issues about divine intervention, we believe human beings must first do their own bit. We know the challenges being faced by our soldiers and other security agencies – failure of intelligence, lack of synergy, corruption, for which some top military officers have been jailed, among several other shortcomings. We must first address all of these and other human failings before resorting to divine intervention. The advice of the Minister of Defence that has shown neither the understanding of urgency nor the bold leadership required to turn the tide in the insurgency war, cannot be taken seriously. It is probably his own way of saying he has done his best. But that best is not good enough for the country.