Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Prof. Abayomi Sunday Fasina, and the Police yesterday agreed to settle his suit against the Special Fraud Unit (SFU) out of court. He sued the SFU at the Federal High Court in Lagos and sought the protection of his fundamental human rights against an alleged abuse by SFU officials who invaded FUOYE premises last June. He claimed the SFU officials allegedly plotted to arrest him without recourse to due process and the rule of law over allegations of criminal acts of money laundering, double salaries and official misconduct levelled against him by a group, the Global Anti-Corruption Initiatives. Following the breach, Prof. Fasina sued the police for allegedly trampling on his rights by attempting to illegally and forcefully arrest him at the University in Oye-Ekiti, Oye Local Government Area of Ekiti State on June 17, 2021. The alleged arrest attempt caused a stir as members of the university community thought bandits had attempted to abduct the VC. The SFU operatives denied any abduction plot, insisting that they only wanted to invite the university’s chief executive for questioning.   I will make Nigeria a great nation – Ohuabunwa     RMAFC proposes reduced allocation for FG, increase for…     JUST IN: Court convicts ex-Perm Sec for 2014 immigration…   The VC had, through his lawyer, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN), said the allegations were untrue, baseless, unfounded and merely trumped up to defame his character. Yesterday, Adegboruwa informed Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke that the parties were in settlement talks. He said: “My Lord, we have been able to find a common ground with my learned colleagues and we plead that you will give us some time to perfect this new agreement. “We are already exploring common ground for possible resolution. We pray that your Lordship graciously grants us time to consolidate on these efforts.” Counsel for the SFU, A. Agu, said: “l can confirm that we are trying to get a common ground to resolve this matter.” Justice Aneke adjourned until June 20 for a report of settlement.