President Muhammadu Buhari was exultant after the March 26 All Progressives Congress (APC) managed to hold its convention, especially despite the postponements and bitter leadership struggle that almost torpedoed the party itself. “The APC convention hosted this weekend,” enthused the president, “sets the scene for an APC victory in the presidential and general election next year. It is a victory over naysayers who believed the party was divided but are now disappointed.” As controversial as that statement was, it is even more baffling that the president went on to castigate the media as purveyors of fake news in their reports of the acrimony and dissension that caused disaffection and chaos within the ruling party. Said the president: “We believe that it is equally a victory for the president who has ensured unity across all party positions; and it is a victory for the voters of Nigeria, who can now be assured of a smooth succession to new leadership in 2023. What the convention made clear was how the media had been peddling fake news of division, when the hard reality of unity, cohesion, and, indeed, personal warmth between members of the party’s leaders – incoming and outgoing – was evident for all to see.” The media may be guilty of some exaggerations in reporting local and global affairs, but reporting the goings-on in the APC hardly qualifies for the weakness attributed to them. They saw right and reported right, notwithstanding the virtues the president gleefully recounted. The president is overjoyed that the successful completion of the convention would give the party victory at the polls next year. This sentiment is similar to the opinion of former APC caretaker chairman, Mai Mala Buni, who said that the over 40m people registered or revalidated as members of the APC would give it victory. Were successful conventions and huge registration of members enough to deliver electoral victory to a party, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would not have been defeated in 2015. Their convention preceding that year’s election was successful, and they boasted about being the largest party in Africa. What marred the PDP’s chances in 2015 were factors such as insecurity, which it was even responding to admirably, a tottering economy, lack of surefootedness in social and political programmes and policies, and general poor governance, among other factors. It nearly didn’t lose. Had there not been rancorousness in the party, followed by the defection of a few governors and influential lawmakers, it is inconceivable that the PDP would have been booted out of the presidency. President Buhari has not appropriately captured the chances of his party at the next polls, and at the convention, did not speak to his party’s strengths, records, triumphs and possibilities. In fact, he should have used the opportunity of the convention to pledge his party’s commitment to fairness, justice, security, good governance, devolution of powers, and other lofty ideas and projects expected by Nigerians. He will still get the opportunity; but it is doubtful whether he will have anything to say. The ruling party has been lethargic in recovering Nigeria’s abducted schoolgirls, some of them taken as far back as 2014, and there is no task force dedicated to securing their freedom. The economy is nearly in a tailspin, electricity supply long hamstrung by unitary model of running such humongous agencies has virtually reached the end of its tethers, and the roads, railways, forests, villages, and towns are utterly unsafe. There are no spectacular initiatives to address these centrifugal forces tearing the country apart. There is indeed almost total paralysis. Should the APC be desirous of victory in the next polls, its standard-bearers will have to speak to these issues, and be convincing. At the moment, many Nigerians are anxious that the government seems overwhelmed. The presidency denies this, but they have done and said nothing to convince the public that they have an answer to banditry and the horrifying spate of abductions and killings laying the country waste. Alas, instead of addressing these germane and perplexing issues, the president has delved into extraneous matters. The president had said at the convention, that the APC’s National Working Committee (NWC) should “as a matter of policy promote internal democracy and always respect the wishes of the people. We must de-emphasise money politics, and not subject party primary and elections into public offices to the highest bidder syndrome. Popular and acceptable aspirants who remain the people’s choice must be allowed to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 elections. We will resist the imposition of candidates. We should also promote equal opportunities and respect for the laws guiding the elections to stand us out as Nigeria’s ruling party.”   Soludo, el-Rufai: the limits of pragmatism     The OAU vice chancellorship saga     Churches and political directorates   It is okay to wish his party well in preparing for the next polls, even though neither he nor his party profits from his counsel, but Nigerians will appreciate much more his plans to combat insecurity, restore and improve power supply, bring down inflation, and generally give hope to Nigerians that there is light at the end of the long, dark tunnel in which they appeared trapped.  The ease with which the bandits who attacked an Abuja-Kaduna train on March 28 carried out their operations and have held on to their captives is mindboggling. Not only was the operation successful, with government’s countermeasures desultory and barely perceptible, the bandits returned to their redoubts and have been sounding off without any apprehension. Kaduna State governor Nasir el-Rufai argues that the security services know where these bandits make their camps, not to talk of keeping their communication lines opened despite being bugged. But the bandits can’t be bothered. They have sworn antagonism to the federal government over unstated grudges, and insist that except those provocations are mitigated, they would persist in abducting, raping and killing innocent travellers and village dwellers. So far, their feathers have not really been ruffled. Each attack leaves Nigerians stupefied. The March 28 attack delivered wealthy and influential victims to the bandits. By some estimates, they have collected over N200m ransom. That is no longer shocking. What is alarming is the event that transpired in the release of the Managing Director of the Bank of Agriculture, Alwan Ali-Hassan, who was taken along with so many others during the attack. The bandits claimed to have released him on religious and compassionate grounds. Some sources insisted he was ransomed. But ransomed or not, it is significant that the abductors, whose ranks some security agents claimed had been infiltrated by ISWAP militants, released a propaganda video in which they claimed the government knew their grievances. If those grievances were met, they swore, the rest of the captives would be freed. After all, they added, they did not need any money. Why the presidency has not felt compelled to address the bandits’ innuendos is hard to say. But since the presidency has made a pathetic show of uncoordinated visits to some of the victims, in the same manner they have been lethargic about the abduction some eight years ago of the Chibok and Dapchi schoolgirls, why would they not be desensitised to these latest attacks and abductions and tardy in responding to the propaganda videos? Perhaps given the frequency and relentlessness of the attacks against innocent travelers, presidency officials have asked themselves how many victims they would have to visit every week. If they yield to despair so clearly, what do they expect of defenceless and frustrated Nigerians?