The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said sanctions on Russia will have a substantial impact on the global economy and financial markets, with significant spillovers to other countries. In IMF Article IV Consultation on Ukraine released at the weekend, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva, said in many countries, the crisis is creating an adverse shock to economic activities, amid  elevated price pressures. The sanctions announced against the Central Bank of the Russian Federation will severely restrict its access to international reserves to support its currency and financial system. International sanctions on Russia’s banking system and the exclusion of a number of banks from SWIFT have  disrupted Russia’s ability to receive payments for exports, pay for imports and engage in cross-border financial transactions. Georgieva said while it is too early to foresee the impact of these sanctions, we have seen a sharp mark-down in asset prices as well as the ruble exchange rate. She said while the situation remains highly fluid and the outlook is subject to extraordinary uncertainty, the economic consequences were very serious, adding that energy and commodity price, including wheat and other grains, have surged. She said monetary authorities would need to carefully monitor the pass-through of rising international prices to domestic inflation, to calibrate appropriate responses.   Global, African airlines record major operation recovery     Nigeria eyes $22b global coconut market     Don’t blame Emefiele for naira devaluation   “Fiscal policy will need to support the most vulnerable households, to help offset rising living costs. This crisis will create complex policy tradeoffs, further complicating the policy landscape as the world economy recovers from the pandemic crisis,” Georgieva said. She added that in Ukraine, apart from the human toll, the economic damage is substantial. “Seaports and airports are closed and have been damaged, and many roads and bridges have been damaged or destroyed. While it is very difficult to assess financing needs precisely at this stage, it is already clear that Ukraine will face significant recovery and reconstruction costs.” “Ukraine has already requested emergency financing of $1.4 billion under the IMF’s Rapid Financing Instrument. Staff anticipates bringing this request to the Executive Board for consideration as early as next week,” she said. She said countries that have close economic links with Ukraine and Russia were at particular risk of scarcity and supply disruptions and are most affected by the increasing inflows of refugees. “Moldova has requested an augmentation and rephasing of its IMF-supported programme to help meet the costs of the crisis, and IMF staff are actively discussing options with the Moldovan authorities.The Fund will advise our member countries on how to calibrate their macroeconomic policies to manage the range of spillovers, including via trade disruptions, food and other commodity prices, and financial markets. “The IMF will continue to assess the evolving situation, and provide timely policy advice, financial support, and technical assistance to our member countries as needed, in close collaboration with our international partners.’’