An Islamic organisation, Nurul Yaqeen Islamic Foundation, has distributed food items worth N7.5 million to over 1,000 needy widows, the less privileged and vulnerable groups in the nation’s capital, Abuja Briefing newsmen at the venue of the distribution of the items yesterday, Director of the foundation, Imam Yahya Al-Yolawi, said it was meant to alleviate the sufferings of the poor during the breaking of their fast. He added that the objective of the gesture was to put smiles on the faces of the less privileged most especially in” this trying moment occasioned by hard economic realities.”   Nigeria sliding into Liberia, Sierra Leone situation     Court to hear Ibeto’s suit against EFCC May 11     627 get agric processing equipment in Kogi   According to him, many Muslims who fast think of what to eat or drink during breakfast. “The motive is also to teach other Muslims to give more charity to the poor in this Holy month of Ramadan. When we give more charity, it will go a long way in helping others and reduce the crime rate in the society. Like the saying goes, a hungry man is an angry person. The current insecurity facing the country has to do with poverty and hunger. If somebody doesn’t have what to eat, he can easily cause chaos. A hungry man can be used to create trouble and social unrest in the society,” he said. Also, the Chairman, Federal Capital Territory, League of Imams, Sheikh Tajudeen Adigun, said providing food for the needy was one of the teachings of the noble Prophet Muhammad that should be emulated. Sheikh Adigun said: “To the wealthy, Allah had given them a key to paradise by assisting those in need. Allah did not create us equally, financially some are more buoyant than others. It’s Allah’s decree that some are going to be rich and some are going to be poor and that is why Islam encourages all the time that those who have should give those who are lacking. So, I will encourage those who are rich to use the key in their positions to open paradise to themselves by feeding those who are lacking.”