Family, friends and associates recently marked two years remembrance of the demise of Mallam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. In the wake of Kyari’s demise many, who misunderstood his personality, judged him without knowing him. Those who understood him well sympathized with his family as they confessed that someone of his kind would come in another century. Late Kyari was said to be the Buhari government’s proverbial Swizz knife with a multi-functional value. In all, he paid the ultimate price for standing firmly with his principal and functioning as a patriot who passionately wants the prosperity of Nigeria at all costs. 		 			Adekunle Olayinka is battle ready		 		 		 			Rotimi and Betty Akeredolu celebrate		 		 		 			Kola-Balogun Smith’s political move		 		 Two years after his demise, he is still being greatly missed mostly by his principal; President Buhari, who trusts his highly cerebral judgment and also his children. Sources disclosed that the near perfectionist man was greatly missed for his coordination and ability to manage the President’s cabinet. In celebration of his second anniversary, friends and family organized prayers in this month of Ramadan on his behalf as they prayed for paradise and forgiveness of sins for him in the afterlife. They also prayed that his children and loved ones find comfort and fortitude to bear the irreplaceable loss. “While Mallam Kyari was alive and in charge, the presidency had coordination, there was less controversy unlike what we are seeing today. Kyari is influential, powerful, and very popular in fact, many referred to him as the de facto Prime Minister of Nigeria while he was alive. He helped covered some loopholes in the government. This and many more those who are being fed with lies were terrified about. They are not comfortable about his closeness to the President, a situation that has always made him a subject of discussion and gossip from different corners in and outside the villa,” a source told Society Rendezvous.