The defection of Engineer Joseph Tegbe, chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oyo State from the party to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has been described as a clarion call for the leadership of the party to quickly intervene in the crisis in the State chapter of APC in order to avoid the further exit of other prominent members. The call was made by Bolaji Tunji, former Special Adviser, Communication and Strategy to late Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Tunji who is aspiring to contest for the House of Representatives seat on the platform of APC in Ogbomoso North, South, and Oriire Federal constituency said the defection of Engineer Tegbe has shown that if nothing was done, the APC would witness the further exit of disgruntled party members.   Osun 2022: A golden opportunity to talk – DAB     Ekiti community tackles NBA for faulting creation of new law…     Ojelabi: Lagos govt to strengthen welfarist programme   He said:: “ Clearly; if nothing is done quickly, the Oyo APC would clearly see the further exit from the party. Many are dissatisfied with the present scenario, believing that the national leadership, especially the previous Caretaker executive was complicit in the crisis in Oyo APC and the crisis in other State chapters of the party”. ” Inability to resolve this problem will keep the APC in continued opposition in Oyo State. It will also further weaken the party as others may decide to pitch their camps elsewhere. It is thus important to quickly find a solution to the present crisis.” He added:  “Today, Oyo State is unable to secure its citizens, armed robbery incidents in every part of the State is a daily occurrence, roads are in State of disrepair, refuse on street medians, reversing the trend of the previous administration’ s robust solid waste disposal system. The much-acclaimed street lights provide more darkness than light as it has stopped working in most of the streets. Unfortunately, APC should keep the government on its toes is bedevilled by its own self-made crisis”. Efforts must be made to quickly resolve all the issues causing the present problem in the State chapter of the party”,  he said.