With a new regenerative medicine, there is hope of full conjugal experience for millions of Nigerian girls and women who have undergone female genital mutilation (FGM) and wish to have their complete sexual wellness restored. O-Shot, a regenerative medicine procedure that is done through adult stem cell therapy (non-invasive) or platelet rich plasma (PRP) therapy (non-invasive), is a cosmetic procedure to enhance female sexual wellness. According to the Medical Director of Glory Wellness and Regenerative Centre, Lekki, Lagos, Dr. David Ikudayisi, O-Shot (aka orgasm shot) treatment “involves injecting the clitoris, labia and G-spot with platelets-substances in your blood that contain healing proteins called growth factor-extracted from your own blood.” He spoke during a webinar entitled: “Female Genital Mutilation (FGM): How to enhance your sexual experience through adult stem cell,” as part of activities to mark the International Women Day. Ikudayisi explained that platelet rich plasma (PRP) from one’s blood, in addition to the use of adult stem cells (such as umbilical blood stem cells, fat-derived stem cells, bone marrow stem cells, stem cells exosomes) and shockwave therapy could be used to enhance female sexual wellness. A United States Board Certified Internist and Regenerative Medicine Specialist, Ikudayisi said the application of PRP around the genital organ promotes blood flow and cell growth, which leads to regeneration within the clitoris. “The result is new, healthy tissues (clitoris) that are permanent,” he added.   LaFiya, Tyto Care partner to advance telemedicine services     Free private ambulance service, stable health initiative…     Sachet alcoholic drinks, PET bottles to go in 2024, says…   The renowned Internist and Regenerative Medicine Specialist decried the high prevalence of female genital mutilation in Nigeria and in many African countries, saying that apart from denying women the opportunity of enjoying sex, it has huge health implications. Health implications include abscesses, cysts, excessive scar tissue, painful sex and menstruation, Hepatitis and other blood-borne diseases, urinary tract infections, infertility and increased risk of bleeding during childbirth. Ikudayisi said a survey in February 2022 by Statista Research Department showed that 20 per cent of women surveyed in Nigeria had undergone female genital mutilation as at 2018. In 2013, it was 25 per cent. According to him, Nigeria ranks the third highest globally in the prevalence of FGM, accounting for 10 per cent of the global total. Ikudayisi identified age-long cultural and religious practices as the factors promoting FGM in Nigeria. He said several civil society organisations and international non-governmental organisations were involved in strong advocacy against FGM; while those females who have come under the knife could get their genital area, especially clitoris back and hence have full sexual experience through the O-Shot therapy.