Six hundred and twenty seven food processors have been given equipment by the Kogi State Coordination Office of Agro-Processing, Productivity Enhancement and Livelihood Improvement Support Project (KOGI APPEALS), to boost their production capacity. The processors, who have been in the food processing chain for almost three years and are grouped into a 10-member cooperatives, were drawn from the three senatorial districts. A statement by the Coordination Office said the processors were given a complete parboiling system, combined miller, de-stoner, rice grader, rice polishers, false bottom pot, dehuller, stitching machine and sacks, under the rice value chain. They also got equipment, such as cassava chipping machine, weighing scale, open body tricycle, stainless steel, garri grating machine, hydraulic press, stainless fryer, mechanical sifter, sealing machine, branded bags and petrol power engine under the cassava value chain. It said 24 processing shades were built to house the equipment, and a motorised borehole provided to for a more hygienic environment and access to water. Cluster Chairman of  Ozugbe Rice Processing Multipurpose Cooperative Society in Ozugbe Labaran Dauda said before intervention of the APPEALS project, the processors had problems with their milling machines. Dauda noted that the support came at the right time, saying the machines would  ease their work and increase market potential.   Court to hear Ibeto’s suit against EFCC May 11     Lagos presents death benefits to deceased workers’…     NGO to provide 500,000 meals for Lagos residents   Cluster Chairman for Igah Ikeje in Olamaboro Local  Government Salifu Sunday said the equipment would help upscale garri business. He said: “We have three groups which are Ufedo garri processing MPCS, Ulieju-Ojo MPCS and Unekwu-Ojo Women MPCS, in these three groups, we have 56 members. “Before now, the only equipment we have as garri processors is the processing machine, eight frying pans and our processing has just been for our family and few other people, we are now in for large scale processing of garri where we will have a good profit. “The provision of tricycles to both rice and cassava groups will ease transportation of food and agro-allied products, increase production and generate wealth for processors”. Project Coordinator Dr Sanni Abdullahi Ozomata said the support was in line with the objective to enhance productivity and improve value by scaling up the capacity of food processors through provision of equipment to process farm produce for consumption. Ozomata noted that having supported farmers to produce more crops, there was need to aid those in the processing and marketing segment to increase their off-take ability to ensure uninterrupted flow of economic activities throughout the value chains. “The provision of this processing equipment and facilities is necessary for moving the farmers to the next level in the value chain in terms of enhancing their productivity and improving their livelihood,” he said.