The investigative panel set up by the Accountant General of the Federation has cleared the Director of Finance and Account in the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Joshua Luka Kadmi, of any wrongdoing. The panel said payment by the director was done with requisite approving authority. A memo by the Director of Treasury Inspectorate, Mr. C. N. Anamekwe, on behalf of the Accountant General of the Federation, reads: “That the allegation bordering on money in ‘Ghana must go’ bags, Bureau De Change, etc,  could not be substantiated with facts by the petitioner and the team considered it null and void.” The panel also justified Luka’s  action  as all the expenditures incurred by the ministry in November to December 2021 were in the Appropriation Act of 2021; that no payment was made in the ministry without the approval of the Solicitor General/Permanent Secretary.   Terrorists demand millions to free train captives     Handcuffed Osinachi’s widower denies abusing singer     NSCDC seizes 64 sacks of smuggled petrol in Badagry   The panel also discovered that the payment made through the account of the project accountant was due to the fact that the beneficiaries were not on the GIFMIS Employee payable module whose payment to such individuals could be possible only through intermediary. All the payment vouchers were prepared according to the provision of Financial Regulation, that is, the PVs were checked, entered into the vote book and checked by the Internal Audit. The panel advised that the petitioner should always verify facts before writing on matters relating to government expenditure and should be made to be aware of the consequence of wrong whistle blowing. It also advised the Federal Ministry of Justice to ensure compliance with all necessary rules/guidelines regarding government expenditures to avoid complacency. The Integrity And Transparency Watchdog  recently wrote to the Accountant General of the Federation  for investigation and prosecution of Kadmi and another official  Abuh Danjuma over  ‘missing N104, 842, 800’ from  coffers of the Attorney-General of the Federation and ministry of Justice.