NATIONAL Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA) has said commercialisation of Pod Borer Resistant (PBR) cowpea can end food insecurity in Africa. PBR is beans genetically modified against insect pests. It said the development has proved that Africa can solve its food security challenges. The bean, which requires less use of chemical sprays, has a yield margin of between 15 to 25 per cent compared to conventional bean varieties. Speaking in Abuja at the PBR cowpea Mobile Kitchen Advocacy Campaign, tagged: “Eating is Believing”, NABDA’s  Director General and Chief Executive Officer Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha said the improved variety is climate-smart, and has reduced chemical insecticide spray by more than 60 per cent while increasing farmers’ income by 80 per cent. He noted that PBR cowpea is an example of how the technology can solve challenges confronting cowpea farming in Nigeria and Africa.   EFCC urges court to dismiss Ibeto’s suit     Allah hates hurtful speeches, says cleric     ‘NASFAT should deepen youth education’   “Biotechnology has proven its potential to overcome agricultural productivity challenges leading to more yield and addressing breeding limitations that conventional methods cannot. “Biotechnology adoption and acceptance globally are on the rise. Countries, such as Great Britain… has fully come on board with the new law on gene-edited crops…’ “The world is moving and will not wait for Africa… Today, we are still debating the efficacy, safety, and benefits of genetic modification, a 25-year-old technology that the inventors have moved on. “Considering our challenge and the desire to feed our people to ensure food and nutritional security, we must make technology the engine room for our agricultural development so we can ensure that no African goes to bed hungry.” Country Coordinator of Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology (OFAB) Dr Rose  Gidado said the campaign demonstrates the safety and nutrition effects of Bt. Cowpea and  increase consumer awareness of the new bean variety. She added that the campaign also assures consumers of the safety of PBR cowpea and increasing market and consumer acceptance.