Irimiya Magit, a resident of Nghar, a community in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State, lost his son, a Senior Secondary School student, to typhoid fever last year. The deceased son, according to Magit, was schooling in Kaduna but came home on holiday and was struck by typhoid fever. “He died of typhoid fever in May last year,” Magit said regretfully. “He was in SS1 when he died. “He was schooling in Kaduna but came home on holiday and contracted typhoid fever which eventually took his life. There are many others in the community who have also lost their children or relatives. The distraught father blamed the challenge on the contaminated water consumed by residents of the area. The water is murky and one does not need a laboratory test to confirm that it is contaminated. “It is contaminated,” Magit said in response to a question from our correspondent. “It is the same source where cows drink water that our people fetch their drinking water from. There are so many cases of typhoid as a result. Our people also suffer a disease that causes them to urinate blood. It is common among adults and children. “There are also cases of diarrhea. The children also complain of stomach pains. Each time you see them looking weak and you ask them what the problem is, they would tell you it is stomach ache. “When you bathe with the water, your body will start itching. We have accepted our fate, especially because we don’t have medical attention. We don’t have any hospital here. “We take our health problems to Barkin Ladi, and the distance between here and the place is far.   The women also use the water to cook. The distance between their houses to the rivers is about two kilometres.” Magit’s remarks were corroborated by the Deputy Chief Imam of the area, Abdulahi Umar Hassan, who said: “There are many communities here without water. They include Gol, Zargwom, Kadop, Yalonore, Nghar, Leventis and some parts of Yelwa Nghar. All the aforemetioned communities are in need of water. “Only contaminated water is found in Gol, Kadop and Yalnore. Our people in those areas depend solely on stream water and the streams are contaminated. They sell sachet water but it is not everybody that has money to buy. “A good number of our people are poor. Community members who cannot afford to buy sachet water drink the contaminated water. Our people have been suffering from myriads of sicknesses as a result of drinking contaminated water.  “Aside from malaria and typhoid, our people suffer from ulcers and rashes, especially the young ones. There are many children who have died but we don’t know the cause of their death. “I don’t know how many have died, but each time we have the opportunity of taking the children to the hospital, doctors tell us that malaria and typhoid, among other challenges, are responsible.  We are all drinking from that contaminated water.” A member of one of the affected communities, Ahmad Abubakar, also spoke of how the water affects their health. He said: “My household drinks from the contaminated water. After drinking the water, I feel weak. The children feel the same way after drinking the water.” Expressing worries about the plight of the people, the Chief Imam, Alhaji Abdullahi, said: “We are in need of water.  The problem has been with us for ages. “It was two years ago that an organisation provided a borehole for one community here in the central area. But many other communities don’t have  access to potable water. We need help from both state and federal governments, private individuals and non-governmental organisations to save our people from this problem. But the challenge is not restricted to remote villages like Nghar. Even residents of highbrow communities of Lagos State also suffer similar fate. Among the former residents of Otodogbame, who now live in the Ajah area of the state, consumption and exposure to contaminated water has been a major cause of numerous health problems bedeviling the people. It has brought avoidable deaths to the community. One of the parents, who identified himself simply as Bene, spoke of how his son was infected and he died of rashes as a result of consuming contaminated water. “My son had rashes all over his hands and some other parts of his body. The discomfort was so severe that he wasn’t able to sleep at night. “My boy who was very strong and to the delight of everybody in the neighbourhood became very weak and could not walk again. “He felt pains each time his hand touched anything. Unfortunately, I didn’t have the means to take him to the hospital for treatment,” the father added in an emotion laden tone. “One day, the mother called to say that my son was crying and would not stop doing so in spite of all her efforts to pacify him.  I quickly rushed back home to see him. When I got home, I saw my son in pain. He was crying and calling me repeatedly. “I stood helplessly watching him. Tears dropped from my eyes and his mother’s as we could not do anything to help him. He called my name till he stretched his body and died.” Aside from his son, many other children in the neigbourhood also had rashes, stool and complained of stomach ache. A female resident, Talabi Adams, said: “The kids stool a great deal. When they are stooling, they would be weak and run temperature. “They can stool for almost one week. Whenever they are stooling, we would get drugs for them. But the drugs would not the stooling at once. “When I give two tablets, it hardens the stool a bit. Thereafter, the stool would gush out siririririri like that. We would continue giving them the medication till the stooling stops. It is a common and regular thing here.” The United Nations Children’s Fund had revealed that more than 100,000 children under five years of age die each year in Nigeria due to water-borne diseases like diarrhoea. According to UNICEF, 90 per cent of those deaths are directly attributable to unsafe water and sanitation. “Access to clean drinking water is a human right — just like the right to food and the right to live without torture and racial discrimination. “And ending open defecation and making water, sanitation, and hygiene services available to all Nigerians is one of the biggest challenges, as construction and management of facilities require sustained investments and more partnerships, especially with the private sector. “The Nigeria government should invest three times more in the water sector, making sure that every Nigerian has access to clean water and a toilet as the lack of access to water is impacting the well-being, specially of the most vulnerable,” UNICEF said. In Niger State, water scarcity is taking a worrisome dimension.  Many residents describe their experience getting water as hellish. Thirty-five years old Hajara Umar, a resident in Maikunkele community in Bosso Local Government Area said that getting water these days in her community has been hell as the wells are dry and with absence of electricity supply, most of the boreholes where they buy water are not able to pump water for sale.   Body of Benchers, NBA, Supreme Court Justice worry over…     Kidnappers seize mother-in-law, brother during N2m ransom…     Kaduna train attack: How corpses of co-passengers saved me…   “Sometimes to see a place where they sell water is hectic. Even the mai ruwa (water sellers) are not easy to come by. It is hectic to get water to bathe, wash, cook or even drink.” Around Minna metropolis, the price of water has skyrocketed, especially from the barrow pushers. The quantity sold between N250 and N350 in December now sells between N500 and N700. In Gidan Kuka in Nkangbe community, Bosso Local Government Area, Niger State, Mary Alheri said there were times she had to buy a bag of sachet water to bathe her children so that they could go to school. She said there were Sundays they were unable to go to church because water was not available. “Most times, I walk a long distance just to get mai ruwa to bring water for me. There is no borehole in my area. All the wells have dried up and there is no way to get water at all. It is so frustrating,” she stated. At the peak of water scarcity, even students of the school for the deaf located in Bosso are seen with jerry cans looking for houses where they can get water. The Ilaje area of Ondo State is surrounded by the sea but the people lack water. To get water for drinking and other domestic uses, the people literally embark on a journey that takes hours. Moboluwaji Ajijo, a broadcaster and indigene of Ayetoro Local Government Area, expressed anger about the plight of his people. He said: “Water is a major problem among our people. People live on water everywhere but they don’t have any to drink or meet their domestic needs. “Our people bring in sachet water from the mainland, and that is about four hours away from here. NDDC made efforts in the past to construct boreholes along the coastline but none of them are functioning. I am aware that there are about five of such facilities running into millions of naira.” The contracts, he further said, were poorly awarded and poorly executed to the extent that “they have become abandoned projects.  Some people have consequently gone with the money, becoming so rich and leaving the people to suffer. He said: “The oil companies have not been responsible in that environment. The NDDC contracts, like I said earlier, were poorly awarded probably for personal interest and were poorly executed. “The NDDC projects have never pumped any water.  The projects included big tanks with generators. I am sure they have been vandalized.  It is part of the problems that we are having: abandoned projects everywhere.” The Southeast is not left out of the challenge. Enugu State is said to be worst hit among the five states in the region. Our correspondent in the state said: “The major source of water supply here is through the tanker. “They go to Nikemile to get water and supply to the people that live here. It costs N15, 000 per tank. I buy water in Jerry cans from those who buy from water tankers. “If I fetch water by myself, I will buy a Jerry can of water for N100. But if I give people money to fetch for me, they do charge me N1,000 for five Jerry cans. I buy it every week. Those who cannot afford to buy water from tankers go to people who have well water.  Well water costs between N30 and N50 per Jerry can.” The Senate in 2018 ordered an investigation of Nigeria’s spending on water and utilization of funds provided by international donors. This followed a motion by   Dino Melaye,  a former senator representing  Kogi West.  He accused the Ministry of Water Resources of siphoning funds provided for the ministry in the annual budget. Melaye, who raised a point of order, stated that the United Nation’s International Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and other donor agencies invest in water projects in Nigeria while budgetary provisions for water projects are embezzled and World Bank and UNICEF’s projects are used as justifications for government interventions. “This is a national emergency because as a country, there can be no better welfare than the provision of water for the people. “I have done my personal investigation and I know that UNICEF and World Bank and some other donor agencies have done significantly well in providing water in rural areas. But every year, we roll out billions of naira budget after budget for the same purpose and these monies are not returned to the treasury. “Year in year out, there is nothing to show for it. My investigations reveal that projects embarked upon by these donor agencies is what the ministry of water resources is using as justification for the provisions in the budget for those services. “This is a World Bank report that pipe borne water on premises have declined from 32 per cent to seven per cent, and in rural areas, it has declined to one per cent, and I think the rural population deserves more attention than the urban centres. “Nigeria needs to invest at least three times more to achieve SDGs goal. Nearly 30 per cent of water schemes fail within the first year of operation,” he said. He further explained that in Nigeria, 71 million people continue to live without access to improved water while a huge number of people do not meet the MDGs standard for water supply. “The lack of water services adversely affects one’s health, hinder their access to economic opportunities and affect work efficiency and labour productivity. “Improving the water sector will have significant implications for poverty reduction and human development,” he said. In his contribution, Eyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia) described the situation as shameful. “I want to state today that it is a shame that I grew up in the city of Aba having pipe borne water where I grew. But today, it is only in Abuja, and not even in the whole of Abuja, that we can see something called pipe borne water. “We have regressed from where we were in the 60s to where we are today at the dawn of the 21st Century. It is a big shame to Nigeria whereas everywhere else in the world people are moving forward in providing all these amenities. Today, we have gone one step forward and ten steps backward. “It cannot be seen at the beginning of the 21st Century that what we are doing is just to provide boreholes when we should be providing potable water through pipes into every household, and something needs to be done. “I support an inquiry be made by the committee of water to find out what has been done to the millions of naira and euros that have gone into the ministry and donor agencies. It is mind boggling to see what they have done with our resources,” he said. The senate thereafter, directed an ad hoc committee to carry out a holistic investigation into the declining state of water provisions in Nigeria and investigate the corruption cum intervention by international donor agencies. Efforts to inquire from Melaye about the outcome of the investigation were unsuccessful as he neither answered his calls nor replied to text and WhatsApp messages sent to him. Latest report by the United Nations’ children’s agency (UNICEF) painted a grim picture of acute lack of potable water in Nigeria and its direct consequences on the health and growth of children. According to the report, over 26.5 million children in Nigeria are extremely vulnerable to water-related diseases and antimicrobial resistance. These children live with their families in vulnerable communities that face the double-edged sword of coping with high water scarcity levels while having the lowest water services, making access to sufficient water, especially susceptible to climate shocks and extreme events. According to the report, these communities depend on surface water, unimproved sources of water or water that can take more than 30 minutes to get. The Chairman Senate Committee on Water Resources, Senator Bello Mandiya and spokesperson of Federal Ministry of Water Resources, Mrs Kene Offie were yet to reply to our calls and text messages as at the time of filing this report.