The popular expression that ‘ soldiers come and go but barrack remains’ would surely come to pass as few Super Eagles players have inadvertently played their last international game for Nigeria following the country’s failure to qualify for the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup. In November, Nigeria would have notched her seventh FIFA World Cup appearance in Qatar where it would have been a swansong for the likes of captain Ahmed Musa, Odion Ighalo and few others . But it is as though many more players would now be shown the revolving exit following the dismal performance of the entire squad in that decisive African Qualifiers Play-off against the Black Stars of Ghana . As the Super Eagles would soon regroup for the opening qualifying matches for the 2023 Africa Cup of nations to be hosted in Cote d’Ivoire, TUNDE LIADI here runs the rule on players who are likely goners after the Super Eagles shocking failure to make the World Cup party in Qatar. Long before the loss to Black Stars of Ghana albeit via the away goal rule against the Super Eagles after the goalless draw away in Kumasi and that 1-1 pulsating draw in Abuja, the duo of Captain Ahmed Musa and returning striker Odion Ighalo were already considered spent forces by a section of the public and press despite their years of experience with the Super Eagles. In fact, the Saudi Arabia based Ighalo who is currently with Al Hilal, did the honourable thing to retire after the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt where he was the tournament’s top scorer with five goals as the Super Eagles clinched the bronze medals behind Senegal (silver) and Algeria (gold). Yet he rescinded his decision after meeting with the NFF President Amaju Pinnick and former Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr. Last November, Ighalo was recalled by Rohr for the team’s closing Group C games of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 African race against Liberia and Cape Verde but it has little or no effect as the Super Eagles fumbled to a 1-1 draw in Lagos albeit with a play-off ticket . But in the decisive play-off against Ghana, the former Manchester United striker was not fielded at all in Kumasi and was only a second half substitute for Emmanuel Dennis in Abuja. At 32 years and with 36 games and 16 international goals after seven years already for the Super Eagles, it is not oblivious to think that Ighalo would be too ’tired’ to represent the country by 2026 when the World Cup would be jointly-hosted by Canada, Mexico and United States of America. In Ighalo’s shoes is no other player than Musa, the former Kano Pillars striker who has turned to a bit part player in the Super Eagles since his heroic performance at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. “All the players, including myself, want to go to the World Cup,” the 29-year-old Musa who earned a remarkable 104 international caps, explained ahead of the failed bid against Ghana. “For me, it is very important because it could be my last World Cup. “I enjoyed the last two finals that I participated in, Brazil 2014 and Russia 2018. I want to experience it again. Most of the players in the present squad have not been to the World Cup and they desire to be there,” he said. Unfortunately, it is not only the younger players that would be missing in Qatar but Musa.   Igoche Mark: mark my words, I’ll reposition NBBF     Adepoju recalls One-derful goal ever     El-Rufai lauds  Kaduna Polo on Trade Fair Tourney   The Turkey- based winger was a shadow of himself when he was introduced against Ghana in Abuja. Many believed Musa had been on borrowed time with the Super Eagles since the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations and he is expected to bid the national team bye following the failure to qualify for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Yet with the Super Eagles undone lately by elementary goalkeeping errors, it would not be a surprise if some of the team’s shot stoppers would not be shown the exit too. It has been tales of woes from the 2022 AFCON in Cameroon where Maduka Okoye was left stranded in the 1-0 16th Round loss to Tunisia and in the Qatar 2022 Play-off where Francis Uzoho gifted Ghana’s Thomas Partey the goal that ensured Super Eagles non qualification for the first World Cup in the Middle East. Starting with Okoye, all was going well for the Sparta Rotterdam Goalkeeper until his clanger cost the Super Eagles the game against the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia in the second round of the 2021 AFCON. He was unavailable for the two legged 2022 FIFA World Cup playoffs encounter with Ghana owing to illness. The newly signed Watford goalie still remains the best among the current assemblage of goalkeepers even more so after Uzoho big mess against Ghana in Abuja. . Meanwhile, many agreed that Uzoho was at fault for the only goal conceded by the Super Eagles against the Black Stars as he was jittery coupled with poor ball distribution. Whether he would still be needed remains to be seen as we further x-ray the performances of others who have little or no future again with the Super Eagles. William Troost-Ekong: The stand-in Super Eagles captain in the absence of Ahmed Musa, showed tremendous composure to drag his team back into the game from the spot against Ghana in Abuja. Not a bad showing from the Watford man despite the disappointing result. He has been having above average performances for Nigeria but would he be allowed to lead the next generation of the Eagles with the 2023 AFCON qualifiers around the corner? Leon Balogun: The Glasgow Rangers’ defender almost scored the winning goal from a header in the second half against Ghana in Abuja. He gave an above average performance. He played a few errant passes and was caught out on few occasions, albeit without being punished. Though is wealth of experience is still needed in the Eagles, many say he is already in the twilight of his football career hence no future with the Super Eagles. Calvin Bassey : Not a good performance from the left-back in his first start for the Super Eagles against Ghana in Abuja. Failed to make good use of the ball and his lack of judgement in counterattacking left his team exposed defensively through his position. The technical crew didn’t cover themselves in glory choosing to hand the youngster his first start in the game of such magnitude. Bassey’s raw talent may however be needed to kick start the rebirth of the Eagles. Kenneth Omeruo: The 28-year-old defender has been an integral member of the Super Eagles since, 2013 when he debuted for the team in the build up to the 2013 AFCON in South Africa. He has 55 games and a goal since then. Omeruo has become just an ordinary squad player since the advent of Ola Aina and the Oyinbo wall (the defensive pairings of Balogun and Ekong). It seems his relevance to the team after nine years of consistent call ups may be up in the air. Injury has also limited his playing time for his Spanish side, Leganes this season featuring in only 13 of the club’s 34 games so far. His experience and maturity will no doubt help the young players in the team but he may not be around for a long time again. Shehu Abdullahi: The Omonia Nicosia utility player is yet to hit his strides after battling with injuries last year. He came in for Frank Onyeka after the break in the play-off return leg against Ghana in Abuja but had a below average showing. He was subdued by the Ghanaians in midfield and could have done better if he was fully fit. Shehu have had some good games for the Eagles in the past but many would still argue he is one of those players meant to fill up the quota system.