Human Rights lawyer Femi Falana (SAN) has taken over prosecution of the mysterious death of a Master student of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Timothy Adegoke. Adegoke died on November 5th 2021 mysteriously at Hilton Hotel and Resort, Ile Ife owned by Chief Rahmon Adedoyin. Adedoyin with other six staff facing trial before Justice Oyebola Ojo on 11 counts bordering on conspiracy, murder, forgery, misdemeanour among others. A statement by Osun Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Oluwafemi Akande, explained the Chamber of Femi Falana SAN had applied for fiat to take over the process. It added the family of the deceased also wrote to the office of the Attorney General to allow Femi Falana SAN take over the prosecution, which was granted. “The alleged case of murder was first investigated by Osun State Police Command but was later taken over by the IGP Office in Abuja. “After the investigation the Police filed criminal charge against the suspects in Abuja. “The case was later moved to Osogbo by the Nigeria Police.   Five key ‘takeaways’ from Kukah’s Easter message to Buhari     Akeredolu using Ondo’s fund for wife’s…     New Customs bill seeks 20-year jail term for use of illegal…   “While the Police Prosecutors were prosecuting the case, the deceased family’s Counsel, Falana and Falana & Co, watched brief for the victim and witnessed the proceedings. “On 1st April 2022, Femi Falana, SAN, applied to the Office of the Hon. Attorney General for fiat to take over the prosecution of the case. “Thereafter, the deceased’s family wrote a letter to the Attorney General requesting for the Chambers of Femi Falana, SAN to be allowed to prosecute the matter. “The learned silk letter and that of the family were immediately processed and the fiat requested for has since been granted. “The Office of Chief Femi FALANA SAN had already collected the letter conveying the fiat of the Attorney General to the learned silk. “The position as at today, in law, is that the office of Chief Femi FALANA SAN is in full charge of the prosecution of the case”.