Celebrities’ break-up oftentimes than not is usually accompanied with heated online drama where they attempt to tear down by hurling insults at each other in an almost unending rant competition. Below are eight things common to celebrities’ break-ups: · It usually starts off as a rumour which hits the internet courtesy a popular blogger This blogger is notorious for sharing various news about celebrity from breakups to those being bank rolled by men including men who are married yet have illicit affairs with several other ladies and so on. · Since it starts off as a rumour, these celebrities at first try to debunk same Most celebrities’ breakup news oftentimes sparks off as a rumour which they try everything possible to debunk in a bid to keep it under control or do a damage control. Just like the case of Nkechi Blessing and her ex politician lover. After the news of their breakup first surfaced online in February, she was seen in a video while seated on her ex’s lap saying she could never leave him for another as she went all the way down to London to get him and wasn’t going to leave him for another woman. NBS even threatened to pour acid on any lady who attempted to come close to her ex at the time. “I can’t leave my man. A man that is fine like this, I can’t leave him. I will pour acid on any lady who comes close to my property. I went to London to look for a man”, she said. · They give in to pressure when unable to keep up with pretense and resort to online rants and outburst When these celebrities are unable to keep up with the pretense of selling a relationship that is still intact to the public, they resort to online rants. At this point, you’ll see them calling out each other. They will hurl insult and call each other names. In the case of Tonto Dike, she called her ex-hubby, Churchill Olakunle a ’40-second man’. NBS on her part called Falegan a lazy and broke guy while he in turn referred to her as a lesbian. · The next is that they level allegations against each other   Ex-Miss World Uganda launches foundation to keep girls in…     I can only marry a financially stable man, Carolyna…     Marriage? Count me out, says Iyabo Ojo   While still hurling insults, they also resort to leveling allegations against each other maybe in a bid to depict themselves as the partner without fault. After her immediate past relationship, Dikeh noted she was leaving her ex-lover, Prince Kpokpogri because of infidelity. According to her, he was sexually involved with several women including a popular dancer and also claimed he kept video of his sexcapades with these women. In turn, Kpokpogri accused the actress of being addicted to weed and trying to keep him away from his family and friends. · They experience increased followership on their social media platforms During celebrities’ breakup saga, that’s usually the time they experience a boom of followership on their various social media platforms. During that time, they experience massive influx of followers who visit their pages to get more juicy gossip/information about their breakup. · Fans battle the other party to show solidarity for their faves Fans usually jump on celebrities’ breakup to thrash their faves former partners as a show of solidarity. They visit their faves ex’s social media pages to bash them based on the information they’ve gathered from their faves. Such bashing and trolling could go on for a long while forcing these exes on the receiving end to restrict comment sections on their social media pages. · They increase social media posting The time better time for increased posting right after the lovey-dovey season is during breakup drama. Many celebrities’ at this time increase their rate of posting on social media for many reason(s). One of such is trying so hard to depict the image that they are good and can cope even better without their exes which. The other could be a bid to ‘prove’ to their exes they weren’t as important like they assumed thus, moving on from them is as easy as pie. · They eventually tender public apology on social media This part is another commonality with celebrities’ breakup. They never fail to come up in an Instagram live video to publicly apologise to all and sundry most probably in a bid to launder their almost tainted image as a result of all the vile words they may have said to their former partners during the heat of their crashed love story. Although, some of them also take to apologizing publicly afterwards because they feel really remorseful and would give anything to overturn their show of shame online.