Livingstone Wechie was a former spokesman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State. He is also the Executive Director of the Integrity Friends for Truth and Peace Initiative (TIFPI) and Chairman of Ikwerre Peoples’ Congress (IPC) Worldwide. In this interview with MIKE ODIEGWU, he speaks on issues bordering on the governorship contest in Rivers, the presidential election and why he believes the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi is not willing to produce an APC governor in Rivers Why did you leave the APC despite your contributions to the party? I resigned on principle from the All Progressives Congress (APC) because of the same issue that bedevils almost all political parties; lack of internal democracy. The Rivers State chapter of the APC where I served as the spokesman was a major culprit. I announced my exit when after the Supreme Court judgment, our fight for equal and equitable participation could not be guaranteed. I was not comfortable with the style of leadership of the apex party structure. I was not convinced that the party was ready for politics in Rivers state. The controversies and conflicts within the party were unprecedented. Have you joined any political party ahead of the next general elections? Well, I have not yet joined any political party yet ahead of the highly publicised 2023 general election. You know the tradition has been that once you leave or defect from one political party, you announce your new political ship. In my case, I did not join any political party and I have not joined. The issue here is that whereas party politics is a necessity for political power, without lamenting, the volatility of Rivers politics has continued to resist creative energy. It is shocking to note that in our society our definitions of politics are different. While you are bringing passion to bear, others are bringing in something strange to undermine progressive efforts. I believe that politics should be an avenue to advance the good of society but, sadly, almost all the political parties have the same character traits, particularly the ones we call mainstream parties. I hear that some political superpowers have bought forms for the various offices wholesale and distributed them to their chosen candidates without popular contest in Rivers State and this is horrendous and an invitation to anarchy. It transcends the national spectrum and it is a bad omen. What do you see are the chances of the PDP and APC in Rivers in next year’s election? Yes, both the PDP and the APC are doubtlessly categorised as frontline political parties in Rivers State. This is because they are respected and severally led by the two key dramatis personae; Governor Nyesom Wike and the Minister for Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Both of them are illustrious Ikwerre sons. Without prejudice, these are the blocks that run the politics of Rivers State and they do so with so much audacity.  However, as of today, it does appear that between the two parties, one is more serious than the other. The PDP has won all governorship elections into the Brick House from 1999 to date. The APC on its part has not demonstrated the needed capacity to take power and the reasons are not farfetched. Wike today in my estimation is arguably the most functional political character in the state both structurally and personally; until proven otherwise because Amaechi failed to put up a genuine fight for power in Rivers State. However, I must caution that Governor Wike should watch it cautiously. It is seriously alleged that he is currently handpicking and imposing candidates on the PDP in Rivers from the national and state assembly, as well as the governorship. This idea of intimidating aspirants in the PDP must stop because it is destroying the party. Many members cannot speak up for fear of being ostracised. People must be allowed to freely vie for offices. The governor must recuse himself from dictating the political future of his party because the eventual implosion will replace his legacy and rubbish his landmarks. The inaction and reluctance by Amaechi have turned Wike into a hero and this is weird. The PDP appears to have better chances, for now, to produce a successor to Wike in 2023 because the APC is still embroiled in self-inflicted conflict. The challenge is that Amaechi and the APC have often presented unserious persons, including neophytes, as candidates and party executives to confront a Wike and the PDP. But, if you want to confront a Wike you must look beyond your nose and be a lion to punch as hard as bursting the walls. Amaechi’s attitude suggests that he is not really interested in producing an APC governor in Rivers State. This is why he puts up weaklings and easy sellouts, instead of fighters as candidates or party executives. It appears to be a deliberate act and the party continues to fail as bad players. Why has the crisis in Rivers APC persisted? The crisis in APC has persisted because the various political blocks that came together to form the APC still see themselves as strange birds fellows. Yes, this is politics and you should expect conflicting interests but not the type that is capable of killing and burying you without the opportunity to look for treatment. Today, every Tom Dick and Harry is a leader in the APC. It has become an all-comers affair and those in the saddle are playing the ostrich without realising that there is a trap before them. The APC is currently at war with its own, not minding the fact that an avoidable implosion is starring it in the face. The way forward is for the APC, indeed all political parties in Nigeria to enthrone internal party democracy.   FCT High Court: Deploying technology for enhanced service…     ‘Why welfare of serving, retired judges must be prioritised’     Fed Govt promises early repair of burnt Apongbon bridge   Do you see the APC retaining the presidency in 2023? You know that the politics of Nigeria gives the advantage to any government in power through what you call the power of incumbency. In politics, you cannot rule out anything because things change and turn like magic at the last hour. The thing that can guarantee the APC retaining power in 2023 will depend on who they field as their presidential candidate. There are expectations from Nigerians looking into the future and all parties, particularly the APC must be conscious of that fact. Nigerians have been highly betrayed by the APC and there are trust issues; the people of Nigeria have lost confidence in the system and appear to have made up their minds for the worst. In your view, what is the solution to the festering security in the country? The insecurity in Nigeria is orchestrated and it is big business for certain people, both within and outside government. Why must we allow intelligence to be undermined and whose interest does that serve? What has become of our robust intelligence gathering and sharing if our security system is not compromised? I have resounded it that the African continent, particularly Nigeria must stop the West from using us to do arms trade by promoting conflict through our institutions. America in my view cannot deny their role on record in the sustained conflict and arms struggle within our region and that is how it makes its money by destabilising other regions and Nigeria is not an exception. I take responsibility for this view and further state that our beloved country must not remain under siege by sponsored terrorists and their agents in our government. The insecurity in Nigeria is artificial and we must not allow the sustained infiltration by the West which appears to have a foothold on our already compromised institutions. Until we have a commander-in-chief who knows his powers and how to use it then we shall remain on this road for too long. Whose interest does it serve for us to be losing our people daily to either pogrom or senseless mass killings in a number higher than a nation at war? Our roads, rails and air travel have become a big risk and even the president is not safe. Politicians should stop breeding militias. Criminal cartels are being camped in different parts of the country; some of them are known to the security forces but are given state cover for elections and other political purposes. Do you see Wike emerging as the presidential flag bearer of his party? Well, it is politics and anything can happen; concessions can be made in Wike’s favour. It will be my pride and that of the Niger Delta for an Ikwerre person to be the president and commander-in-chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It will be fair if the south is supported, but on the contrary, it appears the north is not relinquishing or relenting and this is indicated in their conduct to retain power in 2023. If Wike or any southerner plays his card well, we can get it. I advise persons like Governor Nyesom Wike to reduce his number of political enemies and quarrels. It is absolutely unfruitful for him to be picking on anybody that faults his view and see them as enemies. He must put up a win-over attitude to gain further acceptance. People are projecting Amaechi for the APC ticket. Does he have what it takes to clinch the ticket? Those projecting him have a right to do so whether with his consent or not. Whether Amaechi has what it takes to clinch the party’s ticket is a major consideration. Despite my reservations, he does have a profile that should earn him a presidential ticket and there is no doubt about it because, in his own way beyond the conjectures, contradictions and controversies around him, he has done well for himself without prejudice and coming from Ubima. As a two-time governor of the richest state in Nigeria and as a federal minister, he sure has the qualifications but he must step out boldly first with clarity. After all, his records in the rail project which is now under scrutiny and trial were APC’S biggest marketing tool during the last 2019 general elections.  He is a Niger Delta son and above all a proud Ikwerre son that can contest as of right but he must raise the bar of his style of politics. He must ponder over why people are leaving his party in large numbers, particularly in Rivers State. He must worry about the exodus of creative hands who are seeking an alternative political future away from his leadership. He must stop his entitlement approach and do more lobbying. The ‘arrogance’ perception that characterizes his personality is something he must address to earn the trust of the stakeholders, his party and Nigerians if they must queue behind him with both hands. Who in your estimation do you think deserves the APC presidential ticket? This is a difficult question. But, without mincing words, there are brilliant contestants within the APC even though the masses are getting weary of the party because of the level of hunger and poverty in the land. At the risk of copiously mentioning names, the party has some of the best candidates in the south. Although as of today Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is doubtlessly a major contender;  he needs to address some crucial contradictions touching on his integrity and credibility. I know this is politics but you still owe a duty to explain relevant public questions without malice. He is as eminently qualified as Amaechi and others but I beg to state bluntly that how the APC manages these interests will determine its chances because they are all great contributors to the fortunes of the party from 2015 to date. Finally, we must be wary of western interference in our elections. The West is frantically and desperately itching to determine the winner of the next election because of their stake which is not necessarily in our interest. We must watch with caution and play the game wisely putting our interests first.