Globally, free trade zones are credited with possessing the capacity to drive industrialisation, diversify the economy, create jobs, and generate Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). But, Nigeria’s push in the past 30 years to leverage the scheme to enjoy these deliverables has been undermined by myriads of challenges, including infrastructural deficit, unnecessary interference by multiple government agencies, and insecurity. However, stakeholders have moved to create a more robust template for a globally competitive free trade zone scheme in Nigeria. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. In other jurisdictions where Free Trade Zones (FTZs) or Special Economic Zones (SEZs) were adopted as a model to fast-track industrialisation, diversify the economy, create jobs, and generate Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), they literarily worked magic. Countries such as China, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Singapore, Ethiopia, Malaysia, and even neigbouring West African country, Ghana, have leveraged FTZs, which are designated areas for promoting trade openness and investment facilitation, as a dynamic instrument for growth and development. Sadly, however, efforts to replicate the success of the FTZ model in Nigeria have not been hugely rewarding. The impact of the adoption, in 1992, of the FTZ model on Nigeria’s trade, investment and economic outlook has not been significant 30 years after. Africa’s largest and most populous economy has so far lagged behind other countries in leveraging FTZs to significantly boost FDI, achieve rapid, inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, create jobs, and diversify her export earnings, much to the chagrin of the Federal Government and the operators of the 43 FTZs. For instance, 30 years after the scheme’s operation, cumulative investment stood at about $20 billion, according to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo; only 25, 000 jobs have been generated against the scheme’s projected capacity for 300, 000 direct jobs. The minister, who made this known at last week’s inauguration of the new Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) Lagos Office and the unveiling of the Special Economic Zone Security Unit in Lagos, said last year, Nigeria generated N250 billion in foreign and local direct investments. He added that the country realised N25 billion in Customs duty payments, and N55 billion in local import backward linkages; Nigeria also raked in N500 million in Pay-as-You Earn (PAYE) taxes, while the scheme created 25, 000 new jobs, and transferred skills for 5, 000 employees. Most operators of the FTZs and indeed, other critical stakeholders considered these benefits that have so far accrued to Nigeria in 30 years of the scheme’s operation as mere drop in the ocean. This is so because in about 30 years after the first free zone was established in 1985, in Jebel Ali area in Dubai, the UAE has emerged the destination of choice for global trade and investment. This, to a large extent, came on the strength of UAE’s 45 FTZs and two financial free zones (Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and Abu Dhabi Global Market). Approximately 30 of the FTZs are located in Dubai and are vital to its economy, accounting for 41 per cent of Dubai’s total trade. Dubai’s FTZs also generated a combined total of $118 billion in trade value in 2017.1 The Jebel Ali Free Zone (JAFZA)—established in 1985—accounts for almost 32 per cent of the total FDI flowing into the UAE and for roughly 24 per cent of  Dubai’s annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In  2015, JAFZA alone generated trade worth $87.6 billion. The Chinese economy also owes its towering status in global trade and commerce to its vibrant FTZs. The Asian Tiger has successfully latched on the model to control the world’s markets, logistics and services, with its SEZs contributing 22 per cent of China’s GDP, 45 per cent of its total national FDI, and 60 per cent of exports. China’s SEZs are also estimated to have created over 30 million jobs, increased the income of participating farmers by 30 per cent, and accelerated industrialisation, agricultural modernisation, and urbanisation. In all the zones, multiple institutional incentives such as free movement of goods and people and preferential taxation are provided. But, why has Nigeria’s push to join its peers in the international community to savour the mouth-watering benefits of a FTZ or SEZ failed to yield the desired result? How come that the adoption and implementation of the same model that helped re-energise other national economies such as China, UAE, Brazil, Malaysia, and a host of other countries failed to put Nigeria on sound and competitive footing internationally? More importantly, why are operators of Nigeria’s 45 FTZs who are supposed to be smiling to the bank with proceeds from their investments currently screaming blue murder and pointing accusing fingers at government agencies and institutions for allegedly undermining the scheme?  The Nigeria Economic Zones Association (NEZ Association) was emphatic that at a time an increasing number of countries are employing SEZs as a veritable tool for fostering sustained economic growth, technological innovation and specialised skills transfer, Nigeria seems to be lagging behind in this direction. The Executive Director of the association, Mr. Toyin Elegbede, put the blame for Nigeria’s situation at the doorstep of policy inconsistency, problematic legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks, which, according to him, have continued to contribute to the lack of development and peak functionality of the free zones scheme in Nigeria. The occasion was a Stakeholders’ Forum organised by the association, in collaboration with the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) and the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA) in Lagos, last week. Its theme was “Streamlining Free Zone operations for global competitiveness,” and it was aimed at discussing and addressing the challenges facing operators in the SEZs in Nigeria. NEZ Association began operation about a year ago, and was established to provide a common platform for interaction among special zone operators, their relevant stakeholders and government regulatory agencies towards finding solutions to challenges to operating an FTZ in Nigeria. Incidentally, government regulatory agencies and other institutions are not unaware of the issues identified by Elegbede as holding the FTZs down. For instance, the Managing Director of Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA), Umana Okon Umana, said lack of infrastructure, interference by other agencies and institutions in the running of the scheme contribute to its lack-lustre performance. Without mincing words, Umana accused agencies such as Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Industrial Training Fund (ITF), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), and institutions such as Committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives etc. of clogging the wheel of progress by interfering in the running of the scheme. He identified other challenges facing free zone operators to include lack of infrastructure, lack of adequate legal framework or clarity thereof, noting: “The net impact of these challenges is that they have undermined the scheme and led to unnecessary interference and conflicts.”   Airlines, regulators in the eye of the storm     Building sustainable cassava seed system to boost…     AfCFTA: Is Nigeria ready to seize the opportunities?   The Chief Financial Officer, Lagos Free Zone, Mr. Ashish khemka, also lamented that not much had been done to make the values of the FTZs in Nigeria emerge. Noting that the success of many countries was based on the development of FTZs, he said lack of understanding, overlapping interventions of regulatory authorities and agencies hindered the scheme’s successes in Nigeria. The Federal Government also admitted that the scheme has so far under-performed. Adebayo conveyed this thinking during the stakeholders’ forum that “it was observed that the FTZs are, for the most part, unable to meet the expectations of the nation,” noting that despite the social and economic potential, operations within the FTZs are impacted by challenges. Some of the challenges, from his own perspective, include “infrastructural deficit, limited financing, and sometimes, misalignment of interests between operating firms and government agencies. Also, there are concerns around administrative bottlenecks with respect to multiple agencies coordinating various FTZs.” Changing the narrative  Sad as Nigeria’s experiment with FTZs as a game-changer may have been in the past three decades, a new dawn may be in the offing, one that promises to be win-win for operators of the FTZs, the government and indeed, Nigerians. Apparently motivated by concerns that the FTZs  had not delivered on the expected contributions to employment, government revenue and export proceeds as envisaged in various national development plans, Adebayo said, as part of efforts to reposition the scheme, the ministry, in December 2020, temporarily suspended the issuance of new free trade zone licences. The ministry also went a notch higher, establishing a committee to review the issues of ambiguity between supervisory authorities and the performance of licences and recommend the  reforms to unlock the FTZs’ true potential as an instrument of growth and diversification. Adebayo also revealed that a robust and strategic plan that would improve the performance of the zones had been developed, one that would improve the performance of the zones. “The advent of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) has necessitated the revival, reform and expansion of the zones and my ministry is taking steps to make the inactive FTZs functional while ensuring the removal of bottlenecks in the operation of active zones,” he added. Adebayo reiterated that FTZs posses the capacity to generate direct and indirect jobs and this is even more critical at a time unemployment is threatening the corporate existence of the nation. According to him, “industry experts estimate that a well-functioning free trade zone in Nigeria can generate upwards of 300, 000 direct jobs and 350, 000 indirect jobs”. He also pointed out that FTZs can help shore up the government’s revenue and, ultimately, improve Nigeria’s fiscal position, especially given the volatility of oil prices in the international market. Besides, expanding Nigeria’s export capacity needs under the AfCFTA, he said, would mitigate the risk of Nigeria becoming a dumping ground for imports while boosting her foreign currency reserves. For these to happen, the Managing Director, Dangote, Free Zone, Mr. Olayinka Akande, highlighted the need to fine-tune operations to include digitalised and more transparent systems that ensure that stakeholders had same set of directions at all times. He also said a holistic portal that addresses every issue must be created to provide the same set of information to all stakeholders in real time to ease operations at the trade zones. “Also, knowledge about free zones is still very sketchy to many people and this calls for the need to sensitise people on what FTZs are and what the expectations are to meet up. “The government and management must periodically look at the provided incentives and gauge their competitiveness elsewhere to preserve the incentives of the zones,” Akande added. The Deputy Comptroller-General, Excise Free Trade Zone, NCS, Mrs. Chinwe Ekekezie, announced that custom duty procedure was set to be fully automated before the end of this month. She said the only time officers of the Service would go for checks at the FTZs would be when there  is a doubt. Mrs Ekekezie charged the public to draw the attention of the NCS to any illegalities by any of its officers to make sure the laws or reasons for creating the free zones are achieved. “There is the need for synergy, tolerance and purpose in addressing administrative challenges and this brings me to call for inter-agency corporation among all stakeholders of the free trade zones,” she said. Other aspects of the push to create a fresh template for efficient and globally competitive FTZs in Nigeria include the unveiling of the new Special Economic Zones Security Unit, and the Federal Government’s directive that the validity period of licences for operators in FTZs across the country be extended to five years The Managing Director, NEPZA, Prof Adesoji Adesugba, said the special security outfit was in line with international best practice, where, all over the world, there is a special unit to guard the investors and guarantee investors’ confidence in any special economic zone. On the other hand, the Minister the extension of the validity of licences for FTZ operators was to mitigate challenges hindering their operation, noting that the directive also came on the heels of the Federal Government’s ease of doing business mandate. Adebayo, however, stressed that yearly returns must be made by the operators following the directive on license expansion, assuring that before the end of this month, “all the issues with duty payment would be resolved.”