Popular singer Naira Marley has asked his numerous fans if they will vote for him if he picks the presidential form of any of the parties. The Marlian president as he’s also known said he may obtain the presidential nomination form the All Progressives Congress(APC) pegged at N100million. The “Soapy” singer said he would like to hear from his fans and followers before going ahead with his ‘intention’. “If I get that presidential form, shey una go vote for me?” Naira Marley asked. His question has since been attracting responses from social media users with many responding in the negative while corroborating their stance with obvious reasons. @DanielRegha tweeted: “Naira Marley u are n¤t a good role model. Ur music is taste!ess, ur lifestyle is utterly d!spleasing & u have zer¤ leadership qualities. With ur star power there’s a lot u can do to make the world a better place but u chose not to, hope u turn over a new leaf soon. No offense.” @prince_ibim said: “We would have but we don’t want a Nigeria of Legalize weed smoking, free sharing of child and adult pornography, sex intercourse anywhere even in express way and schools, girls without pant and bra, boys without belt. Giving award to best sex wiper.” @AkerelePhebe wrote: “No. Wetin you do for people? How many u don help? U no dey support ur fans now.”   Psquare born to entertain, says AY     Learn from mistakes not regrets – Burna Boy     Wizkid laughs off Banky W’s interview   @aboy_alfred stated: “I will not instead of you to use that 100m for the ticket why not share us the money for us to be alright uncle.” @destinykelx asked: “The first thing you’ll do as the president is to legalize weed for your fellow Malians abi?” @Shigo71 tweeted: “If for anything else, music, dance and talent hunting I can vote for you, but as my president is a no no. My kind of president, is someone who I can copy from far distant, unfortunately I can’t copy not to talk less of my kids.” @OlaCalebs said: “Naija go turn Sodom and Gomorrah be dat.. May your dream for post neva come true..” @ObeleOkwute wrote: “Why not, some of us will vote for you, while some of us will vote for Sowore or Moghalu but the majority of us will vote for a better future. We will seriously vote for Peter Obi to seriously rebuild Nigeria.” @Mr_WhistleDowN stated: “Boss you lack all the qualities of a good leader…Just saying respectfully but YES Amma VOTE for You.” @Lilsly0 tweeted: “No way Marley U go just change Nigeria name to marlians nation.” @PorchZamani said: “Them no born my papa well make I no vote Wetin all this old man dey do there make you just legalize marijuana I don tire for NDLEA matter.” @AcmethOrf wrote: “I rather vote for you than to vote of those grandfathers…”