Professor Akinjide Oladepo Osuntokun has been a part of Nigeria’s living history being an eyewitness and participant in some of the tempestuous aspects. Now at 80, he reflects on the toss and twist of life and is also grateful for good health and sound mind. He was appointed in 1991 as Nigeria’s first Ambassador to the United Federal Republic of Germany where he became a force to reckon with in the international community owing to his intellectual prowess and balanced world views on national policies. During his tenure in Germany, the chairman of the German council would meet about 45 ambassadors from Africa and Osuntokun’s opinion on racism, corruption, world power etc would stand out in the discourse that contributed to world peace and socio-economic relations. Unfortunately, like the Biblical John the Baptist who got beheaded by King Herod for speaking against the evil done by the royal head, Osuntokun nearly died in military detention, following his arrest ordered by General Sanni Abacha, Nigeria’s former military Head of State. His ordeal came as a result of his public lecture that criticized the activities of that government. Being in detention in Apapa, Lagos for 6months was the worst part of his experiences as a gentleman who’s noted for spirited public service. Sadly, his prophecy about Nigeria’s ostracization from the international community is fast becoming her reality over 20 years after he had spoken the truth to power. He said “the truth I spoke was that if Abacha continued with the policy he was pursuing, the government of Nigeria would have problems and we would pay dearly for it. At the end of the day, restrictions were placed on their movements. His ministers couldn’t go anywhere except North Korea. They didn’t like the criticism and I paid dearly for it. I nearly died for doing nothing other than giving a harmless public lecture.” This was a dramatic end to his tour of duty as Ambassador and he was replaced by Chief M.T. Mbu, who, though a civilized gentleman and former Minister, was initially unaccepted by the German president who didn’t see the need to have Nigeria represented in their country following the news of the interim Ambassador’s unreasonable treatment by the Military Head of State. One of the results of the ostracisation was the regulation and processes Nigerians would be subjected to before and when they get into other countries. For example “Even though the Germans treated me with great respect when I was Ambassador, the story wasn’t the same ten years later as I was now subjected to serious screenings, checks and useless questionings. They apologized that the new processes were necessary because not many Nigerians could be trusted anymore. Sadly, my colleague, Professor Jubril Aminu, Former Vice Chancellor of the University of Maiduguri and Chairman of foreign relations committee, suffered the same fate including former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and Sir Shehu Shagari and who were told to come do a physical thumbprint at the American embassy if their trips were important to them. I don’t blame the international community at all because these people see how Nigerian politicians loot the treasury to amass wealth and go abroad to purchase houses worth 10 million pounds. They have no respect for a country that has so many resources and yet cannot provide uninterrupted power supply or water to its people. Our voice is muffled internationally,” he lamented. Osuntokun’s life attests to the fact that there are still few rational intellectuals and individuals who care about the nation and are hopeful for the restoration of its polity. Though he agonises about the concurrent nosedive of the nation’s economy and in other areas, Osuntokun’s optimism for a better future is proof that there is light at the end of the dark tunnel that Nigeria and Nigerians are in. His dedication and commitment to excellence, earned him a reputation of being the honorary presidential adviser on international affairs from 1999 to 2015. This duty, he carried out judiciously without being paid a salary as his contribution to the formulation of his country’s foreign policy. This true son of Oduduwa, a compatriot and a leader, a man who has indelibly engraved his name on the sands of time through his acts of meritorious service has attained the rank of Pro-Chancellor of Ekiti State University, formerly known as University of Ado-Ekiti; served as a professor of History at the Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State; and Adviser to a Minister of Foreign affairs. All these achievements he attributed to divine providence, friendship and a good name established by members of his family, who, though were not endowed with generational wealth and fancy inheritances, had a reputation for their determination, willpower, and physical prowess. A father of four children and a grandfather to six, Osuntokun’s commitment to communal living and family relationship is worth commending. His firm view on domestication of both boys and girls from childhood is not very popular in many homes today. According to him, “As the last child of my mother in a polygamous home, I was a spoilt brat until I clocked 9. My elder brother took me away and taught me how to cook, do domestic chores and contribute in my little way to the family economy – as customary for male children of my age group in those days. My brother didn’t spare the rod on me either when I did wrong things. Thankfully, all these experiences came in handy when I lost my wife over 20 years ago. While lecturing at Redeemer’s University, I went shopping, blended pepper and did my cooking by myself.   Eight African nations with highest inflation rates in 2022     41 Nigerians who are Guinness World Records holders     Five Nigerian celebrities holding political offices   Recounting the moments shared with his late wife, Osuntokun said “She was somebody I shared my youth and successes with; it was a devastating blow on my melancholic nature when she died in 2003. There were attempts to persuade me to remarry, but I refused because it wouldn’t have been fair to the memory of my wife and also it would be unfair to the person I would have married as I would always compare both of them. My wife would have been 75 this year but God took her away about 20 years ago. I’m sure that when we get to heaven, he will tell me why he took her away prematurely. I would roll to her side of the bed and realise she’s no more there. Those were terrible moments that I don’t wish for anyone to experience. All my kids are now married abroad so it’s been very lonely staying in Nigeria. However, I believe that my being resident in Redemption Camp has greatly contributed to the longevity of my life. The serenity of the environment has enabled me do my morning walks of several kilometers without fear of being kidnapped or knocked down by a hit and run driver. I also bury myself in my writing which I am indeed grateful for.” Speaking on the increasing rate of divorce ravaging Africa today, Osuntokun explains that “in Africa, it is assumed that a marriage is averagely between 16 persons, that is, the couple, their four parents, their siblings, grandparents (if alive) and a few other members of the extended family. I understand you may have to set boundaries here and there but this is Nigeria, where people are very keen on family relationships. Sometimes, it can be very crowdy but I’ll advise young men in your generation to marry girls that they love absolutely. Even if the girl doesn’t love him initially, the love will grow naturally when she sees that he stands by her, fights for her, cares for her and protects her because of the love in his heart. That way, the issue of divorce may not occur in that family.” Like many children who are victims of bullying and resentment in schools, Osuntokun juxtaposed on his share of that experience as an undergraduate. “My elder brother was a minister under Awolowo- Akintola administration. And there was a crisis of Action Group in 1961-62 when Chief Awolowo faced treasonable felony trial. I had just gained admission into the University of Ibadan in 1963 when I became a victim of all kinds of snide remarks, abuse and name-calling. My brother had taken sides with the Akintola faction, and generally, it was very unpopular with the students’ generation at the University of Ibadan. It was really surprising to me because I didn’t participate in politics but only connected through blood relations. It was almost depressed because it was unfair that a child should be blamed for such a crisis that was going on at that time. Quite a lot happened during his studentship at the University. For instance, he and his friends founded what evolved into the Eiye Confraternity today. The group, which was formed just for lively discussions, parties and philosophical conversations, was hijacked by non-meaning Nigerians and made into a secret society that mirrored Ogboni tradition. “I grew up in a Christian environment as a child but later took to partying, dancing, drinking and womanizing. Throughout my academic sojourn in the University, I’m not sure I went to church more than 10 times. I always joked that all the church activities I had engaged in at Christ school, Ado-Ekiti, would have made up for a lifetime of worship but now when I look back, I wish I had taken God more seriously in my youth. You know I dated a few girls and promised one or two marriage which never happened but I have restituted and I believe that God has forgiven me all my past errors. Though I have never killed or deliberately injured someone or given a position that belonged to someone to another person, I would have still done better if I was serious with God early enough. So, I advise young people to seek God seriously in their youth. I am glad when I see young people in this generation who express their love for God and knowledge of Him in very profound ways beyond just going to church and singing hymns which was the custom in my childhood days.” Speaking on the principles that helped him navigate through the highs and lows into the realms of greatness, Osuntokun elucidates the importance of having respect for time. “In my secondary school days, we had English men as teachers who had great regard for time. If your teacher fixed a class for 9am, you can’t stutter in by 9:05. When I was Ambassador, I discovered that if a German gives you an appointment for 9:00 am, you had to be there 10 minutes before time. Germany had no industrial resources except for brain power but they have been able to achieve all that they have today because they respect time. You should realise that wastage of time is synonymous to wastage of life and my never be regained.” He further advised young people to stand up for the truth always and be courageous. “People may say you are stubborn, arrogant or rude when you confront them with the truth but please, don’t let down your principles for immediate gratification or wanton prosperity. Be courageous and have an unflinching resolve to be known for the truth. If I was quiet about my principles, I probably would be more popular and richer than I am today but I won’t have that at all. I wish Nigerians would tell one another the truth always, then the trajectory of the nation may take an upward flight and things should start getting better for us,” he added. For young people who are uninterested in academic pursuits due to the decline of the Nigerian educational sector or are at the verge of dropping out, Osuntokun advised them not to lose hope but to “be the best you can be, graduate at the top of your class. Get a first class degree if you can as this will give you a leverage in the international scene in the coming years. Learn new skills but take school very seriously now because your certificates will position you for bigger and better opportunities. In fact, now, Nigerians are hired by international organisations to work remotely (in Nigeria) while they earn their pay in dollars. If you’re really brilliant, opportunities for making progress will come to you. Please, never give up!” Despite his public experience and private travails, Professor Osuntokun remains a great investor in the future of Nigeria. For our country to make progress, there’s an urgent need for strategic action. Though it seems like autocracy and democracy have failed, well-meaning Nigerians with good character and moral uprightness must still get involved in politics. They must be ready to follow the example of Professor Osuntokun to speak the truth to one another courageously, in spite of the seeming consequences. Sacrificing his comfort zone for the restoration of democracy to Nigeria isn’t an enviable feat but it must be commended and replicated on all levels so that we can have the Nigeria of our dreams where Oshodi will share similitude with New York city and Aba will look like China, becoming one of the largest producers of consumer goods and services fit for world use.