The Federal Government yesterday inaugurated the council members of the Surveyors’ Council of Nigeria (SURCON), which replaced the defunct Surveyors Licensing Board of Nigeria. The Agency of the government, which consists of 59 members, among which are the President, Surveyor-General of the Federation, Surveyor-General of each state, appointees of the President of Nigeria from four universities, will ensure the registration of surveyors, as well as regulate the practice of the profession in the country. During the inauguration, the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN) urged the members of the Council to carry out their responsibilities with a sense of nation-building and creating the next generation of skilled manpower for the development of the country. Noting that the tenure of the Council is three years, beginning from March 28, 2022, when President Muhammadu Buhari approved its establishment, Fashola said: “You are serving as manpower developers. You are to develop Nigeria’s human capital and the next generation of people who would take over from us.   AI Report: Eight years after Chibok school attack, over…     Buhari backs judgment on 35% affirmation for women     Sokoto Assembly Speaker dumps APC for PDP   “Your appointment is to determine those who will play in the field of developing and harnessing geospatial data. This is a task of nation-building.  You are appointed to serve and help rebuild Nigeria. “You are constituted now to solve problems and not to become the problem. .” The Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Mr Bashir Nura Alkali, added: “The SURCON is a successor to the defunct Surveyors’ Licensing Board of Nigeria, which had the charge of licensing and disciplining surveyors in Nigeria. However, the increase in the duties of the Board necessitated the establishment of an Agency that will undertake the regulation of the surveying profession in Nigeria with an expanded knowledge. This led to the establishment of SURCON as an Agency of the government.”