The Federal Government has said barite production has reached the American Petroleum Institute (API) standard. It said the achievement would save the country millions of dollars spent on importing the product yearly. The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, in a statement said the government is also looking into exporting barite to other African countries to earn revenue. The statement said Adegbite spoke during the visit of the Belgian ambassador to the ministry. He said the ministry was opened to collaborating with Belgium to further develop the sector.   Strike not solution to auto policy problem     IMF warns of crypto currency risks     ‘Technology can expand franchise’   Adegbite said the ministry was making the sector more vibrant by fulfilling its mandate to diversify the economy away from oil, to create jobs and to raise the revenue profile of the government. “Last year, we launched the Nigerian barite to show that we can produce barite that meets the API standard in our country. This will save us millions of dollars spent on importing barite every year, which would also create jobs and lead to skills specialisation in some specific fields. We are also looking at the possibilities of eventually exporting barite to other African countries which would earn our country revenue,” he said. The Belgian envoy expressed his country’s interest in the sector. He said: ‘I am just looking to see if there is any possibility of cooperation between both countries as your sector is concerned.” Adegbite also said the ministry had unveiled some business-friendly incentives and policy in the sector to make it more attractive to foreign investors. “Some of the incentives we have instituted to make the sector more attractive to investors include Customs and import duties waiver for plant, machinery and equipment imported for     mining operations. Tax holidays of between three to five years as applicable. Free transferability of funds and permission to retain and use earned foreign exchange. Capital allowances of up to 95 per cent of qualifying capital expenditure. Deductibility of Environmental Costs (money meant for environmental remediation will be tax free) 100 per cent ownership of mineral properties.