Coleman Wires and Cables (Coleman Technical Industries Ltd) has said the production of GAP Cable locally will save the country a huge sum in foreign exchange and prevent scarcity of the product. This was in reaction to the transmission cable (GAP cable) that would be launched soon. “The major advantage to us is that the new technology cable that transmits power is now being made locally, which means the forex that has been put into importation can be put into Naira,” the Managing Director/CEO of Coleman, Mr. George Onafowokan, has said. The Coleman boss, who lamented the scarcity of forex, said that production of imported products in the country can save forex and also prevent scarcity. He explained that the production of GAP cable by his company would stop its importation and enable the country to replace obsolete and expired transmission lines, which he said contributed to the poor power supply in the country. “The transmission line now needs a more powerful gap cable. Until Coleman started making this locally, we had been importing this cable for the past 10 years.   Swings in oil and gas prices: Implication for Nigeria     Enugu professionals in Diaspora laud Mbah as Sanwo-Olu…     ‘Take advantage of energy transition to attract investment’   “Invariably, the major advantage of this to Nigeria is that we can now buy the cable locally with our currency. The GAP cable would be able to replace obsolete and expired transmission lines,” Onafowokan stated. He also said Coleman will guarantee the production of transmission cables in Nigeria, which would guarantee jobs. “We have set aside another N150 billion for the expansion of the production of more GAP cables in Nigeria to speed up our achievement in this regard,” he said. Also speaking on how the company is thriving amidst the economic situation of the country, Onafowokan said with backward integration and support from the Bank of Industry (BOI) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the company was able to weather the storm of inflation and other headwinds. Onafowokan explained that the firm has successfully paid back Series 11 N3.804 billion under its N20 billion Commercial Paper (CP) Issuance Programme on the FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited (FMDQ Exchange). Coleman recently admitted N6.05 billion series 3 & 4 CP under its N20 billion CP Issuance Programme on the FMDQ Exchange. Reacting to the new development, the Managing Director/CEO of Coleman, Mr. George Onafowokan, said the additional working capital would enable the company to increase the capacity of its business.