The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA), Ibrahim Odumboni, has urged engineers to design bailing machines for plastic materials to make recycling more attractive and less capital intensive. He flayed the use of brown pet bottles for packaging of plastic drinks, urging firms doing so to stick to white ones. Odumboni stated these at a stakeholders’ consultative forum for plastic recycling, organised by Giz, a German firm, at the Sheraton Hotels, Ikeja, Lagos. He said the bailing component of recycling was vital and fabricated machines would go a long way in simplifying the process, since they “are cheaper and more easily maintained. “Bailing is an important component of the plastic recycling process.We need our innovative and enterprising engineers, to come up with locally designed and manufactured bailing machines, that would be durable and affordable for our recycling investors. It will be easy to maintain them. If we have this, the business of plastic recycling will gradually become less capital intensive and better domesticated. This is my challenge to our local engineers and I know they can do it.   Towards a rancour-free regulation for real estate     Alaro City to deliver 96 apartments     Surveyors to members: don’t give your seal to quacks   “Honestly, too, I do not understand why some manufacturers use brown pet bottles to package drinks for us to consume. Why? You do not see this in the United Kingdom or Dubai for example. What is wrong with using white transparent pet bottles? Please, such drink producers should take a second look,” Odumboni insisted. He said no less than 500 bags of fertiliser is produced daily from organic waste at the LAWMA facility in Odogunyan, a surburb of Lagos, adding that several tonnes of briquette from sawdust are also  produced daily from another LAWMA facility at Agbowa, also Lagos surburb. The LAWMA chief enjoined the stakeholders’, to shun needless competition and work in synergy and collaboration, to tap the huge economic opportunity in the business, noting that there was more than enough floating pet bottles, to go round all investors in the value-chain. Odumboni took a swipe at some NGOs, exploiting the process with their cosmetic engagements, describing them as a burden, with their sharp and ill-intentioned practices, urging them to be truthful, honest and fair, in their chosen endeavour. Also speaking, one of the panelists, executive secretary of Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance, (FBRA), Mrs. Agharese Onaghise,  noted that the 22-member group had been self-funding in its various interventions for plastic recovery, promising that the group would collaborate more, to stabilize the recycling value-chain, for fair reward to all stakeholders and investors.