The Managing Director, Bank of Industry (BoI), Olukayode Pitan yesterday said the bank has raised close to $4billion in the last four years from over 100 international banks and investors from 20 countries as most of the funds end up in foreign reserve, while assuring that in the next few years the bank will increase the figure from $4billion  to $10 billion. Pitan spoke during the commissioning ceremony of Bank of Industry Towers 2 in Abuja While applauding President Muhammadu Buhari for his support, he said it was through the president’s passion for the country’s development that all these have happened, adding that Buhari is a great supporter of the bank and a firm believer in its ability to drive industrial and economic transformation. Pitan  noted that it is by the support of Buhari that the bank has been able to approach the international capital market and concluded various funding transactions, which include a $750 million syndicated medium-term loan in 2018, which has now been fully paid,  a 1billion Euros syndicated loan in March 2020,  a $1billion syndicated loan in December 2020,  and the most recent one, the 750million  Euros Senior Eurobond the first by any African national Development Finance Institution (DFI)  in February 2022, which sovereign guarantee was also approved by the National Assembly.   Reps threaten sanction against NNPC over absence during…     Minister: Non-oil sector contributed 70% of N6.4t tax     Senate orders MultiChoice, others to halt tariff hike   These funds he said, have significantly improved the bank’s capacity to continually support Nigeria’s real sector. “My appreciation would be incomplete, if I do not mention the appointment of BoI as the executing institution for several of the Federal Government’s social intervention programmes. These include the Government Enterprise Empowerment Programme (GEEP), N-Power, MSME Survival Fund, AfDB Special Agro Procession Zones (SAPZs) initiative, and the AfDB Investment in Digital and Creative Enterprise (i-DICE) programme amongst others,” Pitan said. Similarly the bank’s innovative and technology driven platform has been very instrumental to the overwhelming success of the various government social intervention programmes including but not limited to, the Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan(NESP): This is a ?75 Billion MSME Survival Fund and Guaranteed Off-take Scheme for MSME,  as of  February 28, 2022, a total of 1,159,684 beneficiaries had benefited from this scheme.?50 billion Export Expansion Facility Fund (Under the Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan-Fund (NESP-F). This fund was successfully managed in conjunction with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) to support MSME exporters and diversifying our export earnings. He said: “As at February 28, 2022 a total of 1,700 MSMEs had benefited from this fund. World Bank $750 Million Nigeria Covid-19 Action Recovery & Economic Stimulus (NG-CARES) PROJECT, the project is designed to deliver much needed relief to businesses struggling with the impact of the pandemic in all states of the federation. BoI has been appointed as the implementing agency of this project. This building that is being commissioned today was initiated by my predecessors whose foresight envisioned the bank’s continued growth and expansion; and thought it befitting for the bank to develop these projects. Tower 1 was completed in 2010 while the contract for this Tower 2 was awarded in 2012. “However, work on Tower 2 was suspended in 2015. The current Board and management decided to revisit the project by entering into negotiations with the contractor and consultants. Following the negotiation, a fixed price contract supported by Bank guarantees was awarded in 2019,” he said. Speaking, the Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Adebayo Adeniyi said BoI is one of the 15 agencies that is supervised by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment. The institution has added significant value to the Federal Government’s Industrialisation Agenda over the past 62 years. “Your Excellency, kindly permit me to also especially thank you, the Federal Executive Council and our distinguished legislators at the National Assembly for approving the sovereign guarantee for BoI’s maiden Eurobond transaction of €750million, which was successfully concluded in February of this year. This deal represents BOI’s first Eurobond, the provision of Nigeria’s first Eurobond guarantee, as well as the first Euro-denominated Bond transaction from Nigeria, creating a benchmark for other prospective issuers from Africa,” he said.