Atletico Madrid FC could face UEFA sanction after their Champions League quarter-final with Manchester City FC on Wednesday ended with ugly scenes on and off the pitch. Scuffles broke out late in the match and in the tunnel as Atletico’s frustrations at their failure to prise open City’s defence boiled over. City, reach the semi-finals after a hard-fought goalless draw with a 1-0 lead from last week’s first leg. The first major flashpoint came late in the game as a melee erupted after Felipe kicked City’s Phil Foden, whose head he had also bloodied in a poor earlier challenge. Atletico defender, Stefan Savic, pulled unused City substitute, Jack Grealish’s hair after the pair had exchanged words. Felipe was sent off for his involvement. The problems continued after the teams left the field with players needing to be separated in the tunnel. TV footage showed objects being thrown and police reportedly became involved to restore order. There were also suggestions City manager, Pep Guardiola had liquid thrown at him as he headed towards the tunnel. Guardiola later said he had “nothing to say” in relation to the trouble but did add that “everyone saw the action.”   UCL: Dare recalls Nigeria’s finest moments       UCL: Chukwueze hailed for historic goal against Bayern     Mali shortlist  Rohr for Eagles coaching job   The City boss preferred to focus on his side’s rearguard action in the face of ferocious pressure. City did hit the post through Ilkay Gundogan in the first half but spent most of the second period in a rearguard action. Atletico, criticised for their defensive attitude in the first leg, finally upped the tempo. “We defended everything but they had the chances. “They did everything. They know this competition and this stadium with their people. Always it is difficult,” said Guardiola. City, who are chasing a treble this season, are back in action against Liverpool in the FA Cup semi-finals on Saturday. “I don’t know what will happen in the next weeks but today we are going to celebrate,” Guardiola said on BT Sport. Action by UEFA would come just days after Atletico were hit with a partial stadium closure for the second leg against City for the “discriminatory behaviour” of their fans during the game in Manchester last week. That punishment was suspended just hours before the match on Wednesday following an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. (dpa/NAN)