An Akwa Ibom State governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Pastor David Okpon, has said the party may lose the state if a level playing ground is not provided for all aspirants. Okpon, during an interaction with reporters yesterday in Uyo, advised the PDP to resist the temptation of imposing a candidate. He said: “We are no longer in the leadership of the country. That time the president was a PDP person, you could do what you like not now that other parties are looking to take over your state. “If you mess up, another party will take over the state from you, so you better keep a level playing field so that people can see that they won and lost correctly, and so they join the rest and fight for the party to keep the state.” Okpon expressed confidence in the integrity of the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, to ensure justice, equity and fair-play for all aspirants.   Edo announces recruitment into civil service     ‘I’ll revitalise Delta’s moribund industries’     NCDC approves private lab for COVID-19 test in Edo   “Iyorchia Ayu is a smart politician with a lot of integrity. He won’t do anything to lose Akwa Ibom and Rivers states. He can’t afford to mess up with the two richest states in the country. Every other party wants Akwa Ibom State. “Concerning Umo Eno, the governor has brought out his preferred candidate but his preferred candidate may not be the people’s preferred candidate. It may not even be the one that will win. The only challenge I have is the governor’s claim that God revealed Umo Eno to him. If God did reveal the person to him, then of course I am sure God will show up for him, so let’s watch and see”. The governorship hopeful also blamed demonic powers for the failure of industries in the state, saying evil foundations must be dealt with first before the state can have a breakthrough. “It was through spiritual intercessions that we realised what was wrong with these companies. Do you know how many people have bought the Quality Ceramics factory? People have bought the Biscuit factory yet they couldn’t get it to work. “Are the industries set up by Governor Udom Emmanuel working? Why hasn’t his coconut trees grown? These are questions we need to ask and tackle spiritually”, he added.