One-time Ekiti State governor, Segun Oni, now gunning for a second term after a hiatus of over a decade, in this interview with Gboyega Alaka, enunciates his unique selling points and why he believes the people are on his side this time. There was an incident midweek in Efon Alaye where your convoy was attacked as you went on consultation; tell us about it. First, it wasn’t consultations as such. We are in a new party, we know that people have shifted to where we are and we  believe it was right for us to go and meet with them, as a way of familiarising ourselves with one another. That was what we were doing; however, when we got to Efon Alaye, we were attacked by some hoodlums. But we thank God there were no serious injury to anybody. What are your concerns going into the election? The major one has come up in Efon, thuggery. Security. We are appealing to the law enforcement agencies to stand up to their calling. Let us be honest; it is not difficult for anybody to procure violence, but some people don’t want to procure violence. I don’t want to procure violence, but it is not because we cannot. Those who are procuring it are people like us, but they have a different orientation. We are saying don’t let us destroy the younger ones. The government created the poverty that they are battling. Let’s face it, how much is a thug paid? But they don’t have any other thing to do, and that is why they would risk their lives. Even in their own eyes, the worth of their lives is very small. So, if the security personnel do their job, the propensity for thuggery and violence will reduce. You are contesting against strong oppositions, talking about former Governor Fayose camp  on the one hand and the incumbent Governor Fayemi camp, with its federal might; how do you hope to surmount them? The people are on our side; and with the people, you can surmount any principalities or forces. And if anybody thinks he can push the people aside, then they have another thing coming. Without people, there will be no politics, and the people have made up their minds that this is what they want. So what are you going to do about it? I think it’s about having the right attitude. When Clinton as governor of Arkansas went for reelection and lost, he simply he went back to the people and asked, what did I do wrong that made you say no to me. But the Nigerian politician would not do that. Rather, they would think that ‘maybe we have not given them enough money; maybe we did not deploy our rigging tactics as we should’. And that is why I placed the billboard message, WE ARE ON THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE PEOPLE; so as to let them know that they have gone wrong.  They, by their misrule, placed us on the right side of history. And if anybody wants to remove us from that position, it is not by thuggery. Are you concerned about vote buying? Yes, we are concerned about vote buying and we believe that is one of the evils that have to be uprooted. But don’t forget, these guys have afflicted the people with extreme poverty, such that one meal to some people is life and death. Therefore, if you go to some people and say ‘vote and cook a pot of stew they would listen to you. But with education, we believe people will now begin to ask questions. This vote you want from me, how long will it take you to come back for another? This stew, how long will it take me before I need to cook another stew? Four days maximum. So that means you are trading four days for four years; and they would know they have really gotten it wrong. You seem so sure that the people are on your side, what gives you that conviction? Because we listen to them, we hear them. We all are Ekiti people, we live there, we know we are on the right side of history, because the people are saying it and flaunting it. And that is the beginning of a revolution to come.   2023: Tinubu, Amaechi, four others seeking APC presidential…     2023: Why I want to succeed Buhari, by Amaechi     Nnamdi Kanu’ll be released in May – Bishop   Has there been a survey to that effect, even if informal? There have been surveys and surveys and surveys. Nobody can be in this business without surveys. The people are saying, whether you want to accept it or not, they want a new terrain. There are insinuations that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is on your side this time. First, I believe that all politicians who want the good of the society would be in my support because they know that what I represent is politics of development.  My unique selling point is my integrity, and the fact that I think. And I must tell you, it’s not empty posturing. I believe we can make Nigeria better. The activities of human beings created this Nigeria as it is now, so I believe the activities of human beings can reverse it. What do you hope to do differently to boost the economy of Ekiti State? Let me tell you, I boosted the economy the first time I was in office and I’ll give you the statistics. The Human Development Report published in 2009, analysed Nigeria by states and we were number 34 on statutory allocation; but the same Human Development index ranked us 24 on GDP per capital. If our GDP was only on allocation, we would probably be number 34 or 36. It means there is a very reasonable level of IGR work being done. Moving further, the same Human Development index ranked us number 10 in overall Human Development index. Also, at that time, Ekiti was rated to have the highest average life expectancy in Nigeria. We didn’t have UCH, we didn’t have LUTH, but people were living longest in Ekiti. We were applying ourselves, applying our thinking. We simply went to the fundamentals. Most of the problems, people didn’t even know when we started solving them. When we said we were going to start boarding schools, our opponent, then the ACN, went about telling people not to put their children in boarding school. We gave pupils of schools that agreed to have boarding laptops; because we couldn’t give a laptop to a child that went home every day, otherwise half of it would have been stolen within a week. Aside that, there won’t be power at home to power them. We also made the (boarder) schools Vsat enabled. The teachers said we had not taught them how to apply the laptops, but I said no, this is not about the teachers; this is about the children finding their ways and becoming friends with their laptops. We also put school contents in there, which we did not tell them. We knew that when they search, they’ll discover them.  And they were discovering and discovering, and our vision was that in the three years that they would be addicted to their laptops, some of them would stumble on ideas that the world would be willing to purchase off them. If I didn’t build roads, they would have gone about saying he didn’t  build roads, but because I wanted to satisfy the basics, I did more roads than anybody else. There was also water. I brought a sports development programme that brought Chief Onigbinde, accomplished names like Amelia Edet; I brought a certified US TA development coach from America. All these we hope to continue. How deep is your pocket because you are competing with people who are likely to outspend you? Well, we don’t have deep pocket, we must say. If we wanted to have a deep pocket, we probably would have stolen the place dry. Some people have deep pockets because they didn’t do what they should while in office. There are governments in Ekiti that went all over the world searching for foreign investments, and you journalists have not asked them, where are the foreign investments? If any came in, the CBN must know. Where is the CBN report to that effect? I am not ashamed to say I don’t have a deep pocket, because deep pocket is euphemism for stealing while in government. What has changed since you were governor over a decade ago? The environment itself has changed. As governor, I ran a health system that was probably the most efficient in the country. I had a revolving drug scheme, whereby if you go to any hospital or health centre in Ekiti, more than 19 times out of 20, you went away with your drugs. And what was I doing? We had a central medical store where some very rare drugs were stocked. The fast moving ones were stocked everywhere. If you went to the pharmacy counter in Iyemero and the drugs were not there, they would put a call through to central store in Ado; and we had some power bikes that would speed those drugs to you within an hour or two. We were doing that because that was the level of technology available at the time. Today, we may still have power bikes, but we will also use drones, because they will be faster and more efficient. Since your first time out as governor, you have moved from PDP to APC to PDP and now SDP; that may make you appear like a man desperate for power. That is not about desperation, that is clearly about the attitude of somebody who is not satisfied with the evils or inadequacies that exist in the system. I am busy looking for the ideal for Nigeria;  not for me. Let us face it, the way we are managing political parties now still falls short of expectations. I was national vice chairman, and later deputy national chairman of two different parties, and I knew that these parties could be managed better. A party, for example that has no sure source of revenue, and you journalists have never asked questions. They will rely on the governors to give them money, and those monies belong to the people of their respective states not the overall people of Nigeria. And that money means he who pays the piper must dictate the tunes. Some have said the governors are overbearing; why would they not be overbearing? If you put money in a venture, would you be happy to be pushed aside when decisions are being taken? Yes when a political parties starts, they may rely on donations, but for how long? ANC, the oldest political party in Africa does not rely on donations. they are major share holders in MTN, so every time you are buying an MTN recharge card, you are patronising the ANC. They also have substantial investments in some mines. But here, nobody is even thinking about it, so when you say somebody is moving from one party to the other, it is because he is looking for an alternative that can proffer the real solutions. That is the kind of person that I am.