A former Senate President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, has unveiled his roadmap to clinch the top post on Friday, saying the magic wand was for the PDP to re-invent itself. Speaking at a consultative meeting with leaders of the PDP from the six geo-political zones in Abuja, Anyim promised to return Nigeria to the path of peace, unity and progress, if elected president next year. According to him, the PDP stood a great chance to return to power after its dramatic fall from power. He, however, warned the party to avoid the mistakes that led to its fall from power in 2015, saying that Nigerians were currently clamouring for the return of the party to steer the ship of state. The former lawmaker, who cited some successes recorded by the PDP while in power, noted that the achievements made by the party did not come overnight but were done systematically and were planned for. “We were planning that for the second tenure of President Goodluck Jonathan we would stretch out these plans and policies, to deliver maximum results but unfortunately, that administration was truncated. “If you stand by me, if you partner with me, we will return this country again to the path of peace; on the path of growth and on the path to prosperity.” Anyim advised PDP leaders and members not to repeat “the mistake of 2015” when some of them pulled out of the party to other parties to pursue their political ambitions. “In 2015 some of us in PDP, simply decided to pull out of PDP to bring that government down. We were thereafter plunged into darkness. That is why we are where we are today.   Inflation rate hit 15.92% in March     …Igbo youth leaders condemn attack     Imo attack: INEC makes contact with two missing staff   “Let nobody confuse you. Let nobody mislead you. We were confused and misled in 2015 and that is why we are here. We now have an opportunity to come together and re-invent ourselves. “Do you agree with me that Nigerians are saying please return us to 2015? If Nigerians are begging us to return them to 2015, do you have any reason not to support me?” Anyim argued that if the PDP must rescue Nigeria it has to first, reinvent itself and set itself on the path of equity, fairness and justice. “When we set ourselves on these paths we will be able to lift our country with a pedestal that will secure the buy-in of everybody and the commitment of everybody to continue to build our nation.” Anyim said that one of the major problems of Nigeria was that people never realised that politics was not just a game but a platform on which nations were built, “hence games were being played with people’s destiny”. “I want to say that in returning Nigeria to the part of growth, we have to build a new foundation or at least return to where we stopped in 2015.” Anyim attributed the insecurity in the country to what he characterized as “betrayal of democracy, bad governance and bad leadership”. Everybody should find space to make a decent living and be proud of this country. “We shall together build a country all of us shall be proud of, if I’m elected into power,” Anyim assured.