Rotary Club of Gbagada South and its partners have inaugurated a set of 10 toilets worth $35,000 to the Papa Oluhunda Community Primary School, Ibafo in Ogun State. The partners are Districts 9110 International and its United States’ 5170 counterparts. Others are Rotary clubs of Morgan Hill, Gilroy, Gilroy Sunrise, Almadan Valley, Holister and San Juan Bautista. According to Rotary Club of Gbagada South President, Mr. Uchenna Okweugo, the project’s execution was the fulfillment of dream for them. He noted that, last year, the club completed a set of classrooms for the same school. He said they donated a set of toilets to Oworonshoki School Complex in Lagos State. He promised to do more for the Ibafo school. He thanked their partners for keeping their promise to the delivery of the structure. The club’s Chairman, Global Grant Committee, Biliamin Sanni, noted that when they got to the school in the 2017/2018 Rotary Year, it had no functional toilet. He said this was why they embarked on the project after needs assessment. He also noted that since they completed the classrooms, its population had increased, adding that their first project in the community was a borehole.   How Nigeria can improve learning outcomes, by UNICEF     LBS, others to make youths sustainable job creators     Foundation, tech firm to train Osun students   The District Governor (DG), Remi Bello, lauded the club for a job well done and for siting it were it is needed most – a rural school. He noted that the project fell under one of Rotary’s seven focal areas – Basic Education – aimed at boosting education and promoting peace. Inaugurating the project, Bello harped on sustainability of the toilets, urging the community not to abandon it. He advised Rotary and the community to meet the relevant agencies of government as well as the lawmakers from the area to take over the school founded and funded by the Papa Olohunda Community. Chairman, Ifelagba Community Development Committee (CDC), Ololade Adeogun, thanked Rotary for the gesture. “Rotary has made us to release that the essence of living is by giving to impact lives.Though Rotary members and their families  will not benefit from these projects, they still gave them to us,” he said. He pledged to maintain them, noting that they could see that the borehole was still working years after it was handed over to them. He asked for more of Rotary’s programmes in the area. Specifically, he urged Rotary to complete a block of three classrooms in the school. “As you can see, there is no government’s presence here yet in areas such roads, delivery of transformers etc., ” he added. At the event were former 910 DG, Dr. Wale Ogunbadjo; a D-G-elect, Mrs. Omotunde Lawson; DG-Nominee, Femi Adenekan and Samsideen Ademola Olutusin. They stressed the need to maintain the structures. Dr. Ebunoluwa Jayesimi and Dr. Janet Bamidele taught the pupils the importance of handwashing. They said regular hand-washing drives away germs. “To get rid of germs, it is better to wash our hands with soap and under running water. Or better still, use hand sanitisers. Wash your hands before and eating, after using the toilets, after taking care the sick and cooking raw food,” Bamidele said.