Are you a high-income earner or a low-income earner? In other words, are you an entrepreneur, artist or large-scale business owner in the informal sector? Do you belong to trade associations, unions, non-governmental organisations also within the informal sector? If yes, you need to grow yourself to be pensionable. A pensionable person is someone who qualifies to receive monthly salary during old age until he or she passes on. Unlike workers in the formal sector, who have structured pension plan carried out on their behalf by their employers, a person who owns business would need to plan for him or herself. To be pensionable as a business owner, you need to enroll under the Micro Pension Plan (MPP) and open a savings account. The MPP was designed from the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) Things you need to know Micro Pension guarantees a secure future through steady income at retirement. It reduces old-age poverty and the process is easy, simple, and flexible. It has flexible contribution remittances, opportunity to make withdrawal prior to retirement and financial independence at old age. The Director-General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs  Aisha Dahir-Umar, explained that the micro pension plan has been well simplified to suit the target contributors. For instance, she said under the initiative, 40 per cent of the amount contributed can be accessed by contributors for contingency while the balance of 60 percent would be set aside for retirement benefit.   EAC: triumph of cutting ideas     Amotekun, soldiers clash over seized cows in Ondo     Anambra’s political ‘iron’ ladies   She explained that while contributors could start drawing from their 40 per cent contributions after three months of making the initial deposit, the 60 per cent balance can only be accessed at 50 or during retirement. The PenCom boss noted that the micro-pension plan will improve the standard of living of the informal sector participants at retirement and reduce dependence on extended family for support at retirement. She said: “The plan, when operational would capture self-employed people, especially, those with irregular income, usually in the informal sector and are largely financially uninformed with limited or no access to financial services, especially, pension plan.” Section 2(3) of the Pension Reform Act, 2014 legal framework extends the coverage of the CPS to self-employed persons through the micro-pension scheme. According to her,  additional benefits to self-employed and informal sector workers include the cover being provided under the Pension Protection Fund. She explained that under the arrangement, the government would bridge shortfalls or financial losses from the investment of their accumulated retirement savings and guarantee them minimum pension in retirement, irrespective of how much they were able to save before retiring. She also said the plan would be funded by a yearly subvention of one per cent of the monthly wage of Federal Government’s employees, the yearly levy on PenCom and pension operators as well as pension fund investment income. The President, Pension Fund Operators Association (PenOp), Mr Wale Odutola, added that the initiative was good. He stated that they were strategising to reap the gains of the scheme and give hope to self- employed Nigerians and small-scale business operators who would not taste the benefits of pension’s savings or have a chance to save for the future and escape poverty at old age.