They died risking their lives for others, but a soldier’s death is inherently meaningful. It implies sacrifice and nobility of purpose. The two pilots of the Super Mushshak trainer aircraft that crashed on Tuesday at the Nigerian Airforce Base in Kaduna died in a bid to win Nigerians the privileges of freedom and peace. The hope is that they will not die in vain and that the nation will realise the debt it owes the fallen officers. The hearts of their families and loved ones are heavy with the losses that cut very deep over the death of Flight Lieutenants Abubakar Muhammed Alkali and Elijah Haruna Karatu. Family members of Flt-Lt Alkali said the incident left them devastated. Some of them, who spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Kaduna, said despite losing a great son, they would stay strong knowing he died for a good cause. Alhaji Sulaiman Dauda, an uncle of the deceased, said: “Akali is a fine officer, always in the service of his fatherland; a great son to us; we were devastated. “Fortunately, we belong to a family that lays emphasis on the fear of God. “The kind of life he lived is very encouraging, and we have accepted it (incident) as being ordained by God.” The elder brother of the deceased, Brig-Gen Umar Alkali, told NAN that although the tragedy was painful, no person on earth would live beyond his or her time, as ordained by God. “I am the eldest brother to Abubakar: our father died when he was just two years, so he grew up knowing me as a father. “It’s a sad happening, but we all know that death is inevitable,” he said. He described his late brother as a hard-working, jovial, intelligent and respectful young man. “You can rely on him for anything, and I think his death is a big loss to the nation, “Alkali said. Sympathisers besieged the Kaduna residence of Malam Sule Dauda, uncle of the deceased, to commiserate with the family. 		 			Support group issues N100m cheque for Tinubu to purchase…		 		 		 			2023: Only PDP can fix Nigeria, says Ayu		 		 		 			One killed, others injured in Osun clash		 		 The late Alkali was buried on Tuesday in Kaduna at the Kawo cemetery after a funeral prayer was conducted at the Kaduna Air Force Base Central Mosque. Why the aircraft crashed will be the subject of an investigation, which the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has ordered. Getting to the root of it, and ensuring that lessons are learnt, is one way to ensure that the officers do not die in vain. President Muhammadu Buhari has directed that reports of similar accidents in the past be revisited. Marshal Amao, in a statement by NAF spokesman, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, visited Kaduna to commiserate with families, friends, and colleagues of the pilots. He assured the officers that all measures would be taken to forestall future crashes. The Army chief constituted an Accident Investigation Board “to determine the immediate and remote causes of the crash”. The statement adds: “While at Kaduna earlier today (yesterday), he assured the officers, airmen and airwomen of 401 Flying Training School that all measures will be emplaced to avert similar occurrence in the future. “He also reminded them of the need to remain steadfast and focused on their assigned roles and responsibilities in view of the onerous task before the NAF and other security agencies to rid the Northwest and indeed the entire nation of all criminal elements. “The unfortunate incident of yesterday (Tuesday’s) trainer aircraft crash is yet again a tragic reminder of the perilous nature of the military flying profession as well as the risks NAF pilots continually take, daily, to secure Nigeria’s territorial integrity.” President Buhari asked the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) to publish reports of past air accidents and implement their recommendations. The President, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, mourned the dead officers. It reads: “I am shocked beyond words by the demise of these two promising young men who risked their lives in the service of the country. “There is no reward big enough to pay for the services of these young and dedicated professional airmen in the service of their country.” While extending his sympathies to the Chief of Air Staff and the families of the deceased, President Buhari called for “more safety measures to forestall tragic incidents of this kind.” “I welcome the decision by the NAF authorities to investigate this accident, but I also call on them to publish and implement the recommendations of the reports of past investigations into air accidents, with a view to preventing future tragedies and putting closure to the families and friends of the deceased,” the President added.