Kaduna State Government has praised  Kaduna Polo Club on the successful hosting of the recently concluded 2022 Trade Fair Polo Tournament and its enduring support in the promotion of commerce and tourism in the state. “We work in tandem with the club in developing tourism and sports,” the Governor of the sate Mallam  Nasir El-Rufai  declared during his closing remarks at the 2022 Kaduna Trade Fair tournament at Murtala Mohammed Square in Kaduna. Commissioner of Sports Kaduna State, Idris Nyam represented the Governor El-Rufai  during the five-day tournament hosted annually by the club as one of the major highlights for those who come to Kaduna for business during the fair. “This year, the tournament added another allure as It helps to showcase Kaduna and the urban renewal by His Excellency, Malam Nasir el-Rufai administration in transforming the state,” Nyam stated. The  prestigious polo tourney that attracted tourists and business gurus to the state in their droves ,attracted over ten teams jostling for three major prizes to be carted home by the winners and the runner’s-up finishers. The biggest prize of the tournament was the Asokoro Island Cup that pitted three traditional rivals, the Trappco Ranch team, Profile Polo Team and Dokaji team from Abuja. Other major prizes include the NIMASA Cup, Sublime Cup and the Beginners Cup that was played in support of the grassroots development of the game of kings in the state.   Lagos Community Shield Project  seeks support     Woods faces stiff test  as Masters begins     World Rugby will soon unban Nigerian federation, Are assures   After five days of equally matched and entertaining fiesta, Dokaji Farms from Abuja emerged the biggest winners of the 2022 Kaduna Polo Club Trade Fair Tournament, carting home the glittering Asokoro Island Cup, while Profile 1 team smiled home with runners-up prize. The race for the medium-goal Sublime Cup was a nerve wracking affair from start to finish, with Kaduna Sublime team emerging winners.  Kaduna Profile contingent again narrowly missed their target as Profile 2 team was runners-up. Col. Y Bello powered YBL warriors were the proud winners of the NIMASA Cup, while RYB Team, carted home the NIMASSA Cup runners-up prize. In the subsidiary prizes, Funage Farms emerged winners of the President’s Cup, just as ZAZ Project won the Captain’s Cup. Team RISAA from Port Harcourt and B&S Global Link finished second respectively. Kaduna Polo Club President, Suleiman Abubakar who thanked all the sponsors, partners and dignitaries for making the event a huge success, congratulated  all the winners for their sportsmanship and discipline throughout the fiesta. “The turnout by participating teams and spectators for our mini tournament this year, far exceeded our expectations.” Abubakar disclosed, adding:“  the next big thing to look forward to is our Kaduna International Polo tournament.” Like other top dignitaries who lauded the fiesta, the Chairman Nigerian Army Polo Association (NAPA), Major General M S Aliyu who was part of the event, expressed delight at the high standard of the game in Kaduna and the country generally. “You can see all the matches were very exciting, we watched the teams play without any foreign player, it’s what we look forward to,” he added.