There was confusion yesterday at the secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State; following claims by 32 aspirants that the state chapter of the party refused to give them expression of intent and nomination forms after payment. But the party countered the allegations, saying there was no record that the aggrieved aspirants paid money into its account. The aspirants, who brandished their bank drafts, besieged the secretariat in the morning and vowed to remain there until they were issued their forms. They complained that despite satisfying the requirements, the PDP leadership refused to give them their forms. One of them, an aspirant for the House of Assembly, Kinikanwo Ogbu, said having paid for the forms and obtained their bank drafts, the party was expected to give them their forms. He said the protesters were vying for the House of Assembly and National Assembly elections. Ogbu said: “We are all law-abiding members of the PDP in Rivers State. We have our bank drafts showing that we have paid into the party’s coffers to obtain our intent and nomination forms. But on getting here this morning, we could not find any party officer to do the needful for us to get our forms.” He wondered why the party officials were not on ground to give them their forms, especially as the purchase deadline would expire on Thursday.   ASUU to Fed Govt: stop creating varsities, fund existing…     Court voids Ebonyi PDP chair’s election     Ikpeazu to leave socio-political stability   He said: “All that we want is that they should give us our forms because we have paid into the party’s account. When the last day for sale of the forms elapses, we will go back to the party and lodge a complaint. “As a party faithful, I have purchased forms and I wonder if they will not give us the forms? We demand that whoever is holding the forms should give us our forms.” Another aspirant, Augustine Nwigbarale from Khana Local Government, said the party had no excuse to deny them the forms. He said: “We have fulfilled the party conditions by paying to the designated bank account. We have our bank drafts here. “We were asked to come to the party secretariat as the situation demands to pick up our forms and fulfil every administrative logistics, which we are ready to comply with, only for us to get here and discover that we are being played upon.” The Publicity Secretary of the state PDP, Tambari Sydney Gbara, said they had no records of the protesters’ transactions with the party. He said: “The true situation is that we don’t know where they got those documents from, because they didn’t pay into the party’s account. They never came to us to say they wanted to buy forms.” “Those who came to the office, we issued them a note, they went to the bank, paid into our account and brought the teller back to us. We then issued them a receipt with which they obtained the forms. “These people, we have not seen them before and we don’t know where they pay their money. If they said they paid into the PDP Rivers State account, they should be able to show us evidence. Wherever they paid money to, they should go there and get what they are looking for.”