Nigeria has a stronger and sustainable opportunity to boost its growth and global reserves standing if the country effectively harnesses its gold deposits to attract long-term investors and global trademark. In a country macroeconomic review, Senior Research Analyst, FXTM, Lukman Otunuga said geopolitical tensions have triggered explosive levels of market volatility and uncertainty that place Nigeria’s dependence on crude oil at a vicarious disadvantage. He noted that amid the unfavourable market conditions, gold has remained a bright spot with high upside, as heightened flight to safety by investors had seen gold price rising by some six per cent so far this year. The rush to gold was due to its status as an inflation hedge. According to him, the underlying rationale for Nigeria’s gold market shows strong potential as its gold reserve is estimated at 200 million metric tonnes, according to the Nigeria Mining Growth Roadmap. Trading Economics places Nigeria as the sixth largest country with gold deposits in Africa, with an average of 21.37 tonnes from 2000 to 2020, reaching an all-time high of 21.46 tonnes in during the first half of 2021. The nation’s estimated gold reserves are over 200 million ounces, most of which have not been exploited. Otunuga decried the lacklustre implementation of the reforms in the gold-mining sector, noting that in 2020, the newly-regulated Nigerian gold mining sector was expected to create 250,000 new jobs and provide the Federal Government with estimated yearly revenue of $150 million in taxes, $25 million in royalties, and $500 million in foreign exchange reserves.   ECOWAS Bank to support Gambia     ‘Road map implementation key to textile revival’     Global, African airlines record major operation recovery   Nigeria had also in 2020 refined its reserve gold bar and paid N268 million for the 12.5kg bar to start a central bank stock. He however pointed out that more than two years after, Nigeria still remains in an ongoing quest to tap the potential of the gold mining sector. “Since the massive hype in 2020, which created awareness on access to the markets, it’s been a tale of uncertainty and negativity. Illegal mining has become a major plague in the sector, with solid minerals being smuggled out of the country – resulting in a loss of potential government revenue,” Otunuga said. He said Nigeria’s gold mining sector offers the country opportunity to diversify its revenue base away from reliance on oil and also bridge its huge fiscal deficits. “Indeed, if cultivated well, gold mining and trading possessed a frightening potential to generate more revenue than crude oil for Nigeria,” Otunuga said. According to him, a well-managed diversification into precious metals mining and building a national gold stock could support the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s foreign exchange reserves in the longer term. He noted that while news around illegal smuggling and violence around the sector have hit the gold sector’s reputation, there is still hope if government regulations instill long-term trust and credibility into the sector.