The Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE) has inducted 102 commodities brokers as part of the preparation for the commencement of full trading. Last month, the Exchange had inducted 50 senior commodities brokers and another 52 brokers at the weekend. The induction coordinator and past president of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Mike Itegboje, said commodities had become major sources of foreign exchange globally. He urged the inductees to take advantage of the emerging opportunities to support the government in its efforts to bridge the gap in foreign exchange (forex) supply. Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr Lamido Yuguda, who was represented by the Commission’s Head of Operation,  Lagos Zonal Office, Mr  John Achile, said  initiatives that lead to economic transformation through the commodities ecosystem had been supported by SEC. Chairman, LCFE, Chief Onyewenchukwu Ezeagu said the trading rules of the Exchange which cut across agriculture, oil and gas, solid minerals and currency were approved by SEC.   Wema Bank completes share reconstruction     Transcorp grows net profit by 530%     Africa Finance Corporation’s assets hit $8.56b   According to him, the rules had been exposed to the capital market and commodities ecosystem. Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Member Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Mr Sam Onukwue said commodities trading presented a new frontier that would challenge professionals to unleash their creative potentials to grow the market and create value for its stakeholders. He urged the Federal Government to ensure that only regulated exchanges are allowed to engage in commodities trading. Managing Director, Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange (LCFE), Mr Akin Akeredolu-Ale, who was represented by Group Managing Director, GTI Group, Mr. Abubakar Lawal , urged the inductees to comply with the Exchange’s rules and regulations in order to build an efficient commodities market. Doyen of the day, Alhaji Rasheed Yussuff advised the inductees to live up to expectation in creating  value for stakeholders and the entire ecosystem. Former Deputy Director General, Nigerian Exchange  (NGX), Alhaji Rasaki Oladejo had at the induction of senior commodities brokers put the relevance of commodities exchange in perspective: “Commodities Exchanges are highly efficient marketplace for buyers and sellers of commodities to meet, primarily to manage price risks, but also to improve the marketing of their products. The Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange was established in recognition of the need to fully realise the potential of the country’s drive towards development of non-oil exports. This will enable the commodities ecosystem to tap the opportunities thereof and support the nation’s quest to create wealth for the stakeholders. The ecosystem has capacity to put Nigeria on the global revenue map,” Oladejo said.