Nigerians will pay more and the real economic value of the naira will depreciate over the next months as inflation continues to rise amid high global and domestic commodities prices. As the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) prepares to release the latest inflation figure this week, most analysts at the weekend said they expected the official inflation data to show increases in major inflationary measures. Economic and finance experts said the precarious global commodities crisis fuelled by the Russia-Ukraine escalation has further compounded Nigeria’s structural economic defects, with more Nigerians expected to earn less and pay more in adjustments to the macroeconomic dynamics. Bismarck Rewane’s Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) stated that the headline inflation and related data for March, due for publication thisThursday, will show acceleration in inflation going by market surveys conducted by its analysts. Rewane is a member of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council. According to FDC, time series model and survey of commodity markets in the Lagos metropolis indicated that there would be acceleration in official headline inflation to some 15.83 per cent with both food and core inflation expected to rise to 17.30 per cent and 14.39 per cent. Analysts said they expected the supply disruptions stemming from the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war to continue to push up commodity prices globally and in the domestic market. In Nigeria the price of diesel is trading around N750 per litre, a far cry from the previous N450 per litre seen in January. FDC noted that the high diesel price has further been compounded by the epileptic power supply in the country, which has been forcing heavy reliance on diesel powered generators for electricity. High diesel prices have also trickled down into the transportation and distribution costs for food commodities. “Headline inflation is likely to rise this month and in May as well. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has long held onto its accommodative policy stance but this is likely to change as inflation shows no sign of slowing down. The MPC was divided at its meeting in March, with four out of 10 members voting for a rate hike. The MPC could decide to hold interest rates steady again this month in hopes of an unlikely but possible reversal in inflation, but the committee is widely expected to raise rates in May,” FDC stated. Analysts at FSDH Group noted that the Russia-Ukraine crisis and domestic constraints are driving up average prices in Nigeria. Nigeria’s inflation rate rose marginally from 15.6 per cent in January 2022 to 15.7 per cent the following month. Monthly, average prices rose by 1.63 per cent, the highest increase since May 2017.   ‘Gold mining offers Nigeria better sustainability than oil’     ECOWAS Bank to support Gambia     ‘Road map implementation key to textile revival’   Analysts pointed out that during the last inflation report for February, increases were recorded for food and core inflation with average food prices rising by 17.1 per cent year-on-year, while core inflation rate was 14 per cent. According to FSDH, rising prices in Nigeria are driven by a combination of factors such as supply chain disruption due to delays in the black sea scarcity of input such as fertiliser and wheat, irresponsibility and negligence in the case of the recent importation of contaminated petrol into Nigeria, which resulted in petrol scarcity and higher prices of goods and services, oil price increase which translated into higher price of diesel and other by-products and electricity outage following the collapse of national grid in March. Afrinvest Securities noted that inflationary pressure had resurfaced in February as legacy risk factors escalated the pass-through effect of the surge in global energy prices. Analysts at FSDH cut Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth forecast to 2.3 per cent in 2022 with average inflation rate expected at 15.4 per cent. According to analysts, while the  economy is expected to continue on its recovery path in the year, following a strong growth of 3.4 per cent last year, the first quarter of this year has already been challenging for various economic agents, including businesses, households and the government. They noted that the increase in the price of agricultural commodities has elevated cost of input and food prices, which will constrain growth in the year while scarcity of energy products and higher prices of diesel and aviation fuel have had detrimental impacts on businesses across various sectors. Analysts said the shutdown of the national grid and continued insecurity were impacting businesses across several sectors. For the government, analysts pointed out that high subsidy payment and lower crude oil production threaten the realisation of oil revenue, despite high oil price as a result of the crisis in Ukraine. The government plans to borrow more to fund subsidy payments in the year. “The implications of these challenges are higher cost for businesses,  limited investment inflows into the real sector and a decline in real aggregate demand. “In view of these challenges, we have revised downward our GDP growth projection for 2022, from 2.6 per cent to 2.3 per cent in our moderate case scenario,” FSDH stated.