Hurray, European Union wants NNPC’s LNG Train following problems with other suppliers. Please let us maintain the highest standards of honesty in all these dealings or we may lose out. Did you hear that engine oil and petrol are now being smuggled into Nigeria instead of out of Nigeria? Customs is visible in the fight against the drug cartels with multiple seizures of cocaine and tramadol, both already scourges of development and growth of young individuals thus destabilising and destroying communities and countries. We are told that the normal items, like fertiliser, were auctioned. Who are these highest bidders? We hope that they should not be the smugglers coming to get their goods after having lost them to Customs.  The high volume of Nigerian citizens offering themselves to being tricked or forced into becoming drug carriers, drug mules, and the higher volume of killer drugs being smuggled from Brazil, Ethiopia and other places reveal other war fronts, not just Boko Haram and IS-West Africa and herders, being opened against our youth and country by drug cartels and get-rich-quick Nigerians seeking blood money. Is the NDLEA supported sufficiently with IT, computers and international drug enforcement agencies links abroad? Do we protect any youth involved as informants? Remember the highly placed security officials colluding with drug peddlers and 419-scammers and criminals. Sadly, our millions of desperate and too often abandoned and underserviced tertiary students and their exasperated parents and guardians are as usual cannon fodder and suffering maximally from the ever-resurfacing FG-ASUU imbroglio. Solve this for Nigeria’s sake. Be warned! Youth do not suffer in silence for long. Today we are faced with a plethora of serving and former political, civil service and private sector bigwigs as the usual ancient and not modern old guard all seeking the Presidency. May the best woman or man win, Amen.  Once again, we are faced with the first requirement of the voting electorate which is to take the personal decision to be honest in our political choices from among the offered candidates until March 2023. We must decide not to give in to corruption in form of food infrastructure, outright fees-for-votes or acceptance of gifts, financial and in kind, for votes. 		 			Strike: ASUU tackles Fed Govt over N4trn fuel subsidy budget		 		 		 			Abductors demand N100m ransom for popular Akwa Ibom cleric		 		 		 			BREAKING: APC presidential form to go for N100m		 		 Can we overcome this temptation during this poverty outbreak compounded by the current level of bribery assaulting the morality of many? If not, we may not get anywhere electorally? Most voters are not party members and cannot influence in any way those who will be chosen by the parties by election, selection or consensus to represent them. The fewer the party members, the easier it is for politicians to manipulate the system. Join a party. Unfortunately, there is so much political cross-carpeting that there is no difference between the largest parties. No toll on Lekki-Ikoyi Bridge and no requirement for ‘Road Worthiness Certificate/ Test’, and no law against ‘Tinted Glass’ in car windows without permits, according to the recent court judgements. Are the appropriate authorities disseminating this same information to their sometimes very aggressive officers and men and women, who are fond of denying the truth because they have poor supervision by their authorities? These same officers and men and women are very fond of telling road users that ‘ignorance of the law is no excuse’ a reason for some of them to harass the citizens sometimes mercilessly for simple oversights. Now the shoe is on the road user’s foot, we the citizens shout to the authorities to quickly inform their cohorts and ‘troops’ at morning muster and assembly and by WhatsApp to the field officers because we citizens wish to remind them that ‘Ignorance of Recent Court Judgements is no excuse before the law’. A Port Standing Task Team has been inaugurated to once again attempt to end multiple checkpoints and corruption and delays at the primary port of Apapa-Lagos which 40+year old deliberately inflicted problems are now said to lose Lagos N60b annually and have been crippling us  and boosting opportunities for our neighbours while also destroying lives and livelihood of millions from time-wasting, demurrage,  joblessness, the inflationary need to make more from each cargo that gets through and even delays in infrastructural growth because of trapped and often rotting equipment and parts which when finally released from the ‘Port Prison’ are no longer serviceable. Imagine waiting months for a fully paid desperately need item for your business only to receive it ruined and worthless and with no one to sue to claim damages or pay for wasted time during which workers may have been laid off or had their salaries cut while waiting for the arrival of the item. The losses at our ports are a manifestation of what happens when we lose coherence in infrastructural maintenance and everyone is a boss and there is no coordination. The port should generate more than oil revenues, if properly managed. So many Nigerians are forced to use neighbouring countries to land their goods while Nigerian ports lose huge revenues in legal fees. An oil tanker with 750,000 litres diesel has sunk off Tunisia -a potential severe environmental hazard. Nigeria must study this 2020 tragedy to manage it on coastline, although so much damage has already been done in Ogoniland and other areas. Are preventive measures being put in place around Dangote Refinery? Nigeria would do well to closely study the ‘Management of the Tunisian oil spill’ in order to prepare our own blueprint.