Fans of rapper Olayitan Olanipekun Oladapo aka Dagrin have paid him tributes 12 years after his demise. Dagrin, cited as one of the pioneers of dialect rap singers of Yoruba language and Pidgin in Nigeria, died from complications arising from injuries he sustained in a car crash around 3am at Mushin in Lagos. He died at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH on Wednesday, April 22, 2010. Also known as Barack O’Grin, in 2010 he was nominated for the Nigerian Entertainment Awards for Best Album (C.E.O.), Hottest Single “Pon Pon Pon”, Best Rap Act and Best Collaboration with vocals. His album C.E.O. (Chief executive Omota English: Chief Executive Thug) won the Hip hop World Award 2010 for best rap album. Remembering his impact in revolutionizing the Nigerian rap industry, social media users have taken to Twitter to pay tribute to him. @DAMIAADENUGA tweeted: “12 years ago today, the music industry lost one of it’s finest rappers, Dagrin.” @_hiphopville said: “Today, 12 years ago (2010) #Dagrin passed on through a fatal auto cråsh at Mushin, Lagos, Nigeria. He was just 25 years at the time. Rest on, king.” @_veektorrrr wrote: “12years ago today, we lost a Legend! Keep resting Dagrin.”   Blackface accuses Banky W, Wizkid of song theft     Psquare born to entertain, says AY     Learn from mistakes not regrets – Burna Boy   @OneJoblessBoy stated: “12 years since we lost DaGrin.” @Popoolavictor6 tweeted: “Today marks it exactly 12years the Nigerian Iconic musician and songwriter was announced dead. Forever in our hearts. Rest In Peace Dagrin.” @leyemmi said: “Rip Dagrin It’s 12years already.” @call_me_ayokay wrote: “Dagrin is still one guy whose death hurt Nigerians the most. A lot wished he could survive the accident and give more music. but then, baba struggled for life even with tears on his face before he gave up. Today makes it 10years i guess. Rest on Dagrin.” @funnydafidi stated: “12 years now we lost Dagrin..Keep resting akogun.” @Updateboyx tweeted: “It’s been 12 years we lost an icon, a legend and a pacesetter. RiP Dagrin “Chief Executive Omoita” @officialmoorty said: “April 22nd World Dagrin Day. 12years in mind. Forever in our hearts. Continue to rest in peace lyrical wayray.” @manlike_Joe wrote: “April 22 12 years ago we lost the voice of #yoruba #hiphop No one shut down JimmyJumpOff like Dagrin The story of a young man cut down in his prime.” @iamabayorr stated: “How do you convince the upcoming generations that education is the key to success when we are surrounded by poor graduates and rich criminals? – Dagrin 12years now since Nigeria music industry lost one of her finest rapper Dagrin, gone but not forgotten.”