Monarchs in the Southeast have assured that the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) has abrogated its sit at home directive in the region. According to them, the development was to embrace peaceful negotiations organised by the Anambra government. Reports on Saturday from Awka said that IPOB yielded to the appeal by the Anambra government and traditional rulers to pave the way for peace, since all Igbo stakeholders and religious leaders have declared their intention to find a lasting solution to insecurity and incessant sit-at-home directives in the South East. The decision was disclosed by the Chairman, Anambra Traditional Rulers Council, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe, during a one-day peace building and security meeting held in Awka on Saturday. His Royal Highness, Igwe Achebe, who is also the Igwe of Onitsha, said that the stakeholders have continually held meetings on the way forward to lasting resolutions of the impasse with the agitators. He said that after its meeting with the group on Friday, April 1, it was agreed that a call to release the IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, would be a step to dousing the tension in the state.   NNPC commercialises fully July 1     Abacha loot, budgetary allocation, others funded Second…     We’ll start Southeast takeover from Enugu –…   He said that after the meeting, the group placed a call to all its members to sheathe their swords, put down their guns and go the way of dialogue. “We call on all who have taken the way of guns to put down their guns and take up the olive leaf from the government to better themselves,” Achebe said. He said that the state government has set April 4 for prayers aimed at seeking God’s face to restore a lasting peace in Anambra and South East as whole. Achebe reportedly said that it was agreed that on April 4, all churches in Igboland and South East will join in prayers to seek God’s forgiveness and to restore peace in the area. “Igboland has lost so much in economic and social development of the zone and we are tired of the situation and want peace,” the traditional ruler said. According to him, “It is agreed that on Sunday, April 3, all churches will announce the IPOB decision to their faithful to come out on Monday at 11am to their various churches to offer prayers to God for the restoration of peace and economic development.”