Shareholders of Custodian Investment Plc have authorised the board of the company to raise additional capital as part of its strategic growth. At the annual general meeting in Lagos at the weekend, shareholders approved resolutions empowering directors of the company to raise new capital through any of the multiple options available to the company. According to the resolutions, the company can issue debt instruments, preference shares or ordinary shares, or a combination of any of these options whether by way of private placement, rights issue, offer for subscription or any staff share scheme. Shareholders also authorised the board to take steps to comply with Section 124 of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 2020 and Regulation 13 of the Companies Regulations 2021 relating to unissued shares of the company. Addressing the shareholders, the Chairman, Custodian Investment Plc, Dr. Omobola Johnson, said  despite economic conditions that characterised the 2021 financial year, the company successfully grew its revenue by 14 per cent for the year ended December 31, 2021. She stated that the gross revenue grew from N75.06 billion in 2020 to N85.74 billion in 2021. According to her, the total asset base of the company rose to N184.47 billion during the year under review, indicating a five percent increase from the previous year.   Cordros woos investors with halal fund     Notore to raise new equity, bonds to strengthen growth     Cadbury Nigeria grows profit by 169%   She noted that equity attributable to owners of the parent company grew by 16 per cent to close the year at N55.12 billion from N47.65 billion in 2020. She assured shareholders that the company will continue to adopt strategies that will ensure steady returns on investment to them. Shareholders commended the board and management for a successful year despite the turbulent economic conditions under which the company operated last year. President, Nigeria Shareholders Solidarity Association (NSSA), Mr. Matthew Akinlade expressed the hope that the company would continue to grow bigger and bigger in the future. A shareholders’ leader, Mr. Adebayo Adeleke, who also commended the company’s financial performance, remarked that since 2008, Custodian Investment has never failed to pay interim dividend. He noted that since 2008, the company has paid a gross dividend of N20.742 billion to shareholders. Adeleke also commended the company for its consistent growth and asked the board to consider the idea of democratizing the directorship of the company and ensure diversity of electable directors in a bid to accommodate minority shareholders in the boards of subsidiary companies. National Coordinator, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria (ISAN), Dr. Anthony Omojola, also commended the sterling performance of the company and hoped it would be sustained.