Two journalists, Alfred Olufemi and Kabir Adejumo, have unveiled a book on the experiences of media practitioners who started their career in their tertiary institutions. The book, entitled: The Pain, Push and Pleasure, is a compilation of experiences of student-journalists across the country. The book is aimed at  guiding  student-journalists and preparing them for mainstream practice after school. Speaking during the launch, Adejumo said his experience while practising journalism in Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, taught him what it means to be denied basic needs by those in power. “This compilation is meant to spread the gospel of campus journalism and to serve as a manual to help student-journalists fulfill their dreams,” he added.   VC seeks support to reposition varsity     Council donates 150 jamb forms     Terrorists: we bombed Kaduna train to get something from…   Veteran journalist and the founder of Media Career Development Network, Lekan Otufodunrin, applauded the brains behind the book for providing opportunities for campus journalists to learn from the experiences, including achievements and mistakes of those before them.  “Journalism isn’t a motherless profession and I am glad that Kabir and Alfred put this together. I must also commend all the contributors for sharing their experiences. I took my time to read through the book and they are very insightful and honest accounts. You can also see the diversity of the contributions. This is something we have to prioritise,” he said. He urged  campus journalists to  follow ethics of journalism while discharging their duties. Busola Ajibola, a Deputy Director of Journalism Programmes at Centre for Journalism and Innovation Developments (CJID), said young journalists should report credibly and strengthen collaboration between them and mainstream journalists. Ademola Adesoji, spokesperson of Osun State University, stressed the importance of campus journalism to the growth of institutions, saying authorities should be happy to have journalism bodies holding them accountable. Festus Ogun, a lawyer and human rights activist who wrote the foreword of the book, said: ” We must find a way to protect student-journalists from harassment and intimidation. As long as we try to advocate  press freedom, we must not forget our young people. The time is ripe for us to protect them from unlawful expulsion and rustication.” Olufemi  said  multiple perspectives on the subject matter are meant to proffer solutions to the various challenges faced by press bodies on campuses.