LASACO Assurance Plc has bagged a high-performance rating of A- in the latest ranking of the risk-bearing industry, the Managing Director of the company, Razzaq Abiodun, has said. Abiodun made this known in a statement. According to him, the company attained the feat through its adherence to professionalism and creativity. He said: “The international rating agency, GCR, which handed the company a “stable outlook” ranking, said our latest rating was due to its prudence and professional discipline. We are hopeful that the latest achievement would spur the company to do more, so that it can continue to experience a steady growth. 		 			Pension complaints and solutions		 		 		 			PenCom releases more guidelines on enhancement, others		 		 		 			PenOp to unveil women network		 		 ‘’The latest rating, according to the agency (which has offices in about 37 countries across Africa, including Nigeria), indicates that Lasaco has strength and competitive position, which makes it flexible for positive growth.The award, it added, denoted that the company’s earnings were at an intermediate level while its portfolio is expected to grow as a result of the strategic plans put in place to support growth.” Also, the company  has received ISO Certification in recognition of its high standard of practice in security management. “The certification reflects LASACO as having put in place tools that would strengthen it across the three Cyber Security pillars of People, Processes and Technology. The ISO 27001:2013 Certification, issued to the company in the area of Information Security Management System, demonstrated that effective security has been implemented by Lasaco in a globally accepted manner. “The company’s capital adequacy contributed to its latest rating, as it maintained international solvency and Capital Adequacy Ratio (C.A.R.) well above 100 per cent and 2.5x. It had good loss absorbing capacity and stable earnings during the period of the review. “The ISO certification would make the company avoid the costly penalties associated with non-compliance with data protection requirements such as Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR),’’ Abiodun added.