The police in Edo State have arrested a 17-year-old boy for killing his boss and selling his car in Benin, the state capital. Chukwuebuka Nwode was arrested with two accomplices, while attempting to sell Peter Onoberhie’s car at Uwelu spare parts’ market in Benin. Nwode, until his arrest, was working for a Benin-based sachet water factory owned by the deceased. He was among the 11 suspects paraded by the Edo State Police Command in Benin yesterday for various crimes. Parading the suspects at the state’s police headquarters in Government Reservation Area (GRA), the command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bello Kontongs, a Superintendent of Police (SP), disclosed that 17-year-old Nwode conspired with two other persons to kill his boss and steal his car, but they were arrested while trying to dispose of the vehicle. Nwode, who later spoke with reporters, said he used a kitchen knife to kill his boss while the victim was watching television in his sitting room at midnight. He said: “I did not know what came over me to kill him.   FG begins talks with terrorists who bombed Abuja-Kaduna…     Falana asks Buhari to pardon all thieves in prisons     Man whose fiancée called off wedding denies physical abuse…   “I have been living with my mother in Ondo State for the past 16 years. So, when I turned 17, I decided to leave for Benin City. “When I got to Benin City, I first picked up a job in a bakery. After I got the bakery job, I travelled to my village. But when I returned from the village, my boss said my services were no longer needed. “After I was laid off from my bakery job, I got this (sachet water) job. After working for some time, I decided to kill my boss and steal his car. “I went to meet him while he was watching television in his living room at night and I stabbed him with a kitchen knife. “In the morning, I went to Ring Road to look for a driver because I did not know how to drive. “I met someone who knew how to drive at a Bet Naija joint, took him to the house and drove the car to Uwelu spare parts’ market to sell, but we were apprehended by members of a vigilance group who later handed us over to the police.” Kontongs assured that thorough investigation and diligent prosecution would be ensured in order to serve as a deterrent to other criminally-minded persons.