Mr Richard Olatunde, Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state, has denied a report that the governor was being hospitalised in Germany. Olatunde, in a statement made available to newsmen on Thursday in Akure, described the report as “wicked and misleading.” “We are not amazed at this fabricated and outright falsehood which is being spread by cronies of some disgruntled politicians in their renewed efforts at plastering battered political misadventures,” he said. He explained that Akeredolu, alongside other colleagues, left Nigeria for Dubai to attend the largest Annual Investment Meeting in the United Emirates from March 28 to March 31. The CPS explained that the governor had on March 23, 2022, sent a letter to the State House of Assembly informing the legislative arm that he would be away for 14 working days as the first part of his 2022 annual leave. He said that Akeredolu also transferred power to the Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, to perform the functions of his office while he was away. “It is, therefore, glaringly insidious for anyone to claim that a man, who was with his brother Governors in Dubai till March 31, which is exactly one week today, is being hospitalised in Germany.   Patronise only financial institutions regulated by CBN —…     JUST IN: Buhari receives new APC chair Adamu     BREAKING: Adeboye’s son apologises for calling RCCG…   “What exposes this shameful falsehood is the fact that SaharaReporters claimed the governor was flown out of the country to Germany when in fact, he left for Dubai. “Ordinarily, we would not have responded to these blatant lies, but for the unsuspecting members of the public who might be hoodwinked by these lies. “In clear terms, Gov. Akeredolu is not hospitalised anywhere. These are mere wishes of failed politicians, who now carry the burden of uncanny distrust and embedded treachery. “We won’t even wish them their evil imaginations. Once, they have tried; and they failed woefully. “No amount of borrowed falsehood to cover up their moral deficiencies will bring back their lost political glory,” Olatunde said. The CPS, therefore, advised SaharaReporters to strive to be professional in its reportage. “Journalism is about sacred truth. A Journalist cross-checks facts and presents only the truth and not fabricated stories as mindlessly portrayed by SaharaReporters in its unrepentant trajectory on the path of infamy,” he said. (NAN)