UK-trained engineer and development expert, Engr. Terhemen Tilley-Gyad has formally for the Benue 2023 governorship race under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Tilley-Gyado declared at the weekend in a gathering of party executives and stakeholders at the Secretariat in Makurdi. He made the declaration after thousands of youths and women across the local government areas marched on the streets of the capital in support of his aspiration. Tilley-Gyado, a native of Vandeikya Local Government, assured he is capable of wresting power from the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Benue state. He further stated that beyond the capacity to win the election, he is equipped to deliver good governance and development to the State in the key areas of job creation, poverty reduction, security, roads, education, health, power and agriculture. According to him: “The situation in Benue is critical. It requires compassionate, innovative and visionary leadership to move the people and state forward.   2023: APC vows to record 70% success in Southeast     Plateau 2023: APC, PDP renew rivalry over senatorial seats     Osun West: The scramble for Oriolowo’s seat   “We can no longer leave it to others. This is why I am accepting the call of God and our people to bring the change they deserve. “They have suffered a lot in the past years. Now, we are bringing them good time. Our focus is on building a stronger economy, better education, infrastructure, Agriculture, ICT women and youth development. “With our wonderful party and myself as the candidate, by His Grace, we are declaring war on poverty, insecurity, and poor staff welfare. We will win the polls and build a safe and prosperous state that works for all.” While welcoming him on behalf of the party, Benue APC Secretary Paul Biam commended Tilley- Gyado for the diverse group of supporters, acknowledging his capability to lead the state. “I have had engagements with you before and I was impressed with your level of intelligence and passion for the welfare of our people and the growth of the state. The number of people here, especially the women, is remarkable. It shows the quality of our party in the state,” he said. Benue APC Chairman, represented by the Deputy chairman Stephen Tsav also commended the bravery of the aspirant, describing his ambition as a welcome development. He recalled the years of service and sacrifice of his grandfather, Chief Jerome Tilley-Gyado and the contributions that he made to the development of Tiv, Benue and Nigeria at large.