In a bid to delight customers, create exciting family moments and give back to the community, Nigeria’s pioneer and foremost brewer, Nigerian Breweries recently hosted grand carnivals across the country. The celebrations tagged “Easter Beer Carnival” took place in Akure, Lagos, Abeokuta, Nnewi, Onitsha, Enugu and Jos with different brands activating, giving consumers and brand loyalists across the nation a one of a kind memorable and unforgettable experience. The Easter season is one of the widely celebrated holidays in Nigeria and is often used as a period for catch up meetings, family reunions and the occasional colourful parties that Nigerians are known for. The events which happened simultaneously across 10 different locations in different states from the 15th to 17th of April featured artists such as Wande Coal, Harrysong, MI, Skiibii, Harry Song, Sefiu Alao and Taye Currency to name a few.   Curious neighbours rescue prostitute from ritual killer     Grandmother, daughter docked for breaking into shop,…     LASUBEB’s EKOEXCEL reiterates importance of reading on World…   The Goldberg Omoluabi Easter Carnival in Abeokuta and Akure witnessed colourful street parades with over 40 traditional drummers storming the streets. In Enugu and Onitsha, the Turu Ugo Lota Easter Carnival saw cultural dancers perform exciting dance routines at iconic sites across town while in Nnewi, the Obi of Otolo and Igwe of Nnewi declared the celebrations. Over the three days of the carnival, consumers enjoyed the best of comedy, music and exciting games and also walked away with amazing prizes from the games and other engaging activities at the grand festival. Speaking on the Easter activities, Senior Trade Marketing Manager – Strategic Programs, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Chidi Egwu said “Building on the huge success of our Easter carnival celebrations over the years, we are continuing this tradition of rewarding our customers with exciting moments during the festive period and helping them to connect with their loved ones this Easter. The Easter Carnival is in line with our efforts at preserving and celebrating the life, progress, socio-cultural heritage, and experiences of every Nigerian and through the grand displays and various elements during the carnival to give consumers the feel and experience that connects them to their roots, culture and tradition during the festive season”.