Writing on Alhaji Aliko Dangote, chairman/chief executive officer, Dangote Group, affords one an opportunity to  unwind and break from the vicious cycle of commenting on the same depressing issues about Nigeria and its lackluster governments. At least, once again, it gives one another rare opportunity to say something refreshingly different about Nigeria. It is another opportunity to remind the world that has written Nigeria off (and unapologetically so) that something good can still come out of the country. I always mention it as a fact when writing on Dangote, that he is one Nigerian entrepreneur no one can ignore. Whether you like him or not, the fact is, you cannot ignore him. Dangote has become a household name in Nigeria because of his resourcefulness. Even his ‘arch-enemies’, where they are angry with him and boycott his cement, they must be eating his indomie noodles. Where they don’t like the taste of his indomie, they cannot afford to do without his sugar. Where you don’t like his sugar, you have his salt to contend with. This man was able to identify the cheap but essential needs of Nigerian homes and ventured into producing them at a time when others were probably eyeing bigger things for the elite, and it has paid off for him. The little drops of water he has been able to get from both the poor and the rich consuming those essential products, taking advantage of the large market in the country, have ended up becoming a mighty ocean in the course of time. For me, we should use every auspicious occasion to celebrate this man who is a source of pride not only to Nigeria but the African continent. But, despite the fact that I believe Dangote should be celebrated as much as possible, I doubt if I have written up to five articles on him in my entire journalism career spanning three decades plus. The reason is simple: it gets to a point when you begin to sound patronising. But, if I may ask: why not? If you cannot sound patronising to Africa’s richest man whose source of wealth you largely can trace or explain, then who are you going to sound patronising to? Our politicians, some of who took oath of office in bathroom slippers today only to step out of their respective government houses in golden shoes tomorrow, moving around as if they were born with golden spoons in their mouths? Presently, Dangote has businesses in 10 African countries. He is a philanthropist par excellence. Indeed, if he is Africa’s richest man, I think  it is partly because he understands and practices the principle of prosperity. Generosity. This has nothing to do with religion. Dangote has been giving back to the society through various corporate social responsibility programmes and projects, sometimes in multimillions, sometimes in billions. With a net worth of $14.3billion as at April 15, 2022, Dangote is the 132nd richest man in the world. If the best of our universities is ranked at number 401-500 globally in the Times Higher Education World University Rankings today, at least our richest man is seated comfortably in the 132nd position in the cocktail circuits of the men of means. That should somewhat comfort us. It takes a lot to be in the midst of such men. Astoundingly, however, despite his greatness and opulence, Aliko Dangote has only three children, at least according to Forbes. It is immaterial if Forbes is right or wrong. If Dangote has 100 children, he can train them to any level they want without sweating. Yet, the man is from Kano, Kano State, in the northern region of Nigeria, where illiteracy is rife and, when combined with its twin brother, ignorance, has led to the breeding of millions of Almajiris, euphemistically referred to as out-of-school children. Yet, it is in the same region that you find several pedophiles. Yet, it is in the same region that some people who have a little change when compared with Dangote’s stupendous wealth, are breeding like rats. The other day, a member of the National Assembly proudly announced the arrival of his 28th child and his colleagues congratulated him instead of making him realise that he is a potential part of the problems of the region – abandoned children (that they are now exporting to other regions). Many of the children who ended up being abandoned when their parents could not sustain them again are the ones now revolting against the system that pauperised them because they are no longer convinced that Allah has created them as second-class citizens only good to be exploited for elections by the elite. We should condemn the practice whereby people use their ‘third leg’ indiscriminately to commit havoc all over the place in the name of culture, as if culture is cast in stone. These temporary money-miss road have to take tutorials on family planning from Dangote. That Dangote is a phenomenon is confirmed by Forbes: “Aliko Dangote, Africa’s richest person, founded and chairs Dangote Cement, the continent’s largest cement producer. He owns 85% of publicly-traded Dangote Cement through a holding company. Dangote Cement has the capacity to produce 48.6 million metric tons annually and has operations in 10 countries across Africa. After many years in development, Dangote’s fertilizer plant in Nigeria began operations in mid-2021. Dangote Refinery has been under construction since 2016 and is expected to be one of the world’s largest oil refineries once complete.” Even Forbes describes his source of wealth simply as “cement, sugar, self made.” This means it is traceable.   Islamic leader laments poor govt presence in Osogbo     Seek ye first the political kingdom….     Airline operators condemn attack on workers by irate…   Soon, this would include petrochemicals when his refinery, the largest in Africa, roars into full operation. This means Dangote would soon realise that though sugar and cement are sweet, oil, is definitely sweeter. It was the Late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Abiola that was once quoted to have used that expression. Abiola was a successful businessman too; he had a flourishing media outfit, among several business concerns. But when he ventured into oil business, he was said to have exclaimed that “publishing is sweet, but oil is sweeter!” Still talking about oil. The whole country is waiting for Dangote Refinery to take off. With its about 650,000 barrels per day capacity, the refinery is expected not only to meet our national fuel needs but still have sufficient to export. Even the Nigerian government which owns four refineries that it has no clue as to how to run profitably appears fixated on this world-class facility without necessarily saying so. Ceteris paribus, this should impact our exchange rate since it is said that we spent about $1.04 billion on fuel imports last year, down from $1.32 billion in 2020. But I am not that upbeat. The Buhari government does not seem to understand how a  modern economy runs. However, I would want to be proved wrong when the refinery comes on stream and we no longer have cause to import fuel, and we are able to save foreign exchange because that is one of the things that can save our children from the debt peonage that the government has thrown the country into. If you are interested in Dangote’s secrets, then hear this: “Nigeria is one of the best-kept secrets. A lot of foreigners are not investing because they’re waiting for the right time. There is no right time,” the man once told Forbes. These are indeed words on marble. But it is one thing to know secrets, it is another to know how to plug into or take advantage of them. Dangote saw the secrets and took advantage of them. I salute the man’s courage. Where several others are waiting for the right time, which, according to Dangote may never come, he has no time for such luxury. He knows that where there is no pain, there is no gain. Where there is no cross, there is no crown. Life itself is all about risks; I mean reasonable risks. If we sit him down and ask him to tell his story, he surely would have a lot to tell about the vicissitudes of business and life, generally. It definitely could not have been a bed of roses all through. Obviously, one of the things that have made the difference for Dangote is the ability to take reasonable risks. That is one of the hallmarks of a genius. Another is that he never despised humble beginnings. Again, hear Forbes, “Dangote’s grandfather was a successful trader of rice and oats in Kano, Nigeria’s second largest city. Dangote told Forbes that when he was young, he bought sweets, gave them to others to sell, and he kept the profits.” Such is the extent of Dangote’s greatness that this newspaper did the unusual by publishing an editorial on him at 65 on Friday. The debate as to whether 65 years is a landmark was there quite alright, but it did not take time to resolve. It was argued, and members agreed, that 65 could jolly well pass for a landmark. But, if I know this paper well, that does not mean every Tom, Dick and Harry that clocks 65 would merit its editorial. What facilitated the Dangote editorial was the man’s unparalleled antecedents as well as what he means to the nation. If we spend all the time talking about politicians most of whom are not adding value to our lives but are interested in power for their selfish ends, then no stone should be spared celebrating Dangote. I remember reading somewhere years back, (probably when I wrote on the man’s 60th birthday or when he made public his intention to set up a refinery) that he asked that his first million dollars be brought to his house and he slept with it overnight. I doubt if he could sleep well that night. But I want to believe that would be the last day bad dreams would ever visit that house. Prisoners, they say, have bosses. Even bad dreams would not wait to be told that that house had become a no-go area, henceforth. I know at this juncture some people would want to know what my view is about Dangote Group assuming the face of a monopoly. I am happy to say my view on that has not changed. Dangote has never been in government. If he has been able to find favour in the eyes of successive governments, it is because he knows how to play his card. It is not Dangote’s job to make anti-trust laws to ensure his conglomerates do not become larger-than-life. It is the duty of government to provide a level-playing field for all players, and if it is not doing that, Nigerians must pressure it to do. But I cannot end this piece without expressing the usual fear I always express about Dangote’s conglomerates. Although audacious and ambitious, I always ask myself when will this expansionist tendency be enough? That is whether diminishing returns would not begin to set in on his business empire when that empire becomes unwieldy. On this, I am always guided by some ancient empires, like old Ghana Empire. We must wish Dangote well. To do otherwise means trouble for Nigeria because of the hope he offers for the country, the thousands of direct and indirect  job opportunities he has been able to create. The good public relations he has been able to gift Nigeria in the comity of nations, etc. But, much as I wish Dangote long life and prosperity, and also wish his conglomerates well, I still feel it is about time he reviewed his expansionist tendency to enable him concentrate fully on what he has on ground, with a view to consolidating it. It is high time he started thinking about a post-Aliko Dangote era. He should know that human beings are not equally endowed. Ten kings. Ten eras.