Air transport infrastructure received a boost recently when the Federal Government gifted the industry another airport terminal expected to enhance passenger facilitation, safety and comfort. This is coming 44 years after the old facility was inaugurated as the premier gateway for passengers, either departing or arriving Africa’s most populous country. The new terminal in Lagos is part of the  Airport Infrastructure Initiative of the government. It has been described as  a new dawn in the  sector; built on an architectural acreage of 50,887 square metres with modern multi-functional facilities that would play an important role in promoting the economic prosperity of Lagos, reviving healthy aviation operations, strengthening foreign trade,  cultural exchanges, and tourism development as well as enhancing the trade and tourist links between Nigeria and the world. Besides, the facility, experts said, is a new aviation landmark in Africa During its construction and implementation, CCECC Nigeria said the project team surmounted many difficulties, such as the small site, requisition and relocation, large flow of human traffic day and night, and complicated underground pipe network.   Firm unveils passengers’ loyalty programme     Furore over relocation of facilities at MMIA     How to drive travel growth, by Skal chief   However, through scientific planning, sectional construction, changing the pipeline network at nighttime, and the provision of temporary passenger paths, the team overcame the difficulties to ensure the smooth completion of the project. The  Ambassador, Peoples Republic of China to Nigeria, Jianchun Cui, said the the terminal was one of the benefits of the bilateral relationship between the two countries in air transport infrastructure. Besides the boost it would give to Nigeria’s image in the global arena in upgrading its air transport facilities, the new terminal will have huge impact on economic activities. Cui said: “We have done some evaluations and assessments about this project. it is very important for Nigeria because Lagos is a metropolitan city. So, we have built this to international standards. With this state-of-the-art terminal, I believe we can attract more passengers to Nigeria. After COVID-19, countries are opening and people would like to come to Nigeria and travel out of Nigeria and they will do that through this gateway. Through this terminal, we can access the international community and people will benefit from this. This is a flagship project for China and Nigeria.” He said Nigeria was on the march towards embracing multi-modal transportation, which he said was gaining traction globally. “Nigeria is planning a huge railway project and we are working on this  project. If we have a railway, it would be easy for people to travel and we are working on the pipeline. The challenge, however, is how we can get the money. How can we get reliable and reasonable terms of the finance? This is the challenge for us. But we are working hard and we are talking with the banks to do this for us. The banks are using their professional language. They are calculating the risks and how they can get the money back because we are in a difficult situation. We are looking at how we can lift people out of poverty. “During my speech at the commissioning of the terminal, I told the president that whatever the project, plan, policy, partners require, the most important thing is the political support. So, this is very important. The two countries from the top levels, from business levels, from people to people, from party to party, we need to work hard to build this trust.’’