Troops of Operation Safe Haven charged wirh maintaining peace in Plateau and parts of Kaduna and Bauchi States, has mopped up over 517 small arms and light weapons from criminal elements within coverage areas their operations. The assorted small and light weapons, were on Thursday handed over by Commander, Major General, Ibrahim Ali to the North central zonal coordinator of the National Center for the Control of Small and Light Weapons (ACCSALW). Major General Hamza Bature (rtd),at the headquarters of STF in Jos. Plateau state. Within the said period, over 40 automatic weapons and 477 locally fabricated arms were also recovered. General Ali said, automatic weapons were also recovered which includes 27, AK 47 rifles, 1 FN rifles, 2Berretta rifles, 3 G3, 6 Beretta pistol, 1 Harris Burg pistol and 1 SMG. Also recovered were locally fabricated weapons, which comprises of 183 rifles, 163 Dane Guns, 102 pistols and 19 SMG. Others include; 6 single Barrel Gun and 1 pump Action. Ali, who is General officer commanding 3 Division, said the Federal Government of Nigeria established ACCSALW in May 2021, in its determination to mitigate the senseless blood letting and insecurity occasioned by proliferation of small Arms and light weapons (SALW) in circulation within our community and society. 		 			Driver knocks, kills LASTMA officer to evade arrest		 		 		 			Lagos diverts traffic at Ikeja rail level crossing		 		 		 			Insecurity: Obasanjo canvasses state police		 		 General Ali said the intent of the FG is to the mopping of all illicit SALW from the Nigerian society in order to curtail the undue ploliferation of such weapons in the country. According to him, as such the leadership and troops of Safe Haven have been employing both kinetic and non kinetic approaches at community, local government as well as states levels to ensure that the mandates of the Operation is achieved. In our kinetic efforts, we have neutralized numerous bandits, arrested suspects and prosecuted those culpable in fanning embers of crisis in our area of Operation. “Operation Safe Haven has continued to record tremendous success in stemming the tide of criminal attacks on communities and individuals in it’s area of operations,” he said. According to General Ali, own troops have also been remained resolute to checkmate all forms of crimes. “Troops have maintained an offensive posture, conducting several kinetic operations…Recently has led to the recovery of 517 small arms and light weapons from criminal elements,” he said. The Coordinator, General Bature, however urged the OPSH to step up the tied so that they can recover illicit weapons out of the society as the country moves into another round of election. He however appreciated the command for the good job done of mopping up large consignments of assorted weapons and wished them to come back again to receive another round of weapons recovered.