Threat to homeland security, both physical and virtual, has become  serious that governments are not taking the issue with levity. Cattle rustling, banditry, kidnap-for-ransom, and terrorism, including the menace of unknown gunmen cutting people down without let or hindrance have become a plague on the country. Experts have said kinetic and non-kinetic approaches should be deployed to tackle the security challenges besetting the country. They all agree on the importance of emerging technology in the entire mix. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, said the use of emerging technologies in combating insecurity remains a veritable tool which Nigeria will continue to explore, especially now that digital technology is the next available option to help reduce the scourge of insecurity in the country. He said the rapid advancement of technology has brought about the term Emerging Technologies that are new and have not been fully explored or are still under development, and new cases are discovered every day. The deployment of the fifth generation (5G) network in the country will promote remote surveillance where so many facilities such as robots attached to internet of things (IoT) and many more will be deployed with real time communication to places, including remote areas where operatives might not be physically present. He said it would help major companies, especially those that require very strong broadband to undertake remote operation, including oil and gas from discovery to production to refining, that is upstream, midstream and downstream. When it comes to individuals, it will help in telemedicine, tele-surgery where surgeries would be done remotely because of the availability of infrastructure. Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo said every layer of improvement in telecommunication has brought a difference in user experience and significant improvement in the quality of services delivered to the end user. “The major advantage of 5G is that you have a high volume of data transfer between person to person and person to machine and the world today is talking about virtual reality, all these applications will ride on 5G. Today, we are talking about the digital economy, mobile banking; these services will run better on 5G with more affordability and more latency. Electronic gaming, electronic sports and e-commerce will be better with 5G. Big data, high data transfer, high speed of communication, high quality communication will be guaranteed,” Adebayo said. According to the minister, the technological revolution is transforming lives at breakneck speed, altering the way people work, learn and live together. He stated that Emerging Technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Blockchain, Cloud Computing, Quantum Computing, Augmented Reality, Internet of Things and Robotics are exponentially growing and finding new applications in an ever-increasing number of sectors, including the way people receive, exchange and process information for security.   Tech4Dev gets award     Tech start-ups jostle for ARM’s N12m     How tech, e-commerce are redefining Nigeria’s…   The minister further said unstoppable as insecurity appears, the country has continuously explored various approaches to mitigate security challenges. “You would all agree that the ongoing Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), characterised by digitalisation and automation, is cutting across all sectors of industry and humanities. The copious role of digital technology in tackling insecurity can never be underestimated; making it a veritable tool for defeating all security threats in the country. “It is pertinent to understand that advances in technology are reshaping global security capabilities, from enhancing the way borders are monitored to helping mitigate insecurity, the impact of natural disasters to intelligent detection, the identification of criminal activities to automatic detection of crime associated menace in the society,” he said during a presentation at the National Students Security Summit organised by National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) at the International Conference Centre, Abuja. Pantami further stated that these new challenges and opportunities  were being utilised in facilitating digital solutions and building capacities to address national security challenges in Nigeria. The Federal Government is not unmindful of the role of emerging technologies in a sustainable digital economy and national security issues. He said that the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics has been established to foster the development of emerging technologies in preparing Nigeria for the Fourth Industrial Revolution via research and development of technologies like drones, robotics and Artificial Intelligence. Pantami said to curb cybercrime activities, NITDA rejigged its Computer Emergency Readiness Response Team (CERRT) in response to the increase rate of cybercrime and in fulfilment of the requirement of the National Cybersecurity Strategy. He added that CERRT functions in coordinating and facilitating information sharing, providing mitigation strategies and recommendations for the incident response and recovery, researching and analysing trends and patterns of incident activity for government Ministry, Department and Agencies (MDA) with extension to the private sector. “We are taking steps to establish National Public Key Infrastructure to ensure the protection of Nigerian systems in cyberspace. We are establishing National Emergency lines in almost every part of the country to ensure citizens’ communication access. We are creating cybersecurity awareness across geopolitical zones to educate Nigerians on the potential of cyber threats. Every Nigerian must be aware of his responsibilities as far as security is concerned, and each person must be safe,” he added. In an attempt to create a safe digital environment, the Minister said that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the designation and protection of relevant telecommunications infrastructure across the country as Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) towards supporting implementation. The minister added that governments at all levels, private and other critical stakeholders in the technology ecosystem are expected to respond more rapidly and effectively to the unique opportunities emerging technologies could bring to Nigeria’s security administration. “As a government, we would channel our energy towards creating an enabling environment for innovation in emerging technologies that could be harnessed and utilised effectively to the country’s advantage. We would develop integrated frameworks and approaches for adopting and deploying Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in national security architectures. We will continue to create suitable platforms to foster trustworthy collaborations between the country’s public and private technology community and civil society organisations,” he said.