There is so much excitement among football fans across Nigeria ahead of the arrival of Dutch legend Clarence Seedorf in Nigeria today for the UEFA Champions League trophy tour. International Premium Lager beer, Heineken has concluded arrangements to bring the Champions League iconic trophy closer to fans and loyal consumers in the two cities of Lagos and Abuja. Though it is only the trio of Kanu Nwankwo, Finidi George, and John Mikel that have lifted the Champions League trophy, hundreds of fans in Lagos and Abuja would have the opportunity to see the prized diadem live in the coming days courtesy of Heineken. The 2022 UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour presented by Heineken will stop in Lagos on April 12th and April 13th in Abuja. This year, Heineken has made another smart choice of the iconic  Seedorf who is the only player yet to have won the UEFA Champions League Trophy with three different clubs, to headline the trophy tour. Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Emmanuel Oriakhi assured fans of another memorable time with the visiting Dutch football legend as well as an unforgettable time coming up close with the Champions League Trophy.   Man City keep  title lead after thrilling draw with…     Spalletti laments Osimhen’s missed chances     Napoli 2-3 Fiorentina: Osimhen closes in on Nwankwo’s Serie…   He said: “Seedorf is often ranked as one of the best midfield players of his generation and he prides himself to have played for prominent clubs in Europe including Ajax, AC Milan, and Real Madrid with whom he won the prestigious UEFA Champions League trophy. “Such a player fits into what we want to achieve by bringing the world’s best to our country for Nigerians to have a chance to meet him for the first time, and have photo opportunities with him and the iconic UEFA Champions League Trophy too. “We are excited to be creating premium experiences for our consumers and this is just part of the package we have in the ongoing season of our Cheers to the Fans campaign,”Oriakhi remarked. In its fifteen-year history, the UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour presented by Heineken has reached 31 countries across Africa, Asia, and North and South America. Heineken’s 2021/22 UEFA Champions League campaign entitled, “Cheers to All Fans”, highlights the inclusive nature of the game of football, communicating that football belongs to all passionate fans; regardless of gender, age, or tribe. To follow the UEFA Champions League Trophy Tour presented by Heineken on social media, visit @Heinekenng and use #CheerstoAllFans.