World leaders, statesmen, politician, top government officials, religious leaders and other organisations yesterday renewed the global call for peace and unity as Christians across the globe marked Easter. Catholic Pontiff Pope Francis described this year’s celebration as “Easter of War”, alluding to the Russian-Ukrainian war, which has led to loss of lives and destruction of property. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, Governors Simon Lalong (Plateau), Darius Ishiaku (Taraba) and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), felicitated with Christians, urging them to contribute to peaceful co-existence. Pope Francis called for peace in Ukraine during this “Easter of war” as he delivered the traditional Easter Sunday Urbi et Orbi address on St. Peter’s Square at the Vatican. “May there be peace for war-torn Ukraine, so sorely tried by the violence and destruction of the cruel and senseless war into which it was dragged,” the pontiff said. “Our eyes, too, are incredulous on this Easter of war.” “May the leaders of nations hear people’s plea for peace.” “Let there be a decision for peace. May there be an end to the flexing of muscles while people are suffering. “Our hearts, too, have been filled with fear and anguish, as so many of our brothers and sisters have had to lock themselves away in order to be safe from bombing,” the Pope said. The pontiff pointed out that two years of the coronavirus pandemic had taken “a heavy toll.” “It was time to come out of the tunnel together, hand in hand, pooling our strengths and resources. Instead, we are showing that we still have within us the spirit of Cain, who saw Abel, not as a brother, but as a rival, and thought about how to eliminate him,” he added. Pope Francis sympathised with many Ukrainian victims, especially the millions of refugees and internally displaced persons, the divided families, the elderly left to themselves, the lives broken and the cities razed to the ground. He said: “I see the faces of the orphaned children fleeing from the war. May the conflict in Europe also make us more concerned about other situations of conflict, suffering and sorrow, situations that affect all too many areas of our world, situations that we cannot overlook and do not want to forget.” Vice President Osinbajo said Nigeria will be peaceful again, assuringNigerians of more prosperous future for all, regardless of current challenges. Osinbajo stated this in a chat with reporters, shortly after the Easter Sunday service at the State House Chapel, Aso Villa, Abuja. He said: “My message is really a prayer. The resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ is a defining moment for us Christians. And one of the most important things to bear in mind is the resuscitation of hope. “Where there is despair, I pray that hope would be restored, where there is fear, I pray that there is courage and confidence. Where there is deprivation, I pray that there is prosperity, and there is abundance”, he said. Gbajabiamila congratulated Christians, calling for unity and peace among Nigerians. He made the call on Sunday in a statement by his media aide, Lanre Lasisi. Gbajabiamila, who noted the period calls for sober reflection and dedication to nationhood, urged Christians to be their brothers’ keepers at all times. The Speaker also asked all citizens to support the government in its efforts to tackle the insecurity in the country. He called for concerted efforts to contain insecurity across the country, noting that as a nation, Nigeria is currently facing one of its most daunting challenges. He stated that in the spirit of Easter, Nigerians should continue to live peacefully with one another, irrespective of any perceived differences. Lalong urged Nigerians to reflect on peace, love and hope for a better Nigeria. Lalong in a message to mark the event said the crucifixion, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, which is at the centre of the Christian faith, guarantees victory because despite the agony Jesus passed through, his sufferings brought emancipation and redemption to mankind. He urged Nigerians to embrace the lessons of Christ’s sacrifice and teachings which speak of resilience, love, patience and determination to overcome evil and provide better situation. The governor said the current security situation and other challenges call for determination and collaboration among all Nigerians to work together to defeat the forces of evil who are bent on causing pain and agony to the innocent citizens. Lalong said just like Jesus overcame death and liberated mankind, Nigeria will overcome the current phase of insecurity and destruction being perpetrated by criminals, who place little value on human life. Lalong, in a statement by his spokesman, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, called on the people to be security conscious and report any suspicious movement of persons or activity to security agencies to forestall any breakdown of law and order. Ishaku called on residents to support government’s efforts at fighting insecurity. The governor also called for extra vigilance on the part of the people to check the alarming spate of kidnappings, killings and other forms of crimes and criminality. This is contained in the Easter message issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Bala Dan-Abu, in Jalingo. Ishaku advised the people to report suspicious persons visiting the state to security agencies for prompt action. While felicitating Christians in Taraba, Nigeria and the world at large on the anniversary of the death and resurrection of Christ, Ishaku reminded Christians of Christ’s acts of compassion and forgiveness. Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq called on Nigerians to seek God’s favour for the country. The governor made the appeal in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye. He urged Nigerians to reunite against all forces of evil seeking to terrorise people and tear the country apart with violence and economic sabotage. AbdulRazaq described Easter as the season of reunion, self-discipline, sacrifice, forgiveness and commitment to God. He said: “Let us come together to fight all forces of evil that work against peace and development this Easter and beyond. “I wish everyone greater strides and glad tidings as we recommit ourselves to a better Nigeria and stronger ties as a community of people, bound by common destiny.” Babajide Sanwo-Olu urged Nigerians to emulate Christ’s virtues of humility, perseverance and compassion. The governor also urged Christians to continue to live in peace and harmony with people of other faiths, noting that good neighbourliness, selflessness and patience were among the lessons taught and exemplified by our Lord Jesus Christ. Governor Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, implored Nigerians, especially Christians, to seek the face of God for continuous peace in Lagos State, an end to insurgency and other insecurity challenges in the country. He said: “As Christians, this period offers us an opportunity to rethink our relationships as individuals, as communities and as a nation. The death and resurrection of Jesus Christ typifies love, affection and tolerance. It also marked the end of evil and the beginning of good deeds. I want to urge us to emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ by positively impacting the lives of friends, colleagues, associates, neighbours and family members. “As we celebrate this year’s Easter, I want to urge Christian faithful in the state to continue to pray for continuous peace in our dear State, Lagos and end to insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and other insecurities.”   Tinubu: let us build Nigeria as never before     Aspirants step up governorship ticket chase     Security architecture under reformation, says Presidency   Fayemi congratulated Christiansvfor witnessing another Easter season. The Governor, in his Easter message by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, urged Christians to emulate the sacrificial lifestyle of Jesus Christ, who gave his life to save mankind. Fayemi, who felicitated Christians for the successful completion of the Lenten season, urged them to continue to intercede for the state and the country. The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) noted that the Easter season is a period of sober reflection, which lessons should be imbibed and reflected on at all times. He said such fundamental values would go a long way in promoting and strengthening the foundation of love, peace, harmony and progress in the country, adding that the season should serve as a reminder to the selflessness, love, sacrifice and tolerance of Jesus Christ throughout His earthly sojourn, death and resurrection. He said: “We must see this period as a time that presents us the viable opportunity to reflect on how we can help to steer our nation back on the road to peace, stability and prosperity, by living peacefully with fellow citizens.” The Metropolitan Catholic Archbishop, Rev. Ignatius Kaigama described Christ’s resurrection as victory of life over death, hope over despair and love over hatred. Kaigama said this in his homily at the Our Lady Queen of Nigeria Pro-Cathedral in Abuja. Kaigama advised Christians to shun sad, fake and bad news. He also warned against following the world invaded by the virus of immorality and acts causing hopelessness and needless pains. Rev. Kaigama said: “Amidst the religious and political voices of hatred and violence, Muslims and Christians, whose Ramadan and Easter coincide this year again, should go beyond mutual courteous felicitations to be instruments of fostering social harmony and peaceful co-existence. “Nigerians should rather speak and act against corruption, injustice and greed; doing everything to overcome ethno-religious and socio-political hostilities. “The brutal killings, kidnappings, immoral and anti-social activities in different parts of Nigeria are brought about by the cumulative effect of sins in the nation. “We implore the Risen Lord to have mercy on us, to liberate us and the whole world from insecurity and agonies caused by man’s inhumanity to man. “May Jesus transform our situations, satisfy our hungers, quench our thirsts, heal our sick world. “May God wipe away our tears, and restore our buried hopes and aspirations, and above all, give us the peace that only God can give,” he said. The Prelate of the Presbyterian Church of Nigeria, Most Rev Nzie Nsi Eke, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to objectively look into the various ethnic agitations and douse the tension through sincere dialogue and positive engagement. Rev Eke, who made the call in his Easter Message, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to also ensure a smooth political transition next year through fair, credible and transparent elections that are devoid of violence and rancor. He also urged Mr. Buhari to end the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike to safeguard the future of the youths. He lamented the state of insecurity in the country, pointing out that Nigerians are no longer safe anywhere. According to him, no matter how far the  situation  has  degraded  or  deteriorated, there  is  still  hope  for  the  nation. He said: “For  some  years  now,  the  nation  has  been  praying   and  hoping  for  better days  but  this  hope  keep   turning  out  to  be  an   illusion.  Instead  of  getting  better,  the  Nigerian  social  and political  situations   are  getting  worse  by the day. “I wonder how Nigerians are surviving the prevailing  high cost  of  living.  All  the  basic  goods  and  services  which  people  have  taken  for  granted  as  being  parts  of  life are  almost  out  of  reach  because  of  their  unaffordable  costs. “Nigerians  are  lamenting  because  they  can  no longer  afford  the  cost   of  petrol,  kerosene, diesel, domestic gas, rice, beans, yam, garri, meat, fish,  house rent, school fees, transportation, vehicles, clothing, electrical  appliances, etc. “Added  to  this  state  of  pain is  the  deteriorating  security   situation  in  the  country.  T o  say  the  least,  Nigerians  are  no  longer  safe anywhere  within  the  nation  due  to  the  seemingly  intractable  activities  of  bandits  who  operate  as terrorists,  hoodlums,  kidnappers,  armed   robbers,  militant  agitators  and  religious  extremists. “As  we remember  and  try  to  empathize  with  the  passion  of   our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  we  are  constrained  to  admit that  Nigeria  is  in  pains  and  reproach  at  this  time.  The people are hurting. ‘Our  children  in  higher  institutions are  at  home, with their future  being  mortgaged,  because  of  perennial  industrial  actions  by their lecturers. The  ethnic  tension  in  the  country  is  still  pervading  with  some parts  of the  Southeast  being  shut  down frequently with people forced to  stay at  home  or  go  out  for  their  legitimate  businesses at  the risk of  their live  and  properties”. He charged Nigerians to keep to keep  praying,  trust   God  and  support  all  the good  efforts  of   governments. Rev. Eke added: “We  also  must  not  be  afraid  to  speak  out  against  injustice,  bad government  and  the   evils  of  the  society.  The nation must come back to righteousness and the ways of God.” Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai urged Nigerians not to lose hope in the face of the challenges confronting the country. He said that good will triumph over evil. El-Rufai said: “In these difficult times, the example set by Jesus Christ, the pain, the sacrifice, the triumph and the message of hope echo with timeless resonance.” According to the statement he personally signed, El-Rufai said: “As people of faith, let us continue to practice in our daily lives the lessons of sacrifice, care for the poor, deep spiritual reflection and love for all humankind, irrespective of tribe or religion, observed during the fasting. “Easter symbolises the triumph of hope over despair and an affirmation that darkness cannot trump the plans and wishes of Almighty God. Jesus Christ set an example of sacrifice that has moved men and women through the ages. “As we celebrate the triumph of Christ, let us embrace all the lessons of Easter, never losing faith in the will of Almighty God, and the triumph of good over evil. Let us uphold each other in our common humanity and pray for peace in our land. Let us do our best to promote harmony in our communities and reject strife in our land. Let hope never depart from our hearts. “I call on everyone who calls Kaduna State home to work together to uphold our state, its hardworking people and their accomplishments from those who seek to menace and destroy.” Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu urged the political class to thread with caution ahead of next year’s elections. Ikpeazu in a goodwill Easter message assured Abians that a better and more prosperous tomorrow was assured, judging by the available positive macroeconomic indices. Governor Ikpeazu assured Abians that he remains irrevocably committed to their welfare, even as the State grapples with scare resources. The governor said: “We have, by the kindness of God, kept our state peaceful and safe, when compared to our neighbors. “I therefore, appeal to our politicians to be mindful of these as they plan to go into full scale politicking. “Any acts capable of plunging our dear state into avoidable chaos must be avoided. The peace and security of our people must remain the most paramount consideration.” Former Kaduna State Governor Mukhtar Yero called on Nigerians to remain optimistic about tomorrow, inspite of the present challenges. Yero in his Easter message personally signed by him in Kaduna said: “As we celebrate this year’s Easter and reminisce on the sacrifice and love that the season embodies, I felicitate with all the Christian faithful in Kaduna and beyond. “I urge us all to continue to remain optimistic about the potential of our state and Country, let us also continue to pray for peace and oneness among us. Let our humanity defines and bind us together before the considerations. He said, It is oneness and love for each other that would continue to create the peaceful environment needed for our growth and development. “A happy Easter Celebration to us all and May God bless our state and country.”