The Peculiar Ultimate Concerns, a Nigerian Engineering Firm, yesterday signed a sponsorship deal with Nigeria Women Football League Premiership club, Edo Queens, worth N35million. The shirt sponsorship agreement was signed at the Lanre Leke Sports Academy Hall, Ile ogbo in Oshogbo before the last the 2022 NWFL Premiership regular season’s game between Osun Babes and Edo Queens, at the Lanreleke Sports Academy Complex. Osun Babes won the game 2-0. The Peculiar Ultimate Concerns Managing Director, Engineer Abel Adeleke, made the cheque presentation of the sponsorship packages to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Philip-Shaibu, supported by the Edo State Sports Commission Chairman, Yusuf Ali. Adeleke noted that, his company decided to support Edo Queens because of the club’s high level of organization and professionalism. “We give high preference to professionalism in football clubs. Edo Queens fly to play away matches, they earn pay parity with Bendel Insurance, the only place this is happening in Nigeria. He stressed the deal would see the company pay fifty percent of total packages of the shirt deal, the sum of N17.5 million.   UCL: Villarreal stun German Champion Bayern 1-0 in Spain     Foremost ex-referee ‘show boy’ Okubule dies at…     Al Ahly Draw Raja For CAFCL quarterfinals   “The partnership would see Peculiar Ultimate Concerns logo imprinted on Edo Queens match jerseys for the remaining matches in the current season. And if the club qualifies for the CAF Women Champions League, the deal will continue. Adeleke, added that, this is just the beginning of what the company wants to do in the development of the women’s league in Nigeria. “In our full sponsorship packages for the Nigeria Women Football League, we are committed to providing 25 percent of the stadium facilities for all the 14 clubs in the NWFL Premiership. This will cover the building of stadium complex for each of the fourteen clubs,” he said. He continued: “We are going to build the football pitch with playing turf, seating arena, lighting and hostel facilities, which is 25 percent. This will enable the clubs run properly playing their home games in their club grounds and not state owned facilities. “We are also committed to spend as much as N3.5 billion to achieve this, towards the further development and achieving proper professionalism of the women’s football league in Nigeria and indeed Africa. “And in the long run, we hope to achieve building sports facilities across the 36 states of the federation on sites that will be identified by each of the state government. This is in our dedicated drive to develop sports in Nigeria. ”