An indigenous oil and gas firm, ND Western Limited, has said it is committed to efficient health care delivery for its host and neighbouring communities. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Eberechukwu Oji, spoke yesterday at the inauguration of a laboratory, Delta Plus Diagnostics, at Ogunu in Warri South Local Government of Delta State. The facility was established by ND Western/Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) Joint Venture, operators of OML 34, in conjunction with the Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG) and Katchey Company Limited. Oji said the facility would help mitigate the challenges of accessing efficient health diagnostic services in the area by reducing “the need to travel long distances” for laboratory tests. “With the global health challenges we face today, coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic, which has claimed millions of lives all over the world, it is pertinent to state that at ND Western, we do not shy away from these challenges. “We recognise these challenges and proffer solution through collaborative efforts with partners that share our drive, as we like to excel at everything we are involved in.   Anambra Assembly confirms Soludo’s commissioner-nominees     Iworiso-Markson picks Reps nomination form      ‘Why I chose to run for House of Assembly seat’    “As such, we will be delighted to collaborate further with stakeholders to make sure Delta Plus Diagnostics Laboratory is utilised optimally many years from now. “We are not only passionate about oil and gas, but we are also committed to the health and well-being of every individual. And like the proverbial phrase says, ‘health is wealth’.” He hailed the Federal Government and the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for the success of the project, which he noted would support the medical research community in the Southsouth, as well as neighbouring states. The Managing Director of NPDC, Mr. Ali Zarah, represented by the Executive Director, Assets Management, Dr. Ismail Mohammed, said the project came at the right time, when the world was facing serious health problems such as COVID-19 pandemic, among others. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Katchey Laboratory, Mrs. Kate Isa, expressed delight for being part of the project, which she described as very “sophisticated”.   The event was graced by the Ovie of Agbarha-Warri Kingdom, Orhifi Orovwagbarha Agbarha-Ide Ememoh II; Ovie of Ughievwen HRM Matthew Egbi Owahwa II; the Ovie of Effurun-Otor, HRM King Duku II, as well as the Olu of Warri, HM Ogiame Atuwaste lll, who was represented by Chief Clement Maleghemi.