Dele Phillips is an aspirant for the House of Representatives in Ijero/Ekiti West/Efon Constituency, Ekiti State. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain spoke about his mission in politics, godfatherism and plans for his constituents. Many in Ekiti believe you are new to the game of politics because you are just showing interest. Would this not be a disadvantage? Yes, I may be new in politics, but I have followed politics closely for decades. Politics is in everything we do; it’s in everyone. We always have this wrong belief that we are in it only when we get directly involved. But, I can tell you clearly that it’s in everything we do directly or indirectly. It will and can never be a disadvantage to me because all politics is local and I know I’ve done a lot with my people within few years I officially showed my interest. Have you played politics in any capacity in or outside Ekiti before now? No. I have never played politics at any capacity in the past. It’s amazing to be involved this much and to be accepted by my people. It is generally believed in Nigeria that politics is a dirty game. How ready are you to play that game? Politics is not a dirty game, it’s a contest; it is natural to see people or contestants fighting for victory. It is never about physical fight, but laying your cards on the table to enable the voters to choose. We can see footballers fighting hard for victories on the pitches, can we then conclude that it is dirty? Dirty is relative. Many refer to politics as being dirty because it is almost a do or die affair and also, politicians here use  every tactics available to them to bend rule in order to be elected. Are you ready for this kind of politics? Politics should never be seen as a do or die affair. Not in Nigeria or anywhere in the world. Like I mentioned earlier, it is a contest and politicians should see it that way. I can never play politics of bending rules to suit one’s ambition. It will forever remain a good thing for politicians to abide by the rules of the game. You are a major player in the real estate business and other businesses that you oversee. Wy are you in politics? The real estate business is what leaves our legacies on solid prints for other generations to feel and enjoy, it’s very similar to positive politics devoid of corruption and misappropriation. I’m in politics to better the lots of my  people. A thing I’ve been doing as a private person. I’m in politics because our decision and policies at the National Assembly can change the lives of my people positively; better than it is now. As someone who is coming into politics newly, housHouse of reps and statHouse of Assembly or Local government chairman? I think I can bring my consistency which has always made the difference for me, the difficulties we face in the country and the expected change to the national platforms. The national platform will definitely capture more people, hence my decision to gun for the Reps. What are your chances of clinching your party ticket? The party APC is an amazing political party, it gives a level playing ground which may not be available in other parties. With my party, your chances for clinching tickets are high if you are not just a pretender and if you remain loyal to the party. It’s a political party where leadership is respected and maintained. As a youth aspiring to contest for a political post, what benefits do you think Ekiti youths will derive if eventually voted? The benefits for the youths are limitless; I think I know where the shoes pinches, education, job creation and other opportunities will be our daily targets. It’s better to feel and experience it than blab about it.   APGA National Secretary Maku returns to PDP     Who becomes next Kaduna governor?     13 aspirants eyeing Niger Government House   You’ll be representing your constituency in House. Have you done a feasibility study of what and what your people need? I have ran my checks. It could be very challenging because needs are a lot. I think working extremely hard and intelligently should  answer this question because needs can change.  We will work daily to capture these needs and attend to them. What area(s) will you focus on if elected? I will focus on everything. We will try to touch everything; the youths, our elderly people and most especially the women who carry the heaviest burden of the poverty in our country. We will influence laws that will alleviate their pains and also help with their challenges. Omowumi Ogunlola is at present , representing your people at the Green Chambers,  how would you rate her performance so far, and what are the areas you feel she’s lacking that will give you an edge? Omowunmi Ogunlola is a leader of great repute, she is not new to law making. She was a member of the Ekiti State House of Assembly. She has done very well, but I know we can do better.  Comparism is ineffective when you have not tried both sides. The voters will do their comparism very soon. We’ve seen many lawmakers who are mere passive members based on their zero contribution on the floor of the house, what do you have to say to this, and what is the assurance that you’ll be different from those? Some some lawmakers may not be very visible or active publicly, but that doesn’t mean they don’t contribute. They may have done well for the people they represent and not only with their voices on the floor. That doesn’t mean I won’t contribute like I’m expected to. All I know is that I will do whatever is necessary to positively impact my people. Godfatherism plays a major role in the way party ticket is picked in this modern democracy. Are you sure you’ll get a ticket without one, or are you banking on a godfather? Godfatherism  is relative. Our leaders and the fathers of the party will remain respected for their sacrifices. Their experiences must also be respected. I don’t think that’s godfatherism. We have leaders and fathers in every spear of life; even in our villages and communities. What’s your relationship with His Excellency, Gov. Kayode Fayemi? I have a perfect relation with Gov Fayemi. He is an Aquarian like me and arguably the most intelligent governor in Nigeria today. He has done unbelievably well. I honestly want to be associated with a person like that. Give us a lowdown of your manifesto that will sell you to your people? My manifesto is very broad. In summary I want to say this will be politics with compassion where my people’s heart-heats are felt. It is beleived that PDP candidate in the forthcoming governorship election is Fayose’s anointed, and the APC’s is Fayemi anointed. What’s your calculation? Governor Fayose can’t anoint any candidate  for housHouserepsReps. The Ekiti people have gone past that. We live in the present times when the Ekiti people want to know and elect their leaders and representatives. It’s an open contest. We will all try out our popularities and goodwill amongst our people.