Rep. Ibrahim Almustapha (APC-Sokoto) says Nigeria’s current challenges are signs of greatness, saying the country has capacity to surmount them. Almustapha who represents Wurno/Rabah Federal Constituency of Sokoto State at the National Assembly, said this when he spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Sokoto on Sunday. “To me, I see most of these challenges, especially the security challenge facing the country as a sign of greatness, many great nations passed through lots of challenges on their way to greatness. “I believe the same situation is applicable to Nigeria and once we are able to overcome them, Nigeria will certainly become great in every aspect of human endeavours, in terms of economy, infrastructure, power and all others. “What we need is to come together as a nation with sincerity, towards tackling the challenges, Nigerians who are fond of celebrating bad news and negativity should stop. “Those supplying information and logistics to bandits and armed robbers should stop and those entrusted with the task of fighting them should be more sincere, ” he said. Almustapha said although Nigeria has recorded some achievements in the fight against Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, much needed to be done. “I think the North East has witnessed relative peace for some time now, certainly, the situation is not the way it was in 2015, when the All Progressives Congress (APC) came into power,” he said. He expressed optimism that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government would succeed in its bid to tackle the security challenges bevelling the country. Almustapha said that the new leadership of the APC would reposition the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. “When you talk about discipline, determination and uprightness, I think you are talking about the new APC executives led by Sen. Abdullahi Adamu,” he said.   Buhari felicitates Dangote at 65     Peace Mass Transit won’t flout court judgment…     Experts endorse CBN’s intervention to make petroleum…   Almustapha said the APC would win the 2023 general elections without much challenge. “Nigerians love APC, they love Buhari and am sure you must have seen the tremendous progress made in terms of infrastructure since the regime came in 2015. “If I should ask you which other political party exists in the country with that kind of credential certainly, you will reply that there’s non. “In terms of development, no party can match the APC, even with the numerous economic, social, security and even COVID-19 challenges, the APC administration has done well. “Just take a look around Nigeria, you will see massive infrastructure development everywhere, there is also massive agricultural intervention everywhere,” he said. Almustapha added: “I think the APC has performed very well especially when compared with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) years. “I can comfortably tell you that the APC will win the 2023 general elections with landslide victory.” He expressed optimism that the party would remain united ahead of the general elections. “Are you not surprise that we conducted our National Convention successfully in spite of all odds. ” We had about eight chairmanship aspirants and all of them came together and agreed to step down for Adamu, the same scenario would repeat itself during the primary election and it will be hitch-free. “We in APC are out for the goodness of Nigeria, we are not out to pursue individual interest, ours is collective interest of Nigeria, we have to agree and disagree on issues. “Our election at the convention was mostly based on consensus, this is exactly what will be repeated at the primaries and we will forge ahead as a party,” the lawmaker said. (NAN)