Last week, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State directed all political appointees and public servants in the state government vying for political offices in the forthcoming coming general elections, to tender their resignation letters. The directive is contained in a statement issued on his behalf by Mukhtar Gidado, his Special Adviser on Media. According to him, they are to submit their letters of resignation on or before Friday, April 8. He explained that the directive was in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act, 2022, which provided that political appointees and other public servants aspiring for political offices in the 2023 general elections, resign their appointments. He said the provision stipulated that such political appointees must resign 30 days before the conduct of primary elections in respect of the specific posts they were aspiring for. The governor also directed commissioners wishing to contest, to hand over their offices to the Permanent Secretaries of their respective ministries. “Other political office holders should accordingly, hand-over government property in their possessions to the Permanent Secretary, General Services, Office of the Head of Civil Service, Bauchi,” he said. the directive, according to pundits, have heightened the political frenzy in the state, especially as regards the 2023 governorship election amidst uncertainties over the political fate of the incumbent governor who recently declared his interest in the presidential ticket of his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The outcomes of the 2019 general elections are the major reasons why many analysts are of the opinion that the next gubernatorial contest in the state will be a keen one between the ruling PDP and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). While President Muhammadu Buhari, who was the candidate of the APC in the 2019 election, won in Bauchi state, the party lost the governorship seat to PDP’s Governor Bala Muhammed who defeated the then incumbent governor and APC candidate, Muhammed Abubakar by a very narrow margin. APC won all senate seats in the state, winning back two seats it earlier lost due to defections in the process. The APC and the PDP shared the seats in the House of Representatives with the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) also having two seats. The APC also had majority in the Bauchi State House of Assembly, producing the Speaker after the election. But the ruling PDP produced the Deputy Speaker in a power sharing agreement despite being in the minority. Many chieftains of the ruling PDP and the opposition APC have thrown their hats into the ring for the contest even as some analysts are of the opinion that Governor Mohammed should not be ruled out of the race in spite of his current interest in the presidency. According to party sources, the governor has sought the understanding of the leadership of the PDP to be allowed to contest the governorship election should he lose out in the race for the presidential ticket of the party later this year. The Nation gathered that whoever wins the PDP ticket at the primary election may hand over the ticket to the governor in the event that he fails to clinch the party’s presidential ticket. “PDP in Bauchi state today is one big happy family unlike in the past, thanks to the fatherly disposition of the governor. We are all his children and if the need arise for any one of us to make such sacrifice for him, I tell you, the person will not hesitate to do it,” an aide of the governor said on Thursday. Asked to confirm the said arrangement, our source added that, “if there is such an arrangement, you will soon see it materializing.” The eldest son of former Bauchi Governor, Ahmadu Adamu Mu’azu, has indicated interest to contest the 2023 governorship election under the PDP. The aspirant, Ahmed Ahmadu Mu’azu, has already purchased PDP nomination form and he has established his campaign structure. Director-General of Ahmed Mu’azu Junior campaign Organisation, Dr. Kabiru Garba Ilelah, said, “young Muazu is not contesting against the incumbent State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed Abdulkadir, but he is contesting because the Governor is now contesting for the Presidential seat.” “We saw Governor Bala had already purchased the PDP nomination form to contest for the President of Nigeria 2023. Young Mu’azu has a lot of respect for the incumbent Bauchi State Governor, whom he considers as his leader, elder statesman and a father,” he said. Analysts see the younger Muazu as merely launching his political career with the move. Although his father’s political structure across the state is expected to take him far in the race, it is not likely he will get the ticket unless he is the preferred choice of Governor Mohammed. He is the Bauchi State former Commissioner of Finance, who resigned barely 36 days after he was appointed and sworn-in. He has already declared interest in the governorship ticket of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). His resignation in 2019 took the political establishment in Bauchi State by surprise. Some pundits have argued that his resignation may not be unconnected with the minor cabinet reshuffle, which moved Soro from the Finance Ministry to Youth and Sports. He was then a chieftain of the ruling PDP. His supporters say while Soro held sway as Commissioner of Finance for 36 days, he introduced a new system which unearthed thousands of ghost workers on the state’s payroll.   Sakara music for my birthday     Omisore’s second coming     Dirty Fuel: What changed for the Reps?   Over 40 thousand workers without the compulsory Bank Verification Number (BVN) were delisted from the payroll of the state government. Soro was also credited with other reforms that saved the state huge sums within 36 days. “While the rest of the country celebrated his innovation, some powerful forces in the state were offended,” an ally claimed. Political observers say Soro is one of the frontrunners for the APC ticket. The 63 year old politician is the immediate past Governor of Bauchi state. He lost re-election with a narrow margin to the incumbent governor in 2019 when he was the APC governorship candidate. He was governor between May 2015 and May 2019. He earlier served as the Bauchi State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice. Many analysts see him as the strongest aspirant on the stable of the APC in its quest to recover the governorship seat it lost in 2019. But some chieftains of the party says the APC lost in 2019 due to the many complaints about his administration and the numerous infightings occasioned by his leadership of the party. “We cannot win with the same person that lost the seat for us barely four years ago,” a party official said. This is just as others claimed he is well positioned to represent APC to battle the incumbent governor. “MA has the good record of regular payment of salaries and other developments when he was governor. The people love him,” another party member said. Tuggar is the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany since 2017 till date. In 2015, he was an APC gubernatorial aspirant. Tuggar was a member of the House of Representatives representing Gamawa (2007–2011). In 2011, he was the CPC gubernatorial candidate. The Ambassador has been locked in a battle of supremacy with the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu over the control of the party. Factions loyal to the two men held parallel congresses in the state and elected two different leaderships for the APC in the state. Pundits say Tuggar may find it difficult to get the ticket of the APC as Babayo Misau, an ally of the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, is the recognized chairman of the party in the state. But his supporters say he is ready for a primary election that is free and fair. But indications also emerged that Tuggar may have decided to jettison his reported governorship ambition following the inability of his faction to get the nod of the national secretariat of the party. It is left to be seen what happens next. Lawal Gumau is the Senator representing Bauchi South senatorial district of the state. He is a chieftain of the APC. He was elected in 2018 to replace Senator Mallam Wakili who died same year while still in office. Prior to being elected a Senator, Gumau was the member representing Toro Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives between 2011 and 2018. Opponents of his governorship ambition describe him as ambitious. They believe he does not have the political structure to contest the governorship election and win. But supporters of the 53 year old politician claim his performance as a federal legislator since 2011 has presented him to the people of the state as the man to trust. Dr. Musa Babayo, widely referred to as Talban, is a former chairman of Tertiary Education Fund (TETfund). The banker turned politician hails from Azare and was a member of PDP before joining the APC in October 2015. Within his new party, it is unlikely that Babayo will be able to muster enough support that will hand him the ticket. Popularly addressed with his traditional title, Dokaji, the 44 year old politician is the Senator representing Bauchi Central. He was speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly and a two-term member of the House of Representatives representing Darazo/Ganjuwa Federal Constituency between 2007 and 2015. Party sources claim he is not too keen about the governorship contest as he is also believed to be seeking a return to the senate in 2023. The rumour mill has been agog that the former chief of air staff, and now an ambassador, is another possible candidate for governorship on the platform of the APC. Though he is yet to publicly declare interest in the race, some party sources claim he has been consulting widely on his rumoured aspiration and may throw his hat into the ring soon. But not much is known of him politically in the state and his relationship with party leaders is not seen to be as cordial as for them to trust him with the governorship ticket. But he has the war chest and enough external support to give the ruling party a good run for its money should he get the ticket of the APC to run.