An Enugu-based Islamic Cleric, Sheikh Abdul Ishola, yesterday urged Muslim faithful to stop cutting corners in business as “cheating is forbidding in Islam”. Ishola, who is the Chief Missioner of The Islamic Centre, Uwani, Enugu, gave the admonition while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu. The cleric spoke on the sidelines of unjust and high profits some businessmen and women make as well as manipulation some traders engage in to make unjust gains especially in the Holy month of Ramadan. Ishola, who also doubles as the Chief Imam of the centre, noted that a true Muslim ummah would never exploit or do things to manipulate his or her next door neighbour for “unjust gain or wealth”. According to him, “we cannot always blame government even when the little we can do to make our country, society, community and local neighbourhood better have not been done by us. “Cheating is forbidding in Islamic. All types of manipulation in business meant to cunningly ensure high profit or deceive the buyers are not acceptable in Islam.   Firm offers nutrition support to Muslims     Why moral decadence is increasing, by cleric     Yari distributes 400 cows for Sallah festivals   “Today, you see traders selling in “mudus” or 4-litre painter size buckets putting spoilt vegetables, fruits or grains below and putting the good ones at the top to obviously deceive the buyers and make high profit. This is evil.” “We as a people must return back to Almighty Allah and ask for forgiveness. The best time to do it is this month of mercy – the Holy month of Ramadan. “Let us use this month of forgiveness, mercy as well as bountiful blessings to seek the face of Almighty Allah in true repentance,” he said. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, annually observed by Muslims worldwide as month of fasting, prayer and reflection. Fasting in the month of Ramadan is one of the five pillars of Islam. It was made obligatory during the month of Sha’ban in the second year after Muslims migrated from Makkah to Madinah. Muslims are, therefore, required to abstain from sex, food and drink from sunrise till sunset while observing the fast. The Ramadan fast teaches self-discipline, control, sacrifice and empathy for those who are less fortunate, thus encouraging actions of generosity and compulsory charity.