Nollywood actor and comedian John Ikechukwu Okafor, popularly known as Mr Ibu, has confirmed that he is back stronger after being poisoned for the third time in about three years. The 61-year-old actor is one of Nigeria’s most talented comic characters. His amusing and witty gestures constantly send fans into fits of laugher. Many admire his acting which is often characterised by acts of silliness and hilarious gestures. The Enugu-born actor has featured in over 200 Nollywood movies, including Mr Ibu (2004), Mr Ibu and His Son, Coffin Producers, Husband Suppliers, International Players, Mr Ibu in London (2004), Police Recruit (2003), 9 Wives (2005), Ibu in Prison (2006) and Keziah (2007). The actor who hails from Nkanu West Local Government, Enugu State, finished elementary school in 1974. He moved to Sapele, Delta State, to stay with his brother after his father’s demise. While there he did menial jobs so he could sponsor himself to school and support his family. He worked as a hairstylist, ventured into photography and also worked in a company that produces crates. After secondary school, he was admitted to the College of Education, Yola, but pulled out due to financial difficulties. He later enrolled in the Institute of Management and Technology, Enugu, as soon as he was financially able to. In past years, Mr Ibu had battled with series of attacks. He stated that his ‘village people’ had attempted to kill him twice through poison. He also faced what he described as an unknown ailment for a long time.   Attacks: Where is Monguno?     Portable: Stirring pots of unending controversies     Kwara: Aggrieved APC members defect to SDP   He was ill in the past weeks and received treatment at Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre Abuja, but has fully recovered and was discharged from the hospital. The leadership of the Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) paid a get-well-quick visit to him. A video shared by the Guild’s Director of Communications, Monalisa Chinda-Coker, on her Instagram page, showed the ailing actor was in a cheerful mood, as the actress stood beside him. Explaining his ordeal, Ibu said he was poisoned during his numerous trips to his country home in Nkanu West, Enugu State. He said the effects weighed him down when he returned to his base in Abuja. The comic who claimed that his ‘kinsmen’ had attempted to kill him. In 2020, raised the alarm about how they allegedly paid his domestic staff to poison him because of his successful career. He recounted how he was kidnapped and poisoned at an event in Nnewi. He also noted that his protruding stomach was a result of the poison. Ibu remains a household name in Nigeria’s thriving movie industry. Last year, he said hopes to die at 100 as his mother died at 90. He posted: “My name is John Ikechukwu Okafor. It is another God sent day for me. I have completed 61 years; Jesus! I cannot believe this, are you serious. My mother died at 90 years and I said I am going to go 100 years. It is by God’s power not by any man. I do not know what is going to happen when I get to 100 years but I know that I want to leave a history in this country.”