On Friday, April 29, Nigerian business tycoon and one of the richest black men in Africa, Dr. Mike Adeniyi Agbolade Ishola Adenuga Jnr. would saunter into the age of 69. Those close to him know he is a man who does not like fanfare in celebration of his birthday. The stupendously generous money bag would prefer to celebrate with his close circle which consists of his children, a few staff, and friends while sipping his favourite ‘Kir Royale’ French cocktail laced with crème de cassis topped mixed with champagne or white wine. For the Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State-born business tycoon, his birthday allows him to thank his creator for the gift of life and also reflect on redolent memories of the past making necessary amends for future sake. The Spirit of Africa, as he is fondly called, would rather celebrate his birthday touching lives like he always does over the years without making a noise about it. Those who had followed his story with keen interest would attest to the fact that during his formative years, he displayed traits of a man destined for greatness. Although he had a very quiet and modest upbringing, Adenuga, unlearn, relearn and also rebuilt himself to attain the greatness he has become popular for. He is one of the very few billionaires in Nigeria, who gives opportunities to the less privileged. He is a man who values his humble beginning. He has adhered strictly to the teaching of his parents to never burn bridges. Creating no time for frivolities like his peers, Adenuga started early in life, knowing fully well that life is no bed of roses. He struggled, worked hard, and was smart before providence granted him his heart desires by making him a young millionaire at age 26. 		 			On Orji Kalu’s 62nd birthday		 		 		 			Ahmed Indimi’s love for Zahra wax stronger		 		 		 			Beer Barn celebrates 10th years anniversary		 		 In business, the Bull, as his zodiac sign reads, is renowned for his giant stride in crashing monopoly in the telecommunication industry. At a time when many thought Per-second-billing PSB at the advent of GSM in Nigeria, Adenuga made a smooth entry by upturning every impossibility with Globacom to the chagrin of competitors. Other competing brands had no choice but to laud and follow his lead as he created a healthy competition in the telecommunication market shattering the stereotype created by foreign investors. His audacious and risk-taking moves years ago opened the eyes of indigenous investors to the number of opportunities that can be unlocked in Nigeria despite the hurdles. The smooth-talking and walking encyclopedia cherish friendship a great deal and love to put smiles on people’s faces with his philanthropy. In particular, The Mike Adenuga Foundation has positively impacted the lives of so many people within and outside Nigeria. The Foundation has achieved this by creating or supporting initiatives that deliver knowledge, skills, resources, and infrastructure that will stimulate innovation, facilitate commerce, drive enterprise and improve living conditions. Its cores programme interests are entrepreneurship, education, health, and rural development. The education programme aims to support the study of disciplines that drive innovation and development. The Mike Adenuga Fellowship Programme has also funded undergraduate and post-graduate scholarships and research fellowships at local and international institutions in the following disciplines: Petroleum Engineering, Information and Communications Technologies, Banking and Finance, Entrepreneurship Studies, Development Studies, Electrical, and Electronics Engineering.