One hundred and twenty sponsored scholars are running their Masters and PhD programmes in Brazil with a view to under studying their agricultural revolution policy and its impact on the national economy. The scholars are sponsored by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) in partnership with the Agricultural Research and Innovation Fellowship for Africa (ARIFA). Executive Secretary of TETFund, Sonny Echono, at a symposium at the Federal University Viçosa, Brazil, said the focus was leading the transformation of public tertiary institutions in Nigeria to make them more relevant to addressing developmental challenges and improve their global ranking. According to Echono, TETfund would spare nothing to strengthen collaboration with the Federal University of Vicosa, Brazil, the Agricultural Research and Innovation Fellowship for Africa, ARIFA and the Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa FARA to effectively deploy science and technology research in agriculture. He noted that Nigeria and Brazil share a lot of similarities such as climate, ecology and crops, adding that it must take advantage and change the narrative. Echono said: “Until we make our educational institutions relevant to our national development objectives in our country, we won’t optimize the objectives for tertiary education, that is why we are strengthening collaboration. “Our challenge is the quality of our graduates. When you say you are a graduate in Nigeria, what special skill do you have? Because in today’s workplace, it is not the length of your certificate, employers want to see what you are bringing to the workforce and what value creation you are going to be adding on, so essentially, they want fit-for-purpose graduates, the previous and current practice of employing people and send them for trainings, you spend so much money in sending them to Europe and other countries to retrain them before they can now work, that should be the thing of the past.   JAMB directs UTME candidates to start printing notification…     Osinachi, NIN-SIM linkage, Rita Dominic top search on Google…     Soludo seeks establishment of Bayern Academy in Anambra   “Here we see what they do, they prepare graduates for the marketplace, so we should bear that in mind on how we prepare future graduates to take advantage of the opportunities out there in the workplace and Nigeria has a lot of these factors, giving our young population in Nigeria, our students are usually very intelligent, hardworking. “Brazil has done well in making itself self-sufficient in all areas, you should take home some of those lessons that have been achieved here.’’ Ambassador of Nigeria to Brazil, Prof Mohammad Makarfi, described the symposium as timely in line with the Federal Government’s effort at ensuring food security and curtailing importation. The Executive Director, Forum for Agricultural Research in Africa FARA Dr Yemi Akinbamijo titled: “An Ambitious attempt at a systemic Transformation of the Nigerian Agricultural Innovation System: Lessons from Brazil” said Africa needed a critical mass of Agriculture research for development practitioners to accelerate growth and development and food sufficiency. Dr Akinbamijo said FARA is working to ensure food security, incomes and jobs, increased resilience, improved natural resource management, increased agricultural productivity, improved agro-industry competitiveness, and enhanced resilience to risks in Africa. Agricultural Research and Innovation Fellowship for Africa (ARIFA) is a programme established to benefit African agriculture, building of strategic competence, and revitalization of pedagogy through the infusion of a new crop of professionals. The 120 Nigerian scholars currently running their master and PhD programme in Brazil would be conferred fellows of ARIFA at the end of their studies.