Access to high quality education is acknowledged as being transformative. But, across Africa, including Nigeria, many students do not have access to quality education. However, at Edukoya, an education technology (ed-tech) company and one of Nigeria’s most downloaded education apps, has moved to bridge the gap in access to quality education. The company’s founder/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Honey Ogundeyi, says its vision is to connect the next generation of Africans to online learning. CHIKODI OKEREOCHA. tells the inspiring story of one of Nigeria’s pioneering female technology experts. The personifies the growing push by women technology entrepreneurs to challenge the dominance of the African tech ecosystem by their male counterpart. Through the work that she and indeed, other notable female tech entrepreneurs do, the founder/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Edukoya, an education technology (ed-tech) company, Honey Ogundeyi, has been leading the charge in demonstrating that female leadership, especially in the technology space, is possible. Honey, who started her entrepreneurial journey in the technology sector over 18 years ago, is, one of the pioneering female technology founders in Nigeria. Her Edukoya, which leverages its online tutoring platform to offer personalised learning to students across the continent, has become the destination of choice for students wishing to get access to top-quality education, enabling them to achieve their goals and get ahead in life. With the help of some of the smartest and most diverse minds across the continent, who are passionate about the problem of lack of access to quality education and united in bringing quality education to all, Honey was able successfully positioned Edukoya, in its launch week, as the second most downloaded education app in Nigeria. It also had over 50, 000 downloads in a month; the company has also recorded more than a million attempted questions on its app. “This tells us that parents and learners are really engaging with our content. Beyond downloads and engagement, the feedback from users has also been very positive. In addition, we are getting feedback from parents and students across Nigeria telling us they are seeing a steady increase in their school grades since using the app. All of this within just about two months of the launch of Edukoya,” an obviously excited Honey told The Nation. Describing the company’s phenomenal achievements so far as “very promising,” the ed-tech entrepreneur said she looks forward to more ground-breaking news as the company continues to grow. “I am really excited by the response to Edukoya so far,” she declared, pointing out that “at Edukoya, we’re reimagining quality education for all and it’s an audacious, incredible step and fulfilling mission that our team is dedicated to achieving.” Giving more insight into how Edukoya is achieving its mission, Honey said, for instance, that its star product, ‘Ask Edukoya,’ is a one-to-one online tutoring platform for several subjects that connect the best teachers to students all around the country for real time short lessons on homework, exam preparation or doubt solving. “Our tutors are available on demand and these questions are answered in real time – 24/7. Each Edukoya tutor goes through a world class four-step recruitment process, we typically admit 99 per cent teachers- it’s extremely competitive so students are essentially guaranteed a high quality tutor every time. “We also audit sessions to ensure that conversations are appropriate and in line with our standard practice. Our parents and students are top on our mind when creating our products and features so, we ensure that everyone who uses or interacts with the app can be guaranteed of 100 per cent safety, Honey explained. How it all started According to the burgeoning female tech entrepreneur, the launch of Edukoya was born out of personal experience. Her story: “I grew up and was educated in Lagos, attending both primary and secondary schools in Nigeria. So, I have first-hand knowledge about the education system in Nigeria. “I attended a Federal Government secondary school and I remember that with a class of over a 100 students,  teachers often with their best efforts were in many cases unable to give each student personal attention. A vicious cycle ensued: with little time to personalise lessons, the teacher would be unable to respond to every student’s requests to further explain concepts. “Later, when the teacher would call on students to answer questions, but — not understanding the concepts — many, including myself, wouldn’t be able to answer.  Our learning experience focused mainly on memorising to pass exams and not to learn. This dynamic is not peculiar to Nigeria, it’s a global problem.” In retrospect, Honey said personalised learning, which Edukoya currently offers to the next generation of students, would have had a great impact on students’ learning experiences at the time. Noting that across Africa, many students do not have access to quality education, she reiterated: “I have experienced how access to high quality education can be transformative.” Creative and innovative, effortlessly beautiful and unassuming, Honey said she was driven by how she can use technology to make learning more accessible to more people on the continent. “Our goal is to educate the next billion learners and today, Edukoya already helps thousands of students to get access to top-quality education, enabling them to achieve their goals and get ahead in life,” she stated. The Edukoya founder insisted that education technology (ed-tech) is the future of education in Nigeria. And she gave chilling statistics to justify her position: “With the predicted rise in our population, technology represents the only viable solution for connecting every African to high quality education. Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) has 30 million children who are not receiving any form of schooling, with Nigeria alone home to 11.4 million, the highest number globally.   ‘Our brand put Nigeria on global fashion stage’     ‘Nigeria’s tax system should align with business realities’     CMD backs women empowerment, development   “Some reports also suggest that SSA would need to train another 17 million teachers to meet the current demand. We don’t have the time or resources to make this happen as quickly as we need to if we take the traditional approach. However, technology gives us an opportunity to deliver the solutions we need in the most effective way.” According to her, Edukoya is using technology to redefine how the next generation has access to education. “I believe this problem (lack of access to quality education) is worth solving. Our current focus is Nigeria, but our vision is to connect every African to high quality education,” Honey stated. Although, she has since set for herself an audacious goal to look beyond the traditional approach and accordingly, leverage technology to achieve the feat, her capacity to deliver is certainly not in doubt, having been in the technology sector for a long time, working with several tech companies and garnering requite experience along the line. For instance, Honey has worked in the technology sector for 18 years, working at companies like Mckinsey & Co, Ericsson and Google. She founded Fashpa, Nigeria’s first fashion commerce platform. “I built the first version myself and started the site from the bedroom of my flat in Lagos. I was solving a problem for many women in Nigeria at the time – access to good quality fashion items at decent prices,” she told The Nation. Honey was also part of the founding team at Kuda, Nigeria’s first and largest digital bank today. “As the founding Chief Marketing Officer (CMO), my work was instrumental in helping the company reach millions of customers in less than two years,” she said. As she emphasised, “I typically build companies around problems I have faced and I am extremely motivated to see better solutions using technology, be it across e-commerce, financial technology or education technology. I am passionate about using technology to uplift Africa and this has been a major driving force for my entrepreneurship journey.” So far, so good Eighteen years after Honey threw her hat into the technology ring, she said she is excited to be one of the pioneering female technology founders in Nigeria. “The African tech ecosystem has come a long way since I started out in 2009. It was very male dominated and there were not a lot of funding opportunities for startups in Nigeria. “There were also limited female role models in technology in Nigeria. So, I am excited to see the tech ecosystem evolve now with fast-growing startups and several unicorns, a more evolved investing landscape with founders investing in founders, venture capitalists focused on funding women and training programs to help more people and in particular get access to careers in technology,” she said. To further underscore the growing influence of female entrepreneurs in a largely male-dominated technology industry, Honey said although she recognises that representation is key, “I am excited to be at the forefront of pioneering the ed-tech sector in Africa. Our pre-seed round, for example, was the largest for an ed-tech company in Africa and for a female founder across the continent.” She, however, expressed hope that this inspires more females to consider and start roles in technology.  “I don’t think there has been a better time to be a female entrepreneur and I am proud to see women stepping into roles of authority and literally building large and impactful companies,” Honey said, exuding so much confidence. Although every day is different, Honey said her work as CEO of an ed-tech company involves product development, hiring and resource management and strategy. “I am in constant communication with our users, teams and stakeholders to ensure that we are delivering on our vision to connect the next generation of Africans to online learning,” she declared. It was a declaration laced with the unspoken confidence of a busy top executive who has managed to achieve work-life balance. And she confirmed this, saying: “As a founder, it’s easy to keep your head down and just concentrate on running your business. You may look back on your progress from time-to-time, but you’re always focused on the next challenge. Work-life balance is very important to me, but sometimes there are sacrifices to be made. A great hack for me is hiring super smart people, delegating, zoning out my calendar, scheduling everything professional and personal and not neglecting personal time and mindfulness. Outside of my day job as a CEO, I enjoy mentoring, angel investing, teaching and playing squash.” Having made significant progress in her chosen field, Honey has these pieces of advice for existing and aspiring women tech entrepreneurs: “Focus on your strengths and amplify them. Surround yourself with the best team and step out of your comfort zone all the time! The journey towards accomplishing your goals may be long, but it’s important to recognise how far you’ve come – and to celebrate the wins.” The expert is not done. “Network and invest in relationships. I have built great business relationships over the years and the diversity of this network has helped me at each stage of my career,” she added.