Having realised a long-held dream in reaching the Premier League, Kamara is determined to make his mark at Vicarage Road “That’s the beauty of football,” smiles Hassane Kamara. “Every player has a different background and has taken a different path. But when we meet on the pitch, we all try to do our best for the fans.” The Watford and Cote d’Ivoire defender is reflecting on a week that he came up against Raheem Sterling, Jack Grealish, Diogo Jota and Mohamed Salah in successive matches for club and country. Even if Kamara finished on the losing side on both occasions, making his debuts at Wembley and Anfield in the space of a few days was quite an achievement for the 28-year-old, who only had his first taste of top-flight football after being promoted to Ligue 1 with Reims in 2018. Yet the left-back, who is a product of the renowned Châteauroux academy in central France, admits he is still getting over the 3-0 defeat in Ivory Coast’s first senior international against England when his captain, Serge Aurier, was sent off in the first half. “For us it was a chance to make history but we played against a big team and the context of the game was difficult,” Kamara says. “We were very disappointed – we wanted to win because it’s the first game against England and we played in a big stadium with great players. After the red card it was very difficult because the England team are very smart …” It has certainly been a whirlwind nine months for Kamara, who made his international debut last year after excelling for Nice before moving to Watford at the start of January. Despite a change of manager when Claudio Ranieri was shown the door a few weeks later and replaced by Roy Hodgson, a series of committed performances in 12 Premier League starts so far have already made him a fans’ favourite at Vicarage Road, with Kamara ranked among the league’s best tacklers since his arrival. “It’s me,” he says. “Every time I do something it’s at 100%. I’ve fought all my life to play football and now I have a chance to play in this league and I want to make the most of it. Since I was young I wanted this challenge – that’s why I play football. But it’s my job and I have to stay focused.” Kamara grew up in Paris before joining Toulouse’s academy when he was 13. Being apart from his family from such a young age was “not easy”. “At first, it’s a dream because you are a football fan and it’s just unbelievable,” he adds. “But after a while things become more difficult because you leave your family and you are alone. You have to be competitive and work hard to improve your game – it’s not easy. But I think for my life it was a good thing. Now I have a strong mentality and my fighting spirit comes from there. I think that players who leave their families early need support because it can be very hard.”   YSFON boss lauds sponsors at 57     Chelsea hit Southampton for six     Lewandowski scores late Bayern winner from spot   Kamara joined Châteauroux in 2012 and made his debut in Ligue 2 two years later before moving to Reims in 2015. But having signed for Nice in 2020, he spent only 18 months on the French Riviera before Watford gave him the opportunity to join fellow Châteauroux academy products Jean-Philippe Mateta of Crystal Palace and Brentford’s Yoane Wissa in the Premier League. “So many of the players from the academy have gone on to become professionals,” says Kamara. “I am proud to have started my career with them because it was a really great place to learn. Before I went there I had the chance to go to other academies at a higher level, but it was the best for me I think.” He adds: “In France, I played against Neymar, [Kylian] Mbappé and Memphis Depay so I have some experience of the top level. But in the Premier League I have come up against players who I don’t really know before and they have been very, very good. Every team has a minimum of four or five great players. In every game so far, my opponent has been quick, smart and technical and now I understand why it’s known as the best league in the world.” The process of adapting to his new club has certainly been made easier by Hodgson’s linguistic skills, even if Kamara is fully embracing the challenge of trying to improve his English. “I am trying to learn but sometimes I speak too much! But it’s something that is very important because football is a team game, so learning the language is the only way to properly integrate myself. I always try to speak English with Roy but occasionally he will explain it in French if I don’t understand.” As for Watford’s hopes of staying up this season, Kamara is confident that their remaining home fixtures, starting with Leeds on Saturday, and including matches against Brentford, Burnley and Everton, provide an opportunity. “It was always my dream to play in the Premier League and it came true,” he says. “But when I have realised a dream, I always say: ‘Now is the time to focus again’ and this time it’s about making sure Watford stay up. I will be honest – it’s going to be difficult, but we have five games at home and we have to win at least four of them I think. It will be difficult but we can do it.” Culled from theguardian.com