The House of Representative yesterday followed the footsteps of the Senate when it approved the extension of the implementation of the capital component of the 2021 budget from March 31 to May 31, 2022. The Bill to extend the implementation of the capital component of the budget passed through first, second and third reading within three hours. The Executive Bill, titled: “Bill for an Act to Amend the Appropriation Act, 2021 in order to Extend the Implementation year of the Capital Component of the Appropriations Act 2021 from 31 March 2022 to 31 May 2022; and for Related Matters (HB.1942),” was sponsored by the House Leader Alhassan Ado-Doguwa (APC, Kano). Heading the debate on the need for the extension, Doguwa urged his colleagues to extend the budget implementation as it would enable the government run full package of capital component in the budget. He said: “We have always had this kind of consideration to allow the government to run the full package of capital component in the budget. For those reasons, our sister chamber, the Senate, has done the same.   President redeploys minister     Senate okays Transportation varsity in Daura     Buhari signs Executive Order 11   “I want to understand our colleagues, in the spirit of that bicameral legislature, that this Bill should go with the speed of light…” “It is in the interest of our people to have the government accomplish its capital components so that we can be able to deliver on the promises we have made to our people, most especially on some capital issues that have to do with security apparatus, infrastructural development and so on. These will have a good boost, if this Bill is considered and extended.” Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta), who spoke in favour of the extension, said: “The Bill is self-explanatory. It deals with the tenure of 2021 Appropriation Act. Given that most of the components of what made up the 2021 budget are yet to be fully implemented, it means that if you stop it, it will have a bad effect on those projects that are ongoing.” The Bill was thereafter considered by the Committee of the Whole and passed. The Senate had considered and passed the same Bill at its seating on Tuesday.