The Special Adviser on Transportation to Lagos State Governor, Hon. Toyin Fayinka has commended youths for their ingenuity and creativity in an effort to promote development in the country. Speaking at a Holds-No-Barred conversation with young people in Mushin Library last Saturday, Hon. Fayinka said he is committed to create opportunities that will make young people excel in their chosen field of expertise. “Nigerian youths are the best and the most creative. What I hope to do for young people is to proffer counsels, solutions and assistance. I am always accessible and will remain accessible to the youth in creating opportunities for them. “Through counselling and proper monitoring, I will encourage and support ideas that will take many young people off the street. Many have the ideas without support. We shall be there for them. It is not all of us that will travel abroad before we make it,” Fayinka said. Speaking further, Fayinka urged young people not to see themselves as inferior to others stressing the need for them to stay focused on their dreams and aspirations and with dedication they will reach their full potential. On the plans he has for Mushin youths, Fayinka said unlike other political office holders who do not reside in Mushin but represent the constituency, he will always remain with his people and rub minds with them on a monthly basis. “I have lived all my life in Mushin. From Shotinoye to Adetula in Papa Ajao where I once squatted and now a landlord. If our youths and people who elected us have the hope that who they elected is coming to sit with them on the same street they are, they will be rest assured of positive engagements and development. If elected to represent my Constituency, everyone will be privileged to sit and share ideas with me on how to move our constituency forward,” Fayinka said. On assisting Small Medium Enterprises and artisans in Mushin, Fayinka said his plan is to push as many young people to learn sought after skills that will stand them at par among their peers and push them into the labour market.   Poor implementation of audit law hindering transparency,…     New FUT Babura VC seeks security chiefs’ protection…     Masari: Buhari has laid strong foundation for poverty…   On sport, Fayinka stressed that many are becoming lazy to walk less than a kilometer and prefer to take bikes from one street to the other. “We will encourage our youths to bring ideas that can develop our sports industry. I am accessible and no one picks my call, I pick my calls myself,” Fayinka said. On his sojourn into politics in Lagos, Fayinka recalled that about some forty years ago, one of the elders of Papa Ajao community in Mushin, Mr. Shofela who is now of blessed memory, noticed his humility and advised him to contest as a Councillor to represent the community in 1996. His words, “Mr. Shofela rallied round the Papa Ajao community to purchase the councillorship form for me which was then sold for N1000. Since then the people of Papa Ajao community have always bought my form to contest any election. “When I was graciously appointed as Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Transportation, Mr. Governor himself told me and other cabinet members to be a good ambassador and specifically said ‘you must be seen to be seen in your immediate community.’ “So during the infamous and inglorious EndSARS turned rancorous, I was with my people throughout. In the morning as early as 7am, I will stand on the street to distribute food items to the people of Papa Ajao and Mushin in general. I will sit with them and advise them to be civil and not cause public disturbance. That itself brought me much closer to my people. “Some people called me to come to Government Residential Area but I said to them that if I go to GRA or anywhere else because of civil disturbance, when it eventually comes to an end will I continue to live in GRA? I said to them, let me sit, wine and dine with my people so they will know they have a good ambassador in me. “Some people also came saying they will report me to Governor Sanwo-Olu but I said to them many people do not have money to come and meet me in Alausa and so they should have a place they know I will be there. So I will be at Palm Avenue till 11pm, listen to them, advise them and render financial support.” Closing the event, Chief Mrs Omolara Alakija, expressed her excitement at the massive turn out of young people in Mushin Constituency 2 to meet and rub minds with Hon. Fayinka, saying “it gladdens my heart.“I know we are all here because of Hon. Toyin Fayinka and the light has come,” she added. Groups and personalities that graced the conversation include, Hon. Babatunde Idowu Adedoyin, Chief Imam of Mushin, Mushin CDC Chairman, Otunba Femi Okuyemi; Association of Medical Students, LUTH; National Youth Council of Nigeria Mushin Local Branch, Mushin To the World, United Christian Youth Association of Nigeria, Ambassador Emmanuel Odunayo (Mr Nigeria International 2021/2022), Itire Youth Descending, War Against Indiscipline WAI Brigade, Mushin Local Government Christian Fellowship, LAWMA Street Captains Mushin, Rotaract Club of Mushin, Progressive Youth Of Lagos, Progressive Youth of Mushin, Nigeria Aid Group, Mushin, Farmers Association Mushin Chapter, Masters Bakers Association (Mushin Chapter), Mushin Council Boys, Tricycle Association of NURTW Mushin Branch A, Motorcycle Association of NURTW, and amongst others.