Notore Chemical Industries Plc plans to restructure its capital structure by raising additional equity capital in the fourth quarter of this year. The net proceeds of the will be applied to deleverage its balance sheet to achieve an optimal mix of debt and equity and fund part of planned expansion activities to further reposition the company for growth. The management of the company at the weekend indicated that it also plans to carry out a bond issuance programme in the second quarter of 2023 after completing the equity raising programme. The company has already commenced discussions with a credit rating agency and other financial advisors as part of the processes for the debt issuance. The net proceeds of the bond issue will be used to further reduce and restructure its existing bank debt to reduce finance costs and free up cash flows to augment working capital. Notore is optimistic that its increased production capacity and diversification of revenue sources would lead to significant improvement in profitability and returns to shareholders. The assurance came as the company reported an operating income of N9.9 billion in its audited results for the 15-month period ended December 31, 2021. Group Managing Director, Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Mr Ohis Ohiwerei said the company used the immediate past financial year for rebuilding and repositioning in order to further deliver on its promise to champion the African green revolution. According to him, though a very challenging period for Notore, it completed the TAM programme during the period. TAM was a critical step taken by the Company to address the drawbacks affecting the stability and reliability of its manufacturing plant, an essential measure to raise production output to meet and sustain its plant’s 500,000 MT per annum nameplate design capacity.   Cadbury Nigeria grows profit by 169%     Investors lose N114b amid heightened flight to safety     Wema Bank completes share reconstruction   He said the completion of TAM has improved reliability and would translate to a significant upturn in the company’s production output, which will lead to increases in the company’s cash flows from operations, strengthen its debt service capacity, and generate substantial increases in revenues in the future, an essential key to returning the company to profitability in the ongoing financial year. He noted that the company has taken steps to diversify its revenue streams further, adding that the production of its Notore NPK blend of fertilisers has continued to ramp up in output and sales, with increases expected in the ongoing future periods. “By leveraging on its installed 2,000 metric tons per day NPK blending capacity, and its successful introduction of the Notore NPK brand of fertilisers, the company is well-positioned for significant growth in revenues and cash flows in the ongoing future. “Additionally, while leveraging the Company’s seeds business, robust supply chain and distribution network, the company is expanding further its product offering by going into rice production. The company has carried out two rice pilot programs as a prelude to its planned launch of Notore rice as a product line in 2023.  It is expected that these additional initiatives will further diversify the company’s revenue stream, significantly increase revenues, boost profitability, and contribute considerably to its cash flow,” Ohiwerei said. He said Notore has taken the steps in its bid to improve working capital and return to profitability, stating that the company is in discussion with its bankers for a further restructuring of a substantial part of the company’s short-term loans into fixed long-term loans. According to him, when concluded in second quarter 2022, the loan restructure arrangements are expected to considerably reduce its finance costs and free up cash flows to augment working capital. On the outlook for the year, Ohiwerei was optimistic about the growth of Nigeria’s fertiliser sector, noting that the Nigerian fertiliser demand remains robust and is expected to continue to grow, considering the Federal Government’s strong and decisive policy focus on agriculture as one of the keys to unlocking the diversification of the Nigerian economy. “With the TAM programme now completed, Notore expects a significant upturn in its plant’s reliability and production output.  This, coupled with other measures to reposition Notore, is expected to boost revenues, improve cashflows, and facilitate a gradual return to profitability in the ongoing financial year,” Ohiwerei said.