Quadri Aruna has broken his own record to hit the 11th spot in the February 2022 ITTF world ranking released by the world table tennis ruling body. After his quarterfinal finish at the 2021 World Championships in Houston, United States, Aruna rose to 14th in the world ranking as the first African to reach that height. However, the former African champion raised the bar to hit the 11th spot in the world ranking. According to the new rating, Aruna’s feat was made possible following his exploits in 2021 and an excited Aruna admitted that the feat means more hard work for him on the table. “This is indeed a big challenge for me, and I hope this New Year will bring good tidings as I will have to redouble my efforts to remain on top in the ranking and hopefully make it to the top 10. I also hope this will motivate more Africans to aim high as nothing is impossible in the sport,” Aruna said.   Qatar 2022: Runsewe rallies support for Super Eagles     Federer hails Nadal after historic 21st Grand Slam     Ighalo swaps Al Hilal for Al Shabab   - Advertisement - Meanwhile, the 2021 African champion Omar Assar of Egypt moved five places up to occupy 25th place in the world ranking while Assar’s compatriot – Ahmed Saleh occupied 51st position. Senegal’s Ibrahima Diaw gained eight places in the ranking to be ranked 55th in the world, while 2019 African Games champion Olajide Omotayo also moved up to 86th place in the rating. Six-time African women champion Dina Meshref remained static in the ranking as the Egyptian still occupied 36th place in the world ranking, while her compatriot – Yousra Helmy gained eight places up to be rated 81st in the world ranking. Nigeria’s Edem Offiong hit the top 100 after gaining nine steps up the ranking as the third best female player in Africa. 2021 African champion Mariam Alhodaby, being one of the biggest movers in the world, now occupies 126th place in the world after gaining 79 steps up the ladder of the world rating. China’s Fan Zhendong maintains his status as the number one table tennis player in the world while China’s Yingsha Sun displaced her compatriot – Chen Meng as the number one female table tennis player in the world according to the latest ranking released by the world table tennis ruling body.