THe 2023 electioneering may lead to further depletion in foreign portfolio inflows and increase in outflows as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) remain on the sidelines. Managing Director, Morgan Capital Securities Limited, Mr Rotimi Olubi, who spoke yesterday at a forum organised by the Capital Market Correspondents Association of Nigeria (CAMCAN) in Lagos, said political risk, capital controls and rate hikes are major factors that will shape the Nigerian economy and determine the outflows of FPIs. Speaking on the theme: “A Review of 2021 Market Performance and Factors that Will Shape it in 2022”, Olubi, an economist,  added that the foreign exchange (forex) would likely come under strong pressure as interest rate hikes in advanced economies would result in portfolio outflows from emerging markets. He noted that domestic investors would be the key players responsible for the movement of the market and liquidity. “Electioneering, rate hikes, and capital controls by the monetary authorities are expected to cause further foreign portfolio outflows and cause FPIs to remain on the sidelines. - Advertisement - “Even as the economy continues its recovery, corporate earnings of companies in the consumer goods and industrial goods sector are expected to be impacted by high input costs caused by high inflation and higher cost of capital due to interest rate hikes. “Interest income of financial services institutions such as banks is expected to rise in Nigeria if interest rates rise as expected. This is because the U.S could decide to raise interest rates. “This act by the U. S. could lead to downward pressure on commodity prices, drop in global liquidity, increase in the cost of funds from the international debt market and due to the fact that Ukraine and Russia are still having conflicts, oil prices might go up and production could decrease. “Companies in the oil and gas sector are expected to have a solid year driven by strong oil prices, increasing global oil demand and OPEC+ cuts,” Olubi said. He said with relatively low infection rates and fatalities from the pandemic, the likelihood of an economic shutdown was non-existent. “The GDP growth is expected to grow by 3.86 per cent in 2022 supported by further improvements in  agriculture, manufacturing, services and the oil sector and increased government spending in areas such  as advertising, printing, media, among other campaign related sectors.   Bigi okays N100m for Nigerian Idol season 7     Private sector critical to AfCFTA, says minister     Cedar Advisory Partners becomes largest shareholder in Union…   “Major downside risk to this outlook is the security situation in several parts of the country, capital controls in the FX market and any unexpected severe mutation in COVID-19,” Olubi said. According to him, being an election year, government spending is expected to be at its highest complemented by  improved oil revenue. He said this would lead to wider fiscal deficit and further increase in an already elevated debt-servicing cost. On the removal of oil subsidy, Olubi said the suspension  would dampen the impact of high oil prices in the global markets to the Federal Government’s purse. “The Federal Government will need to focus on reducing the leakages associated with the current subsidy and under recovery regime,” Olubi said. He said inflation was expected rise further following a direction reversal last December  where inflation rose after an eight-month downward trend. “Although the MPC retained all parameters, they could still be forced to raise interest rate to combat inflation and reduce the negative real interest rate and that is if the U.S decides to raise their interest rate. “Accordingly, the MPC could be forced to raise Interest rates to combat inflation and reduce the already negative real interest rate,” Olubi said. Speaking on the 2021 performance of the economy as well as its markets, Olubi noted that the country witnessed its largest quarterly growth (5.01 per cent) in over six years in the fourth quarter of last year due to positive performance recorded in the non-oil, agric and services sectors. He pointed out that foreign investors remained on the sidelines as domestic investors, which stood at 77 per cent, dominated the Nigerian capital market (NCM). According to him, this was because foreign investors could not access forex due to policies eked out by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) while adding that there would be more decline in foreign participation in 2022.