Web-based cryptocurrency trading platform, Vintage Confluence LLC has sealed a digital media campaign with a comedian, Zion Ubani, popularly known as Zfancy. The campaign, which commenced on December 18, last year, will run for one month. Zfancy said: “From my dealings with the Vintage Confluence CEO directly, the company is well organised and equipped with professionals. I confirmed from a trusted friend whom I have known for a while and he reassured me that I am in safe hands dealing with Vintage Confluence LLC.” Zfancy, also a content creator, actor, director, and video editor, is one of the most influential personalities in the entertainment industry with over 600, 000 followers on his Instagram page, among other social media platforms. Vintage Confluence CEO, Mr. Precious Aire, said the company decided to engage an influencer in the digital media campaign because it was the right decision in the right direction, and also for endorsement, noting that the company’s Bitcoin purchase transaction system offers seamless trades taking just between  10 and 30 minutes every 24 hours a week in regular circumstances, hence the need to reach out to a wide range of prospective clients who have had difficulties in selling their Bitcoins with a hitch-free transaction. - Advertisement - “No other platform offers a mix of security with convenience, transparency, trust, honesty and customer service like Vintage Confluence does.   Nigeria accounts for 28% of African edutech companies     Jumia to implement UN safety standards in Nigeria, others     Enterprise spending on AI to hit $110b   “We have devoted ourselves to the constant evolution of the company by listening to our users and enhancing its product mix to satisfy their requirements. “The core mission is to provide traders with the most comprehensive web-based trading platform available with no hassle or verification, providing thousands of satisfied customers. with the right rates, at the right place, and at the right time. “We are committed to providing an exceptional customer experience in building a long-term relationship with both existing and prospective clients.” While also highlighting other unique services of the company, he said: “Every day, thousands of users around the world use Vintage Confluence LLC, and they are our best advertisers. “We accept a minimum trade of $1000 worth of Bitcoin and our customers have no need to wait two to three working days to receive their money. We offer immediate payment into the customer’s bank account. “At Vintage Confluence LLC, we are the grandmasters of trading Bitcoin, and trading with us is an experience to always remember.”