The Pan-Yoruba Socio-cultural group, Afenifere and political support organisations yesterday expressed joy over the decision of an All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu,  to run for President in 2023. Also, a former National Assembly member, Senator Magnus Abe, called on Nigerians to listen to Tinubu because Nigeria needs a leader that builds human capacity and “understands money.” Apart from Afenifere, the other groups that welcomed the APC stalwart’s aspiration are SABAT which announced that it was planning one million- man-march for Tinubu in Ibadan and the Ondo State wing of the South West Agenda 23 (SWAGA 23). Afenifere, in a statement by its  Secretary-General, Bayo Aina, said there was no doubt that the decision by Tinubu would spur other notable  APC leaders in the Southwest to join the race. - Advertisement - It saluted the “foresight, personal sacrifices, and doggedness of all leaders across the length and breadth of Nigeria whose courage   birthed the APC in 2014.” The group  said it was happy that the decision of the Southwest to embrace the APC  had placed the zone “in a pivotal position to produce the successor to President (Muhammadu) Buhari.” The statement partly reads: “We are happy that the Southwest wholly embraced the APC, since 2015 and this has enabled the zone to participate as an equal stakeholder with other zones in the affairs of the Nation. This has now placed the zone in a pivotal position to produce the successor to President Buhari. “This development has vindicated our position when we asked the Southwest to vote for the APC in the 2015 and 2019 elections. “Going forward, we have no doubt that many persons across the six geopolitical zones may also indicate an interest in contesting for the highest office in the land. We must all be ready to face this reality. “We appeal to the various contestants to run the race with mutual respect, dignity, sportsmanship, and genuine “Omoluabi” ethos such that Nigeria in general and the Southwest particularly will even be more united as we approach the 2023 election. We must avoid a fratricidal engagement by all means .” SABAT, a support group with 54 affiliates,   said it had concluded arrangements to stage a one million man march in support of Tinubu. It said the march would hold on January 19 at the Obafemi Awolowo (former Liberty) Stadium in Ibadan, Oyo State. The  National Secretary of the group, Mr. Gideon Balogun, stated this at a news conference yesterday. He said that the legacies of Tinubu in Lagos State and the entire country make him a good option for the job. The Director-General of  SABAT  Patrick Olatunji, had while inaugurating the group, described   Tinubu as a man every Nigerian is familiar with.   Shonekan: He tried his best to unite Nigeria, says Tinubu     Hoodlums bath four with acid in Yola     Abducted ex-Customs chief freed in Kwara   He said: ” Let us critically study his eight years administration in Lagos State and his achievements.  You will agree with us that the man, Asiwaju Tinubu,  is especially gifted by God. “We lost the opportunity of Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Chief MKO Abiola. God is giving us another opportunity. Let us make good use of this in the interest of our nation and all of us. “Tribalism and religion should be discarded and let us embrace patriotism. Our country must be developed. “Let us put aside sentiments and individual differences and embrace this project, Asiwaju, as our president come 2023. Coordinator of  SWAGA 23,  Ifedayo Abegunde, said that the group was focused on ensuring victory for Tinubu in 2023. Abegunde, a former secretary to the Ondo State Government,   described  Tinubu as one of the leaders who invested their time, money, influence, and wisdom to ensure the emergence of Buhari as president. He said:” We started the propagation of Tinubu in the Southwest. As we started, those in the North keyed into it. We are marketing Tinubu in such a way that all Nigerians will be convinced.. We are saying if Tinubu is elected President of Nigeria, he will do for Nigeria more than what he did in Lagos State.” In Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Senator Abe expressed optimism that Tinubu would make the right  President that Nigeria needs. He said, “Asiwaju Ahmed  Bola Tinubu is eminently qualified for the office of President of this country; he is a Nigerian and has the right to run for the office. “His track record of performance, as far as I know, speaks for his eminent qualification to rule this country. “If you look at what Lagos is today, whether you like Asiwaju, Ahmed Bola Tinubu or not, you cannot discuss what Lagos State has achieved without discussing Tinubu. “Again, the most important job of a leader is to pick the right people. If you look at the quality of people that Asiwaju picks and the way he promotes quality people in everything, you will understand why I say he is eminently qualified to be the next President. ‘What keeps African countries the way they are today is because the leaders prefer loyalty more than capacity and competence, but Asiwaju is one of the leaders in Africa who put capacity and competence above loyalty and promotes excellence every day. “Beyond that, the most important thing that I think that Nigerians need this time is that we don’t want anybody who does not like money to come near the Presidency. “We need a leader at this point that likes money, that is the biggest problem of this country today; because of all those that have participated in the leadership of this country in the recent time, Asiwaju is one person that I know that has shown that he understands money. “I ask Nigerians to listen to him just like they will listen to other people when they come up.”