Donor agencies working with federal and state governments have been funding projects designed to improve small-scale farmers’ activities and domestic food supply. In remote and rural communities, poverty is high.There are growing concerns that the impact of such funds is not being felt by farmers. DANIEL ESSIET reports. Millions of dollars come in as grants yearly to support projects aimed boosting opportunities for agripreneurs to establish agro-related, commercially viable businesses. Such grants cover basic services, water supply and sanitation, agriculture, governance, and the private sector. Farmers in the North and Southwest plant crops which require a lot of water to grow, as droughts stress the plants. With spells of drought, many     migrate to areas near the River Niger and other plants to take advantage of fertile banks, to enable them to cultivate food crops.  Such areas are not plenty in the North. - Advertisement - Inaddition, it has been difficult for farmers to develop indigenous irrigation systems to sustain food production because of scanty rainfall. Indeed, access to irrigation has been critical to farmers. To address this, the government and stakeholders have been pursuing major construction to increase the number of dams and storage capacity nationwide. In this respect, there have been donor-led efforts globally to address the imbalance between increasing food demand and lower agricultural yields. The World Bank and other donor agencies have been supporting projects to reduce farmers’ dependence on rain-fed farming methods. Largely, the projects centered on  providing small scale irrigation technology to farmers. Ordinarily, farmers who regularly face droughts and lack of water during planting should be considered.  But that is not the situation. So far, the number of farmers without irrigation kits has not improved. According to a   study by SBMIntel, a Lagos-based  research  firm,  on the impact of ravaging effects of drought and flooding in seven states last year, “More than half of the farmers engaged had no irrigation system, even when they believed that it will help greatly in their farming endeavours.” The study covered Nasarawa, Osun, Benue, Oyo, Katsina, Ogun and Lagos. The report stated that 57.90 per cent of the respondents “they do not own any irrigation system that could help complement the absence of rainfall”. In some areas in the Northeast, it is a task growing potatoes, cabbages, broccoli, and chilies. This is because of desperate use of water. Currently, pumping water to farms in most areas of the North and the Middle Belt is costly. The Chief Executive, Brote Urban Farm, Abuja, Innocent Mokidi, said  success in poultry encouraged him to diversify into vegetable farming. The move, The Nation learnt, was aimed at tapping into the growing market for organic foods. He had some key challenges to address when he started. One was inadequate wider irrigation system. Through personal savings, he has been able to acquire various climate-smart technologies such as drip irrigation. If grants allocated for such projects were properly utilised, he explained, it would have been easy for small-holder farmers such as himself to access irrigation equipment. In ideal environments, where donor funds are properly utilised, farmers are exposed to various irrigation schemes, including on-farm sprinklers and drip systems. The implementers of the grants ensure installation of gravity-based irrigation networks to ensure supplies to pump water. In Nassarawa, where he farms, farmers have taken irrigation into their hands, to increase production. which they supplement it with erratic rainfall. According to Mokidi, the challenge of misappropriation of  donor  funds  has  threatened progress toward achieving  food  security and ending hunger. He  added that it had put small-scale farming at risk since they supply the largest  amount of food to Nigerians. He expressed fears that donor  financed irrigation kits were often given to people that were not  farmers. While there were challenges to implementing donor-funded agriculture, Mokidi noted that their  approach to  funding only the  farmers’ training was not pragmatic as what they needed was little capital and input support to grow their  farms. The Managing Director/Chief Executive, Niji Farms, Kolawole Adeniji, shared the same view. He said: “Donors are mostly funding training of farmers. “Unless the donors change their funding interests, it will  be difficult to evaluate the  impact on young  farmers  as  capital is  essential to spurring  productivity, improving  incomes and livelihoods and importantly creating  jobs.” According to him, the major problem of new farmers is access to capital and not training.     2022: Search for sustainable path     Transforming cattle farming through ranching     A taste of Lagos                Advice He advised donors and the government to ensure transparency by including financial reporting projects in the agriculture. Regular financial briefing, he said,  would give farmers and the public some confidence in the integrity of those who receive and disburse funds. Indeed, experts have condemned poor accountability of donors’ funds.This comes against a backdrop of rising concerns from donors over management and oversight of agricultural projects. There have been misgivings over alleged financial misconduct and poor oversight. The Nation learnt that corruption, fraud and embezzlement have characterised the management of agricultural programmes that is why there are suspicion, trailing World Bank and other donor supported projects.   Stemming corruption To ensure inclusive growth, the President, Association of Micro Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (AMEN), Prince Saviour Iche, urged donors and government to ensure that farmers receive grant to realise their business plans. Such grants, according to him, would support improved agricultural production. He  noted that  but  for the fraudulent management of grants,   such funding  models would  support agricultural development by helping to ensure wealth creation among low-income segments and growth of the rural economy. Over the coming years, donors   have  continued to fund agriculture to boost food production. For instance, the African Investment Forum’s Market Days 2021, one of the flagship initiatives of African Development Bank (AfDB) is expected to attract billions of dollars for agriculture and other sectors as the continent seeks to rebound from the impacts of COVID-19 pandemic. In a year,  not less than $500,000 is spent yearly on  some organisations (NGOs) carrying out  donor supported government  projects across the country. While misappropriation exist in the system, the Programme Director of Development Dynamics, Dr. Jude Handle, said the conditions provided by the donors fail to recognise the peculiarity of the nation’s farming calendar. He  explained that grants come in late after planting . This, he  stressed, makes  it difficult for  beneficiaries to  utilise  the funds at  the phased period. Since farmers on average spend about 30 per cent of their expenditures on input, he noted, that there was no way the late disbursement of grants would have positive impact with the farming season already near plants maturing phase.   Farmers’ misgivings Farmers have expressed  concerns over the poor impact of donors funds allocated to agriculture. Some stakeholders believe  agriculture has become a laundry machine for politicians as some of them use it to siphon funds. Early last year, the House of Representatives mandated the Committee on Agricultural Production and Services to investigate the administration and performance of donors’ funding for agricultural projects to unearth its inabilities to achieve its  objectives. This was sequel to a motion by Hon. Awaji-Inombek D. Abiante (PDP: Rivers) on the need to investigate the administration of donor assisted funds for agricultural projects. Presenting the motion, Hon Abiante stated that over the years, the Federal Government has been partnering and acquiring loans and grants from donor agencies such as the World Bank, ADB, UN, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), and the International Development Agency (IDA), among others, to improve agricultural production. He stated that over $1billion of the donor’s fund had been spent on various gricultural projects wby government’s agencies. Speaking further, Hon. Abiante noted that since 1985, IFAD has financed 11 agricultural projects in the country with $509.62 million, while several millions of dollars have also been committed to the implementation of Fadama project by the World Bank since 1993. He explained that the various agricultural projects were put in place to assist farmers, especially the rural ones, with the funds to improve their ventures, thus meeting the food demand of the fast-growing population, guarantee food security, reduce oil dependency, diversify and grow the economy. He expressed concern that despite the objectives of these projects and the humongous financial contributions of the international donors, the country was still grappling with the problem of food sufficiency and farmers prosperity. He wondered if the resources were well utilised and account for. He called for an investigation of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and its parastatals that are in charge of the’ administration of agricultural donor funding projects. Despite the foregoing, last year’s Global Nutrition Report,  stated that funding to food and nutrition-related sectors is insufficient. Consequently,  the  World Food Programme has urged donors to  allocate $5.5 billion to prevent famine globally. IFAD has increased the donor contribution target for its 2022-2024 replenishment cycle to $1.6 billion. IFAD invests in rural people, empowering them to reduce poverty, increase food security, improve nutrition and strengthen resilience.