SIR: In today’s Nigeria, insecurity is the order of the day. No day passes without reports of kidnapping, banditry, robbery, murder and wanton killings. More worrying is the fact that, in spite of huge resources being injected into the defense sector, the government seems unable to curb this menace that has been troubling the well-being of the nation for a long time. Whether in the Northeast, Northcentral, Northwest or Southeast regions, residents now hardly sleep with both eyes closed while the government that is entrusted with their security of life and properties seems to be helpless. The quagmire in which security challenges has placed Nigeria as a nation is unquantifiable. A nation endowed with both human and natural resources, is suffering from severe pangs of hunger to the detriment of the citizenry. Nigeria continues to be a developing country struggling to find its feet among other nations. This is apparently due to numerous factors including the prevalent insecurity that have continued to present a challenge to its development and growth. Myriads of factors have contributed to the magnitude of insecurity in Nigeria. It is obvious that unemployment causes extreme poverty which instigates crime giving rise to insecurity. As a result of the high level of unemployment and poverty among Nigerians, youths are attracted to violent crimes such as kidnapping, robbery, child abduction, and other nefarious activities in an attempt to make ends meet. In the same vein, the country’s diverse ethnic make-up is not itself a cause of insecurity in Nigeria, but rather the political, traditional and religious leaders across the nation who sometimes use ethnicity to cause divisions. One refers here to the elite who stir up mistrust and resentment among different groups to cause insecurity. - Advertisement - The state of insecurity is unquestionably the outcome of government failure to checkmate widespread corruption. Corruption is responsible for Nigeria’s massive unemployment. It’s the reason businessmen lack electricity to run their businesses; in short, corruption leads to instability.   Buhari: Journey so far     Playing games at Abuja-Kaduna train stations     Compensating Magodo judgement creditors   Nigeria’s security system seems to be very poor in both personnel and equipment. Security officers are poorly trained and remunerated. As a result, the requisite expertise is not available to meet modern challenges. The weak security system can be due to a number of factors including corruption, poor funding, and lack of modern equipment among others. Additionally, our porous borders allows for inflow of Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALWs) into the country which has enabled and continues to aid militancy and other sorts of crimes in Nigeria. It was reported that Nigeria hosts over 70% of about eight million illegal weapons being circulated in West Africa. Nigeria’s current government has been strongly charged with ethnic disparity, deprivation, oppression, and the marginalization of some sections of the country in the provision of basic infrastructure and official appointments.  These have significantly compounded Nigeria’s security woes. Bad governance and poor leadership remains Nigeria’s fundamental cause of insecurity from the past till now. Every government has the primary function of providing basic social amenities and general infrastructure to its citizens. Ironically, these basic things are not there in Nigeria and the people, in general, are frustrated and demoralized. Demoralization and anger logically provide a fertile ground for aggression and general insecurity. Having outlined these factors that trigger insecurity in Nigeria, the lingering question that is still seeking for answer is, who will save us?  Kano.