Minister of education Mallam  Adamu Adamu has sent out a notice informing all qualified Nigerians to apply for the Bilateral Education Agreement (BEA) scholarship for both undergraduate and post-graduate studies in countries like Russia, Morocco, Hungary and Egypt for undergraduate degrees and Russia, China, Hungary, Serbia and Romania for post-graduate studies mainly for those who had done their undergraduate degrees in those countries. Qualified candidates were advised to apply through the ministry’s website. We welcome the idea of Bilateral Education Agreement (BEA) with these countries as ideas and knowledge belong to our common humanity and we, as part of the global community, must key into the wider opportunities such moves present. However, we are concerned about the seeming silence over indigenous government scholarships that ironically availed most of the people in leadership positions today the opportunity to get quality education. There has been some seemingly opaque narratives about some scholarship schemes. There have been reports about some schemes being riddled with nepotism and qualified applicants being losers in the game. Education is the bedrock of any form of development and scholarships are given to encourage brilliant citizens to study without worrying about funding. Scholarships are not seen as favours done recipients but as investment in human capital which in turn makes the individuals assets for national development. Scholarships serve multiple purposes, especially for national development and individual growths. Scholarship grants are ways of encouraging not just academic scholarship but also as an incentive to talented and academically gifted students. They also promote a sense of patriotism and gratitude in cases where individual foundations or corporate bodies offer the scholarships based on their chosen career paths.   Dangerous laxity     New year window     Implementing Budget 2022   - Advertisement - The BEA under review has guidelines and is almost contractual in the sense that we assume that the named countries would ask for reciprocity in education or can choose other modes of gaining from the agreement. Did the ministry of education evaluate the value of the scholarships vis-a-vis education in a reciprocal level for citizens of the countries involved? If no, why and what are we gaining and how does the country prevent any deficit in value? While such agreements are good, we believe that the whole scholarship schemes for Nigerians must be re-evaluated. Why do we always jump to foreign universities with the economic and social implications. It costs a lot to train one individual abroad in a country with the highest out-of-school children in the world. Would it not be better to spread such funds in the country and get more students in the scholarship net and expand the literacy rate? Sending citizens abroad for undergraduate education often displaces them socially and most of them lose interest in coming back to develop the country. The handling of some federal scholarships to other countries has been notoriously badly handled, forcing the students to march in protest on the streets in their countries of study because their tuitions and living allowances are left unpaid. This is particularly true of the beneficiaries from the Niger Delta Amnesty Scholarships. The chaos being experienced says something about our education sector. They must be seen to be in charge of setting the rules and monitoring compliance. Beyond putting out the notice for this BEA, we expect the ministry to generally be more responsive to the needs of the education sector in the country. Scholarship schemes must not continue to be the cash cow for some civil servants who allegedly manipulate the schemes for personal gains. Education is one of the most important ingredients of development and must be handled with the diligence and commitment of a country in dire need of development. Again, we advise that the agreements in this type of cases must be such that benefits the country because there is no free lunch anywhere. We pray there are no grey areas that tilt the scale in favour of some of the countries in question. That would be shooting ourselves on the foot. What we are saying, in essence, is that scholarships must not be targeted at foreign lands only. We must interrogate why our universities are not good enough. Money pumped into foreign scholarships could be saved and used to develop the infrastructure in our schools and colleges. We must say no to second self-enslavement that shortchanges us as a nation. We can do better than jump at dangling scholarship carrots.