Workers and staff at the Projects Development Institute (PRODA) Enugu have expressed displeasure over the suspension of Dr. Fabian Okonkwo as its Director General. Dr. Okonkwo was suspended following a recommendation from the Governing Board of PRODA led by the chairman and chieftain of the All Progress Congress (APC) in Enugu, Hon. Emma Eneukwu. Following the suspension, which the workers termed illegal, heavily armed security operatives led a director in the institute, Dr. Mrs Arit Etukudor into the office Tuesday afternoon as the new helmsman, raising tensions within the agency. When our correspondent visited the institute Wednesday morning, workers were seen discussing the development in groups. Chairman of Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institution (SSAUTHRIAI) in PRODA, Comrade Ohiemi Gabriel described the process that led Okonkwo’s suspension as the “grandest height of Illegality”. - Advertisement -   Police declare 21 wanted over 71-year old monarch’s…     Over 33,000 sign petition to stop foreign institutions from…     BREAKING: Okorocha joins 2023 presidential race   He told our correspondent that Dr. Okonkwo was being falsely indicted for his uprightness in vigorously pursuing the vision of the institute within the short period of being in charge. “How can a board that has not sat for a meeting since its inaugural meeting on 24th October, 2021 recommend the suspension for an Overseeing Director General who is the statutory secretary of the board?”, Ohiemi queried. He described the embattled DG as a committed leader who has changed the ugly narrative in PRODA for good. According to Ohiemi: “There are several laudable projects under construction at the moment, from the science park building to the construction of of new office store and renovation of different office building. “In terms of staff welfare, Dr. Fabian has demonstrated an uncommon verve in the area of training and retraining of staff. If a leader is doing well, he should be encouraged rather than being falsely indicted for selfish, parochial and premordial reasons”. On behalf of workers of the institute, Ohiemi consequently called on President Muhammadu Buhari to wade into the impasse for the purpose of justice and equity.