With the 2023 general elections in Nigeria, in sight, the season of make-believe is upon us again, and many aspirants who fail to win the ballot, would go under psychologically and financially. For some of the aspirants, the dénouement would be permanent, while    the inimitable ones will rise from the ashes like a phoenix. But as lawyers would advise, I magnanimously put forward a general notice to all aspirants: Beware. In the history of political chicanery at the highest level, perhaps former military president, Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida has the gold. I have heard from people who know, how IBB as he was fondly called, led a lot of distinguished Nigerians to their psychological and financial waterloo, on the premise that they were his preferred presidential candidate. A particular gentleman and boardroom general from Delta State, was lured into the unending circus of a presidential hopeful, and the end was not funny. As IBB reshuffled the transition cards, from banning of old politicians from participating in the elections to encouraging the emergence of new generation politicians, he ruined many lives on the altar of aspiration. A more recent example is what happened in Imo State under the government of Senator Rochas Okorocha. In the eight years that Okorocha was governor, those who aspired to contest the local government elections paid very dearly, psychologically and financially. Like IBB, Okorocha kept shifting the goal post, making new demands and promoting different sets of aspirants. At a stage he ordered aspirants to enrol in a training programme and they sheepishly did, at additional cost to their aspiration budget. Needless to say that after the training, no elections were held. Apart from the powerful office holders who are courted, there are the smaller ones lurking on the side lines. They could be the aide of the big office-holder, an associate or relations who pretend to be in a position to influence the choice. Again, there are powerful politicians who are treated as political gods, and many aspirants believe they have the power to make or mar. The late strongman of Ibadan, Chief Lamidi Adedibu, was one such man. While he lived, and while President Olusegun Obasanjo held sway as president, he was imbued with so much power in Oyo State. When Governor Rashidi Ladoja refused to offer adequate sacrifices at the Alaafin Molete’s shrine, Adedibu set off a chain of actions that bruised the governor very badly. - Advertisement - Across the country, they are persons who project such influence, and who would demand that unless you first appease them, the aspiration would die prematurely. Just as we have warlords controlling turfs in war-torn countries, they are pretenders all over the stratified political turfs across the country. And the situation is similar, whether we are talking of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), or the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), or even smaller parties.   Unvaccinated Southeast     Buhari on state police     New year wishes   All aspirants must also be careful about those down the ladder, the cheerleaders who egg them on, even when they truthfully know that they lack the capacity to achieve their aspiration. The aspirants should wonder why whenever any person declares for any position, even when they have no chance of getting elected, there will still be people telling them, go ahead, you have already won! These cheerleaders have led to the ruination of many aspirants, as their only interest is in what they would gain, while the circus lasted. Once an aspirant makes the pronouncement that he/she has an interest in an elective post, these group will set up store in his/her house, and they will make a habit of trouping in daily to feast and praise the aspirant to high heavens. One local government chairmanship aspirant, who was a victim of the unwinding road to the local government election in Imo State that never held, told me how his followers were slaughtering his goats and making banquet in his house daily for years. One can juxtapose that with those who have uttered the intention to vie for governorship election in any part of the country, not to talk of those aspiring to become the next president of our dear country. To aspire to become a governor under any party with a mile chance of winning the election would require expending millions of naira in preparation for the elections. In my penultimate piece, I referred to this upcoming season as a season of a peculiar political economy, using the word, figuratively and literally. With what is in the open about what becomes the life of the winner of a gubernatorial election, his extended family, his friends and the friends of these persons, most cheerleaders to any gubernatorial project, go for a kill, right from the preparatory stage. Apart from appointing ward coordinators across the state who will be placed on salary for months, there are several altars to be appeased in the state, for one to emerge the flag bearer of a major party that has the remotest chance of winning the election. In our peculiar political environment, throwing a hat into the ring to vie for the governorship election is not for the lily-livered, and aspiring to run for the presidency could ruin very successful persons, psychologically and financially, if they fail. To aspire to vie for the presidency is a totally different kettle of fish. The list of those who have declared interest to run in the APC and the PDP shows that only money bags, or those supported by money bags have a remote chance. The front runners for the primaries, so far, include Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, and perhaps Vice President Yemi Osibanjo of the APC. While in PDP, you have Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, Senator Bukola Saraki and Senator Anyim Pius Ayim. Of course, a few more would still declare before the dates for the primary, but already the houses of the interested parties have become centres of political economy. In the days ahead, and as boys are separated from the men, this column will examine the potentials of a few of the presidential aspirants. Until then, it is fair to say that the public declaration of interest by Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has raised the bar for presidential aspirants, whether in the PDP or APC. Some analysts have even said that Asiwaju would not dare if cannot win, but of course they are a few who have sworn that unless they die, the Jagaban of Borgu, would not smell the presidency. With the 2023 general election in sight, perhaps it is already too late to demand for less expensive elections, so that aspirants who are not money bags can come forward. For now, this column warns: aspirants beware.