Top Southeast leaders recently gathered in Owerri, Imo State capital, to consider Governor Hope Uzodimma’s proposals on the Igbo welfare and future in Nigeria. They deleberated on national issues, including restructuring, marginalisation, Igbo presidency, secessionist agitations and creation of a Biafran Republic. ROBERT EGBE reports In November 2014, a 31-year-old scientist, Ejikeme Patrick Nwosu, obtained a patent for his pioneer work in converting urine to flammable gases – rich in hydrogen and ammonia – to be used as a cheap, clean alternative to fossil fuel and possibly solving the world’s energy crisis. Similarly, in 2016, a 21-year-old Enugu State native Emeka Nelson gained national attention when he developed a portable hydroelectric generator that runs on water only. The -at the time – largely self-trained amateur scientist also unveiled a machine that could convert waste into petrol and diesel. Feats by Nwosu and Nelson – both Igbo –  among many others before and after them, are helping to shape the train of thought of several top Southeast leaders concerning the Igbo race’s national and global realities and potential. Many leaders, across political, economic and sociocultural divides, gathered in the Eze Imo palace in Owerri, the Imo State capital, on Saturday, December 11, to appraise proposals on the Igbo question in the Nigerian project. - Advertisement - The proposals, made by Governor Hope Uzodimma in his book “Reflections on the Igbo Question,” reflected on the plight of the Southeast geopolitical zone in the country. Central to Uzodimma’s thoughts which were shared at different fora in the course of eight years before he became governor, were topical issues of national interest affecting Ndigbo as an integral part of Nigeria. They included restructuring, “marginalisation of Ndigbo”, Igbo presidency, the current agitation for separation and creation of a Biafran Republic. The event held in the wake of agitation in southern Nigeria for a power shift to the region when the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari elapses in May 2023. However, the two main political parties – the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are yet to zone their presidential seats.   Marginalisation In the book, Uzodimma challenged the Igbo and other Nigerian ethnic groups to a deep reflection on the ordeals of his people since the civil war. He said one of the largest ethnic groups in Africa, “Igbos are reputed for their industry, resilience, tenacity and creativity.” But that nevertheless, “there is hardly any love lost between Ndigbo and their Nigerian neighbours. The sad truth is that our neighbours have actually shown us more hate than love.” Uzodimma cited several instances since the civil war to buttress the widely held Igbo view of marginalisation by or in the Nigerian state. He identified several of them, including the denial of federal infrastructure in the Second National Development Plan of 1968 to 1970, the 20 pounds saga, and the fact that the Southeast has the fewest number of states relative to other geopolitical zones. But rather than use these as excuses for Ndigbo secession, Uzodimma argued that the benefits of remaining in Nigeria far outweigh the challenges.   Igbo strengths He reasoned that the Ndigbo seemed to possess several God-given abilities which they can deploy to their advantage in Nigeria. Senator Uzodimma reasoned that just as the Jews used their talents to force the world to accede to their demands, so can the Igbo solve the problems of marginalisation, Nigerian presidency, restructuring and separatist agitations with their talents in technology, trade and commerce. He referenced the cases of Nwosu and Nelson as two among the many cases of young Igbo innovators who, if properly harnessed by Igbo political and economic leaders, can help achieve this goal. He said: “From available statistics, Igbo students across the globe and even in Nigeria are making waves with their technological innovations. The individual accomplishments can only make meaningful impact if they are collectively harnessed and channelled to a massive production hub to set the stage for the technological leap Nigeria has been yearning for all these years.  Igbos can lead the way and dictate the pace. “We also have a huge landmass to conquer, dominate and exploit. We have boundless markets to tap into. We have unassailable ingenuity and opportunities presented to us to explore to emerge leaders again in this land of Nigeria that we are equal owners.”   Igbo as Jews Uzodimma admitted that the model of democracy Nigeria currently practices does not seem to be offering the federating units “a holistic sense of belonging, seasoned by equality, justice and the rule of law.” He urged Ndigbo not to despair or be intimidated but to insist on thier inalienable birthright as citizens of Nigeria, who must coexist with other ethnic nationalities as equal partners. Uzodimma said: “I also don’t want them to continue to be frustrated by the deliberate policies of exclusion. Instead, I want them to be focused on the larger picture of liberation through technology, trade and commerce through which we can dominate Nigeria and dictate the pace of development. “Indeed, when the Jews found themselves in a similar situation such as Igbos of Nigeria, they simply used their talents to force the world to accede to their legitimate demand. Through technology and the media, the Jews now call the shots in major countries of the world including, the United States of America.” He encouraged them to embrace the opportunities of a united Nigeria rather than “bemoaning the marginalisation of Ndigbo and resorting to violence, which is self-defeat.   Kwari: Giving legislative impetus to war against corruption     ‘Is Makinde living to expectation?’     Malami’s many controversies   “Indeed, when the Jews found themselves in a similar situation such as Igbos of Nigeria, they simply used their talents to force the world to accede to their legitimate demand. Through technology and the media, the Jews now call the shots in major countries of the world including, the United States of America. “That is the challenge before my people, the Igbos. We already have a country. We don’t need another one. We should rise and take our rightful place by unleashing our God-given talents, by working in concert and by being focused on the future which I believe holds a lot of promise.”   Restructuring On restructuring, he restated his position that “a restructured Nigeria, where the regions are stronger would favour and enable Ndigbo to thrive as they did in the past. One direct implication of this is that I am strongly opposed to the idea of Igbos separating from Nigeria to exist as an independent nation of Biafra or as any other country that would be called by another name. This view, which is shared by most Igbos of my generation and other realistic thinkers, is based on my convictions that a restructured Nigeria which offers equal opportunities to everyone will provide better opportunities for Ndigbo to excel, especially in trade, commerce and general enterprise, which we are known for.”   Igbo presidency The governor enumerated five steps to actualising the president of Igbo extraction. He said: “The first thing to do here is to purge ourselves of the fixation or illusion of the Igbo presidency because this can never be actualised. “We must appreciate the inevitability of the fact that while the president of Nigeria of Igbo extraction is achievable, Igbo presidency is not,” he said, stressing that the concept of Igbo presidency smacks of bigotry and sectionalism.” Secondly, the governor advocated a pan-Nigeria approach, urging Igbo leaders to embrace other Nigerians and show a greater patriotic stake in the Nigerian project. On the third step, the governor said the Igbo political class must move to a national party, saying, “Those who delude you that the way to a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction will come from a clannish political party are false prophets and prophets of doom.” On the fourth step, Uzodimma called for the renaissance of the Igbo spirit of excellence and industry. The last step, according to the governor, was agenda-setting, think-tank and global networking. “As a people, we must strive to set up a central agenda and think-tank. This can be embedded into the Ohanaeze forum and funded properly by Southeast governments and private individuals or corporations. “The job of the think-tank should be to constantly carry out research on areas that can further Igbo interest and to set agenda therefrom, for the future,” he said. A former Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika, who chaired the occasion, shared the governor’s view that a united Nigeria is to the Igbo’s benefit. Ihejirika said: “My opinion is that the feeling of marginalisation is not peculiar to the Igbo race alone, but a national cry. It must therefore not be seen as a basis for separatist agitation. “I’m therefore in agreement with the author that this innate desires of our people are better channelled to positive expressions such as technological advancement, industrialisation and entrepreneurship development which are globally recognised as key strengths of Ndigbo. “Our continuous desire for an Igbo president, or rather president of Igbo extraction, is a just and inalienable right but can only be realised through strategic alliance with other zones and not by any hostile agitation as emphasised in this book.” While preaching against violence in the region and across the country, the retired army chief said the agitation for the Igbo presidency would only be realised through what he called, ‘strategic alliance.’ “ Our continuous desire for an Igbo president, or rather president of Igbo extraction, is a just and inalienable right, but it can only be realised through a strategic alliance with other zones and not by any hostile agitation as emphasised in this book,” he said. Also speaking, former governor of Imo State Ikedi Ohakim said the book had clearly shown where Governor Uzodimma stands on Igbo question. He said the Igbo can exist with or without the presidency. Ohakim noted that the Igbo question is JEF which stands for “Justice, Equity and Fairness’, adding that the presidency is not everything. Nevertheless, the Igbo, he reasoned, must move forward. “We must continue to move forward whether we have it or not.” “For Ndigbo it is to insist to be equal partners in the society. This is my contributions to Igbo question. This is our country and we will gracefuly stay here to challenge our rights,” he added. Also, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof George Obiozor, said that the issue of Igbo presidency “is morally justifiable and politically debatable.” He added: “Violence is not in Igbo character, combativeness is not in our character; the Igbo prefer to make friends, and that is why they are everywhere.” Other personalities at the event included Imo Deputy Governor Prof. Placid Njoku, ex Deputy Governor Ebere Udeagu and Prof. Bennett Nwanguma, among others.