Are you a student tired of always asking your parents for money? Ever wondered what kind of jobs you can take up that won’t interfere with your studies? Well, this is for you. If you’re that student who’s always had a flair for writing, now is the time to learn how to monetise that resourceful skill. With the advent of technology, monetising your writing skills has never been easier. You could take on a job as a content writer, writer for online publications, blogger, copywriter and so much. Writing opportunities are limitless! You could decide to sign up on freelancing websites, get jobs and even get paid in dollars. And the best part is that you can work remotely and choose when you want to work. This way, your academics aren’t affected. - Advertisement - Tutoring is another way to make money while on campus. If there’s a list of courses you know you’re good at, organise paid tutorials for your classmates or juniors. You can fix these tutorials in your schedule such that it doesn’t affect your lecture and study times. The best part about tutoring is that you not only make money, you also get better at that particular course as well. Since you can’t teach what you don’t know, studying becomes easier because you know you have to understand the topics to teach them and make your money. If you’re good with illustrating and creating visuals, then graphic designing is the right side hustle for you as a student. If you know how to use Adobe, Photoshop, and other design software perfectly, you can work as a contract designer or content creator for businesses around you. You can take on as many clients as you can and make as much money. With the popularity of social media, you can become a brand influencer or ambassador for upcoming brands or brands that want to gain ground among students. What you do is represent the brand to students just like yourself. If you already have a large following on social media platforms such as Instagram and Twitter, this is an even better opportunity for you! You probably already spend a lot of time scrolling through social media, so why not make some money while you’re at it?   Making sustainable development priority for greener Delta     Nine Yoruba actors/actresses who remarried     AAU set for beauty pageant   Different organisations hold countless events in various places around you. Many of these events require ushers to have a smooth and properly-coordinated event, and the organizations are ready to pay decent amounts to the ushers. You could reach out to these organisations yourself or Google event planning and ushering agencies around you that you can join. Apart from making money, ushering jobs give you exposure and networking opportunities. If you decide to sell fashion items such as bags, clothes, and shoes, you would never run out of business. This is because everyone on campus wants to look good at an affordable price! Most boutiques have nice things at back-breaking prices. So if you sell quality items at affordable prices, students will patronise you. Digital marketing is the aspect of marketing that uses the internet to promote products and services on digital platforms. As a student, this is so easy because all you need to do is position yourself and use your mobile phone to promote products and services of brands. If you’re creative enough to create the right contents for the right audience on various social media platforms, you can make money off it. Tiktok, Instagram, Facebook, and YouTube now pay a substantial amount of money to content creators who can post consistently and have gathered a certain amount of followers. If you’re good at jumping on social media trends and engaging people, then content creation is definitely for you. Finally, with the advancement in technology and social media, working flexibly and making money has been made easy. With a bit of discipline and determination, you can juggle your academics and a side job without one affecting the other.