The police have confirmed the killing of two persons by invaders of Ogbete-Mgbuji village in Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State. The incident occurred on Thursday when the assailants suspected to be herdsmen attacked traders at Orie Market in the village. A day earlier, the invaders sacked five farm settlements in the area, allegedly killing five persons, including children and women. The latest attack came just five days after three members of the state Neighbourhood Watch were allegedly killed while chasing herdsmen. They were trying to rescue the wife and 11-year-old daughter of Dr Eugene Edeoga, younger brother of the Enugu State Commissioner for the Environment, Chijioke Edeoga, who were abducted on January 1. - Advertisement - Commissioner of police, Abubakar Lawal, led heads of other security agencies for on-the-spot assessment tour of Ogbete-Mgbuji village in Eha-Amufu community. He confirmed the death of two persons who are yet to be identified.   Police arrest man for allegedly killing wife in Nasarawa     AFCON champions to earn N2.8bn as CAF increases prize money     As APC crisis deepens, Buhari demands convention timeline   According to him, the assailants “are alleged to have intruded and attacked traders at Orie Market in Ogbete-Mgbuji village on 6/1/2022, and also previously perpetrated acts of kidnapping and murder in other parts of Eha-Amufu community”. The CP added that the assailants set ablaze a mini bus, motorcycles, shops and the destruction of goods at the market. He described the casualties and damages caused by the assailants as callous and unwarranted. The police boss ordered the a thorough investigation to ascertain the immediate and remote causes of the attacks and a manhunt of the assailants. He urged members of the community to remain law-abiding and support the police and other security operatives deployed in the area. Other heads of security agencies in the assessment tour included Commander of 82 Division Garrison Command of the Nigerian Army Enugu, Brig. Gen. Chris Ataki and the State Director of Department of State Services (DSS), Enugu State, Mr. Habu Daluwa. They were joined in the tour by the Chairman of Isi-Uzo Local Government Area, Jacob Abonyi, and the President General of Mgbuji Community Development Union, Chukwuma Ede, as well as other leaders and local security personnel of the community.