In 2022, nearly all the events that will shape next year’s polls will be imbued life or death. If Nigeria is draped in pessimism this year, it will take a miracle to consecrate next year with optimism. Unfortunately, few Nigerians are optimistic about 2022. Having muddled through the past six years and more, sometimes deploying strong-arm methods to pacify the country, federal and state governments are confident that the reasons for optimism far outweigh the reasons for pessimism. This difference in perspective is not unusual. Car drivers are naturally more sanguine about excess speed than passengers, despite precipitous slopes, craters, sharp corners, and thick and sometimes impenetrable fogs. But the events of 2022 are loaded, treacherous and building up into a crisis, and there has not been a corresponding demonstration of capacity and ingenuity by the government to manage the sanguinary events twisting the country out of shape and turning the people into angry, impatient and violent citizens. No region is spared, and the North is the worst hit. The 12-year-old Boko Haram/ISWAP insurgency in the Northeast remains unmanageable, as it drains resources, bleeds communities, weakens and disorients state governments, pauperises the youth, and has in the past few years metastasizes into cancerous banditry fuelled by small armies sometimes running into thousands in each camp. Poverty is directly blamed for the catastrophe. But while poverty may be the immediate trigger, other factors such as elite irresponsibility and the politicisation of religion have also contributed significantly to the social distortions that have bred the alienated young publics of the north-eastern states and inspired the civil war between farmers and herders, between Hausa and Fulani, in the Northwest. Other than military responses, nothing significantly mitigating is being done to reshape and reset the region. Climate change is still wreaking havoc in the Sahelian belt, but the federal government waits for international consensus to ameliorate the problem. Nothing is being done to control population explosion in both the Northeast and Northwest, with the elite sometimes gloating over the political advantages it confers. The result is that the North is engulfed in flames which no one, not even the government, is certain would be put out in time for the 2023 polls. Down south, the Southeast is sitting on a powder keg, with many unresolved existential issues tenuously restrained by federal might. The region is blamed for bad and sometimes incestuous politics that produced the alienation it is currently contending with. While this may not be far from the truth, there is little doubt that alienation exists, and it needs to be managed. It will take wholesale restructuring of the country to eliminate many of the factors predisposing the country to crises. There is little imaginativeness from the federal government in drawing a nexus between the crises ravaging Nigeria and its structural deformities. This distortion has engendered opportunistic freedom fighters like Nnamdi Kanu determined to upend the country. Rather than examine the reasons for the ongoing destabilisation of the Southeast, the federal government has opted for military action and halfhearted dialogue. The rebellion has been temporarily smothered, but the excessive focus on the rebel leaders is unlikely to deliver a permanent peace, let alone enthusiastic participation in Poll 2023. The alienation is also compounded by the Southeast elite’s incompetence in fighting marginalisation. They hope for a national consensus to produce an Igbo president when no Igbo politician has produced the acceptable and inclusive national politics needed to take the presidency. It is not surprising that the extreme contentiousness of Southwest politics leads them to interpret their political and economic fortunes under the Muhammadu Buhari presidency as mediocre and injurious to their wellbeing. The reason is embedded in who is doing the talking and the argument, and their clever ability to disguise their private interests as public interest. The zone has produced the vice president, headship of the House of Representatives, powerful cabinet positions, and notable infrastructural projects far in excess of what they got under the previous Goodluck Jonathan administration. Yet, a vocal few campaigned for and nostalgically spoke about the Jonathan presidency when he lost the presidency. But the region as a whole, as distinct from those clever few, has also managed to conflate its principled campaign for healthy federalism and the general principles of democracy with the private, largely pecuniary interests of the activist few. A thin and barely perceptible divide consequently exists, producing a climate of anger and distrust suffused with bad politics capable of injuring 2023 polls. It took the Buhari presidency’s extreme primordial politics to generate the open rebellion Sunday Adeyemo, a.k.a Sunday Igboho, implausibly personified. He didn’t have the personality to lead the cause, nor the intellect to elucidate its structure, but he had the charisma to birth and drive it for a brief, obscene moment. That rebellion, it became clear, manifested through the Southwest’s existing political fault lines. However, the fault lines will not be cured before next year’s elections. Mr Igboho’s proverbs-strewn rebellion might have been halted, and his excitedness quenched, but the Southwest will still be in tumult through 2022. The region is dominated by the disunited All Progressives Congress (APC), but like a voyeur it still manages to cast furtive glances at the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The Southwest also served as the exemplification for the EndSARS revolt in 2020 because it hosts a lethal and unique agglomeration of civil society activists and angry, unemployed and frustrated youths. Sometimes this latter group, which has turned the social media into a battering ram against every fancied grievance, and is swearing there would be no polls until restructuring is done, coalesces around the anti-establishment faction of Southwest politics. Just as there is disquiet in the Northwest and Northeast, there is also dreadful unease in the Southwest and Southeast. - Advertisement - The general unease, it is clear, is merging seamlessly with deep estrangement over Nigeria’s poor and struggling economy ravaged by debts, intolerably huge debt service payments, high unemployment, poor investment in social services, abysmally poor wages, and unacceptably high level of insecurity. There will be no magic between January and June to raise wages, increase employment, and stamp out insecurity. To, therefore, propose the removal of the so-called petrol subsidy not later than June this year will introduce into the tinderbox which Nigerian politics has become factors that may be difficult to manage. As the EndSARS revolt illustrated, the social media has become a lethal weapon in the hands of youths and disaffected people and politicians to promote sometimes indefinable but mostly idealistic philosophies and policies. The social media, as sometimes deployed, has become disruptive, destructive, iconoclastic, and unruly. It makes consensus difficult to reach, and the most astute and enterprising government to govern with the self-assurance of previous decades. The social media-led EndSARS campaigns for instance managed to goad a vast number of Nigerians into revolt with concocted stories about death figures and gory photographs of purported scenes of violence and bloodshed. Social media judgement is not always the best, and its conclusions and rationalisations are often naïve and unfeasible, but it will nevertheless attempt to sway the votes in 2023 if it convinces itself this year not to campaign against the poll. But what will even create the most disquiet this year is the politics of the ruling and opposition parties as they compete for public goodwill and support, fight over defectors, enunciate the principles for which they are willing to die or ‘kill’, and battle internal conflagrations. The PDP has managed its elective convention very well, showing just how well consensus politics works. But it is not clear whether consensus can be sustained in their search for a presidential standard-bearer. Few are optimistic that without shifting their gaze south, they can make any inroad in the presidential contest. Their tragedy is that they don’t have a sellable southern aspirant, assuming many of their northern aspirants decide on self-immolation. Until it bares its fangs, the APC’s presidential gaze seems set south. But party hierarchs appear determined both in their February convention and presidential primary to entangle their processes in unfathomable schemes and plots. They are yet to disentangle themselves from the convention it has taken them nearly two years to conduct, instead of six months from the sacking of the former party executives. To launch recklessly into presidential and governorship primaries with their present mindset will expose them to the most cataclysmic intraparty jousting ever. How far can their brinkmanship take them in an unstable country and era?   Tinubu crosses the Rubicon     The presidential interviews     The polemicists, Obasanjo and Clark   In the end, if the economy does not undo the country, interparty or intraparty chicaneries might; and if these two factors don’t cause substantial chaos, the mayhem in all parts of the federation, against which the federal government has proved increasingly desperate and inept, may very well make Poll 2023 a bridge too far. The percentage of Nigerians uninterested in elections without fundamental and structural political and economic changes may not be known; however, a silent majority may wish to get the system trudging along, and the elections conducted. Determining who will master the impending uncertainty will depend on whose arguments resonate more with the wary and fearful public; that is if youth unrest, insecurity, and the social media are somehow unable to complicate or subvert the coming year.   Former governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, is noted for his sharp wit and candour. Intelligent, fearless, eloquent and relentless in the pursuit of ideas and policies he believes in, he once again demonstrated these traits when he addressed the Tinubu Support Groups conference in Abuja last Monday. He is a longtime friend and ally of former Lagos State governor, national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and now presidential aspirant, Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Chairing that conference was, therefore, not a surprise. But what he had to say, not to say the way he phrased his thoughts, was even more captivating and provocative. His thoughts and language are peerless. While his political ideas are not too well known, enough is known to underscore his progressivism, political inclusivity and his seamless drive for fairness and justice. What in fact the public has not paid attention to is his matchless use of literary devices in his speeches. This writer has not investigated the closeness between Sen Tinubu and Sen Shettima, but whatever reasons explain their friendship and alliance, outside of course their political affinity, must relate to what the Bible describes as ‘deep calling to deep’. Other than Lagos and Borno, it is not clear how many other states have had the brilliant successions the two states have engendered. Both states have master plans, and their successive governors have been assiduous, generally faithful to the plans within the limits of what law and order would permit, and development-oriented. There is indeed no telling what the two states could achieve in terms of development had Lagos not been burdened by relentless internal migration and Borno by unyielding insurgency. But this piece is not about the politics of Sen Shettima or even the presidential aspiration of Asiwaju Tinubu. It is essentially about the literary flourish of Sen Shettima, the veritable connoisseur of wit and sarcasm. During his tenure, and on one occasion when he commissioned some projects in Maiduguri or its environs, he spoke off the cuff at a dinner in honour of his guests, probably including the same Asiwaju Tinubu. In his remarks, a part of which dripped with sarcasm, he jauntily described his overbearing and insufferable predecessor, Ali Modu Sheriff, as ‘Alhaji Allah’. Curious and entranced by the then Governor Shettima’s sarcastic remark, and struck by what literary depths he had to plumb to ferret out that exquisite expression, this writer called a reporter in Maiduguri to ask for the context of the governor’s dismissive remarks. It must be the gilded house Mr Sheriff built behind the Government House in Maidguri, responded the reporter. The house, he added, menaces and almost overshadows the seat of government. No one who has studied Senator Sheriff’s political peregrinations will fail to be impressed by his successor’s quaint characterisation of the serial defector and political pugilist. If anyone thought Sen Shettima’s coruscating wit and nose for satire were an aberration, his remarks last Monday in Abuja during the support group conference should be an eye-opener. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State is arguably the most pugnacious and irreverent of all Fourth Republic governors, but Sen Shettima does not play second fiddle to anyone in wit and sarcasm. He proved it by his captivating remarks selling Asiwaju’s presidential aspiration in Abuja on Monday. Said he: “In 2015, some aspirants with very huge war chests were itching to clinch the ticket of the APC, but like the Rock of Gibraltar, Asiwaju and his progressive team stood solidly behind the candidacy of President Buhari. My simple question, distinguished ladies and gentlemen is, where were the new members of what I call ‘the Buhari’s Church of Latter-day Saints’; where were they?  We knew where their political loyalty lay in that particular convention when Buhari emerged as the presidential candidate of the APC. Where were they?” Church of Latter-day Saints? It takes a well-read man to make that allusion, an urbane politician whose mind is not occluded by sham religiosity and debilitating conservatism, a lawmaker who is self-confident and unwavering. He was of course referring to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, otherwise called LDS Church or Mormon Church, but the operative word is ‘latter-day’, which is meant to reference new converts. He was of course not inviting his audience to a consideration of the rubric of that church. It was well known in 2015 that many of those who were to later hijack the Buhari presidency scoffed at their candidate’s chances, believing that after three failures, a fourth failure was assured. Sen Shettima reminds his audience that one man believed, and made the difference – Asiwaju Tinubu. Reassuringly, the eminent senator from Borno will play a significant role in the coming campaigns, and thus the entertainment the public will receive will continue steadily. He is in fact unequivocal in determining early in the day whom to support. Responding to the whoopla over Asiwaju Tinubu’s age and health as factors in the race, he had heartily responded that: “The mark of true leadership isn’t the ability to lift a bag of cement. It’s the mental effort to think rationally of solutions designed to redeem one’s people and territorial jurisdiction.” His political analyses are not run-of-the-mill, and his responses, even when they are not festooned with sarcasm and metaphors, are nevertheless delicious. In the months ahead, Sen Shettima will not only tickle the midriff of the electorate, he will excite their cortices as well. He is idiosyncratically equipped to go beyond the ordinary in responding to political stimuli and the silly ratiocinations of political sceptics who deplore sound reasoning and historical experience.