The Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Nigeria (NEPWHAN) have urged the Federal Government to ensure that the rights of People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV) are protected by providing adequate legal services to the affected community. The Network noted that while many of its members, especially women and children, are falling victims to Gender-Based Violence (GBV) across the country, the perpetrators are going scot-free because of their lack of access to legal services, and lack of capacity by the affected community to document the incidences when they occur. It also called for the urgent adoption of pending laws on GBV, including the Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill and the Disability Rights Bill in accordance with the global Convention. The National Coordinator of NEPWHAN, Mr. Abdulkadir Ibrahim, made the call in Abuja at a Community Dialogue Session on Gender-Based Violence (GBV) within the Advocacy for Reduction of Violence Against Women Living with HIV/AIDS Seed Grant.   APCON inducts 63 practitioners as Fellows     Sunday Sun editor’s late wife for burial Feb 23     Reps commence inventory of NNPC assets, liabilities   He said: “This meeting is a community dialogue meeting where community people, government, religious leaders, gate keepers etc., come together to discuss issues around gender based violence (GBV). - Advertisement - “We got the support to organise this meeting from our global office – the global network of people living with HIV (GMP+). Nigeria is carefully selected because of our diverse nature as a country. A lot of things happened during the advent of COVID-19. “As a people, we are protecting our own community, that is, people living with HIV (PLHIV), and to see how the components of the rights of PLHIV are protected and if their rights are being violated in any form, how and where can this be addressed. It is evident that a lot of women and children experience a lot and different forms of violations. “Yes, the government has provided the platform, we have authorities of government that are established to address issues around human rights. However, sometimes we need to improve the system, especially providing legal services attached to our organisations. A community member may not know how to document issues that happen when their rights are being violated. So we really want to see the support on how to train and engage people on how to report and document GBV issues. “Also, beyond putting all the mechanisms in paper, we want to see action. If we report an issue, then we want to see that the issue is followed to the logical conclusion.”