Many banks have taken to promos to reward customers for long years of loyalty and patronage. One of them is United Bank for Africa (UBA), which super savers promo raffle draw, has held in Lagos. The bank recently delighted 63 of its customers spread across its various saving products with cash prizes. The promo ensures that more people embrace savings culture and supports the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) financial inclusion policy to bring banking services closer to the banked, unbanked and underbanked, writes COLLINS NWEZE. For many people, its is a great way to end the year for loyal customers who have been part of a success story. To others,  it is a new form of wooing customers who are the reason for banking sector operations. In all, banks have found a new ground to bring more customers into their deposit net. The reward schemes, coming in the form of promos, are turning lucky and loyal customers to instant millionaires. The winners are getting cash prizes, foreign trips, houses, and gift items via promos that are fast defining the next level of competition. Its expertise is creating a new drive for customers to save more to promote sustainable growth for their family and economy. United Bank for Africa (UBA) is giving out millions of naira to its lucky customers in the super savers promo draw held virtually last week. - Advertisement - Financial pundits said such reward schemes could also promote the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) financial inclusion drive and make banking more interesting for customers. United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc last week delighted 63 of its customers spread across its various saving products at its super savers promo draw. The 63 lucky winners who had a merry Christmas courtesy of UBA include 12 new millionaires, 20 kiddies and teens account holders who won N200,000 each as educational grant, 10 Next Gen customers who won N15,000 every month for a year, totaling N180,000 per person. Also, 20 Lucky customers won N100,000 each, one lucky customer who won N500,000, another lucky customer smiled home with N1.2 million, while another customer got N2 million and 10 other customers emerged winners, winning N1 million each. The draw which was held virtually through Facebook and Youtube platforms in strict compliance with social distancing rules as directed by the Federal and Lagos State Governments had representatives from the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), and the Lagos State Lottery Board to ensure transparency and accountability. Winners who emerged on Tuesday amid great excitement from the draw, include Ogbenjuwa Divine Ishor; Ayomide Christianah Omogbehin; Bariweni Ebimoboere; Muslimah Funmilayo Saleeman; Oladejo Emmanuel Ayomide; Osinachi M Anugom; Precious Enyo-Ojo Obetta; Smart Ejiroghene Angel; Chinedu-Chika Mmesoma Angel; Ndikwomfu Chamberlain Chidumebi; Adagbada Eunice Doyinsola; Emmanuel Durotimi A Babatunde; Atafo David Izebere; Osakuade Esther Oluwadamilola’ Janet Okafor Chichebem. Others are Ahmad Tijani Ayuba; Amblessed Chukwuechetagom Nnaekezie; Onyinye Christina Olisakwe; Charles, Janet; Ibekwe Chikammara Tochukwu; Precious Chioma Chukwunyere; Ibimina Naomi Green; Uthman Adebayo Bakare; Onmonya Ogaba Lewis; Chukwuemeka Favour Elesa and Abosede  Isiaka, among others. Other  lucky winners who equally had something to cheer were,  Agada, George; Miracle Joshua Ogbu; Prosper Nebeife; Blessing Inyang Cyril; Nuhu Yahaya; Oscar Rowland Oyekachi; Blessing Prosper Porole; Destiny Osemwengie; Margaret Ifedun Omodanisi; Bashirat Eniola Ayantola; Ifeanyi Sunday Okorie, among others. Speaking at the draw, the Head of Personal Banking, Ogechi Altraide noted that the bank is committed to creating a positive impact in its customers and urged them to maintain and cultivate a lasting savings culture that is sure to be beneficial to their overall growth. She said: “At UBA, the welfare and ultimate success of our customers and their financial freedom is at the Centre of everything that we do and this is why we are making millionaires, either by supporting your businesses, or by rewarding you for saving. “And I’m happy that today we have witnessed the super savers promos, the draws and we have made 63 winners who have won amazing prizes this Christmas. With this win, they definitely will have a merry Christmas indeed as 12 of them actually have been made million years today and I’m happy that I can say that UBA has kept its word, we have rewarded our customers with the happiness and love they truly deserve.” Head Marketing, Diana Uba also expressed happiness at the emergence of new set of UBA millionaires and winners who are sure to have a memorable Christmas with their bumper wins as she said “I would like to congratulate all the winners and I’d like to encourage you all to not relent and continue to save with UBA, if you did not win today, there is an opportunity for you to win every month as UBA will always keep its word. And I’d like to thank all our customers who have kept faith with us this year with a firm promise that next year will even be bigger and better “, she said.   Bringing innovation to banking UBA is offering a new product, UBA Connect, which aims to enable its customers to conduct traditional banking transactions at any UBA branch in the 20 African countries where the bank operates. In upholding the banks drive towards financial inclusion for the underserved, the service will be available to both customers and non-customers equally, encouraging intra-African trade. This would make the Nigerian-based bank a preferred choice for non-customers traveling to African countries where the bank is the domicile for easy access to funds. According to the new Chief Executive Officer of UBA Africa, Oliver Alawuba, “Africa stands to benefit substantially from intra-Africa trade, which is facilitated by the easy flow of capital within the continent.” He said because the bank is committed to creating superior value for its stakeholders, it is focused on ensuring that it continues “to contribute significantly to the development of Africa by improving accessibility and trade with UBA Connect, among other innovative services.” This product is expected to trigger growth for the bank, as the unbanked in sub-Saharan Africa – developing countries like Nigeria, Kenya, Zimbabwe and Tanzania – are a significant number of the roughly 1.7 billion “unbanked” individuals around the world. The bank services over 19 million customers across Africa. But with this new product, that number  may double if the public is educated on how to use this product. The CEO further explained that the new offering allows easy transfers to UBA accounts across African countries as well as cash deposits into UBA accounts at any of the bank’s locations in Africa, adding that the cash will be dispensed to customers in local currencies at competitive exchange rates.   Fed Govt, Stock Exchange to step up actions on climate…     2022: Balance of risks and opportunities     Why RMAFC, FIRS, others are on warpath over Finance Bill   Group Head, Marketing, Mrs Dupe Olusola, expressed excitements for the bank to offer its customers the ease and convenience of UBA Connect. She noted that UBA Connect is, in addition to an array of digital platforms, which have made banking easy. The CBN has urged banks to be innovative to increase their share of the global markets. According to the apex bank, competition is getting keener in the markets, and only banks that are innovative and creative will remain relevant.   Reinforcing commitment to technology  UBA, which has also invested heavily in technology, recently launched a new mobile app to boost its profitability.The move is also in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele’s directive to banks to provide seamless and secured banking services. The new UBA Mobile banking app was equipped  with benefits and features that give customers increased control and accessibility to carry out transactions with ease. UBA’s Group Head, Digital Banking, Kayode Ishola, said  the app was tailor-made to serve customers better. Reeling off some of the features and benefits of the app, he said a lot of investments in cutting-edge technology and attention to details was put into the new app. Ishola said: ”The new UBA Mobile App is your personal finance manager built with a distinctive user interface that will change the face of banking. With this app, we are reimagining banking as our engagement has moved from being channel-based to being platform-based.The speed of the platform has been made to match the speed of light as we have cut down significantly on the number of processes expected to carry out your transactions.” UBA’s Head, SME Banking, Sampson Aneke, said apart from the fact that the app has high-level of intelligence – as it can work based on frequent transactions, it can also speak to the specific country where it is being used as the app runs concurrently in the 20 countries of UBA’s operation interacting in the various languages and cultures in line with the specific needs and regulation of the country in focus. “This all-encompassing platform, which boasts of a new user interface because of its sleek, modern nature of delivering seamless experience across several devices, can be used as a budgeting tool, loan application and also allows customers view their expenses according to their various categories such as the amount spent on data within a particular period,” Aneke added.  The Group Managing Director/CEO UBA Plc, Kennedy Uzoka said the main priority for every staff member is to ensure customer satisfaction. This, he said, is crucial for every forward-thinking organisation such as UBA, as the customer remains  the employer. In a message to mark the Customer Service Week, Uzoka appreciated the staff members who worked towards satisfying their customers and urged them not to rest on their oars. The Week, which is celebrated yearly all over the world, recognises the importance of customer service and seeks to  appreciate the staff members who serve and support customers with the highest degree of care and professionalism. The theme for the celebration is: ‘The power of service’. It underscored the bank’s persistent determination to provide service to customers despite the pandemic. It also served as an opportunity to acknowledge the vital role of service delivery in a corporate organisation.   Previous promo winners  United Bank For Africa (UBA) Plc earlier  rewarded winners In Its Bumper Savings Account Promo. Winners, who emerged from the seventh electronic draw of the promo, include: Olunwa Osita Ambrose who won the N2 million star prize, while Saheed Adeshina Adediran won N1.2 million rent for a year. Adewunmi Olaniyi Sobowale, another lucky winner got N500, 000 shopping allowance. The winners emerged during the electronic raffle draw, held at Kairo’s Hub, Lagos and witnessed by regulatory bodies including the National Lottery Regulatory Commission and Consumer Protection Council who were on ground to ensure transparency and accountability. The savings promo is in line with the bank’s commitment towards prioritising its customers’ financial well-being as well as boosting savings culture. UBA’s Head of Personal Banking, Ogechi Altraide, who presented gifts to some of the winners at the event, stresses their importance to the bank. According to her, the bank remains passionate about their overall success and added that this has consistently been proven in numerous ways which is why the bank has continually invested in cutting-edge technology to improve its service delivery and its overall aim of delighting customers. She said: “With customer-centric promos like the UBA Bumper promo, we have created an ever-increasing list of millionaires who continue to join the UBA customer millionaire club. “For this edition of the promo, we decided to pick the month of October, which is the month of independence commemoration so we can give more Nigerians reasons to cheer while celebrating the country’s independence anniversary. “We know that this promo will put lasting smiles on the faces of our customers and will also assure them that UBA truly values them.”