In his controversial interview with Channels Television and Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), particularly the former, President Muhammadu Buhari’s seemed to have walked back his earlier decision last November to consider the difficult request of releasing the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu, following the intervention of eminent Igbo personalities. As if something or persons steeled his resolve against Mr Kanu’s release, the president was unequivocal on Channels about not ordering the IPOB leader’s release. He would not release him, he said, because the judiciary was already handling the matter, and he was unwilling to hamstring the judiciary. In the months ahead, and probably for as long as the suit lasts, his decision not to release Mr Kanu may be the final answer. But incensed and unable to comprehend the president’s volte-face,  spokesman, Emma Powerful, fired a broadside at the president and those who colluded with him to deny Mr Kanu his liberty. The group pointed fingers. Said Mr Powerful impatiently and angrily: “We know that this position by Buhari after he had earlier promised a delegation of Igbo leaders that he would consider their appeal to consider a political solution for Kanu, was not unconnected with the visit by some foreign-based traitors and enemies of our struggle…But we want to tell Buhari and his cohorts that he is going to make a mistake capable of consuming Nigeria should he fail to release Nnamdi Kanu because this bunch of criminals he had a meeting with did not give him correct information about IPOB and ESN outfit. Why should the federal government release bandits and terrorists wreaking havoc across the country but fail to release freedom seekers? Federal government should not be deceived by blacklegs and sacked members of the movement who are feeding it with fake information about IPOB and ESN outfit for pecuniary interests.” Neither in IPOB’s ringing denunciation of the president’s about-face nor in the eminent Igbo leaders’ November intervention could any discernible and coherent plan be found about what to do with Mr Kanu if he was released. There was of course nothing definitive about the president’s promise to the Igbo leaders in November, nor did he ask questions or think about what Mr Kanu would do once released. All the public knew and perhaps considered was that the Igbo leaders had promised to rein in Mr Kanu, tame his fierce rhetoric, and keep him on a short leash once the president accommodated their request. Mr Powerful’s intemperate response to the president’s January 2022 interview lends credence to the suspicion that the Igbo leaders’ intervention had the imprimatur of IPOB and perhaps of Mr Kanu himself. They were hopeful the president would concoct a solution to the imbroglio. While Mr Kanu is already battling a lawsuit in Abuja brought against him by the state, including, as the president said, for running his mouth against the president and the country from the safety of a foreign country, Sunday Adeyemo, a.k.a Sunday Igboho, the self-appointed Yoruba defender and self-determination activist, is also incarcerated in Benin Republic at the behest of Nigeria. President Buhari and his law officers had wanted Mr Igboho extradited, but the extradition suit is bogged down in a Benin court by red tape and deliberate pussyfooting. In recent declarations, assuming his legal counsels faithfully represented him, Mr Igboho had started to become conciliatory toward the Nigerian government. Accustomed to years of luxury, his cramped accommodation in a Benin Republic jail has become punishing and excruciating. Like Mr Kanu, he does not seem to mind reaching some accommodation with the Nigerian government. Comparatively, the glib Mr Igboho would be more amenable to keeping agreements with the Nigerian government than the grandiloquent Mr Kanu. Both fancy themselves as revolutionaries determined to save their people from the oppression and autocracy of Northern Nigerian oligarchy. Passionate, committed and feisty, both gentlemen gave the impression that they were willing, on pain of death, to walk the talk of revolution. Their conciliatory moves now belie their commitment and passion. Indeed, an observer can go as far as doubting whether both gentlemen had the character of the fight they tried so audaciously to personify. Other than the renowned historian, Prof Banji Akintoye, Mr Igboho had no one else of substance to back, encourage or defend him. Had he been promised release, it is not clear what kind of deal the professor would reach with the government on behalf of his radical protégé. The professor appears more hard line than his protégé. - Advertisement - On the other hand, the Igbo leaders who met Buhari in November all but indicated that they knew how to smother Mr Kanu’s rage and temper his rebellion. They in fact assured the president that they would keep the IPOB leader in check, a condition both the leaders and IPOB elders seem to prefer than the endless adjournments dogging the federal suit against Mr Kanu. More worrisomely, they were no longer sure that his continuing stay in the Department of State Service (DSS) facility would not be detrimental to his life and health.   Why governors are not Chief Security Officers, by lawyer     Vigilante nabbed for torturing Police woman in Anambra     APC chairmanship: Security agencies compile security report…   What is indisputable about the ordeal Messrs Igboho and Kanu are facing, including their clumsy bids for freedom, is that neither of the two ‘freedom fighters’ is truly a revolutionary as they had erroneously led their admirers and supporters to think. Surely they must know that the government could never contemplate releasing them on easy terms. The government would drive a hard bargain and all but extinguish their revolutionary ardour. Seeking accommodation on such grovelling terms would be a betrayal of their objectives, their people, and their own future. If the two gentlemen were capable of reading history, they would know that the choice they face in their peculiar circumstances is either to be revolutionaries or opportunists. Nothing they have done or said so far, as they wilt so shockingly before the government’s relentless fire, indicates that they are the revolutionaries they have all along feigned. SINCE they overthrew their boisterous and irrepressible chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, in June 2020, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has not seemed to know peace. They have reeled from one plot to another, and from one crisis to another, until they now appear to be completely trapped in a skein of convoluted crises and plots. They are not sure whether they still have a compass, let alone determine the political or electoral direction they are heading, and are even less sure of whom to back for which position in the months ahead. Their immediate goal is to organise a national convention, which they have repeatedly botched. But, worse, even after setting a date for the party fiesta, they must then determine how to elect their national executives through direct, indirect or consensus arrangement. They are truly stuck. If they cannot even get a conve ntion done, and many of their state chapters are still enmeshed in crisis, how do they hope to nominate candidates for the major elections next year? At a point, they dreamt of leapfrogging over the hard, unyielding and convoluted parts of their ordeal, and just head for the elections; then they realise it would doom their party and furnish more crises. Now, they know they can’t skip anything, but are rooted to one spot, paralysed by fear and incompetence. President Muhammadu Buhari has read them the riot act. They will, therefore, hold their convention, even if it kills them, and they must nominate candidates for the general election, even if it dooms them. This is the sort of maze those who act mala fide always find themselves. If they cannot find someone to help them cut the Gordian knot, they will choke on their own vomit.