Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary Onofiok Luke has opposed Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel over his choice of preferred successor. Emmanuel, on Sunday night in a stakeholders’ meeting, named his Commissioner for Lands and Water resources, Umo Eno as his preferred successor. But Luke, who is one of the governorship aspirants in the forthcoming race, said he would not back down on his aspiration, insisting that he remained resolute in his determination to contest. His words: “My supporters and those sympathetic to my cause should please note that we are as resolute as ever in our desire to give our people purposeful leadership in the office of the Governor come 2023. “God’s Amazing Grace has always seen us through and will always see us through. - Advertisement - “I am not against the choice of the Governor coming from my local government, Federal Constituency or the aspiration of my brother. “However, as a fellow aspirant from the same local government at the same advantage when successful, my aspiration to serve the state in the capacity of the Governor remains on course.” The immediate past National Legal Adviser of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Barrister Emmanuel Enoidem, explained the choice of Eno came after Governor Emmanuel consulted all relevant stakeholders in the State-backed up with prayers. He explained that the choice of Umo Eno is dream come true for the organisation (Maintain Peace Movement), which has been praying for God to give Akwa Ibom a successor like Udom Emmanuel who will perpetuate and sustain peace in the State. ”So, God has revealed to our dear Governor Udom Emmanuel that Pastor Umo Eno will be the right person to succeed him after his tenure in 2023.   BREAKING: NASS transmits Electoral Bill to Buhari for assent     Why FG detains Kanu indefinitely, by IPOB     Olubadan succession row: High Chiefs withdraw suit   “We all know that Udom Emmanuel was not the most popular politician in 2015 when he was brought to us by God to contest for the position but he got the acceptability of the people and finally emerged the Governor of the state in 2015 and 2019. So, it is the grace of God and His will also that Umo Eno should succeed Udom Emmanuel and we stand by that,” he stated. While extolling the virtue of Umo Eno, Enoidem noted he is the most qualified with an intimidating pedigree and antecedents as a renowned entrepreneur. The immediate past National Legal Adviser of PDP revealed that Umo Eno is humble and understands the plight of Akwa Ibom people as a human development expert However Chairman of the Civil Society Organisation in Akwa Ibom, Mr Harry Udoh said Governor Emmanuel has the right to support whoever he wants to succeed him in 2023. In a chat with newsmen, he said the Governor’s endorsement of one aspirant does not foreclose the chance of others as there are primaries and general elections where the aspirant will face other contestants. “That’s the governor’s choice and it is within the governor’s remit to support whoever he wants and that’s not the choice of Akwa Ibom people. “There’s still the primary election to be won and theirs still the general election to be won. Anybody can choose anybody, it is left for the people to decide, I think that’s what democracy is all about. “The Governor can go ahead and dream the dreams he wants and see visions he wants but that is not the dream and vision of the people. “The people have to decide at the end of who should be Governor. We can’t argue with the governor, I have my dreams and visions too likewise every other person,” he said