Housing is a major issue in most cities. The challenge has led to the growth of slums in most big cities such as Lagos. Through various policies, regulations and agencies of government, the state has come up with innovative ways to execute housing projects. Recently, the Lagos State Development and Property Corporation (LSDPC), delivered 480 units of one, two and three-bedroom flats at B.O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe, Ikorodu with a pledge to provide more. As the ever-rising demand for affordable housing rises, the government is also making efforts by being creative  with policies and incentives as enablers to help people have decent roofs over their heads.  In Lagos, for instance, the state government is driving it through LSDPC. At the monent, there are houses in the market for as low as between N5million – N13.5million. The project, B.O. Benson Estate, Ibeshe sits on a land area of 15 hectares opposite Nichemtex Factory, Igbogbo-Baiyeku Local Development Area (LCDA). It was executed by seasoned professionals in the LSDPC and built by contractors who employed artisans within the locality, giving opportunities for local residents to be a part of the project first hand.  The project started during the administration of former Governor, Babatunde Raji Fashola, was delivered and commissioned by Governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu before December. - Advertisement - LSDPC Managing Director, Ayodeji Joseph said the project is designed to provide decent accommodation for sub-urban dwellers to increase the stock of decent homes in the state. He told The Nation that the idea is not only to reduce the housing deficit in the state, provide conducive environment for families, encourage communal living but  also to aid growth and employment around the area. He said: “The estate is an architectural showpiece erected in it’s environ. It is an edifice of real estate development equipped with modern facilities to provide homes for the people in a conducive, serene and well planned environment.   Why people leave city centres for suburbs     Real estate in 2022: A mixed grill     Firm hosts investment forum on REITs   “The structure comprises 40 blocks of 480 units of one, two and three-bedroom flats. Each flat  has kitchen fittings, store and visitor’s toilet while external features of the estate include seven numbers transformer, one injection station, two refuse houses, car park, water treatment plant, GRD/overhead water tanks, borehole and two pump Houses. Among other ancillary buildings are generator house, community halls, roads/drains and central sewage system. “The B.O. Benson Estate is one of the several laudable developments delivered by us. This recent project jointly financed by the Ministry of Housing and the corporation is a proof of the commitment of the administration’s progress towards the continuous delivery of decent housing to its citizens. It is the corporation’s contribution towards the State government’s efforts at providing affordable housing for Lagosians.” He said the agency has been privileged to have worked alongside the Ministry of Housing in the execution and completion of a series of LagosHoms, namely, Anthony Enahoro Housing Estate, Ogba, LagosHoms Shitta Surulere, LagosHoms Suco Road, Oko Oba, LagosHoms Akerele/Randle, Surulere and LagosHoms Amuwo Odofin. Earlier, the agency delivered  Bayview Estate in Lekki, adding that their partnership with the private sector  yielded positive results in the interest of Lagosians. He added that under the Sanwo-Olu administration in the last one year, “we have completed and delivered some housing schemes. Among them are the Courtland Luxury Villas, Igbokushu in Lekki and Lekki Apartments located at Freedom Way Junction, Lekki Phase1 both of which were delivered as joint venture projects. “I am elated that the Lagos state government encourages the collaboration of real estate developers in private and public sectors to exchange ideas and develop projects to bridge the gap of housing deficit in Lagos State. This collaboration is what has birthed this project we are inauguration.” Also, the Lagos State House of Assembly (LASHA) Committee Chairman on Housing, Makinde Rasheed, commended the harmonious relationship between the Executive and the Legislature, adding that it has made good governance possible in the state with competitive infrastructure.