To fill the vacuum created by the death of  Oba Saliu Adetunji, ten of the 11 members of the Olubadan-in-Council last Wednesday endorsed the nomination of Dr. Lekan Balogun as the successor. Former Oyo State Governor, Rasheed Ladoja, Osi Olubadan of Ibadan, was absent at the meeting, suggesting a crack in the council. But not long after, news broke that Ladoja had also endorsed the selection of Balogun. Many were relieved by the development within and outside Ibadanland. But that respite would not last long as Ladoja emerged on Friday to deny making any statement to the effect that he’s in support of Balogun’s selection. He said: “In my comment, I did not say High Chief Lekan Balogun will be the next Olubadan or not. I said and quote me, ‘Otun Olubadan, traditionally is the next heir to the throne of Olubadan, but in this regard I’m not talking about the nomination of Lekan Balogun. There was no time, I said I backed his nomination or not. Please, only report what I said and don’t quote me out of context. “My explanation should not be misconstrued to mean I’m in support of his nomination as the next Olubadan or not.” - Advertisement - The ex-governor’s latest stance has further compounded the confusion rocking the selection process of the next Olubadan. Sentry gathered that the unfolding drama is actually meant for the eyes and ears of Governor Seyi Makinde whose consent or dissent will determine the fate of Balogun in the coming days. “Politics is playing out in the selection process. Ladoja is trying hard not to show his hand when in actual fact he and some others believe Balogun should not eat his cake and have it. Remember the crisis over the elevation of Balogun and others to Obaship status by late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The case is still in court and the Ladoja group want Balogun to withdraw his appeal and apologise before he can be crowned,” a source told Sentry. Will Makinde promptly assent to Balogun’s selection and end all arguments? Or will he delay assent and allow the uncertainty and speculations to linger?   Security agencies probe ex-NIA boss over alleged leaks,…     2023: PDP has settled for northern presidential candidate –…     Hellfire memes fabricated, says son of Evangelist Adebayo   Last Thursday, the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) lashed out at Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, over a statement credited to him that the Ijaw were behaving as if they owned the Niger Delta. The council demanded he apologise and seek forgiveness of Ijaws for the matter to be laid to rest. But Sentry gathered that the governor isn’t about to appease the IYC. “The governor is known to speak the way he sees things and he didn’t intend to cast aspersion on any individual or race. He only offered his opinion during a discussion and he is entitled to it,” an ally said on Friday. The group is at a loss why Wike spoke the way he did. IYC President, Peter Timothy Igbifa said: “We don’t know where he got his impressions from. But whatever he said does not represent our noble ethnic group. We are disappointed that Wike could stand on a public rostrum and throw tantrums at the Ijaw nation. His remarks were to say the least, unfortunate. “The governor should have exercised restraints in his public utterances despite his misgivings against the Ijaw as a mark of respect for former President Goodluck Jonathan, his wife, Patience and other Ijaw leaders, who railroaded him into the governorship seat of Rivers State.” Sentry will continue to monitor developments in this budding face-off.