The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised the alarm over what it termed unguarded and nonsense statements from Asari Dokubo against its members and leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The group said Dokubo would appreciate what it could do if any of its members in hinterlands and coastal region of Biafra died as a result of his threat. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, IPOB reminded Dokubo that he is not an Igbo man and should stop portraying himself as such. It warned the Niger Delta militant to withdraw the empty threat and to stop exposing his historical shortcomings and ignorance by dabbling into a matter that he has completely no idea about. The statement partly reads: “We wish to put the whole world on notice particularly the Izon people, of the unguarded and nonsense statements coming out from Asari Dokubo against the people of IPOB and our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu because when it will start nobody will blame. - Advertisement - “Dokubo numerated how he sabotaged and planed how our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU was abducted and extraordinarily renditioned from Kenya to Nigeria.   Bobrisky postpones housewarming over ‘aso-ebi design’…     BREAKING: Oyo Senator Teslim Folarin loses wife     I will treat illegal refinery operators worse than…   “He should know that he is not an Igbo man, and should stop portraying himself so. Igbo believe in equity and justice and Igbo don’t need a traitor like Asari Dokubo. “He should equally remember that IPOB never declared war against him since he started his nonsense statements against IPOB and Nnamdi KANU. We don’t want to be distracted or join issues with you. “But we want to make it categorically clear to you that if any IPOB member both in the hinterland and coastal region of Biafra dies as a result of your threat you will understand what IPOB is capable of doing. “Again, we want you to withdraw this your empty threat and stop exposing your historical shortcomings and ignorance by dabling into a century that you have completely no idea about. “You are not an Igbo and have no link with Igbo people. Igbo don’t need Asari to live their lives. Asari should know that he doesn’t and can never love Igbo people more than Nnamdi KANU and IPOB movement. “Asari Dokubo should know that his sabotaging the Biafran struggle will not stop us from getting Biafra freedom. Your grouse with Nnamdi Kanu was because you were more interested in becoming the President of Biafra, and he told you to wait first until Biafra comes. You turned against him and Biafra freedom because you hate truth. “Asari is thinking that his criminal gangs sponsored by Aso Rock and some politicians in the region will kill IPOB members and blame it on Igbo people. We know whom he is and he will soon regret his actions against a just cause.”