The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) yesterday revealed that Lassa fever has killed 26 Nigerians in 11 states and 30 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in three weeks. The agency noted that as of January 23, a total of 115 confirmed cases of Lassa fever have been reported, with a case fatality ratio of 22.6 per cent). The states with the disease burden are: Bauchi, Edo, Ondo, Oyo, Benue, Taraba, Kaduna, Plateau, Kogi, Cross River and Ebonyi. To reduce the risk of the spread of Lassa fever, the NCDC offers the following advice: Ensure proper environmental sanitation – i.e. keep your environment clean at all times, block all holes in your house to prevent rats from entry; Cover your dustbins and dispose of refuse properly. Communities should set up dumpsites very far from their homes to reduce the chances of having rodents within homes; Store foodstuff like rice, garri, beans, corn/maize, etc in containers that are well covered with tight-fitting lids. Others are – Avoid drying foodstuffs outside on the floor, roadside where they will be exposed to contamination; Avoid bush burning which can lead to the displacement of rats from bushes to human dwellings; Eliminate rats in homes and communities by setting rat traps and other means; Practice good personal hygiene by frequent washing hands with soap under running water /or use of hand sanitisers when appropriate; and visit the nearest health facility if you notice any of the signs and symptoms of Lassa fever as mentioned earlier, and avoid self-medication.   UAE reopens entry to passengers from Nigeria, 11 other…     Court stops deduction of police funds from Federation…     Govt to fund petrol subsidy with N3 trillion in one year   In a statement, the agency explained that it has activated the national multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary Lassa fever Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) in response to the outbreak in some parts of the country. - Advertisement - “Lassa fever is an acute viral hemorrhagic illness transmitted to humans through contact with food or household items contaminated by rodents infected with Lassa fever virus. Person-to-person transmission can also occur, particularly in a hospital environment with inadequate infection control measures. Like several other countries in West Africa, the disease is endemic in Nigeria and is often recorded during the dry season, often between November and May. “Lassa fever presents initially like any other febrile illness such as malaria. Its symptoms include fever, headache, sore throat, general body weakness, cough, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pains, chest pain, and in severe cases, unexplainable bleeding from ears, eyes, nose, mouth, and other body openings. The time between infection and the appearance of symptoms of the disease is 3 to 21 days. Early treatment and diagnosis increase the chances of survival. “To support and strengthen the response efforts of states, NCDC has continued to deploy Rapid Response Teams (RRT) as required to states. The RRTs through the State Public Health Emergency Operation Centres (PHEOCs) work with states across all response pillars to strengthen preparedness and response activities. This includes outbreak investigation, contact tracing, response coordination, case management, psychosocial care for infected people, risk communication, and infection prevention and control activities.”