The Chairman of Shiroro local government area, Suleiman Chkuba, is having sleepless nights over his inability to raise N57 million ransom for the release of abducted members of his family. Thirteen members of Chukumba’s family, including his elder brother and 30 others were abducted from Chibani in Shiroro Local Government Area of the state on November 27 last year. The abductors demanded N60 million as ransom for the release of the abductees but later reduced the ransom to N57 million and two motorcycles. The council chairman, who expressed fears over the safety of his family members, said he is afraid because the bandits are accusing him of sending local vigilantes and special hunters to hunt them down. - Advertisement - He said: “I am really worried about their safety because the gunmen are already accusing me of sending local vigilantes to come and kill them. “They insisted that I must pay the N57 million and two motorcycles before they would release my people. “I just spoke to them yesterday (Thursday) and they told me that I should bring the money to them in the next one week. “They even told me to bring the money and the two motorcycles to them at Gwagwada in Chukun Local Government Area of Kaduna State.”   2021: And all that we cannot leave behind (3)     Shonekan: Memory of interim contraption     We’ll prevail over current security challenges, Buhari tells…   Chukumba said he does not have enough money to secure the release of his family members, adding that the recent attacks on two Nakurna and Wurukuhi communities has heightened his fear as to what the gunmen could do. He lamented that the gunmen have refused to reduce the amount for the ransom lower than they had, saying that they told him to expect the worst if he does not pay the ransom by next week. Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday declared full scale war on terrorists who have been killing and kidnapping people in the state. Speaking on the recent attacks by gunmen on some communities in Shiroro Local Government Area, which left scores of villagers dead, Bello said the perpetrators of the act have become insane and need to be hunted down. “It is now time that full-fledged war should be declared on these unscrupulous elements since they have been proscribed as terrorists. We cannot just allow these people to continue with this massacre. “Efforts will be intensified by government and security agencies to ensure that desperate terrorists, who are on the run, are captured and brought to justice. “A coordinated and simultaneous attack on the terrorists by security agents in the affected states will go a long way towards achieving success,” he said. While commiserating with the victims in the affected communities, the governor said that he shared in their pains and grief, promising that more decisive actions would be taken to safeguard the lives of the inhabitants of the communities. He expressed fear over the impact of the security challenges on the inability of farmers to harvest their farm produce, adding that this has the potential to trigger food scarcity in the state. Bello prayed for the repose of the souls of those that were killed and quick recovery for those that were injured.