The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has described the leadership of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) as delusional in its attempt to negotiate a better deal with the Federal Government for its members. The NMA recalled that the JOHESU, in a publication, stated that if the NMA is involved in its negotiations with the Federal Government, it will discontinue the process. The doctors’ association stated that physicians have had to make sacrifices in the health sector to ensure that all other allied health professionals were comfortable. It stressed that in an attempt to placate JOHESU, physicians had to bend backwards by recommending relativity in emoluments below what is obtainable for physicians internationally to the disenchantment of members of the NMA. It added that the JOHESU leadership deliberately spreads wrong information to its members and the public in a bid to emotionally blackmail the Director of Hospital Services (DHS) of the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) on welfare issues affecting its members. - Advertisement - The National Publicity Secretary of the NMA, Dr. Aniekeme Uwah, made this known in a statement in Abuja. He said: “It is worthy to note that doctors in administrative positions have worked hard to create a healthy balance in welfarism between physicians and allied health professionals in the health sector. “Also known for an insatiable appetite for spreading misinformation and disinformation, it is no surprise, therefore, that JOHESU threw caution to the winds once more by attempting to emotionally blackmail the Director of Hospital Services (DHS) of the FMOH on welfare issues affecting her members. “This is a well known strategy of JOHESU after failing in discussions oiled in hard evidence. “Therefore, there is no basis for JOHESU to ask for the same salary as for Medical Doctors as this is not the standard practice worldwide.   Olubadan: Jagunmolu Agbekoya writes Ladoja, warns against…     OAU student: Adedoyin’s lawyer questions CCTV footage…     BREAKING: Gunmen kidnap another monarch in Imo, kill one   “JOHESU knows that there is a relativity agreement between the Federal Government and the NMA on CONHESS and CONMESS. “If the office of the DHS, FMOH drew the attention of the FG to the extant agreement on call duty allowance as signed in 2001 and basic salary as corrected and signed in 2014, she is only stating the obvious facts and should be commended for her due diligence. “The Federal Government, the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) and the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment (FMOLE) know the implications of breaching the agreement on relativity. “As a reminder, the NMA is not opposed to any salary increase, adjustment or variation for JOHESU and her members provided that such action and identical values are applied to CONMESS to sustain the agreement with NMA. “Unknown to many innocent and hard working JOHESU members, the leadership of JOHESU has increasingly become ‘physicianphobic’ which is a form of dysociopath.” He added: “If anyone is to be unhappy, it should be the Physicians who are being short changed by the deliberate refusal of the Federal Government to apply internationally accepted relativity in the remuneration of health workers in Nigeria. JOHESU is free to negotiate with anybody. Physicians are not afraid of this provided that the facts and international standard are presented and applied. “By making insinuation not to enter into negotiation with the Federal Government if doctors were involved, implies that such decisions would be extended to the Honourable Ministers of Health and that of Labour and Employment because they are Physicians. “JOHESU should also stop meeting with the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Permanent Secretaries that are Physicians, Chief Medical Directors, Chairmen of Senate and House Committees on Health, Governors and Deputy Governors etc. “JOHESU has forgotten that the DHS and other Physicians involved in their negotiation were there by virtue of the critical relevance of their offices and ot in individual capacities as Physicians. “If we copy and travel this discriminatory road, then NMA will not negotiate with the Federal Government. “Lastly, we wish to remind JOHESU that her members are primarily the staff of the Department of Hospital Services of the FMOH. “The input of the DHS cannot be wished away because she is key to any negotiation on welfare matters in the health sector.”