Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has ordered the Rivers State Commissioner of Police to collaborate with other security agencies, council chairmen and traditional rulers to arrest and prosecute all persons involved in illegal bunkering and operation of illegal refineries. The governor accused persons involved in the illegal acts of causing the black soot menace and environmental degradation endangering the health of residents of the state. He gave the charge at the Nigeria Police, Rivers State Command dinner and award night that was held at the Police Officers Mess, Old Government Residential Area, Port Harcourt. The governor, who was represented by the Chief of Staff, Government House, Port Harcourt, Chief Emeka Woke, declared that the state government had resolved to tackle those involved in crude oil theft and refining once and for all. Wike stated that the state government was willing to provide the police and other security agencies all their requirements to dislodge and end the activities of such persons in Rivers. - Advertisement - According to the governor, “the State is prepared to fight them more than ever before.” Wike narrated that since the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka assumed duty last year, Rivers State had witnessed peace and improved policing. He said: “Little wonder, the crime index in the state has reduced drastically. We thought we are the only people witnessing it, but with the award you got from the wife of the Inspector General of Police, it is an eloquent testimony that what we are seeing as a State is also being observed by the entire nation.” The governor said policing in Rivers had improved remarkably because the management of the Nigeria Police Force at the Force Headquarters and the State Command respectively distanced themselves from politics. He said: “As a state, we will continue to support the security agencies in the State. Our support for security agencies is not only centered on the Police force.  We are also extending similar gestures to the Navy, Air force and others. “For us, we believe the primary function of any responsible government is to protect life and property. So, we have no option but to continue to provide logistics and everything that can make the security agencies in the state to function very well.   APC: Aregbesola’s loyalists meet reconciliation committee in…     GAIN: Diaspora group lauds initiative, urges deployment in…     Sexual harassment: Rivers lecturer bags three months…   “Because we believe that if our people are safe and life here is peaceful, there will be an increase in economic activities and the Internally Generated Revenue will also go up.” Wike commended Eboka, the 42nd Commissioner of Police in Rivers State for discharging his duty professionally and not joining the league of some of his predecessors, who were posted to the State to cause turmoil and instability. The governor gave N1million reward for each of the recipients of the Rivers State Police Command award and N10million to the command for organising the event. The Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka explained that 2021 was a remarkable year for the Command because Rivers State emerged as one of the most peaceful states in Nigeria. He thanked Almighty God and the Inspector General of Police for choosing Rivers State as the venue for the launching of South-South Operation Restore Peace. He said: “This came with the deployment of special forces with sophisticated equipment as well as combat helicopters to the state”. He commended Wike for being very phenomenal in the attainment of peace and security in the State. He said: “Since my assumption of office, the command has received more than 50 patrol vehicles fitted with modern gadgets from the State government.  This gesture alone enhanced visibility policing in the State. “Recall too, when we lost men to miscreants in April 2021, the governor did not allow us to suffer alone. He wiped the tears of the deceased families with a total sum of N220 million, which means each family received the sum of N20 million. “Recall the ENDSARS saga. At the end of that saga, which led to the burning down of police stations and vehicles across the nation, the State governor did not abandon us to work under the trees. But rather, the governor constructed a storey building each for the Area Command, Oyigbo and the Divisional Police in Oyigbo. ” The recipients of the Rivers State Police Command 2021 awards are: G.I.A Godstime Nwuju, Best Traffic Officer; Inspector Winfrey Ini Akpan, Best Controller; CSP Bako Aghashim, Best D.P.O; CSP Grace Wonwu, Best Female DPO; and the Best Visiting Tactical Team Leader went to  CSP Adamu.