Controversial Catholic priest and founder of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has said that he borrowed a total sum of N1.253 billion for charity purposes in the year that just ended. The fiery cleric also said he resisted becoming a priest in his early life but was practically dragged “by Heaven” into priesthood at a time he was running away from it. He, however, said since his ordination as a priest, he had been “a magnet of souls”; a development he said is an answer to his personal prayers. - Advertisement - The cleric, who said he borrowed the said sum in two tranches of N850 million and N403 million, added that everything he does in the Adoration Ministry is tailored towards charity. The foregoing remarks were contained in Mbaka’s 2022 New Year message to the members of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN). He said: “It may interest you to know that in the beginning of this just concluded year, I borrowed N850 million. I also borrowed N403 million. “This was not part of the projects we are doing here. It was only for charity. “There’s nothing we do here that is not tailored towards charity. We need more money to continue a lot of projects we have at hand. “So, when people talk about Mbaka this, Mbaka that, I don’t understand that. It’s because they don’t know me. “All these people talking about Mbaka have never visited this Ministry to know what we do. If they come, they would see for themselves and stop the unnecessary criticism. “I cannot be listening to someone who does not understand me.” He told his members to be vigilant and not to be bothered by the threat to shut down the ministry, saying “no human being can close this ministry. “But it is important to tell them that there’s a division of labour. If you are a goalkeeper, allow me the player to play the ball. You can’t be a goal keeper and a striker at the same time. “They should leave me. They are not my creator. It is God who created and called me; not them. “There are people who forced themselves into this priesthood and there are those called to be priests.   2023: PDP has settled for northern presidential candidate –…     Capital importation hits $1.7bn, says NBS     Denmark releases suspected Nigerian pirates   “I never wanted to be a priest. Heaven dragged me into this priesthood when I was running away from it. So, no mortal can force me out of it. “And since I was ordained a priest, I have never experienced greater joy. I have been a happy man all through. “Whatever one prays is what is granted him. My own prayer was that I shall be a magnet of souls. I only think about your goodness. “Whoever is maltreating the masses is attacking me. So, whenever I fight for the masses, the story will be that Mbaka is playing politics. “Of course, I’m not playing politics. Am I a member of APC, PDP or APGA?” Stop harassing Mbaka, other clergies praying for Kanu —IPOB The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday warned the Nigerian government against harassing Rev. Father Mbaka and other clergymen and women praying for the protection of its detained leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The group, in a statement issued by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, also warned against humiliating or intimidating its leader and members, insisting that Kanu is not evil but a special gift from God. It noted that prayers by clerics including Mbaka and the Reverend Father of Ebube Mmunso Ministry, Uke in Idemili, Anambra State had turned Nigeria and its leadership into confusion. It stressed that people should not be harassed as a result of their religious views, insisting that Nigeria is not for any particular sect. The statement reads in part: “We wish to commend men and women of God who devoted their precious time and energy to praying for the protection of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU who has been incarcerated in the DSS custody in Abuja since June 2021. “The prayers of these men of God have turned Nigeria and its leadership into confusion since the beginning of this year 2022. “We realise that the Fulani-controlled federal government and its security agencies are confused as a result of the intense prayers of these men of God including Rev. Father Ejikeme Mbaka of Adoration Ministries Enugu; and Reverend father of Ebube Mmunso Ministry, Uke in Idemili LGA Anambra State. “We call other men and women of God Almighty who hear what God is saying to join others in telling government to stop humiliating and intimidating Mazi Nnamdi KANU and IPOB members, because Mazi Nnamdi KANU is not evil but a special gift from God Almighty, but unfortunately, Nigerians don’t appreciate what they have. “Again, we are warming DSS to stop intimidating and humiliating men and women of God Almighty because they spoke about Mazi Nnamdi KANU.  People should not be harassed because of their religious views. Nigeria is not for Fulani alone. “People of God Almighty should rise up and talk in unison otherwise Fulani-controlled DSS will pick them one after the other to weaken them. They have started with Ejike Mbaka so others will fear and draw back from speaking the common truth about the goings-on in Nigeria. “The DSS and other security agencies can kill the messenger but cannot kill the message. The message which Mazi Nnamdi Kanu passed has gone deep into the minds of Nigerians and they understood the truth about Nigeria and its evil government. “People of God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama would come out and defend their sheep because God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama handed them over to them as shepherd.”