National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has given Nigerians a pass mark for what he called their brave and wise fight  to “prevent the worst” of the  COVID-19 pandemic from visiting us. “We succeeded in great part but we still felt and feel the effects of this unprecedented public health challenge,” he said in his Year 2022 message to the nation. The statement reads: “Each new year is like a door, a portal that opens to a beckoning future. But also one that closes upon what has passed. “Upon reaching this door, we all must be cognizant and attentive to the lessons of what has already come so that we better navigate that which is yet to come. This new year is no different. “Foremost, let us thank God that we have reached this moment.  The outgoing year had its blessings but for many of us it was a hard and difficult one of serious challenges and struggle. - Advertisement - “The entire world continued to be troubled by the COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant social and economic woes. Nigeria fought wisely and bravely to prevent the worst of the pandemic from visiting us. We succeeded in great part but we still felt and feel the effects of this unprecedented public health challenge. “While we still contend against this scourge, let us take great solace in one incontestable fact. With relatively few resources, we have contained this disease more than it has contained us. This speaks to the strength and resilience of our national spirit. “This episode has shown us that when we put our collective will and energy to a thing, nothing will stop us from our common purpose. Nothing can beat back our pursuit of the common good.   Tinubu support group inaugurated in Delta     Osun 2022: APC structure too strong for gang-up to work…     Improved armed forces performance key priority of my…   “No matter what may confront us, God never leaves us bereft of hope or positive solution. It is upon us to find the God-given courage and vision in ourselves to stand up to problems that seek to shackle us that we may bring these problems low so that we may elevate this nation and its people to a much higher place. “I say this not just to say a nice thing during the holiday season. I say this because it is our greater truth. It is our national destiny. In this new year, let us seize that destiny as never before. “So I enjoin you to enter 2022 with hope and with the unyielding determination that our hope and collective toil will succeed in bringing forth a more prosperous and just nation. Hope that things will be better. “Insecurity is here in many areas. But we will battle and battle and battle it again until it is subdued and extinguished from the face of the nation. “President Muhammadu Buhari and our security agencies are doing their best to confront the menace. The President has vowed to end this evil. Let’s us join and support him in this common cause regardless of partisan or other affiliation. “We have an economy to continue to build. Youths in need of jobs. The elderly and the sick in need of care. Infrastructure in need of building. Poverty in need of chasing away. Hunger in need of disappearing. Compassion and care in need of growing. Let us focus on these things. For in achieving these things, we achieve a better Nigeria for us all. “I urge Nigerians to continue to be law-abiding, peaceful and most strongly committed to the national project upon which we have embarked and for which so many have toiled and sacrificed. “Let us vow in unshakable promise to dedicate this year and our strongest effort to the welfare and progress of our people. “On behalf of my family and associates, I wish you all happy and memorable new year.”