Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has praised the level of work done on the Blue and Red rail line projects. He hoped the bridge component of the Ikeja station would be completed before schedule, to ease gridlock. Sanwo-Olu addressed reporters yesterday after inspecting the project sites in Ikeja, Yaba, Oyingbo/Ebute Metta and Marina. The Blue line is designed to start from Okokomiko and terminate at Marina, while the Red line runs from Agbado to Marina. The governor said the inspection and monitoring would be done quarterly, to hasten work. - Advertisement - He hailed the contractors for working as scheduled, noting that work on the project should be delivered as promised.   Akeredolu dares PDP: report me to EFCC     ‘How Yoruba Nation agitators plan to stop Osun, Ekiti polls’     Ibadan chief mourns   Sanwo-Olu said: “Our promise is on course, and we believe that before the end of this year, we will see trains on top of these tracks. This is our commitment and we will continue to monitor and check ourselves. “What we are seeing today is a good development from what we saw the last time we were here about three or four months ago. I am happy to report, as you all have seen that works are going on as scheduled. Despite today being a public holiday, the contractors are on site. “The Ikeja Red line iconic station was at the foundation level when we came here last, but today it’s on the second floor, working towards getting to the fourth floor. Hopefully the bridge component will be finished before time, to ease traffic congestion on that axis. “The Yaba station is out. The last time we were here, they were at excavation stage, but right now they are decking for the second floor, and they are on strict order to keep to deadline. “At Ebute Meta, there will be an overpass from Murtala Mohammed Way up to Apapa Road. They are launching the columns, and the station is far ahead because they have completed it. The elevated Marina Station, about 200 metres, is the most iconic for the Blue line. Just one more floor is needed before a full ramp is done. All the beams are to be launched and they have been precast and stored at the National Arts Theatre, which means they should be launched within six weeks. “Our promise is still on course that trains will start working before the end of the year.”