Evangelist Funmilayo Adebayo, nicknamed Mummy GO, has been making waves on social media due to her controversial sermons. She is the founder of Rapture Proclaimer Evangelical Church of God. Her photographs have also gone viral in memes on social media platforms including Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, Nairaland with controversial and funny inscriptions that mimic her statements about hell. The 54-year-old preacher hails from Ekiti State. She became an internet sensation when a viral video of her rendering a song titled ‘Kpatakpata’ caught the attention of social media users. - Advertisement - In 2019, she was heavily criticised for saying that people who take Vitamin C and eat Titus fish will not make heaven. Among her viral messages is one where the clergywoman said break dancing originated from the land of the dead. “Where did break dancing generate from? Michael Jackson. He got power from the dead land. What is the land of the dead? Skeleton. Skeleton is not for the living. If you break dance, you’re telling God you’re dead,” she said. She also once revealed that she was originally a man in ancient Egypt, but died in a war. She claimed that she was trained in the afterlife and was sent for ‘I.T’ (industrial training) before she was sent to Nigeria where she was reborn as a woman.   Iyabo Oko: Strange case of death, resurrection     Margaret Okadigbo: Buhari remembers one-time running mate?     Sanwo-Olu’s wrestling match with federal might   The controversial ‘woman of God’ stated that all footballers would go to hell and men on skin cut are already on their way to hell. In addition, she claimed that people who use ATMs and MasterCard have successfully bought a free ticket to hell. In one of the several memes, the woman said boys who give girls money in 2022 will be “giving away their glory”. She also said in another trending video: “I wasn’t a fool before I met Christ. I was a cocaine pusher. I sold guns and rented ammunition to robbers. “I was a hired killer. I had boys at my disposal. Whenever I want to give information to politicians, they pay me millions. “Obasanjo knows me very well. We are close pals. Even Babangida knows me. The police had no guts to arrest me. Sijuade, the Ooni of Ife, it was when I met him that his business started booming. “The kind of cocaine I smuggled, I used flying carpet, straight to Germany and America. I don’t use airplanes. The reason why I have this knowledge is due to my long journey in the kingdom of darkness.” Despite her controversial sermons and claims, her son – Samuel Adebayo, said his mother was not bothered about the hellfire memes circulating on social media. He stated that his mom’s messages about ‘hell’ are not forced on anybody.