The Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Mr. Tony Adun, popularly known as Tony Kabaka, who made fame as a die-hard loyalist of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, is in the news. This time, he is not been reported for standing up for the former APC national chairman or taking another swipe at Governor Godwin Obaseki and or the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as he is known to do, rather all eyes are on him as he makes peace with Obaseki, the man with whom he fought endlessly, leading to the demolishing of his hotel in Benin City’s GRA by the state government. It will be recalled that Kabaka and the government had been at logger heads over the location of his hotel. The Obaseki administration eventually demolished the facility on the ground that it was located on land acquired by the government. A Benin City High Court recently ordered the government to rebuild the hotel. While Oshiomhole and Obaseki were at war over control of the APC in the state, Adun led many other party chieftains to dare the governor in open support of the then APC National Chairman. During the week, following the governor’s invitation, Kabaka showed up at the Government House, Benin City, to receive gift items to celebrate the festivities with his family. Not a few of his critics and supporters expressed surprise at the appearance of the APC Youth Leader at the Government House. Sources however said his visit to Obaseki was actually the culmination of weeks of reconciliation talks between the two parties. - Advertisement - Receiving Kabaka, Obaseki said despite belonging to a different political party, he was not an enemy but friends with Adun, adding, “I am governor to all Edo people, irrespective of political affiliations.  I welcome Tony Kabaka to the Government House. In the mood for Christmas and reconciliation, this cow and bags of rice are for you and your family to celebrate Christmas. Obaseki was represented by his Chief of Staff, Osaigbovo Iyoha.   Prophet kidnapped, wife shot dead in Delta     …as Sanwo-Olu inaugurates 14 new Judges     Diri swears in second wife, three others as high court…   Kabaka thanked Obaseki for his kind gesture and forgiving spirit, adding that politics is not a do-or-die affair. Speaking on the past, he said his earleir criticism of Obaseki’s government was aimed at putting the administration on its toes to deliver quality projects to the people of the State. He said: “Your Excellency, may God bless you for these gifts. I thank you for having mercy on me. I never expected this from you; I am happy with what you have done for me today. “Politics is a game; the opposition party criticizes the government to enable them work effectively for the people of Edo State and also develop the State. Politics is not a do or die affair. I am happy; this will show a good example to others that despite our various political divides, we are still brothers and family. The governor is my brother and this kind gesture of Christmas gift from him shows that politics is not a do or die affair; this move is encouraging, as I am learning from him.” After the speeches, Kabaka, the popular APC enforcer, left Government House with one big cow and some bags of rice, courtesy of the now PDP governor and political archrival of Oshiomhole; the same Obaseki who approved the demolition of Kabaka’s hotel. What many are waiting to see is whether Adun is about to forget about the government rebuilding his hotel after the rice and meat meal or he will still fight the governor after savouring his delicacies. What is also not clear is the state of the once-feared activist’s ties with the erstwhile APC chair who he and other supporters often hail as ‘Oshio Baba.’ Was this reconciliation with the knowledge of Kabaka’s longtime political boss, or are we about to witness a seismic shift in political loyalties in Edo State? Only time will tell.