The Oba-elect of  Iwaya community in Lagos, Babatunde Ajaga, has erected a billboard and donated vehicles in support Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s presidential ambition. Amid funfare, the event was attended by traditional rulers and grassroot politicians at Adekunle area of Lagos. Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, who unveiled the billboard, urged Nigerians to support Asiwaju Tinubu and ensure that his ambition came to fruition. Obasa said the former governor of Lagos State had done a lot for the nation, adding that Nigerians would gain more if elected. Tinubu, the speaker said, had raised many leaders and had helped so many achieve their political ambitions. - Advertisement - Ojora of Ijoraland Oba Abdulfatai Aromire, said all the royal fathers in Lagos and Nigeria would support Tinubu’s ambition to move the nation forward. Oba Aromire urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure Asiwaju Tinubu emerge as candidate and ultimately be successful at the polls. Ajaga, who arrived the venue in colourful attire with his wife, Fausat, said the donation was an endorsement of Tinubu as the most suitable to lead the nation come 2023.   Aubameyang arrives Barcelona for transfer deadline move     BREAKING: Popular skitmaker Isbae U responds to…     JAMB introduces two additional subjects to UTME   He said: “As a private businessman for 35 years in real estate, I have checked round, no one is better qualified to lead Nigeria in 2023 than Tinubu. I feel so good and happy to contribute to the success of his upcoming campaign because of what he has done all over the nation. I am not a politician, I am a business man to the core, but looking round, Tinubu is the solution. “Based on his performance, he is 100 per cent fit to lead. We believe in him and nobody can change our mind. Tinubu is a great man that no one can forget. He has done a lot across the country and beyond, for the masses. I can assure you that Nigerians won’t regret if he emerges as president.” Ajaga advised all stakeholders and corporate organisations to support Tinubu’s presidential bid. “I advise all to work for Tinubu and no one will regret, considering his antecedents,” the Oba-elect said. Former Chairman of Coker-Aguda Local Council Development Area Omobolanle Akinyemi-Obe and her successor Ibrahim Rasaq, hailed Ajaga for the initiative. Akinyemi-Obe called on traders across the country to rise in support of Tinubu’s ambition. She said the traders would see their businesses blossom if Tinubu is elected due to his antecedent in Lagos state. Rasaq said Tinubu is a leader Nigerians can trust and he would deliver more dividends of democracy.