Members of the Chibok community, under the Kibaku Area Development Association (KADA) have called on the Federal Government (FG) to save them from total annihilation. This is coming on the heels of the January 20th 2022 attack that led to the abduction of 20 persons, including 19 girls and a beheaded vigilante leader. National President KADA, Dauda Iliya who made the appeal said from late 2012, Chibok community has survived over 72 attacks, over 407 persons killed, over 332 persons abducted, over 20 churches burnt with unquantifiable houses/businesses burnt, vehicles destroyed with 2unquantifiable grain barns burnt and destroyed. Iliya said this at a press conference yesterday in Abuja where he said Chibok had been abandoned to its own devices by all layers of government. He added that from late 2018 to date, the frequency of the attacks and level of destruction has escalated. - Advertisement - His words, ” We, the Kibaku (Chibok) Area Development Association (KADA), on behalf of the entire Chibok Community, are using this medium to once again call on President Muhammadu Buhari to rescue Chibok Community, an ethnic nationality, from total annihilation by the Boko Haram terrorists.   Protect us from gender-based violence, HIV community urges…     APCON inducts 63 practitioners as Fellows     Sunday Sun editor’s late wife for burial Feb 23   “This is because since the mass abduction of our 276 daughters in April, 2014, wherein 57 escaped (on their own) we still have 110 of them still unaccounted for. The parents and the Community have continued to be subjected to persistent and sustained attacks, killings, abductions, maiming, arson and other myriads of criminality without adequate government protection. “Chibok has been for all intents and purposes abandoned to its own devices by all layers of government in Nigeria. Right from late 2012 up to this time, the statistics of the state of damage and destruction of lives and property inflicted on the Community presents a worrisome and pathetic picture: Number of attacks: over 72 persons killed; over 407, persons abducted; over 332, Houses/businesses burnt; unquantifiable, churches burnt; over 20, vehicles stolen; many, grains barns burnt or destroyed unquantifiable. “From late 2018 to date, the frequency of attacks and level of destruction have escalated and are simply alarming. Just this year (2022) alone, Kautikari (second largest town in Chibok area) was attacked on January 14 with 5 (five) girls abducted, 3 (three) persons killed, many houses and churches burnt, etc. In sustaining their carnage, Piyemi, another big town in Chibok area, was attacked on January 20 with 19 persons (mostly girls) abducted and one person, the Vigilante leader, beheaded. “The town was practically razed down and virtually all the  recently harvested agricultural produce completely burnt down and/or looted. Chibok is predominantly an agrarian community and the whole year’s harvests have been lost to these sustained and targeted attacks posing serious food security concerns in the community. “Our Prayers to government: Government should seek for support to synergize with our security forces in confronting this menace so as to end the sustained carnage on our people. By doing so, we expect our remaining 110 daughters abducted in 2014 and numerous others subsequently abducted at different times to be brought back to us. “We appeal to the Federal Government to immediately set up IDP Camps in Chibok town and provide Chibok with a skills acquisition centre so as to avoid imminent hunger/starvation in Chibok.”