HURRAY! Nigerians should expect a fall in the price of rice. That was the assurance by President Muhammadu Buhari, at the launching of 13 pyramids of rice at the Abuja International Trade Fair Complex, Abuja, on Tuesday. An obviously elated and optimistic President Buhari said at the occasion that the measure was part of efforts to reduce the price of the staple. “The significance of today’s occasion can be better understood by looking at the various economic strides the administration has achieved through agriculture,” he said. He lauded the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), which is behind the government’s agricultural revolution. The Nigeria Rice Paddy Pyramids is an initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Rice Farmers Association. To be sure, the Buhari administration has invested a lot in agriculture, especially through the ABP. This much the CBN governor noted at the launch of the rice pyramids. “The past few years have been quite challenging towards some of the farmers, as they have battled with insurgency, banditry, lockdown and other related setbacks”, Emefiele said. He added that “Indeed, we lost some of our farmers to insurgency attacks nationwide while some could not access their farms for several months yet, they kept faith, they did not give up, they persevered, and they did not abandon our fight for food self-sufficiency.” The CBN governor was right. Insecurity played a major role in the food crisis that the country is facing today. But this is only a leg of the story. The other leg that the CBN governor failed to mention, and for obvious reasons, is that President Buhari’s failure to tackle the challenge when it was still tractable is largely responsible for the precarious security situation in the country. The man simply looked the other way when the entire country was complaining about the menace of killer Fulani herdsmen who believe they own all parts of Nigeria and could therefore do and undo. They became a nuisance to farmers in several parts of the country and even when some people retaliated the attacks by the Fulani herdsmen, security agents arrested several of them whereas the herdsmen enjoyed official protection. This lackadaisical attitude of the government to the security challenge emboldened not only the herdsmen but other criminals, who seized the opportunity to wreak havoc, leaving behind tears and sorrow. By the time the government seemed ready to confront the situation, it was almost late; as it had become something akin to a malignant tumour. A good example of the mishandling of insecurity, particularly as it affects agriculture, is the case of 44 rice farmers that were murdered by terrorists in Borno State in 2020. Rather than protect the farmers, or at least speak words of consolation to their relatives, or go after those who killed them, the government blamed them for going to farm without informing soldiers in the area! How does that help farming or agriculture? If farmers in every troubled part of the country have to first take permission from security agents before going to farm, is that not an indictment of the government and its security agencies? - Advertisement - The truth of the matter is that we do not have to look too far to see that whatever this government gained in agriculture has been lost at the same time on the altar of its nepotistic handling of the security challenges, especially at the onset of the administration. Statistics on what we are still spending to bring in food items confirm this much. A CBN report on sectoral utilisation of forex for the third quarter of last year indicated that the country spent a whopping $1.68bn on food importation between January and September. Similarly, it should worry us that we spent about N1trillion on fish imports from nine major countries in the last two years. And this, too, is official, coming from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The same applies to milk imports said to have risen by 28 per cent within nine months. What all these tell us is that the various interventions have not had any profound effect on food security. And for reason/s already stated. Nigeria was only busy pouring hard-earned public funds into a bottomless pit, pretending to be fighting the criminals. Ordinarily, the president’s assurance should calm frayed nerves about the skyrocketing price of rice, a staple food in the country because, when a leader in his kind of capacity speaks, his words should be like those of an oracle: unimpeachable.   Requiem for Kaduna State?     Nigeria to Benin Republic by rail     ICYMI: Love made in NYSC camp   But then, it is doubtful if many Nigerians took the president for his words. Not a few would have dismissed whatever he said as one of those political rhetorics for which our politicians are notorious. And they cannot be faulted: the present government has since joined the bandwagon; it has proved time and again, that it is also mastering that notoriety of not matching words with action. But beyond this is the fact that under President Buhari’s watch, prices of every imaginable item have been skyrocketing. From gas to power, rice, tomatoes, cement, iron rods, to what have you. Very soon, Nigerians will have to start paying for petrol literally with their blood. Indeed, many of us who are Christians have only taken his promise of cheap rice by faith rather than by his record because we don’t want our situation to be like that of the man who did not believe Prophet Elisha when he said “about this time tomorrow, a seah of the finest flour will sell for a shekel and two seahs of barley for a shekel at the gate of Samaria.” True, given the physically visible in Samaria at the time, this seemed more like an improbable fiction. The officer who did not believe the prophet saw the good times but did not eat of it, in line with the prophet’s curse on him. You can see why we need a leap of faith to accept the president’s promise as the gospel truth: one, he is not a prophet and, two, his record does not engender such optimism. Yet, we must say ‘Amen’ to his wish or prayer that the price of rice will soon fall. Perhaps the fact that President Buhari’s words have hardly been his bond explains the perception in some quarters that the whole idea of the rice pyramids was nothing but a ruse. That it was, at best, some political gimmick aimed at shoring up the government’s dwindling image. At the vanguard of this blow below the belt is the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The PDP, which appears to me to be waking up from its slumber to give the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) a good run for its money really took the pyramids to the cleaners. The party, which rechristened the project as “pyramids of lies” said the government was only staging another media stunt to deceive Nigerians ahead of the 2003 general elections. PDP’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, said “There is nothing to celebrate in the APC pyramid of lies in Abuja. It is rather shameful that APC leaders are again ridiculing President Muhammadu Buhari by making him unveil pyramids of allegedly imported foreign rice which are re-bagged as locally produced, just to create an impression of a boost in local production under his watch.” Although the opposition party made some bogus claims, like saying their party turned the country into one huge rice growing centre, leading to the price of 50kg of the commodity selling for about N8,000, I do not know whether this was the reality or whether the country was flooded with imported rice then, leading to the crash in price. But then, what is undeniable, as the opposition party noted, is that rice was very cheap then, compared to the gold that it has become in the Buhari years. Again, the opposition party claimed that what the Buhari government advertised were fake pyramids of rice with sandbags and rebagged rice stacked on pyramid-shaped wooden structures. As if the party knew that people would ask how it got the impression that the rice pyramids were fake, PDP quickly reminded that there is nothing novel in the arrangement because an APC governor allegedly did the same thing a few years back, with his own brand of rice pyramids. Be that as it may, I have no proof that what the president commissioned on Tuesday was fake or, at best, imported rice. The only scientific proof of that would be what happens to the price of rice after these products have arrived the market. So far, however, there is no proof that the one million rice paddy has had any effect on the price of the commodity. Perhaps it is too early to feel the impact. So, I will still give it the benefit of the doubt that the PDP is only still bellyaching, hence, its writing off the government’s rice pyramids as bogus lie. A party that had boasted to rule the country for 60 years in the first instance and was booted out after about 16 years because it was too inept and corrupt certainly has every reason to bellyache. And if the party could not take a leap of faith like some of us, it is because only a thief can trace the footsteps of another thief on the rock. May be the former ruling party organised similar shenanigans in its days in office and in power. All said, the jury is out on whether what President Buhari commissioned on Tuesday were indeed rice pyramids or mere sand. Whatever it was, it is only a matter of time for the truth to be revealed. If it was the former, Nigerians will enjoy the dividend and it would be a plus for the Buhari government. In the same vein, if it was the latter, it is the government that would bite the dust after the people would have exhausted the real rice, which would further dent the government’s image, at quarter to general elections. My father used to tell us that if the person being lied to does not know, the liar at least knows that he is lying. Moreover, anyone who sold sand as a good should not be surprised if paid with stones. President Buhari should pardon those of us with sympathy for the PDP and other doubting Thomases about what he commissioned. In the first place, the PDP was in power before and knows how they did some of those things in their time. They are bound to be believed by some people too because not much has changed between them and the ruling party, in spite of the ‘change’ mantra of the latter. Today someone is in PDP, tomorrow he changes over to APC and vice versa. The difference is no longer clear. You cannot put any mischief beyond our politicians. I have always said that when many of them say ‘good morning’ Nigerians should pull up their blinds to be sure it is not goodnight. All said, Nigerians should be able to tell whether the rice pyramids are fake or genuine when they buy the next bag or bowl of rice in the market. After all, people selling all manner of concoctions in ‘Molue’ buses usually tell us that we can only buy na true after several times of buying na lie. In Nigeria, we have been buying na lie from government since; may be this time around we’ll buy na true. The price will tell.