Research is both the foundation and the building block of development in the modern society. This is well known among nations that are now regarded as developed and those that are on the way to catching up with them. This must have informed the decision by the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETfund) to make an unprecedented N9 billion available to universities to boost their research capacity, last year. The fund’s executive secretary, Suleiman Bogoro, made this known at the tenth anniversary of TETFund in Abuja. He said the fund, in appreciation of the critical role that research has to play in elevating the status of the universities and the Nigerian state has made the fund available to lecturers interested in research. This is the way to go. TETfund has made such a huge impact in the infrastructural upgrade of our educational institutions that it is said that they stand today due to the impact the fund is making. It is also said that the fund, since 2011, has made it difficult to embezzle the money it makes available because of its template of supervision and feedback. This is worthy of emulation by the universities that have always been bedeviled by allegations of corruption by members of its community and the public. The fund deserves the encouragement of the federal and state governments, as well as the private sector if the country is to be aroused to join the global race for development. As Professor Bogoro pointed out, the N9 billion was extended for 435 projects, some of which have since been concluded, while others are ongoing. There should be more of such. TETfund deserves the support of foundations, philanthropic organisations, Nigerian conglomerates and the multinational corporations. This will encourage the researchers to be constantly at work, finding solutions to national challenges.   Over-regulating water     Agric: What Nigerians expect from Fed Govt this year     Ayade: from bubble to burst   Despite the level of development attained by the United States of America as the surviving economic and military superpower, it has never relegated research by the universities and the research institutes. There are also think tanks that are never starved of funds. In 2019 alone, research by American universities was said to have gulped $87 billion dollars. In Nigeria, universities have long relegated research, turning the institutions to sheer teaching schools. Even in teaching, little is done to upgrade the libraries and other ancillary arms that should support independent study and critical thinking among lecturers and students. Many of the lecturers are already rusty, limited to things they learnt decades earlier while still in schools in Europe and America. Addressing directors of research in the universities in 2019, Professor Bogoro had raised the alarm that many of the professors lacked the capacity to competently write proposals for research. He said 80 per cent of those received by the fund were ridiculous and that explains why our professors are unable to tap into the global funding for relevant researches. The fund had to set aside money for training the professors in producing acceptable proposals. This process must be stepped up so that Nigeria would not be relegated in the scheme of things. This probably explains why our universities are poorly rated. The task of reversing the trend is for all. In deciding topics or areas of concern, there should be synergy between the researchers and the consumers of the products. We recall how, under the leadership of Mr. Bunmi Oni in Cadbury Nigeria PLC conversion plants that aided production were designed and developed, thus saving the multinational billions of Naira and enabling the country contribute to knowledge on the global plane. - Advertisement - If Singapore could turn things around within a short period, lifting its leading university to the top echelon of world institutions, Nigeria surely can if we are committed.