Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Barr. Sam Ode, has said that he is the most suitable person to take over from Governor Samuel Ortom come 2023. The former Special Adviser on Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in Benue State spoke exclusively to Uja Emmanuel in Makurdi. Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Barr. Sam Ode, is contesting for the governorship of Benue state on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). According to him, no other aspirant knows Benue State better than him as he is a complete Benue man being a product of intertribal marriage between his Idoma father and a Tiv mother. “Among the crop of very eminently qualified aspirants for the position of Governor of this state, I’m the most suitable for this time. It’s not because I’m the best or the most qualified, but I’m the most suitable for this time. The Bible tells us that there is time and season for everything. So for the Benue of today, your brother and son, Sam Ode is the best Benue should have at this time. “My father is from Ediku in Otukpo Local Government Area of Benue State while my mother is from Ushongo Local Government Area of the state. My grandmother is the first daughter of Tarka Naji and the immediate elder sister of the legendary Senator Sarwuan Tarka of blessed memory. So that puts me in zone A, zone B and zone C as a contender. “I can tell you with every sense of honesty that of all the aspirants who are contesting to be Governor of Benue State, nobody knows Benue State more than me. There is nowhere in Tiv land that I don’t know; there is nowhere in the whole of Idoma and Igede-Akweya that I don’t know and so I’m a complete Benue man. This time that the people of Benue South where I come from are appealing to the people of zone A and zone B that there should be a rotation of the office of Governor to Benue South, I think that I’m the most fitted for that position at this time. - Advertisement - “In a transition period, you test the waters and so I will be one leg there, I will be one leg here and I will give justice, fairness and equity to the entire Benue State. But that is just one aspect. I’m not the only person with the advantage of dual citizenship in this state; there are many others. So it’s beyond coming from zones A, B and C at the same time. I have the intellectual preparation for the job. I have gone to school. I have a diploma in Law. I have a degree in Theatre Arts. I have a degree in Law. I have Masters in Public Administration, Master’s in Media Arts and I am a Doctoral candidate in International Law and Diplomacy,” Ode stated. He added, “I have undertaken a tour of Benue 13 times throughout my career and as a Special Adviser, I went round the state five times. As a politician, I went round electioneering with Senator Akume and Suswam and of course when I was the coordinator of President Jonathan in Benue State, I still went round. So I know Benue State not only by the Geography but by the character of the state and so I am well equipped with the political experience, the intellectual preparation and the political will to deal decisively with issues that are confronting the development of Benue State”. As regards practical leadership experience, Ode said he started from the base as Special Adviser under the administrations of former Governor’s George Akume, Gabriel Suswam and he later became a Local Government Chairman before he rose become a minister of the federal republic of Nigeria. Speaking on how he will solve the problem of ghost workers in the state, Sam Ode recalled how he tackled the menace in the past when he was Special Adviser on Bureau of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs and promised to do same when he occupies the number seat in the state. Read Also: Benue 2023: APC chieftains in fierce struggle to succeed Ortom “On assumption of office as a Special Adviser, I immediately instituted a staff audit of all the Local Governments in Benue State and I was able to move the figure from 28,000 workers in the Local Governments to 11,000. The incidence of ghost workers has become a constant problem in Benue and the money that should go for development is going into the pockets of fake workers and even the genuine Local Government workers are redundant.   2023: Six PDP Govs, Ayu, Saraki, Obi endorse…     Okotie-Eboh: 56 years after     ‘Why politicians are defecting to APC’   “I will set aside a certain amount of money every month so that if people want to leave the service of the state or the Local Government, I will process their terminal benefits and pay them in 30 days, I will even add grants to such a people and in one year, the whole service will be empty. Then I will put in place a very stringent process to recruit young Benue graduates who are qualified and are outwardly mobile that will work to earn the salary that you I will be paying them. What you are seeing us pay now as salaries for Local Government and state which is over seven Billion naira may reduce to about 3-4 Billion naira every month and we will use about N3b for capital development in Benue State every month”, he stated. In the area of agriculture he described as the mainstay of Benue, Ode said the sector will be given a high boost. He noted that it goes beyond saying that Benue is the Food Basket of the Nation, Benue has comparative advantage in Agriculture and farming will be commercialized because there is a process to achieve agricultural commercialization and he is well equipped for that. “I went to the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies which is a department of the presidency and I learnt Science, Technology and Innovation Development of Agriculture and Allied- Agro Industries . I was a member of senior executive course 39 for 2017 and I led my syndicate group 6 to 12 countries and we spent 2 weeks in Thailand studying rice production. So I have the modality for massive rice production at my finger tips,” he intimated. Ode promised to form his cabinet exactly after 2 weeks after his election as Governor and will take the cabinet to the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies where they will stay for one month to look at the blueprint before them and look at how they will implement that blueprint so that they will hit the ground running on assumption of office on May 29, 2023. Another way Ode promised to improve Benue economy is to transform the state’s water front in Makurdi into a huge base for tourism. In the area transportation, the gubernatorial contender said he will float a modest Airline in Benue within 3 months and he will not look for license but will rather look for an existing operator. According to him, the Airline will connect Benue to the outside world because investors are now afraid of traveling by land to the state as a result of insecurity. As part of measures to avoid extra budgetary spending, Sam Ode said he will bring opinion leaders to Makurdi on quarterly basis for accountability briefing to let them know how much he is getting from the federation account and how much he is spending. Buttressing his claim for honesty and accountability, Ode said a judicial Commission of Enquiry was set up in Benue State but he was not mentioned even as he was in charge of the Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs that was considered by many people as a money market where one could just pack money and go. Ode who attributed insecurity in the state to the death of the Local Government system promised to revive the third tier of Government by distributing wealth to rural dwellers, noting that the Local Government is the closest tier that shares wealth to people at the grassroots and to achieve that, he will amend the Chieftaincy law of the state. He also promised to take care of the welfare of health workers to boost their morale, noting that health is beyond buildings, it needs proper equipment and personnel. Speaking on security, the aspirant said he will take the Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs, back to their ancestral homes and protect them there. He will also depoliticize the issue of state Livestock Guard, embrace innovation and tackle hunger which according to him is biting hard and is the measure cause of insecurity in the state. Barr Sam Ode who identified corruption as another major factor responsible for underdevelopment in Benue State as half of federal allocation is lost through corruption said he will block all the leakages and will use Science and Technology in revenue collection in order to track those who embezzle Government funds. On whether he will accept to run for Deputy Governor if he loses at primaries and is picked by the party’s candidate, Ode declined, saying that even if the Deputy Governor is gifted to him, he will object to it because he wants to be in the driver’s seat to do certain things for the state. Hon. Ode, who noted that election is not a do-or-die affair, assured that there will be no abusive language in his campaign team as he will not identify with any antisocial behavior. “My campaign will be issue-based and I will be ready to support any aspirant that emerges at the primaries.”