Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde said yesterday that the state had lost its most experienced politician, following the death of ex-Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala. Makinde, who said he was shocked to receive the news of the death of the former governor, recalled his recent interaction with the deceased when the late Ogbomoso-born political stalwart gave him his word to launch the Ogbomoso-Iseyin road project. He spoke when he paid a condolence visit to the bereaved family at Opadoyin Lodge, Randa, Ogbomoso. Addressing the widows, family and political associates of the late former governor, Makinde said the visit was to condole with the family over the demise of someone he described as a leader, brother, mentor and grassroots man. - Advertisement - “The loss is not just for the family, but also for the entire Oyo State. I pray God should uphold those he left behind,” he said. Son of the late former governor, Olamiju, thanked the governor for the prompt response and visit to the family. The Osi Olubadan and former governor of Oyo State, Sen. Rashidi Ladoja, has described the death of his former deputy and successor, Alao-Akala, as a huge loss. In a condolence statement, Ladoja said he was shocked to hear the news of Alao-Akala’s death, recalling that they were together at two functions in Ibadan recently, the last being the funeral of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji. He said his relationship with the deceased was cordial till his death.   Ekiti, Osun: INEC insists on credible primaries     Northcentral lawmakers pass vote of confidence in Buni,…     2023: Members, not leaders, will choose PDP’s presidential…   “I commiserate with his wives, children and his political family. I pray that God will forgive his shortcomings,” Ladoja said. Ace gospel musician and founder, Fresh FM Nigeria, Dr. Yinka Ayefele, yesterday described the death of Alao-Akala as a big loss to him and his family. He said in a statement in Ibadan that the ex-governor was one of his destiny helpers and God’s great gift to Oyo State, Nigeria and the world. “I am still in shock. I have been unable to accept the reality that Otunba Alao-Akala has left this world to join the saints. “My prayers and thoughts are with the family he left behind. I pray God will give them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” Ayefele said. The Anglican Bishop of Oyo, Rt. Rev. Williams Aladekugbe, has described the death of Alao-Akala as shocking and devastating. Aladekugbe, yesterday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ibadan, said: “It is unexpected and too sudden. Moreover that he was just 71 years old, one does not expect his death at such a time like this.’’ He described the deceased as a worthy philanthropist, a great community leader, a devout Christian and a family man. The cleric prayed God to grant his family the grace to bear the loss. Oyo State Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Apostle Joshua Akinyemiju described Alao-Akala’s death as shocking. He prayed that God should accept his soul and grant the mourners the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.