Coscharis Motors is entering the New Year with its brands making waves in the automobile markets. The auto giant recently showcased its locally-assembled Renault variants – Logan and Duster – in the Federal Capital Territory. This was to allow auto lovers in Abuja and by extension, the Northern Nigerian market, to have a feel of the vehicles. Coscharis Group General Manager, Marketing and Communications, Abiona Babarinde said: “as at today, we are excited to say that Coscharis Motors has since been rolling out two name plates of the Renault Brand, namely Renault Logan and Renault Duster, from the assembly plant located at its group head office in Lagos and these brands come with finance scheme which enables buyers to own the vehicles with as low as 10 per cent down payment. As a company that is forward looking, we remain resolute to continue to deliver value for our numerous stakeholders in all ramifications of our auto business like the investment in our local assembly.” Commenting on the locally-assembled vehicles, Director, Industrial Infrastructure Department of Nigeria Automotive Design and Development Council, (NADDC),  Dr. Noah Omisanya, hailed Coscharis Motors for the feat of investing in the local assembling of the Renault brand. - Advertisement - He reiterated the support of NADDC for future partnership towards continuing in the direction of locally assembled vehicles. “I am excited to see that Coscharis Motors has assembled these vehicles in Nigeria. We are committed to ensuring that you continue to get the requisite support from NADDC as a government agency representative,” Omisanya said. Coscharis Motors said its ‘Giveaway’ promotion for any purchase of the Renault Kwid and Renault Koleos that attracts a free Abro Generator, 5 per cent discount, free insurance, free vehicle registration and free vehicle service for the 1st two service,  was still ongoing. This is coupled with the ease of purchase through flexible finance schemes from Coscharis Mobility, Polaris Bank and other upcoming finance institutions that are finance partners to Coscharis Motors.   Duster   CFAO gets Toyota Forklifts deal     Massilia Motors wins Innovative Company of the Year Award     SHACMAN wins Truck of the year   Customers can choose from 1.6-Litre to 2.0Litre engine but whichever engine, it is built with a robust off-roader looks. With the superb ground clearance, the Duster is a practical and durable vehicle for the Nigerian road. The interior of the All-new Duster reflects its generous, adventure-seeking nature. The spacious cabin is bright and reassuring. The driver and passenger seats provide plenty of support to ensure your comfort wherever you go. The upholstery features a high-quality finish, as does the dashboard, where particular emphasis was placed on ergonomic design. Simple and intuitive, the multimedia system Media Nav with touching screen allows you to navigate through all the different functionalities: navigation, phone, radio, Aux/USB ports and Bluetooth® connection to listen to your favourite music. It also comes with hands free card to lock and unlock the doors from a distance as well as assist to start the air-conditioning before getting into the car.   Logan New Renault Logan has an even more modern and dynamic design. With redesigned front and rear end panels featuring the new Renault brand light signature, New Renault Logan is a beauty to behold. New Renault Logan has five generous seats to comfortably accommodate all your passengers. Enjoy useful and smart new storage areas, including a phone pouch and a front passenger side net pouch. There’s a new 12 V output in the rear for charging your devices. There’s also a 1/3-2/3* split-fold rear bench seat and a spacious boot to transport everything you need in the way that suits you. Combine utility and pleasure for a journey you’re sure to love. *Depending on the version. Logan’s ground clearance level (155-164mm) enhances its capacity to cope with extremely poor road surfaces (potholes, cobbles, uneven surfaces. The mechanics, bodywork (opening panels), air conditioning/ventilation system and passenger compartment all specially designed to cope with certain countries’ environments where dust is omnipresent. Logan has an excellent thermal comfort standard (the vehicle is designed to deal with “extremely hot” conditions. Babarinde reassured on the company’s aftersales commitment stating that “Coscharis is fully equipped to handle all after-sales – services and repairs timeously with the original spare parts. We are continually confident to simply delight our customers with the Renault brand as the exclusive franchise owner in Nigeria”.