The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) will begin its two-day policy meeting today, with all indications pointing at the retention of the existing monetary policy stance. The apex bank will assess developments on the economic front and announce its monetary policy. Nearly all analysts yesterday agreed that with the movement in economic indicators, the apex bank will leave its policy rate unchanged at 11.5 per cent for the next two months. Most analysts were of the view that the CBN’s MPC will maintain the status quo again this week given the earlier anticipated declining inflation. Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, said the new data now increases the probability of a tightening. - Advertisement - He disclosed that the CBN had maintained the status quo 25 times in the last 28 meetings. Other analysts kicked against a hike in the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) despite the mounting pressure on the apex bank to announce a higher rate. The MPR was retained at 11.5 per cent at its September 2021 MPC meeting. The MPR is the benchmark interest rate at which CBN lends to commercial banks. Analysts at Cordros Capital Limited and Cowry Asset Management Company Limited, in separate reports released last week, believe the current pressure on the CBN is not enough to cause an upset in the nation’s interest rate regime. According to them, issues putting pressure on the MPC to increase benchmark rate include an upward inflationary pressure amid the anticipation of subsidy removal, increasing electricity tariff, foreign exchange volatility and the intending rate hike by Federal Reserve in 2022.   ‘Six months’ forex inflows can offset Nigeria’s $44b debts’     Ex-NERC boss: DisCos under AMCON management won’t benefit…     Subsidy: Labour intensifies mobilisation for protests   The pressure was fueled by the latest headline inflation figure, which broke away from the eight-month declining trend to rise by 0.23 per cent to 15.63 per cent from 15.4 per cent in November 2021. This increase in inflation figure, according to the report by Financial Derivatives Company, now increases the probability of a rate hike, even though it is highly unlikely this time. The report did not rule out further increases in domestic inflation in the coming months. It, however, insisted that the MPC may not yield to the temptation of tampering with the current rate. “We expect domestic inflation to increase further in the coming months due to the imminent removal of petrol subsidy and the planting season effect amongst other factors. “This increases the chances of a tighter monetary policy stance although it is highly unlikely at this time,” the report stated. In their report, analysts from Cordros Capital said despite the reality of the current inflationary trends, the CBN may prefer to exercise some restraint to allow previous policy actions to permeate the economy instead of falling to the temptation to raise interest rates. “The uptick in headline inflation in December (2021) will likely stir up a debate among Committee members about whether it is a blip or a trend that will persist in the coming months. “For us, the significance of this meeting is primarily predicated on the body language of the Committee regarding the timing of the shift to a hawkish monetary stance. “Like the November meeting in the prior year, we expect the Committee to affirm its view on monitoring the policy actions of global central banks before commencing its tightening cycle.”