Oyo State was thrown into mourning yesterday, following the death of former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala. The former governor was said to have been found dead in his bathroom. The report could not be verified. He was 71. The governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, who confirmed Akala’s demise, immediately suspended government activities in honour of the Ogbomoso-born politician. Akala, a retired police officer, served as Chairman of Ogbomoso Council, Deputy Governor, Acting Governor and governor between 2007 and 2011. Two years ago, he defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). - Advertisement - His last public outing was the burial of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, who passed on few weeks after the passage of the Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewunmi Ajagungbade. Statesmen, politicians and eminent Nigerians, including President Muhammadu Buhari, All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential aspirant Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Makinde, and former Minister of State for Defence Senator Musiliu Obanikoro described the deceased as an outstanding politician. President Buhari in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, expressed the belief that the family, friends and associates of the late Alao-Akala would honour his vision of entrenching good governance. “President Muhammadu Buhari commiserates with the Alao-Akala family, the government and people of Oyo State on the passing of a former governor of the State, Otunba Christopher Alao-Akala. “As a former police officer and civilian governor, with an extensive political career, the President affirms that Otunba Akala served the country and the people of Oyo State with dedication, making very important contributions to the development of institutions and communities. “The President trusts that family, friends and associates who mourn the late governor, will honour his vision of entrenching good governance in the country and passion to lift the downtrodden in the society. “The President prays God almighty to grant the departed eternal rest and comfort those who mourn”, the statement said. Tinubu expressed shock and deep sadness over the demise in a statement by his Media Adviser, Tunde Rahman, noting that the late Alao-Akala will be sorely missed by the people of Ogbomoso, Oyo State and the APC. The statement reads: “I received the news of the passing of former governor of Oyo State, Otunba Alao-Akala, with shock and deep sadness. “Coming a month after the death of Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi, the loss of Alao-Akala, another eminent son of Ogbomoso and Oyo State, is disheartening. “Alao-Akala was a leader and prominent politician who did his best not only for his Ogbomoso-hometown, but also Oyo State and Nigeria.   AFCON 2021: Buhari charges Eagles to keep focus     Man kills own kids, keeps bodies in freezer     EFCC re-arraigns Mompha for fresh alleged N6b fraud   “He served the country meritoriously in the police force, rising to the top of the ladder before venturing into politics. “As governor of Oyo State, he contributed his quota to the development of the state and tried to enhance the welfare of the people. “Alao-Akala passed on when the state and particularly our All Progressives Congress needed his services. “His wisdom and experience were required to help resolve the leadership crisis in the state and wield the party together once again. “My prayer is that Almighty Allah comforts his family, relations and associates and the people of Ogbomoso and Oyo State for they have all lost a fine man. “May He also accept his soul and rest him in Aljana Firdaus. Amin.” Makinde abruptly ended the 2022 Inter-faith Prayer Service organised by the Oyo State Civil Service, following Alao-Akala’s demise. Makinde, who called for a minute silence for the former governor, prayed to God to grant repose to his soul. He condoled with the immediate family, his political associates and all residents of the state whose paths have crossed with Chief Alao-Akala. He said: “I am here with the speech prepared for this event but I have just been informed about the death of former Governor of the state, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala. “I pray that God grant his loved ones and all his well-wishers the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Obanikoro, an APC chieftain, condoled with the family and friends of former Oyo State Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, who transited to the great beyond at the age of 71. Obanikoro, in a statement, said  the life and times of the former Governor who lived a dignified life by all measures as an encyclopedia worthy of studying by all categories of politicians who has deep interest in grassroot development, participatory governance and citizenry engagement. “Beyond professing that the late apex leader of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State was until his last breath a true Nigerian, a mentor and role model to generations, my close interaction with him left me with a judgment that he was an elder who reflected all democratic ideals in addition to being extremely generous, kind to a fault with blunt words of wisdom devoid of deceit. The history of Oyo State is not complete without the strides of the Ogbomoso born former police officer, local government chairman, deputy governor, who later became the governor; the septuagenarian remains the man of the people from within and outside the state”, the Ambassador remarked. The former minister prayed God to grant the bereaved family and friend of the illustrious son, whose memory is eternal honour, respect and gratitude of many Nigerians.