Actress Chizoba Nwokoye is inconsolable following the alleged disappearance of her personal assistant (PA) Success Bright. She said her PA allegedly carted away large sum of money. The actress accused the PA of also changing the password of her monetised YouTube account. In an emotional video clip with the picture of Bright, the weeping actress said: “I work hard for my money. I don’t depend on anybody to give me. “I hustle for every single penny that I make. work hard for my money. Why would this boy do this to me? I don’t deserve this? - Advertisement - “I don’t deserve this. Success what did I do? I don’t treat you like a PA but like my blood. And you have the mind to do this to me. “This youtube channel took me a lot. I know what I went through because it is not easy, I spent a lot. ” This boy locked me out of my youtube channel, my monetized account. When I was building my youtube channel, Success where were you? ” I don’t know this boy was monitoring my moves because he was always beside me.   Social media agog as Laycon posts shirtless photo     Our plans for 2022, by 10 top Nigerian celebs     Tonto Dikeh’s ex-husband, wife, Ogbodo in love-up photos   ” I don’t know how he got my code. I didn’t know this boy was watching me. I cannot take this. God help me. “If anybody should see this boy, the boy should hold him for me. I was shooting with him this morning on set. He has my phones, my car key, my ATM card. “I used to send him to withdraw money. He has my ATM pin number. He boy withdrew my money in different POS, leaving only N55. “He locked me out of my youtube channel, chizoba Nolly TV. I put my films there and it is doing well.The boy locked me out and put his name. anytime we finish work , I pay him. Please, help me repost. “He is with my car key. Maybe because he doesn’t know how to drive that is why he did not steal my car.” Genevieve unfollows all celebs on Instagram By Sam Anokam Veteran screen diva Genevieve Nnaji has unfollowed everyone on her Instagram account. With 8.4 million followers, Nnaji unfollowed over 500 fans including other celebrities. Many see her moves as following the footsteps of popular American singer, Beyonce who did same some years back.