Four persons were on Tuesday reportedly killed by warlords in the protracted war between the people of Ukawu and Isinkwo, Onicha local government area in Ebonyi state. The people of Isinkwo people have been enmeshed in an intractable land dispute with Isinkwo, a neighbouring village, which has led to the killing of many persons. Many houses and other properties worth millions have been destroyed on both sides. Recently, they had been issues with another of their neighbors, Ukwu, which the State Government moved in to quell. The State Government had taken measures to end bloodletting and destructions in the communities but four persons were reportedly killed on Tuesday with their bodies taken away by their assailants. - Advertisement - The four persons killed were believed to hail from Ukawu, it was gathered. The Ukawu people, a source said, went to the beach in the area to fetch sand when they were allegedly ambushed by the warlords who shot four of the people dead instantly. The source, who did not want her name in print, gave the name of one those killed as Ujebe Offor, 32, a father of three whose last child is 9 month old. She said: “I heard that the people from Ukawu went in group to the beach to get sand thinking that today being sit at home there will be no problem. “But unfortunately for them, Ishinkwo people had already laid ambush and getting to the beach they opened fire on the Ukawu people.   UPDATED: Kanu for arraignment Wednesday on amended terrorism…     Davido attacks cousin over Osun 2022 governorship ambition     Abia villagers flee as gunmen kill soldiers   “I also gathered that Ukawu people were taking unawares as they went to the beach unarmed. They all scampered for safety but on getting to a meeting point they discovered that four people were missing. They attested to seeing when they were killed and their corpses taking away by the attackers. “I learnt that Ukawu people have mobilised to Isinkwo for reprisal. And to also demand for the corpses of those killed. One of the deceased was Ujebe Offor mid 30s married, had 3 children, the last child is about 9 months”. Police spokesperson, Loveth Odah said that the command was yet to receive information on the matter. She however promised to contact the police division the warring communities fall into to get information from the division on the killings. Chairman of the local government, Felix Igboke confirmed the incident. He expressed disappointment over the resumed hostilities after the State Government had made peace between the communities. On casualty figures, Igboke said two persons, a woman and a truck driver, are missing. He said: “I am on my way to the place to ascertain the true situation. The people of the two communities are bringing shame to the local government and the state. “The Governor had tried to make peace there. The disputed area has been demarcated. So why are they still fighting? If you ask them, they will say it is a fight that started since 1912. But my question is can’t it end?”