Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX) and other major capital market stakeholders have deepened their collaboration to improve innovative initiatives that will drive the development of the Nigerian capital market. Flowing from a shared mandate to deepen liquidity in the market, increase domestic and foreign participation, and position the Nigerian capital market for global relevance, NGX, SEC and other capital market stakeholders held a strategic meeting in Abuja to discuss viable initiatives to further develop the market. Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr. Lamido Yuguda noted that the past two years have been challenging for the Nigerian capital market, which was largely a reflection of pandemic-related challenges in global markets. He, however, pointed out that the NGX has continued to deploy capable resources to tackle elements militating against the market’s growth including Smart Surveillance System and X-Mobile App for retail trading; upgrading of the X-Issuer Platform to further enhance market integrity; and electronic offer platforms. “It can, however, be agreed that the efforts made and gains achieved in this regard are as a result of the collective efforts of various stakeholders in the capital market, including the Commission and NGX. Consequently, as the apex regulator, the SEC will continue to support all efforts aimed at making our markets fairer, more efficient and more transparent, particularly in the areas of regulation and technology,” Yuguda said.   Oando joins Nigeria’s 30 largest active companies     Dealers back SEC’s charges on fixed income securities     Access Bank excites customers with yuletide gifts   - Advertisement - Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX), Mr. Temi Popoola commended SEC for its unwavering support for the market. “If you look at the trajectory of the market over the past year, there has been significant increase in market interactions with issuers, intermediaries and operators like NGX. It is not lost on us how much investment this takes and we have seen results from these engagements. “It is our hope that this session will bring to bear opportunities for further development particularly in the areas of technology, digitisation of our markets, attracting listings, collaborating across the ecosystem and product origination,” Popoola said. He noted that the NGX has continued to implement its strategic objectives to democratise finance in Nigeria and create a market that is attractive for issuers, intermediaries and investors alike. According to him, in the light of engagements such as the NGX TechNovation Conference and the NGX Capital Markets Conference, and the meeting with the SEC, the Exchange surely has exciting plans for the market.