For veteran actor Richard Mofe Damijo aka RMD, he has only one wish and resolution for the year 2022. According to the 60-year-old actor, striving to be a better person is his primary goal for the New Year. “I am looking forward to a more impactful year in 2022. I really don’t make resolutions but I have only one resolution in my world and in my life, which is to always be better always.” - Advertisement - Continuing, he said: “I just strive to be a better person every year and every time I have a chance to do so.” The thespian, who recently celebrated his 21st marriage anniversary with his wife, also took to his Instagram page on New Year eve to motivate his fans, urging them to pursue their dreams. “Happy New Year folks! Whatever you dream of go for it. Live. Love. Pray. Believe And Trust in God.” Actress Toyin Abraham-Ajeyemi entered the New Year as a mentor to fans. The mother of one continues to share wellness tips to help her fans kick-start 2022. The ‘Alakada’ actress urged her fans to do what will make them happy in the New Year. “Do what makes you happy. Help people, support people, come through when you are needed, go where you are wanted, do everything you want to do because at the end of the day, you will be alone in the grave and no one will go in the grave with you,” she noted. She also advised her followers and fans on social media to stop reading meaning to everything and learn to let people be themselves in 2022. Though Grammy Award winner, Burna Boy kicked down the door of 2022 with a feud with Ghanaian dancehall artiste Shatta Wale, he was able to make peace almost immediately. The duo had engaged in social media rants for days, hence, forcing him to resolve to log off social media for the rest of 2022. The ‘Africa Giant’ apologised to fans and industry watchers for challenging a fellow African artiste in a fight. “I’m sorry everyone. I don’t do this type of shit. Fighting a pig will only leave you dirty. The pig is used to dirt. I really let this pig get to me. But I promise, this is the last time I will ever allow myself to stoop to this level,” he said. Continuing he wrote: “I will not be seeing social media at all this year. I’m out. See you all in real life.” Recently, the 30-year-old singer admitted that he had caused people pain in the past and promised to be the cause of joy to people henceforth. Actress Uche Ogbodo is elated about the New Year. According to the mother of two who recently relayed her close shave with death after battling with acute Angioedema disorder in 2020 said the New Year is about love. “It’s all love on my end,” she expressed. “When people come to my page I am 100 percent certain they walk away better and with a more positive approach to life because I only post about real-life situations that happen to me in order to influence positively and encourage people who might be going through some issues in their lives.”   Chizoba Nwokoye’s PA allegedly absconds with ATM, car key,…     Social media agog as Laycon posts shirtless photo     Pre-marital s3xual experience waste of time – Pastor…   In the wake of January 2022, Nollywood diva Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde aka Omosexy shared an adorable picture of herself on Instagram to delight her teeming fans. She also noted that she will continue to live on her own terms, stating “Just a girl living life on her own terms. Happy New Year Everybody. May this be our best year yet!” One of the newest grooms in town is sterling actor Lateef Adedimeji. The ‘Ayinla’ star cruised into 2022 as a married man, and decided to say a prayer for himself in the wake of the New Year. “Hello 2022, be better than 2021, without the infections and the viruses but with blessings and lots of energy to go a step further… I’m ready for the best year yet.” For controversial actress Tonto Dikeh the New Year is a fresh start. The mother of one has decided to set out new rules for the year 2022. “2022 is a fresh start for me, I would not tolerate no nuisances but would be calm as still waters, rough as great tidings, love like no other, patient like a dove and angry when pushed like a hungry eagle stepped on,” she said. Tonto also enunciated how happy she is going to be throughout 2022. “This is how happy I am gonna be throughout 2022, if you hear anything about me. Please believe it because I would have more time having fun and raising a dynamic King than confronting things that don’t and can’t pay my bills. I’ll match negative energies with success and strive to be the best I can be with zero competition with my fellow.” Beautiful actress, Tana Adelana has advised her fans to stop comparing their achievements with others in 2022. The ‘Two brides and a baby’ star noted that social media will be flooded with people announcing their wins hence fans shoud not be intimidated about the trend. “I know we are in the yearly recap phase on social media and everyone’s announcing their biggest wins, but please don’t compare yourself and your progress to others. If your biggest achievement was just staying alive, then that’s a win too.” All eyes are on Big Brother Naija ‘Shine Ya Eye’ winner, Hazel ‘Whitemoney’ Onou who vowed to win a Grammy award. In a recent interview, the reality TV star boasted about winning the prestigious award in 2022. The 29-year-old singer also warned his critics not to compare him to former winners of BBNaija. “By this time next year, I’ll get a Grammy Awards, Isha Allah,” Whitemoney said last year. “A lot of hate comments fly around claiming that every housemate that comes out of Big Brother wants to go into music. The thing is, I do not just want to go into music; I have been in music before I auditioned for the show. It’s just that I didn’t have the platform like every other up-and-coming artist. “I went into Big Brother to leverage on their platform so people should not compare me with past winners of BBNaija,” he cautioned. Afrobeat vocalist Tiwa Savage has advised her fans to beware of who they confide in 2022. The 41-year-old songstress warned that they should be careful who they trust and tell their problems to, saying that not everyone who smiles at you is your friend. She wrote: “Just remember a listening ear can also be a running mouth.”