Ayo Makun’s wife Mabel has opened up on how she had three miscarriages, anal bleeding amidst other conditions which defied medical explanations Mabel, who recently welcomed the couple’s second child after 13 years, revealed the pains and trauma she went through for before the birth of their second child together. In a lengthy post shared to encourage anyone passing through the same experience, Mabel narrated her ordeal on Sunday, January 30, 2022. “This will definitely trigger my emotions, the plan was to close/open my eyes and make it all disappear but then again I thought to myself, Mabel you have to encourage someone out there. Three miscarriages with no medical explanations as to the reasons why. It was the same pattern as before, every single thing that happened with the others, happened again, only this time more but I was determined to hold on tight to God and not fail,” she began.   Davido remembers late aide Obama DMW on posthumous 40th…     I can’t be under pressure to remain relevant –…     Why I don’t follow anyone on Instagram, by Jim Iyke   - Advertisement - “Anal bleeding, threatened miscarriage, difficulty in breathing, I wasn’t psychologically and mentally stable and that, was the hardest part for me, my emotions were all over the place, taking a deep breath in and out to stop myself every time I felt the urge to just break down and cry, struggling within not to blame myself for not protecting and fighting for the survival of the babies I lost, placenta separation, weak uterus,” she revealed. Mabel also revealed that she’s eternally grateful to God and all those that stood by her because she was exhausted at some point. “Truthfully, I was exhausted, how I got here today is not something that I can explain but I just know that God was and is still with me and Ayomide, for this we are eternally grateful. You are God all by yourself and you will never share your glory with anyone. From the depth of my heart, I want to thank you all for the messages, prayers and yes the love is overwhelming. God bless you all for me.”