LAGOS State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday swore in 14 new judges. They are Justices Olubusola Adeyemi-Okunuga, Adenrera Adeyemi, Olufolake Oshin, Oluwatoyin Odusanya Olumuyiwa Martins, Ariyike Ipaye- Nwachukwu and Babatunde Kalaro. Others are Justices Omolade Awope, Akinkunmi Idowu, Olalekan Oresanya, Mujibat Oshodi, Ismail Ijelu, Mosunmola Balogun and Mathias Dawodu. Governor Sanwo-Olu told the new judges that all eyes would be on them to dispense justice speedily, yet fairly and impartially, while also living and acting above board in all circumstances. “In your hands lies great power: the power to punish wrongdoers and free the innocent, the power to send a strong message to society about the primacy of the rule of law, and to contribute to the growing body of jurisprudence in the country. - Advertisement - “This power must be wielded with the utmost sense of care and responsibility. You must not only be efficient and fair, but you must also be seen to be efficient and fair by all,” he said. “There is a reason why the courts are described as the last hope of the common man. A lot of the sense of frustration and cynicism that Nigerians today feel about the country is related to their experiences with the administration and dispensation of justice — an area in which the judiciary is a central player. “Judges who take their work seriously can do a lot to rebuild the confidence of citizens in the systems and institutions of our nation. A properly functioning judicial system will also go a long way in nurturing an environment that enables business and investment, and by extension, economic growth, and prosperity. “When society prospers, there is less room for poverty to drive people to crime and criminality,” he stated   Prophet kidnapped, wife shot dead in Delta     Diri swears in second wife, three others as high court…     I’m not at war with Buhari, says Sunday Igboho   Governor Sanwo-Olu pointed out that his administration had commenced the full digitization of courts to ensure speedy administration of justice and charged the new judges to acquaint themselves of the ongoing reforms at state and federal levels. He said: “On our part, we remain committed to supporting the Judiciary to fully discharge its constitutional functions and responsibilities. “Overall, we are determined to keep responding to changing times in a timely fashion, in keeping with our vision of making Lagos a truly 21st Century economy in all ramifications.” The Governor thanked the National Judicial Service Commission for adding to the list of 12 prospective judges earlier sent. Earlier, while reading the citation of the new judges, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo, said the appointment of the new judges was necessitated by the retirement of some judges in the course of the year. In his remarks, the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Kazeem Alogba, advised the new benchers whom he said were chosen based on merit to operate with the fear of God. “You are welcome to the judiciary of excellence. It is a family of integrity; it is a family of discipline. You have all been called up to duty on merit and integrity, please do not disappoint us,” the Chief Judge said. Justice Alogba also advised the families of the new judges to leave them to work and to continue to pray for them so that they would not falter. Thanking the state government for the confidence reposed in them, Justice Olubusola Adeyemi-Okunuga promised that they would make the state’s judiciary proud by discharging their duties without fear, favour, ill-wind or affection. The number of Judges so far sworn in by the Sanwo-Olu administration is now 24.