For Nigeria not to fail, we, friend and foe, thief and victim must think and act ‘Nigeria above self’ and commit to the Nigerian Pledge to be FLH – Faithful, Loyal and Honest. Are you FLH? Start today! Do a simple ‘Fellow Nigerian Test’ in 2022. ‘Can what you do be shown on NTA without embarrassing you?’ FLH are chief ingredients of ‘The National Cake’ which all are entitled to, by birth, but which is stolen by the few, leaving millions disillusioned with nationalism. While a nation of mostly good people will survive any storm, a nation of mostly thieves and foes, when they have destroyed the good, will destroy each other creating negative growth. No country can survive more than 10% CINS- Corruption, Incompetence (in performance and supervision), Negligence (of duty), Selfishness (ethnicity). Of course, one mega-thief or mass murderer can wipe out a good country or particular target or group. Nigerians deserve better. But leadership can mislead. Followership can be misled, mislead or force wrong agendas. How well taught are our leaders on the details of Good Governance? Good governance means a more attractive, economically cheaper society with National Cake going around. Corruption has financial, moral and policy corruption components. Are you guilty? Stop NOW! We suffer from abandoning established good governance steps: Since colonialism stopped, our political elite has coerced the professionals in works departments nationwide to dilute and jettison ‘Maintenance Culture’, a positive colonial British legacy and key to Good Government’s Sustainable Development even before Sustainable Development became a byword. Our leadership fails and works professional class are forced to fail. The leadership failed to realise that the colonial 4-7year cycle of maintenance, more frequent for infection-prone hospitals, and weekly pothole filling actually were highly rewarding to contractor/civil servant cartels and citizens alike. Instead, these servants of the people only managed to do no work and instead stole ‘Maintenance Budgets’ with consequent degeneration of infrastructure. Do politicians and civil servants realise the incalculable damage they have done over many years? Is it ignorance or are they ill-prepared about the details of Good Governance or do they have knowledge but lack empathy, people-love? - Advertisement - Nigerians, not Nigeria, have failed our citizens born with ‘Great Expectations’ of a well-endowed developing country. Certainly, the majority of Nigerians, given the infrastructure, will be entrepreneurial and survive happily. Nigeria is alive, if not well, today because of millions doing honest work, dodging entrapment by ‘CINS’ of incompetently supervised uncontrolled ‘uniforms’. The good still far outweigh the bad. But in difficulty, many good become targets and question goodness when compared to the status of the bad. Millions of suffering Nigerian children question the family loyalty of honest parents and grandparents suffering and dying without worked-for salaries or pensions, SAP-a human right. They compare their parents’ pitiable situation to SAP-drenched fortunes of National Assembly members, governors, officials and hangers-on who are accused of obstructing parental SAP and pauperised their families. Politics and theft have stunted Nigeria’s ability to meet infrastructure and superstructure development standards accounting for where Nigeria falls in Sustainable Development Goals and yardsticks like Literacy, Housing, Open Defecation, Maternal and Infant Morbidity and Mortality. We are sadly ‘Out of Stock’ in most schools and for Life-Saving and Life-Maintenance Equipment and medicaments. I deliberately use capitals because these are ‘Key Measurements of Citizen Suffering’, supposedly addressed as stolen ‘Budgetary Items’.   Understanding the dimensions of bullying in schools     Time to take action on vandalism     Lassa fever scourge   Good governance demands knowledge of several areas. Monetarily, the key ‘Nigerian Progress/Regression Chart‘ features measured financially are  unrealistic and underperforming states + FCT and Federal Budgets, the Foreign Reserves Policy – Ideally $75-100b but now $40.5b and a Foreign Exchange Rate catastrophically fallen from N1= $1.5 in the 70s, when I started work, now a shameful N414-575=$1. The monetary issues predict the social factors like The Poverty Level – now estimated at 70-80%, and Unemployment Levels – estimated at 40-60%. Please add The Happiness Index linked to the Security Index – Zero%. From village to villa, who is safe? This nationwide failure to flourish is not Nigeria’s fault. Nigeria is a truly a beautiful multi-climate ‘mere geographical expression’ which has provided all Nigerians need – ‘SOIL,’ -Soil, Sun, Oil and much more underground. We refuse to harness the SUN, sufficiently! In disciplined societies, these are developed into blessings. Even the UK uses its anaemic sun. However, they are not a necessity for development as many countries with no ‘Soil, Sun or Oil’ have huge foreign reserves, strong currencies and high SDG levels from Good Governance. They ‘MAINTAINED’ and ‘UPGRADED’ their citizens’ Education, Health, Science, Tech, transport and communication opportunities regularly They did not only ‘UPGRADE’ politicians and their jeeps every 4 years. Even a thief maintains his home and car. Genuine, non-corrupt, non-politicised ‘ROUTINE MAINTENANCE’ employs many, keeping the wheels of income and progress grinding. The current profit-sharing contractor-politician/party policies have failed. ‘Contract-splitting’, if corruption is eliminated, allows more contractors access to a living wage, more jobs, quicker contract execution and distributes wealth. Yes, ‘Stop terrorism -2022’ causing IDPs and emptying Nigeria’s farmlands and villages. Also stop the political, civil servant and contractor terrorists whose cumulative theft from salaries, pensions and contracts have stolen the food from our tables and progress from a generation!’   No country can move forward without a ‘maintenance culture’. ‘Stop Violence Terrorism’ and ‘Corruption Terrorism in 2022!’ and get a younger 2022 generation of top political leaders for 2023-2027! Political recycling has never helped Nigeria develop!!