Abducted Bayelsa Commissioner for Trade and Investment, Mr. Federal Otokito, has regained freedom. His abductors released him on Monday five days after he was kidnapped from his Otuokpoti community residence in Ogbia Local Government Area. The Bayelsa Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ben Nebolisa, and the State Director of the Department of State Services, Mr. Mohammed Abdullahi, presented Otokito to Governor Douye Diri on Monday evening at Government House, Yenagoa. Addressing Government House correspondents after his release, Diri announced the deposition of the Otuokpoti community paramount ruler, Chief A.C.T Wongo and appointed Chief Rescue Abe in acting capacity. The Governor also announced the sacking of the community’s development committee chairman, Azibalua Amon and replaced him with Jerry Offor in acting capacity while the youth president, Emolem Igue was also removed and replaced with Shedrach Afiemo. - Advertisement - Investigation indicated that they may be complicit in the kidnap of the commissioner. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the Governor as reiterating the state government’s zero tolerance for crime and kidnapping.   UK scraps COVID-19 tests for fully vaccinated travellers…     Hanifa: Kano govt. revokes operational licences of all…     Court remands three for alleged murder of 5-year- old Hanifa   Diri warned all those who see kidnapping as a business to desist as his government would not hesitate to invoke the extant laws and make the State uncomfortable for criminal elements. He called on all community leaders to remain vigilant and ensure that peace prevailed in their communities as government would not hesitate to sanction anyone found wanting in the discharge of their duties. Diri, who said preliminary investigation revealed that illegal refining of crude was connected to the kidnap, warned all those involved in such business in the State to stop forthwith. He thanked security agencies and all those who availed the government of useful information that led to the release of the commissioner. He assured the people that his government would continue to make Bayelsa safe for all residents. Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ben Nebolisa, declared Joshua Abi, Clergy Mabinton, Gift Tebeda and Azin Azin wanted in connection with the kidnap. The rescued Otokito thanked Governor Diri, his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, and all those who worked for his release. He also ruled out the payment of ransom for his release.