State governments, banks and foreign investors have been accused of frustrating the completion of Inland Container Depots (ICDs) located in each of the geo-political zones of Nigeria. Concessionaires leveled these complaints before the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) in Abuja. The ICRC in a statement signed and issued by Manji Yarling Ag. Head, Media and Publicity yesterday said concessionaires complained of poor cooperation from state governments who mostly delay in meeting their own part of the agreement, for instance in the area of land provision. Another major challenge the concessionaires complained about was the lack of narrow gauge rail lines in and out of the dry ports which they noted was important to make the operation of the ports efficient. They also lamented that access to funds remained a major issue “as banks and foreign investors make unreasonable demands for assets and bank bonds before the release of funds”. - Advertisement - All the concessionaires pleaded that they wanted “the ports being constructed to be given the status of Port-of-Origin and destination and also to be registered with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) upon completion”. Acting Director General of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), Mr. Michael Ohiani, stressed that 16 years after the concession contracts were signed, some of the ICDs were still at five per cent completion while only two have gotten to 55 per cent and 68 per cent. Ohiani noted that “when completed, these ICDs will bring the required benefit to our citizens and our country Nigeria”. The ICRC boss stated that the Commission was “unaware that at the material time that the contracts were signed, ICRC as a commission had not been set up, so no proper Outline Business Cases (OBCs) were done for the projects like we now do”.   Lagos gives 100 small business owners PoS phones     Fed Govt lauds NCC on youths’ digital skills     ‘Kerosene price rose by 6.10% in December’   The concessionaires and states where the ports are located include: Oyo state (Ibadan) with 50,000 Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (TEUs), by Catamaran Logistics Ltd; Abia State (Isiala Ngwa) with 50,000 TEUs by Eastgate Ltd; Plateau State (Jos) with 20,000 TEUs by Duncan Maritime Nig. Ltd; Kano State (Dala) with 20,000 TEUs by Dala Inland Dry Port Ltd.; Katsina State (Funtua) with 10,000 TEUs by Equitorial Marine Oil and Gas Ltd. and Borno state (Maiduguri) with 10,000 TEUs by Migfo Nigeria Ltd. Giving the long time it has taken to complete the Inland Container Depots, the concessionaires stressed the need for a new agreement, pointing out that “an agreement started in 2017 between us and the Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC) was yet to be cleared by the Federal Ministry of Justice on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Transportation”. The concessionaires promised to see the concession to conclusion and the ports operational while two of the concessionaires, Equatorial Marine Oil and Gas Ltd for the Katsina ports and Dala Inland Dry Port for the Kano Ports declared that their ports will commence operation before the third quarter of 2022. Managing Director of Equatorial Marine Oil and Gas Ltd, Mr. Usman Iya Abbas,  informed the ICRC team that the Funtua port was already at over 85 per cent completion and was ready to launch before the end of the second quarter of 2022. “We hope to commission this project before the end of the second quarter and the ports will become functional immediately. We are lucky to have great relationships in the shipping industry and with major shipping lines. Hon. Ahmed Rabiu, MD of the Dala Inland Dry Port Ltd., concessionaires of the Kano Inland Port also hinted that the construction of the container depot was already nearing completion. He assured that the company was working assiduously to ensure project completion and take off before the end of March 2022. On his part, Dr. Ewalefoh of the ICRC who chaired the technical session of the meeting assured the concessionaires of the continuous support of the Commission, charging them however to send a detailed update of the contract status reports to the ICRC. He further enjoined the other four concessionaires who were yet to make remarkable progress in their contract execution to emulate the milestone recorded by the other two who were finalizing their constructions, so that the ports can yield the economic benefits for which the concessions were granted. Based on the last assessment presented to the ICRC by the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), the percentage progress made by the concessionaires are: Oyo state – 10 per cent, Abia state – five per cent, Plateau State 29.7 per cent, Kano state – 55 per cent, Katsina State – 68 per cent and Borno State – five per cent.