An accident was narrowly averted at the airside of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, when a speeding airside operations car by slim chance missed colliding with a Dana Air plane taxiing for take-off. Reports said the Dana Air MD 83 aircraft with 157 passengers and seven crew members on board was departing Lagos airport for Enugu on December 21, 2021, and was taxiing to join Runway 18L when the speeding vehicle nearly rammed into it. The car reportedly belonged to the Nigeria Customs Service and was driven by one of its personnel. According to sources close to the incident, an angry pilot of the Dana Air plane put in a call to the airport control tower to report the incident. Upon receiving the report, officials of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) at the control tower alerted Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) airside personnel who chased after and apprehended the car and its driver. “The pilot of Dana Air flight 0371 complained angrily about a ‘military’ vehicle that drove dangerously past his (aircraft) nose, prompting him to apply the brakes unexpectedly,” a FAAN source was quoted saying. “The vehicle was apprehended by MM123. It was reported to the control tower that it was a Customs vehicle. They were immediately taken to AVSEC for further questioning. The Dana plane was later airborne at 11:27am,” said another source who gave the name and operation number of the Customs driver involved. FAAN General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Henrieta Yakubu, confirmed the incident, saying the agency had since improved security at the airside of the airport. Other officers of FAAN who spoke anonymously because they weren’t official spokespersons explained that the Customs driver was probably not even trained in airside driving. “Agencies deploy new officers to the airport from time to time, but I am not sure if FAAN ensures these officers are trained in airside driving. I suspect this driver was not properly trained in airside driving because it is unlikely someone trained in airside driving will behave in such a very dangerous manner,” one officer said.   New year window     Implementing Budget 2022     Magodo brouhaha   The Dana Air incident occurred barely one week after a Max Air jet that was about to land nearly ploughed into a malfunctioning vehicle being tested on  Runway 18L, following which FAAN suspended some officials. It was not certain if a similar step was taken in the wake of the latest incident, but the trend raises a question concerning airside security at the Lagos airport. FAAN was involved in some major runway and airside breaches in the past. In December 2019, there was a stir when an unidentified man mysteriously found his way into the airside and mounted a moving Air Peace plane. The man was later arrested by security operatives who were alerted by the pilot of a private jet coming behind the Air Peace plane. That incident occurred just six months after another man gained access into the Lagos airport and climbed aboard a Port Harcourt-bound Azman Airlines flight. The man, suspected to be mentally ill, was later identified as a Nigerien named Usman Adamu and could not speak or understand English according to the police. Authorities indicated at the time they were looking into how Adamu got inside a restricted area. - Advertisement - Nigeria has been quite lucky with the safety of public aviation in recent years, but porosity of airport facilities could compromise that safety and there is need to do all that is necessary to secure those airports. In light of the recent near-mishaps, the biggest onus falls on FAAN to strengthen airside security. But the issue goes beyond FAAN alone. It is incumbent on all airport operating agencies to ensure due diligence, including up-to-grade training of their personnel. Actually, sanctions shouldn’t be spared against defaulters to keep air travellers safe.