The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has ignored allegation by former Ekiti Governor Segun Oni that the leadership had sold the PDP ticket for the June 18 governorship election to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Oni and five other aspirants in the race had lost the primary election to Bisi Kolawole, believe to be the preferred candidate of another former Ekiti Governor Ayo Fayose. Accusing the PDP National Chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu and Fayose of selling the PDP to the APC, Oni, in a statement on Sunday, had described Kolawole as a duplicate copy of the APC governorship candidate in the election. However, despite Oni’s protest, the PDP leadership will be presenting a certificate of return to Kolawole in Abuja on Tuesday (today) to fly the PDP flag at the election. Reacting to Oni’s outburst, the spokesman for the PDP, Debo Ologunagba, said the former governor must have been misquoted in the media. - Advertisement - According to him, the PDP Ekiti governorship primary conducted last Wednesday was free, fair and credible. In a telephone interview with our correspondent on Monday, Ologunagba said the PDP had not received formal complaints from Oni or any other aspirants that contested the primary. Ologunagba said: “As I speak, there is no single petition before the party, either by Mr Oni or any other aspirants in the race.   Abdulrazaq implements 30,000 minimum wage for workers     Police appoint first female adviser for JTF in Chad     Abiodun gives automatic employment, N2m to 2 best graduating…   “The only communication we received was from Senator Biodun Olujimi informing the party that she withdrew from the primary election before voting commenced. “Mr. Oni is one of our key stakeholders in the party and his is aware of existing dispute resolution channels in the party if he felt aggrieved. “But I must say that the Oni that we know will never make those comments credited to him. I believe that was was quoted out of context”. But the party leadership has set up a reconciliation committee to mediate in the disagreements that the conduct of the primary election threw up. The nine-member committee is chaired by former Senate President, David Mark with Governor Seyi Makinde as co chairman. Other members are Former Senate President Adolphus Wabara; Mrs. Zainab Kure; Dr Charles Akitoye; Mr, Sergeant Awuse; Bala Mande; Chief Shuaibu Oyedokun; and Sen. Sanusi Daggash (Secretary). A statement by Ologunagba said the committee is charged with the sole mandate of reconciling “all our stakeholders in Ekiti State including all aspirants in the just concluded governorship primary election in the state “This is in line with the commitment of the NWC to ensure an amicable resolution of all issues as our party sets for a victorious governorship election in Ekiti State. “The NWC urges all aspirants, leaders, critical stakeholders of our party in Ekiti State to remain focused on the success of the PDP in the forthcoming governorship election in the state,” the statement reads.