A 10-year-old was allegedly defiled by 16-year-old twin brothers, Chukwuemeka and Chukwuebuka Okpe in Abagana, Njikoka Local Government Area of Anambra State. The Executive Director of Davina Care Foundation, Mrs Rachel Yohanna told reporters yesterday in Awka, the state capital that the case was brought to the foundation by the mother of the victim, Mrs Benedict Sunday, a nurse. It was learnt that the suspects were children of the caretaker of the house where the victim lived and had been continually harassed for her refusal to be defiled a second time. Yohanna said the alleged crime was reported at Abagana Police Station on January 16, and the suspects and their mother Mrs Chinwe Okpe were arrested. Read Also: Anambra APC elders wade into crisis, strategise ahead 2023 poll   Police arrest five hoodlums over unrest in Ile-Ife, Ilesha     NDLEA arrests three traffickers with 48,000 tablets of…     Ibadan mayhem: NURTW washes hands of clash with police   - Advertisement - She said the girl was taken to Ntasi Centre for Sexual-Assault Cases at Enugu-Ukwu General Hospital, where it was confirmed that she was defiled, following perennial tears around the area between the vagina and the anus. She also said the victim, accompanied by a police officer and an aunt to the suspects, went for a second test at the police clinic when the mother of the suspects said the medical result from Ntasi Centre was forged. According to Yohanna, the result was still positive. Yohanna said during police interrogation, the victim said the twin boys attacked her in the bathroom while her mother was away, held her down on the floor and defiled her. Yohanna said the victim was on treatment while the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Akwa, for further investigation. She said the case would be charged to family court after investigation, while the foundation will mobilise support and follow up the case to ensure the victim get the needed medical help and justice,” she said.