There have been calls on the National Pension Commission to increase the rate of pension benefit payments to pensioners. Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Achor Acturial Services Dr. Pius Apere says the implementation of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) will better the lot of pensioners and renew their confidence in the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Omobola Tolu-Kusimo reports. The challenges of meeting pensioners’expectations in the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) cannot be fully met without the implementation of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). This is the view of many, including an actuarial scientist and chartered insurer, Dr. Pius Apere. Besides, the pensioners, particularly public service employees, who migrated into the CPS at inception in 2004, would be happier if the GMP is implemented, he added. Apere, who is the Chairman/CEO Achor Actuarial Services Limited,  calls on the National Pension Commission (PenCom) to implement the GMP to remove apathy to the CPS. - Advertisement - According to Apere, there are two other categories in the CPS. He explained that pensioners in the first category are those in the public service of the Federation, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), states and local governments or the private sector who are expected to receive retirement benefits from only CPS. He noted that at retirement, these employees might withdraw an amount called lump sum, not exceeding 25 per cent of the total amount credited into their Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) being managed by a Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) and the balance paid as a regular pension either through annuity from a life insurance companyor as Programmed Withdrawal (PW) from the PFA. He described the second group of employees as those who are exempted from the CPS as specified in Section 5 of PRA 2014. “This include members of the Armed Forces, the intelligence and secret services of the federation. They will receive benefits only from the PAYG defined benefit scheme in accordance with a specified formula provided in the Second Schedule to the Act or under the provisions of enabling laws,’’ he said. Apere added: “The third category consists of public service employees (RSA holders with deferred pensioner status) in the CPS. On retirement, they are entitled to receive the accrued (past service) pension rights (determined by an actuarial valuation at the commencement date of the CPS) from the PAYG defined benefit scheme and RSA balances from the CPS.” Why some pensioners are aggrieved   Pension complaints and solutions     Pension complaints and solutions     I’m blind but alive with pension, says Lagos retiree   The public service employees, particularly those in the third category of membership of the CPS, feel aggrieved compared to their counterparts who are exempted from the CPS. The retirees in this category  believe that their expectations have not been met. They still erroneously believe that 25 per cent of the RSA (maximum lump sum allowed) and/or the pension payable from CPS will be close to 300 per cent and 70 per cent of their final salary as prescribed for gratuity and pension in PAYG defined benefit scheme, having completed 35 years of service. Also, the delay or inability of the Federal Government and/or state governments to remit the accrued pension rights to retirees’ RSA timely had increased the plight of pensioners because the regulator insisted that the retirement benefits cannot be paid from RSA without the accrued pension rights being added to it, among other issues. Challenges of meeting pensioners’ expectations in CPS According to Apere, the framers of the law, PRA 2014, realised the importance of GMP as stated in Section 84(1) of the Act to reduce the risk of volatility of standard of living of pensioners in retirement. “GMP is akin to an income support from the government, which can be considered as a variant of social security policy that ensures redistribution of resources, a safety net for a pensioner. Thus, the expectations of pensioners under the CPS cannot be fully met, particularly for the third category of membership, without the implementation of the GMP. This is true because they have higher expectations close to that of the exempted pensioners (e.g. in Armed Forces of the Federation) receiving benefits from the PAYG defined benefit scheme. “In practice, the GMP is usually a form of underpin applicable in a defined contribution scheme, which has a main benefit that is defined contribution, with a promise that the benefit will be at least a defined benefit amount, usually a percentage of final salary at retirement date. ‘’GMP is usually to protect the members against some of the risks of low investment returns and may also be applied on a temporary basis after a conversion of a scheme from a defined benefit form to a defined contribution form, which is particularly suitable for employees in CPS with deferred pensioner status. “The implementation of the GMP has been delayed since the commencement of the CPS in 2004. This may be probably due to computation complexities, as the assessment of the cost of guarantees using stochastic modelling techniques should be under the control of an actuary. Furthermore, there could be lack of sufficient funds to finance the GMP despite the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) being established as stated in Section 82 of PRA 2014. Instead, the regulator implemented an Enhanced Pension for only the Programmed Withdrawal (PW) pensioners effective December 2017. This could be seen as cushioning the effect of the non-implementation of the GMP to an extent for only these PW pensioners. Way Forward Apere said the industry requires an enlightenment campaign to manage the expectations of employees and retirees in the CPS.