The announcement of the 2022 motto by Afrobeats superstar, Davido has elicited diverse reactions from social media users. The 30BG boss, via a post on the microblogging app, revealed his motto for the current year is to make money and ignore critics. “This year’s motto: Make money and ignore.” Few days ago, after Davido announced the official opening of his new house at Banana Island, a UNILAG student accused the singer of owing him N1million since 2020. The vendor, Mastermindwears via Instagram, posted a photo of a pink stuffed dummy which he said Davido bought from him but hasn’t received payment for it. - Advertisement - He also shared screenshots of Davido’s daughter, Imade playing with the stuffed dummy and videos posted online by Davido’s team with the dummy in the background. However, he claimed even after a year, he was yet to receive payment adding efforts to reach Davido have proved abortive. The student vendor further noted he wasn’t chasing clout with his post. He wrote: “I hate when famous people buy from we young youths hustling to make a living for ourselves here in Nigeria and not get paid, “how do you expect me to pay my rent and my school fees ?” “Please someone should tell @davido to pay for the items he bought since 24th December 2020 I have been holding this inside in silence for a long time, I did all the necessary things to do, did all the follow up for a whole year before now, please note this is not clout chasing you pushed me to post all this.” Reacting to Davido’s motto, many social media users noted his current motto is how Wizkid has always lived his life adding, Wiz may have just inspired Davido to adopt his lifestyle. Others wondered if he has decided to renege on the motto which he’s always lived by: “We rise by lifting others”.   Wife celebrates Seun Kuti at 39     Most cheating men flaunt their wives on social media –…     I won’t refrain from criticising pastors, says…   futballpunter said: “Big wiz way.” unruly__xxv_ wrote: “Something Wizkid has been doing years ago till now.” donjah.nourish stated: “BABA want to be like him mentor Wizkid.” kingabcos asked: “We no more rise by lifting others?” officialbobbyfredrick__ said: “Wizkid set this 11th commandment already.” dahrmmy_buoyant wrote: “Now you Dey reason like big wiz.” silver_bwoy stated: “Baba nor ignore oooh remember we rise by lifting others.” ibukunoluwa_o asked: “We rise by lifting others don expire?” _____onyii said: “Na machala fess start dis lifestyle sha.” l.tobiloba wrote: “BIGWIZ ever motto…. It brings peace of mind.” nkemakonamu stated: “He’s learning from the BEST Pzazzycollection asked: “Davido no do we rise by lifting others again????” just_mezie said: “Wizkid don dey inspire our OBO.”