Sex seems a major lubricant of whatever senseless struggle bandits terrorising parts of the country think they are prosecuting. This is the inevitable conclusion, given their penchant for capturing young girls and women that they conscript into their harem (or is it haram?) to assuage their seemingly insatiable desire for sex. From the Chibok girls to Dapchi, etc., the bandits have messed up the lives of many of these young girls, some of whom they had turned to mothers, prematurely. That, in spite of the many girls and women in their camps, they still request for young women that they pay for sexual pleasure would seem to suggest that they feel there is a difference between girls and women captured and converted to sex slaves, and their free counterparts in the villages and towns. The arrest  of a housewife, Maryam Abubakar, who resides in Rugar Hanwa in Sabon Gari Local Government Area (LGA) of Kaduna State by the Intelligence Response Unit (IRU) of the Nigeria Police Force on December 21, last year, has added another dimension to the seemingly intractable war against terrorism. The woman had reportedly confessed to luring women, including her daughters and nieces to the bandits in the forests in Kaduna State for sexual pleasure. She reportedly said the women are ferried there on motorbikes and that she is paid N20,000 for her efforts. But Abubakar is not alone. Other persons arrested for the same reason are one Fatima Jibrin and her boyfriend, Muslim Abubakar, of Sakadadi area also in Sabon Gari. These are for the known; it is possible many other people plying such illicit trade are still very much around, just that they have not yet been caught. While it is intriguing that people with all the parameters for coercion and enslavement, and who indeed have a lot of free women in captivity and at their beck and call would still crave for ‘imported’ women that they are ready and willing to pay for sex, it is perhaps more bewildering that a woman would willingly take her nieces and her own daughters to bandits for sexual gratification exchange for cash. We have seen instances of people trafficking in people to make money, but this would be a new dimension to human trafficking. Could such a practice be going on because those engaging in it do not know that the activities of the bandits are injurious to the wellbeing of the larger society? Or, is it because of the money involved that they cannot just be bothered about what they are doing, in so far as it brings them money? Or is it a reaction to their feeling of alienation by the state, real or perceived, and therefore a demonstration of their support for the bandits’ activities? In other words do those involved in such illicit trade even see the bandits as the outlaws that they are, or see them as change agents?   Arms proliferation     Fair call     Cheaper rice   - Advertisement - These and many other questions would have agitated the minds of Nigerians, after reading the stories. But we need not look far to know why things like these are happening in the country. Apart from the reported confession of Abubakar who plies the trade using her own blood as sex objects and gets a paltry N20,000 for her efforts, one of those arrested on suspicion that she had been having an affair with the bandits’ kingpin in the forest, Jummai  Ibrahim, reportedly said she submitted to the bandits’ leader in order to protect her father and children from their wrath. According to her, the bandits had threatened to kill them, even after rustling the family’s cattle. In other words, the illicit business thrives because of economic as well as security issues. While none of these justifies involvement of any rational human being in such illegal activities, they are still issues that the government must address. What is N20,000 that someone would now take her own daughters to criminals for sexual satisfaction in exchange for cash, despite all the safety and health implications? It should also interest the government that its inability to provide the very basic of its functions, security, is making some people to seek protection from people that can be described as devil incarnates. Indeed, the story, taken alongside previous other stories, would seem to provide a clue as to why banditry, terrorism and other criminal acts appear not to be in a hurry to leave our shores. Bandits and other criminals, just like all living things, need oxygen to thrive. When deprived of it, they die. There are basic human needs that qualify for oxygen that bandits also need to survive. They need money, food, steady supplies of arms, etc. When the sources of all of these are not blocked, and they also have women to satisfy their sexual urge, there is no reason they would not be encouraged to continue with their nefarious activities. So, the security agencies should take advantage of the information provided by some of the people that have been arrested to get to the root of these critical supply needs of the bandits. Is it not possible that some of these people are serving as informants to the bandits? Terrorism is not something to toy with. It must be defeated at all cost because of the huge price the country is paying and would still have to pay, now and in the future.