Since Asiwaju Bola Tinubu declared his presidential bid, the political scene has been abuzz. You will think that he committed a crime by throwing his hat in the ring. Politics is a game, but in Nigeria, it is more like a war. If you wish to know your family’s history, right from the first generation, just go into politics, those who know about such matters will tell you. Once you enter politics, people, including your friends and family members will say and write all sorts of things about you. Someone, somewhere will suddenly remember that there is something that ails them in your family that does not qualify you to run for office. The unkindest cut of all will come from the one you love most. That cut is the most painful of all because it comes from an unexpected source. It kills faster than any other thing. You can bear whatever it is from others, but not your loved ones. The famed Julius Caesar in Shakespeare’s tragic play, Julius Caesar, fell to the sword of his beloved Brutus. Mark Antony, the orator, put it succinctly in a rousing speech: For Brutus, as you know, was Caesar’s angel… For when the noble Caesar saw him stab, ingratitude, more strong than traitors’ arms, quite vanguished him. It is only human for Tinubu to feel betrayed by goings-on around him, which did not start today. The opposition against him was initiated long ago by his angels, to borrow Mark Antony’s word, who feel that they had served and paid him back whatever they owed him. What they failed to realise is that you can never finish paying political debts. They are lifelong debts for which you should be forever grateful to your benefactor not as his slave but as a beneficiary who appreciates the value of kindness. People should never forget where they are coming from, if they wish to go far. To be kind is a human virtue which many lack. The few who have it, dispense it with caution because of the fear of being betrayed. Some will today be sniggering behind Tinubu’s back that it serves him right. We told him, but he did not listen, they will rub it in as they watch his so-called friends one after the other take him to the cleaners because of his  presidential ambition. No matter what anybody says, we cannot turn back the hands of the clock. Tinubu cannot stop being himself because of the fear of betrayal. No. He is not the first benefactor to be betrayed by his beneficiaries. And, he will, certainly, not be the last.   Date with destiny     Forbiddden cow     2022: Looking forward backwards   - Advertisement - Read Also: Ex-Lagos council chairmen, others mobilise for Tinubu He is just witnessing what he never thought could happen to him. As a stoic person and a fighter of no mean repute, those who know him know that he is not bothered by this development. These things had happened before when he was pushing the candidacy of people who have the abilities to deliver on the job. Some of his close aides opposed him then and interestingly those candidates of yesterday who he fought for are today in the same camp with their antagonists. That is politics for you. But it should be played as a game and not a war. Friends do and should disagree in politics and in other areas of life whenever the need arises. What is offensive is telling tales about your benefactor after you disagree with him, just to tar him. He meant the world to you when you were down and in the same camp, but became a bad person after you switched camps. This is the kind of dirty politics we play that drive good people away from it. Such people cannot stomach the chicanery that goes on in the name of politics. Not many of them are as strong as Tinubu even though they have his kind of goodness in them too. They are ready to help and lift others in every area of life, but are afraid of doing the good thay are capable of because their beneficiaries may turn against them in future. Some people give politics a bad name the way they do things. They want to forever be the only beloved of their benefactor.  Once, the benefactor discovers a new talent, they go to war with him. They want every position reserved for them and their ilk. They forget that life is not like that. They fail to realise that the discovery of a new talent is not the end of their own political career. Rather than see it as the blooming of their poltical family, they take a myopic view of it as the beginning of their own end. These are political charlatans who hang around their benefactors just for the spoils of political office. The coming of a fresh talent is a threat to them because they perceive it as the end to their manipulation of their benefactor to get whatever they want from him. The hoi poloi are tired of that kind of politics of self. They want the politics of service and sacrifice by people who will appreciate the age-long sufferings of their compatriots. If their parting of ways with Tinubu will lead to that much desired Eldorado, so be it. After all, it is a free world where anyone can make the choice that suits him or her. But it should not be at the expense of running down the benefactor, who only just yesterday, was the water with which those beneficiaries, who are now running their mouths all over the place, grew their maize.