The Ninth Senate, which was inaugurated on June 11, 2019, has barely 15 months to the expiration of its tenure. Following the election of Senator Ahmad Lawan as Senate President, the Red Chamber fashioned out a legislative agenda for itself. As the countdown begins for the Ninth Senate to bow out on June 11, 2023, Correspondent SANNI ONOGU highlights the legislative activities that would keep the chamber busy this year   Major events that would shape politics in 2022     We don’t meddle in Ooni’s marital affairs, say…     Africa leaders chart pathway for peace, COVID-19 at Dakar…   Apart from routine bills and unforeseen political, economic and social interventions by the Senate this year, the major legislative business that would occupy the Red Chamber’s attention include its deferred reaction to the withholding of assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, consideration and passage of the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, the 2022 to 2024 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper (MTEF/FSP) and the 2023 Appropriation Bill, which will be the last national budget it would consider before its tenure elapses in June 2023. Besides, for individual senators, the politics of 2023 would keep them busy in their constituencies – leaving them with little or no time for legislative business in the chambers. Already, some of them have indicated interest to contest governorship elections in their states, while others are gearing up to seek re-election into the Senate. Senators who have openly declared their interests to contest governorship elections in their states include the Senate Minority Leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe (Abia South), Senator Abiodun Olujimi (Ekiti South), Senator Opeyemi Bamidele (Ekiti Central), and Senator Emmanuel Bwacha, (Taraba South). Those who have not declared their intention but are believed to be interested in becoming governors in their states are the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta Central) and Senators Kabiru Gaya (Kano South), Barau Jibrin (Kano North), Obinna Ogba (Ebonyi Central), Ike Ekweremadu (Enugu West), Patrick Abba Moro (Benue South), Smart Adeyemi (Kogi West), Teslim Folarin (Oyo Central), Ishaku Elisha  Abbo (Adamawa North), Uba Sani (Kaduna Central), Ahmad Babba Kaita (Katsina North), Aishatu Ahmed Dahiru (Adamawa Central), Albert Bassey Akpan (Akwa Ibom Northeast), Gershom Bassey (Cross River South), among others. Only recently, Lawan gave an inkling into how the Senate intends to carry out its legislative activities this year. Speaking shortly before the Senate embarked on their Christmas and New Year break, Lawan revealed what the chamber would do before fashioning out an appropriate response to President Muhammadu Buhari’s withholding of assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021. He said the Senate would consult the House of Representatives and its numerous constituents before responding to the matter. He said: “The Senate in the closed session deliberated on matters relevant to the workings of the Senate in particular and the National Assembly in general. The Senate also in the closed session discussed how to respond to the letter of Mr President on the Electoral (Amendment) Bill. The Senate consequently resolved to consult with the House of Representatives in January when the Senate and the House will be in session. “The House of Representatives has gone on recess and the constitutional provision is for the Senate and the House of Representatives to jointly take the appropriate action. The Senate also resolved to consult with our constituents during our recess in January. The Senate believes that our constituents have a role to play as the major stakeholders in the laws that we make in the National Assembly.” The Senate president further claimed that almost all items captured in the Legislative Agenda of the Ninth Senate have been achieved. Speaking on what the Senate would do on resumption from its Christmas and New Year break, Lawan said the report of the Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution would be considered by the chamber as soon as it is presented early this year. He said: “When we return, we have one major legislation that has not been attended to at all as a chamber, and that is the constitutional amendments. Our Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution has been doing its work. But as a chamber, we haven’t finished working on it. We are expectant that our Committee on the review of the Constitution will be presenting the report to this chamber as soon as we resume. The committee has done so much, and the report is almost ready. “When we harmonize with our colleagues in the House, we should be able to vote on the issues that will particularly bring about peace, unity and good government in our country, before such bill will be sent to the State Houses of Assembly for concurrence. On the whole, we must thank Almighty God that almost all those major items we reflected in our legislative agenda as a chamber has been attended to. “There’s nothing that has been left out, including the review or amendment to our standing orders on how our committees have better and more clearly defined jurisdictions and, of course, how we conduct ourselves here as a chamber.” The Senate president also reiterated the role of the Senate as a stabilising force in the polity, particularly against the backdrop of issues likely to surface ahead of the 2023 general elections.  He said: ”Next year, by the grace of God, will be the last lap of our tenure. So, we have a lot to ensure that we finish all the things that we have pencilled down for ourselves and, of course, there are many other issues that from time to time will be coming up in our polity. “This Senate is supposed to play that role of stabilizing the polity in Nigeria and I dare say, that the members of the National Assembly, particularly the Senate, is a stabilizing institution in the polity of Nigeria.” From the words of the Senate president, it is clear that the Electoral Bill and the Constitution (Amendment) Bill would be top on the list of activities of the chamber during its twilight years. Added to these would be the Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategy Paper, the 2023 Appropriation Bill and the proposed amendment to the 2022 Appropriation Act to remedy  “worrisome changes” by the National Assembly to be presented by Buhari. However, there has been drama surrounding efforts by the Senate and indeed the National Assembly to amend the Electoral Act, 2010. Key provisions in the bill are meant to correct flaws in the existing Act geared towards major reforms in the nation’s electoral system. For instance, the amended version, if it had been assented to by President Buhari, would legalise the use of electronic voting, especially the use of card readers for accreditation of voters and the issue of electronic transmission of election results which the Supreme Court has declared null and void. The Senate had earlier been adamant over allowing the clause which sought to empower the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to transmit election results electronically. But it made a U-turn immediately after the local government and state congresses of the All Progressives Congress (APC) where most lawmakers were believed to have been rendered to paper tigers by their state governors. The governors had ensured that lawmakers not loyal to them were stripped of any influence or stake in the state party structure in order to checkmate their vaunting political ambitions. Still smarting from their poor showing at the state congresses, influential and powerful senators, especially ex-governors and others who are having running battles with their governors, saw a window in the sole and mandatory direct primary clause introduced into the bill by the House of Representatives to even up against their governors in the chess game of political survival. No sooner than the Senate resumed from their short break during which the congresses were conducted than they returned to their vomit by approving electronic transmission of election results and adopted the House’s version of the bill that decreed only direct mode of primary for the selection of candidates by political parties. The governors sensing that the provision was targeted at them vowed not to allow the bill to see the light of day. Today, the rest is history as President Buhari recently attributed his withholding of assent to the bill to the direct primary clause which he described as “undemocratic” – with legal, economic, security implications. Given intense internal and external pressure on the Senate and indeed the National Assembly, to override the president’s veto, there is no gainsaying the fact that the rejected Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill and how to resolve the impasse occasioned by the withholding of assent by Buhari would occupy and task the legislators’ ingenuity at conflict resolution amid strive to retain the confidence of Nigerians this year. The Senate has promised to consult the House of Representatives and its vast constituents before deciding on what to do. What could be the likely outcome of the proposed consultation? Will the Ninth Assembly for once summon the willpower to go against the president? Will their instinct to survive politically by getting re-elected into the Senate in 2023 push them to take the bull by the horns, by calling Buhari’s bluff and passing the Electoral Bill into law by a two-thirds majority in both chambers? While some think that the Senate is ready to reclaim whatever modicum of respectability it could muster as its tenure ebbs, others say it is very difficult to teach an old woman how to eat with her left hand. Critics argue that the Ninth Senate’s hands in glove with the executive in the last two and half years would be difficult to undo. They cite frequent references by Lawan to the relationship between the executive and the Red Chamber as being on the “same page” as one of the reasons those clamouring for override of the president’s veto would only have their say and never their way. Even though repressed angst seemingly pervades the Senate over the uncooperative attitude of the president on the critical issue, analysts say that the rejection of the bill is final. They added that the Senate and indeed the Ninth National Assembly lacks the willpower to reverse the president’s decision. However, the spokesman of the Senate, Senator Ajibola Basiru said there are four options open to the Senate in either getting the bill up and kicking or abandoning it altogether in deference and humble submission to the wishes of the president. Basiru who expressed the disappointment of his colleagues over the president’s action when he appeared on Channels Television recently, said the reasons given by the president for rejecting the bill were overly presumptions. He said the National Assembly can explore four options following the rejection of the bill. He said the National Assembly can discard the bill, adjust it in line with the president’s reasoning, by removing the provision of direct primary, or simply override the president’s veto. Basiru insisted the option of discarding the bill in its entirety cannot be a “compelling reason” for the National Assembly, owing to other germane provisions in the proposed law. Basiru said: “Those are the four options before the National Assembly. And I believe the National Assembly, at the fullest of time, will be able to take those options. “It is very important to say that as members of the National Assembly, we are approaching this issue not out of any sense of egotism or any sense of power tussle with anybody. “But we will consider it based on counter-arguments that may be canvassed against whatever reasons the president had given. For instance, the argument on the cost that had been raised by Mr President, with respect, is presumptuous and fallacious. There is nothing that is given that primary election must be conducted on a ward basis; it could as well be conducted either every quarter or on a local government basis. “As regards argument on smaller political parties, smaller political parties may decide to even organise their direct primary at the state level. “On the issue of security, an extension of that argument will be that because we have security challenges, then we should not even hold the 2023 elections; this is if we want to use what logicians called reductio ad absurdum, which is reducing the argument to the level of absurdity.” Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege seem to agree with Basiru. They argued that the lawmakers will reconsider the bill to ensure the provision of mandatory direct primary for political parties on which the president based his reason for rejecting the Bill is expunged and the bill represented for assent. Gbajabiamila, who spoke while unveiling some projects in Surulere, Lagos State, said: “If you follow the history of the amendment of the direct and indirect primary bill, I initiated that amendment bill for a good reason and it is for people to participate in elections. These are the people you see around when you campaign every four years. “For me, it does not make sense that these people do not have a voice in who represents them. It is part of being used and I didn’t like that. Most of us are reformers and one of the ways to reform the system is to make it more accountable and to make the people have a voice in who represents them as opposed to a few people sitting in the four corners of a wall and writing results. “There is a process; when we come back from recess, as I said, the House will look at those amendments. We will sit as the National Assembly, look at the reasons and at that point, consider removing that clause and pass the bill so that we do not throw away the baby with the bathwater. “But then, it is not my decision to make. It is the decision of the National Assembly; if they determine that the reasons are not good enough, then, there is a process prescribed by the constitution.” On his part, Omo-Agege in his New Year message to Nigerians said the National Assembly cannot afford to throw the bathwater away with the baby. He said: “Stakeholders agree that the 2010 Electoral Act is no longer in tune with current realities, hence the need for a new legal framework for our elections. Consultations with our constituents will start immediately after the New Year festivities to feel their pulse on the President’s decision to decline assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill and chart a way forward. “We assure Nigerians that within the first week of resumption, we will come up with a workable solution to resolve the impasse. We can’t throw away the baby with the bathwater. Without a doubt, the amended bill has so many innovations that would improve our electoral fortunes in line with best democratic practices globally.” The clamour for the National Assembly to either override the president’s veto or expunge the “undemocratic” insertion into the bill remains unabating. To former Senate president, Dr. Bukola Saraki, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and civil society organisations, time is of the essence. To some naysayers, however, the withholding of assent to the bill based on direct primary provision is a red herring. They contend that the real elephant in the room which has not been touched is the provision for electronic transmission of election results which the Senate earlier rejected. They said the governing APC is strongly averse to the transmission of election results electronically which they allegedly fear may hinder their alleged plan to rig the 2023 general should the electorate decide to vote it out of power. They further allege that the leadership of the National Assembly was in the know that the bill would be rejected on account of electronic transmission of election results and indeed aided the process by inserting the direct primary clause as a diversion. Will the president still find another ‘reason’ to reject the bill after the direct primary clause has been reversed? In conclusion, however, It must be noted that while the Senate would struggle to resolve issues surrounding the Electoral Bill and ensure usual expeditious passage for MTEF, 2023 budget and the proposed amendment to the 2022 Appropriation Act, it may however face an uphill task in getting two-third of the State Houses of Assembly to concur and the Presidency assenting to the Constitution Amendment Bill should the sections slated for amendment eventually get the imprimatur of the National Assembly. Above all, the passage of the bill may be to simply fulfil all righteousness as pundits hold that Buhari may likely withhold assent to the bill just like he did to the Electoral Amendment Bill. It must be noted that one of the reasons why most Nigerians are excited about the constitution review is the issue of state creation and state police. However, going by reports that the Senate has foreclosed the creation of states and the attempt by the Senate to decentralize the operations of the Nigeria Police Force may not receive the blessings of state governments and the president.