Soaring interest rates, rising inflation and the impact of COVID-19-related economic shutdowns have been identified by the World Bank as contributors to shrinking privately-run businesses. The bank listed Nigeria and other developing economies as those adversely hit by the harsh economic weather. According to the multilateral institution, the private sector is shrinking under intense pressure. World Bank Group President David Malpass, who stated this yesterday in an opening remarks at the launch of the 2022 Global Economic Prospects (GEP) report, said elevated inflation is hard to stop adding that  supply chains may continue to be disrupted. He said a third of developing countries have already had a hike in interest rates, while the private sectors in such countries are dying. - Advertisement - Malpass said that around 60 per cent of low-income countries were already at high risk, or in debt distress, and many emerging markets are struggling as well. He pointed out that these conditions, present developing countries with immense challenges brought from exchange rates, inflation, debt sustainability, and economic growth. The World Bank chief said government spending and monetary policies were in uncharted territory while macroeconomic imbalances persist at unprecedented levels. Malpass said COVID-19 and the shutdowns still take a huge toll, especially on people in the poor countries, saying these developments have led the bank to lower the global growth forecast for this year. He said: “In the new GEP the World Bank is lowering our global growth forecast to 4.1 per cent for 2022. That’s down two tenths of a percent from the June GEP when growth was put 5.6 per cent in 2021.   Governors condole with Abiodun, Ogun over ex-ING head’s…     Flags fly at half-mast for ex-Head of State Shonekan     Better deal for inmates of correctional centres   “The forecast assumes COVID-19 has its biggest impact on the first quarter. If the variants persist, there’s a downside risk to the forecast that could reduce global growth further anywhere from 2/10 to 7/10 of a percentage point. “Developing countries are facing severe long-term problems related to lower vaccination rates, global macro policies and the debt burden.” Malpass added that there was a growing canyon between developing countries growth rates and those in advanced economies. He said: This inequality is even more dramatic in per capita and median income terms, with people in the developing world left behind and poverty rates rising. We’re seeing troubling reversals in poverty, nutrition, and health. “The reversal in education from school closures will have a permanent impact; the share of 10 year-olds who cannot read a basic story has risen from 53 per cent to 70 per cent in low and middle-income countries. “Many schools remain close, and the data is clear that this causes learning to go down, particularly for primary age children. I am very worried about the permanent scar on development.” He added that the central bank balance sheet has absorbed unprecedented amounts of long-term assets financed by bank reserves. “This allocates capital away from small businesses and from the supply chain. This shortage of working capital makes it harder to bring down the inflation rate, interest rate hikes and tighter credit conditions add to this problem of working capital. We need robust small business loans to solve the supply problems.” To fight it, Malpass said central banks are considering two tools – interest rate hikes and reducing their total assets. The World Bank boss said: “I’m worried that these won’t solve either the inflation or the inequality problems. It matters a lot how the central bank balance sheets shrink. “They can reduce their short-term assets, which wouldn’t do much—it would just shuffle Treasury bills to another balance sheet somewhere else—or they can reduce the long-term assets. I think that latter process would help with the supply chain problem and with inequality.” He noted that major central banks are borrowing huge amounts of bank reserves to maintain their bond and mortgage portfolios.