Students in Abuja are beginning to go beyond the classrooms, Grace Obike writes on how an organisation is bringing children back to the classrooms using vocational training. AS of 2019, Nigeria had 134 recognised Polytechnics which comprised 29 federal polytechnics, 48 state polytechnics and 57 private polytechnics. The country also boasts of 174 universities comprising 43 federal universities, 52 state universities and 79 private universities, with an enrolment population of about two million. The country also produced about 600,000 graduates yearly. As expected, most of these graduates expect proper placements in their National Youth service year and a job at the end of the road; but the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) Q4 2020 report published in March 2021 placed the total number of people in employment during the period at 46,488,079. Of this number, 30,572,440 were employed fulltime (worked 40+ hours per week), while 15,915,639 were under-employed (worked between 20-29 hours per week). This figure is 20.6% less than the people in employment in Q2, 2020. The unemployment rate during the reference period, Q4, 2020 was 33.3%, an increase from the 27.1% recorded in Q2, 2020. The un deremployment rate declined from 28.6% in Q2, 2020 to 22.8%. - Advertisement - For the period under review, the unemployment rate among young people (15- 34years) was 42.5%, up from 34.9%, while the rate of underemployment for the same age group declined to 21.0% from 28.2% in Q2, 2020. These rates were the highest when compared to other age groupings. To bridge the gap and provide young people with a footing after graduation or if they decide not to proceed to the university after secondary education, a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO), Ladi Memorial Foundation (LMF). Ladi Memorial Foundation has taken up the initiative of taking technical and life skill training to schools around the country. The idea, it said, is to align with the approved curriculum for formal schooling and the goals of the National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF), using the National Business and Technical Examinations Board (NABTEB) modular trades syllabus and Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) curriculums for formal education (JSS1–SS3).   Igbajo Polytechnic is product of town with determination     A day in America’s Sin City     Hunger looms in Benue valley as herdsmen force farmers out…   LMF adopted the Young Entrepreneurs’ Club Abuja Project (YECAP) to be an integrated co-curricular Technical Vocational Education (TVET) activity which advocates, sensitises and provides targeted beneficiaries with functional livelihood skills for entrepreneurship, employment and survival during school age/ before completion of secondary education; increasing access to practical TVET facilities while at the same time engaging the boundless energy and creativity of young adults of school-age (with limited access to community planned recreational activities) and addressing youth restiveness through deployment of focus to productivity and entrepreneurship TVET projects. Executive Director LMF and former commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources in Kogi State, Rosemary Osikoya, said, “What we are trying to say is that people in school need to acquire real skills because there is this dichotomy. If you are in school, you are not learning skills; people feel you have to drop out of school to learn a real skill; that what you have in the school curriculum is not sufficient. So we are trying to bridge the gap, bring the content of NSQF, which the NABTEB certification process allows, adopt the syllabus while they are in school and provide the service as a co-curricular activity. “The programme is a pilot scheme. We found out that if people who just sat on the sewing machine for the first time July 26th can today make cloths for themselves and others; it shows that if you give them longer time like the three years they have within the junior secondary school or senior, then we can have people with real skills at the end of their formal education. “Most of the children here were out of school children that we re-introduced back to school. Most could not read very well in senior secondary and during the cause of the six months, we organised literacy classes for them, taught them a little bit of what they do in school because it is part of what they need in entrepreneurship to make profit and manage a business. In addition we do reading groups, we come sometimes and read.” She explained that the programme was first tested in Lokoja, were about 22 persons were registered with 18 finishing and graduating, while four dropped out. With its introduction to teenagers in Abuja at the Government Secondary School Pyakasa, 54 students were initially registered but only 32 graduated. According to her the high level of drop-out is due to parents not cooperating because of the stigma attached to learning handiwork. Osikoya added that with the high prevalence of crime in the society, vocational skills training  workshops can be built in communities for everyone to access, which might turn out to be the new norm that instead of smoking, drinking, getting laid and having babies, people can have access to a place where they can learn to knit, sew, bake and a lot more. She said their hope is that people can adopt the initiative and probably run it as a club in communities and other places. It doesn’t have to be garment making, “we have about 40 or so vocational skills, why not do it across all skills? People could do bricklaying, plumbing and a lot more.” She said. The program taught the students basic skills on garment making for men, women and children; bag making, catering craft practice: baking and confectionaries, food preparation. After the training, the best three students in garment making craft were awarded sewing machines, while the rest left with professional sewing kits. In catering craft, the first was awarded a gas cooker, second a Kenwood cake mixer and third was a complete set of cooking pots. One of the trainers, Journalist and Rotarian Yusuf Alli explained, “The challenge we have is that we started experiencing a downward trend in our educational system in the 90s, with the sudden change of curriculum which the government is trying to address. We forgot about home economics, some games like net ball, we abandoned history, civic education. “Creativity is the way. People making it globally are creative people. Some did not see the four walls of the university; so unless we go back to functional integrated education, we will continue to have problems, which is why we have many unemployed graduates. But now we are catching them young. So I want to appeal to the government to re-introduce vocational training in schools.”