In the days of yore, when a new year unfurls, it is meat to make new-year wishes. Depending on one’s position in life, the list may include the mundane and the serious. If one is an old bachelor for instance, the list may include a wish to settle down with a lady that is the apple of one’s eye before the end of year. If one is an unemployed graduate, it will include a resolution to gain employment in the preferred sector of the nation’s economy. If one was heavy on booze, he would be encouraged to make a wish to go easy in the new-year. Where there is an important thing to catch up with, which requires piling-up resources, the wish will include saving more so as to achieve the desired goal. The list of wishes is endless, and it was rare not to have a list of new-year wishes at the beginning of the year. But in the present time, with the challenges facing Nigerians, one may not wonder far what could be the new-year wishes of the average Nigerian. I believe at the top of such list would be to survive the year 2022. There is no doubt that the days ahead are going to be tricky, whether we are talking about a rural folk in Katsina State or an urban folk in Imo State for instance. Of course, what is true of Katsina and Imo states are substantially true of majority of the states in our country. While in Katsina, the Nigerian will be mortally living in fear of the bullets of the armed bandits who have graduated from cattle rustlers and forest bandits to urban terrorists; in Imo State, the ordinary folk would live in fear of stray bullets from the smoking guns of government goons who are either pursuing IPOB members or the real and imagined enemies of the state governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma. In Katsina, as advised by the state governor, the wish list may therefore extend to saving money to buy guns, which interestingly are allegedly available for few thousands as a result of the fall of Libya and the crisis in the Maghreb region. One challenge though would be that while the Presidential Task Force on control of small arms would be chasing the gun sellers, and driving up the prices, poor Katsina people would have to contend with the higher prices or getting caught by security agencies for illegal possession of fire arms. - Advertisement - Another item that is likely to be on top of the wish list for majority of Nigerians in 2022, is how to survive hunger in the year. Especially for rural folks in northern part of the country, putting food on the table in the year ahead would be a tricky one. While many of them are in the Internally Displaced Persons camps at the mercy of inept and corrupt government officials, the rest need to pay tax to armed bandits, before they can access their farmlands. The urban poor across the country would also have to rely on ecclesiastical succour when hunger pangs strike in the New Year. So, amongst their new-year wishes would be for God’s intervention to save them from hunger. For, while inflation has already made mincemeat of the meagre salaries and wages the poor folks earn, the federal government has concluded plans to increase the cost of petrol, which can be likened to throwing an inflationary banga as a new-year gift.   KSM as exemplar     Prince of peace     A free judiciary   Perhaps, one of the new-year wishes will be for President Buhari to find mercy in his heart, to refuse the economic push to increase the price of petrol which will instantly increase the cost of transport, food, housing, health services, you name it, in the new-year. But can he resist the push? Not likely. For while he may wish the extremely poor who are the majority in the country he governs a better life, the economic development under his care is indicative that he has no means of taking care of their needs. So President Buhari may inevitably have to sanction increase in the price of petrol, if he wants to continue to pay salaries and prosecute the wars-without-an-end-in-sight, across the country. The wish list for the urban government working class in our country will therefore include uninterrupted payment of salaries during the year. They would have to pray that the state governments don’t run into the kind of hot water that splashed them few years ago, when they had to go cap in hand for bailout from the federal government, to be able to pay salaries to their workers. Another item likely to be on the wish list is for ASUU not to go on one of their prolonged strikes. For while the federal government is claiming to have met most of the demands of the university teachers, the leaders of the trade union are claiming that the government officials are lying. With the president and members of his cabinet training their own children in foreign universities, they will likely not join other Nigerians in the desperate wish that ASUU should not go on strike. For the economic elites, on top of their wish-list is for stability in the post COVID-19 pandemic, so that there would be no disruption of the aviation sector. Apart from missing the foreign holiday resorts, and enjoying medical tourism, there will wish to have uninterrupted opportunity to visit their children schooling abroad. Most of them would therefore pray hard for 2022 not to be like 2020, when both the rich and the poor were put on the same level of existence, following the shut-down of the aviation space across the world as COVID-19 ravaged the world. On the wish list for politicians, especially potential candidates in the 2023 general elections, is to gain the favour of those who will determine the candidates for major political parties, in the upcoming elections. With the refusal of President Buhari to sign the amended Electoral Bill passed by the National Assembly, top on the wish list of the legislators would be to find favour in the sight of the governors. Those of them who had staked their cards on direct primaries by political parties, may already be in hot peppered soup. With the national economy on topsy-turvy, it may be suicidal to put marriage on the wish list, regardless of one’s age, unless the person wishing that is an acolyte of a politician who is eyeing a second term in office. With the 2023 in view, there is hope that that political economy will rebound. But no doubt, the wish-lists in the present times will be so different from that of the days of the yore.