A 2019 report of the Auditor General of the Federation (AuGF) has said about 178,459 different types of arms and ammunition got missing from the police armory without any of them getting reported. It also said the police high command failed to keep a detailed record of unserviceable and expired firearms and ammunitions, which could be converted for illegal use, and loss of public funds. These are contained in the “Auditor General for the Federation annual report on non-compliance/internal control weaknesses issues in Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the federal government of Nigeria for the year ended December 31, 2019”. Referenced AuGF/AR.2019/02 and addressed to the Clerk to the National Assembly, the report, dated September 15, 2021, was signed by AuGF Adolphus Aghughu. His letter conveying the report to the National Assembly, as required by law, reads: “In accordance with Section 85(2) and (4) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), I have the pleasure to submit to the National Assembly, two copies of the Auditor General for the Federation’s annual report on the non-compliance/internal weaknesses issues in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the year ended December 31, 2019”. - Advertisement - The action of the police force, the report said, violates paragraph 2603 of the Financial Regulations, which states that “in the event of any loss of stores, the officer in charge of the store in which the loss occurs shall report immediately to the Head of Department or Unit but not later than three days, by the fastest means possible, if the loss occurs away from headquarters.”   Bandits release two more Baptist students     Bandits kill 7, abduct 18 in attacks on Kaduna villages     Six Afaraukwu inmates regain freedom   It added: “Audit observed from the review of Arms Movement Register, Monthly Returns of Arms and Ammunition and Ammunition Register at the Armoury Section that a total number of lost firearms as reported as at December 2018 stood at 178,459 pieces. “Out of this number, 88,078 were AK-47 rifles, 3,907 assorted rifles and pistols across different police formations, which could not be accounted for as at January 2020. “Formal reports on the loss of firearms, through dully completed Treasury Form 146 (loss of stores), were not presented for examination. “Records obtained from Force Armament at the Force Headquarters showed 21 Police Mobile Force (PMF) Squadron, Abuja, did not report a single case of missing firearm, whereas schedule of missing arms obtained from the same PMF showed a total number of 46 missing arms between Year 2000 and February 2019. “The value of the lost firearms could not be ascertained because no document relating to their cost of acquisition was presented for examination. “The above anomalies could be attributed to weaknesses in the internal control system at the Nigeria Police Force Armament.” The report said there was the risk of mishandling of firearms/firearms getting to the wrong hands, conversion of firearms to illegal use and loss of government funds, among other anomalies.