Country Representative of Ukrainian universities in Nigeria, Dr. Cliff Ogbeide, said over 12,000 Nigerians are studying in Ukrainian universities. He said plans by Ukrainian universities to increase their input into the education sector in Nigeria have reached an advanced stage while prospects of strengthening bilateral relations in education between both countries had taken a positive dimension. Already, Ukrainian universities had planned their maiden lecture on strengthening the education relationship between Nigeria and Ukraine and conferring honorary Doctorate degrees on some personalities. Ogbeide, in a statement in Abuja said: “It is instructive to know that Ukraine, having robust diplomatic relations with Nigeria, is offering affordable university admission to Nigerian students with an estimated number hovering above 12,000 currently.”   Council boss hails Council boss hails Caleb’s commitment to…     Old boys institute N100m endowment fund for school     Zulum’s media strategist bags distinction in UK University   According to him, Lviv University for Business and Law has the highest level of accreditation and is one of the leading educational institutions in Eastern Europe training highly qualified personnel for the economic sector, Law, International Relations, and Journalism. - Advertisement - Ogbeide said with the V.N. Karazin Kharkiv National University, Ivano-Frankivsk University of Oil and Gas and the Academy of Economic Sciences, they would be visiting Nigeria to hold the maiden lecture with the theme: “Prospects in strengthening Ukraine-Nigeria Diplomatic/Economic relations.” Highpoint of the event would be the conferment of Doctorate Degree (Honoris Causa) from the prestigious Lviv University for Business and Law on a few selected eminent Nigerians, who have made outstanding contributions in Academics, Politics, Business Administration, Cultural Exchange, Traditional institution, Religion and Humanitarian Services in the advancement of humanity. The University said it uses the honour to encourage excellence which involves acknowledging the contributions of respected and distinguished men and women worldwide.