Professor Bolaji Akinyemi deserves all the encomiums that have been poured on him to mark his 80th birthday. He has marked his birthday in a classy way befitting an academic of exceptional brilliance. I was glad I was able to make it. I wouldn’t have been able to do it but for the intervention of my friend Ambassador Dapo Fafowora who was lost by academia to diplomatic bureaucracy. It was he who called my attention to the virtual celebration of Bolaji’s birthday. We are all very proud of Akinyemi for his stellar achievements in the realm of foreign policy and diplomacy in both theory and practice. In the academic study of international affairs in Nigeria, Akinyemi comes second to the late Ambassador Lasisi (Lawrence) Fabunmi whose thesis on the Anglo – Egyptian condominium administration in the Sudan, a Ph.D of the University of London in 1959 blazed the trail of academic studies in international relations by Nigerians. Oxford University’s D. Phil in 1969. Our friend Olajide Aluko followed suit with a doctorate at the London School of Economics (LSE) with a dissertation on Ghana and Nigeria’s relations around the same time with Bolaji’s completion of his Oxford doctorate. Several other scholars have found their niche in one area of Nigeria’s or Africa’ place in the international arena. It is however incontestable that Akinyemi brought the study of international relations the high profile it has now acquired in the Nigerian universities. Akinyemi comes from a solid middle class background. His father, the Reverend Canon Akinyemi, was a graduate of the famous Fourah Bay College, Freetown Sierra Leone, a college of the University of Durham. He was the principal of Ilesha Grammar School and was a cleric of the Anglican tradition.  He was a parliamentarian representing the rural area of Ijesha land in the Western House of Assembly. He was a member of the Action Group, led by Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Ijesha land at that time was dominated by Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe-led NCNC (National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons/Citizens) the town of Ilesha in those days was dominated by the NCNC titans of Babatunji Olowofoyeku and Joseph Odeleye Fadahunsi. Bolaji’s father was a strict disciplinarian of the old school and he did not spare the rod. Bolaji grew up in a large family of five boys and a girl. As can be expected, he had to fight for his lebensraum, to use a loaded German word in a very competitive family. He was number two in the family coming after his older brother Akinwunmi who schooled at Christ’s School Ado Ekiti and later became a physician. I believe Bolaji wanted to be like his brother. This probably accounts for why after leaving Igbobi College in Lagos, he came to Christ School in 1960, following the footsteps of his brother to immerse himself in studying the basic sciences of Chemistry, Biology and Physics for the Higher School Certificate. Growing up in political environment led him to develop avid interest in politics and world affairs. It was in this circumstance that he took part in an essay competition conducted by the embassy of the USA and won. His mastery of the subject attracted the attention of the embassy officials who then arranged for Bolaji to participate in a youth forum in the United States in 1961. This was how a young man studying to become a medical doctor became eventually a doctor of political science. He studied at Temple University in Philadelphia USA (1962-64) Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, Medford Massachusetts USA (1964-66) Trinity College, Oxford,England 1966-69).   A new year with old and new challenges     Transition of Archbishop Desmond Tutu     Soun of Ogbomosho: the merchant prince who became king   - Advertisement - On returning home obviously at the end of the civil war in Nigeria, he joined the University of Ibadan as a lecturer in political science. It was from here that he was appointed Director- General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs in 1975 after the coup d’état against General Yakubu Gowon whose regime after nine years had become fat and corrupt. The General Murtala Muhammed’s regime became extremely involved in the politics of African liberation. Akinyemi provided the regime with the intellectual power necessary to mobilize not only Nigerians, but Africans behind the nationalist fervor behind the new Nigerian assertiveness in dealing with not only South Africa but even its traditional allies in the West that were not used to the kind of dynamism seen in Nigeria. It was like there was no foreign ministry at that time and even the foreign minister, Brigadier Joe Nanven Garba relished being at the NIIA and being seen with Bolaji Akinyemi and his academic colleagues. Bolaji was a mere 34 years old young man. His energy knew no bounds. He had as his administrative secretary, Abubakar Muhammadu Rimi who later became the tempestuous governor of Kano in the 2nd republic. Akinyemi organized seminars around the issues germane to Nigeria’s development such as Nigeria and her neighbors, federalism and politics in Nigeria, economic integration of West Africa, the liberation struggle in Southern Africa, Nigeria and Brazil, Nigeria and the commonwealth, Nigeria and European economic community, Nigeria and OPEC and so on and so forth. He turned the NIIA to beehive of policy discussion and began the practice of the head of state annual policy statement on our country’s diplomacy. He held the post of Director General until he was replaced by Ibrahim Gambari under the NPN-led government. He was appointed professor of political science by the University of Lagos in 1983. It was while he was at the University of Lagos that Babangida sought him out in 1985 and appointed him foreign minister at the age of 43. Babangida could not have made a better choice because while Bolaji was Director- General at the NIIA, he had been visiting professor in European and American universities. It was as foreign minister that he really made his mark. His legacies includes starting a Technical Aids Corps (TAC) modeled after the peace corps program of the young president J. F. Kennedy which tried to make young Americans go to the developing parts of the world to share their knowledge and thus build up support for America in the world . Bolaji saw Nigeria as the ultimate power in Africa and the black world. At that time Nigeria was awash with petro-dollars and he felt we could share our fortune with the rest of the black world in Africa, the Caribbean and Oceania. This proved to be very popular with young Nigerians and the program has endured till today. His development of the concept of a Concert of Medium Powers in which a group of countries in Africa, Latin America, Asia and Europe could come together as mediators in international conflicts was seen as a duplication of the Non-Aligned movement which Bolaji apparently found unwieldy. Needless to say this didn’t fly amidst withering criticism. As minister, he was directly involved in facilitating peace between Libya and Chad and between Mali and Burkina Faso in 1987. He was seized with the issue of liberation struggle in Southern Africa, a carryover from his Murtala Muhammed/Olusegun Obasanjo days of the late 1970s. It was under him that Nigeria became a frontline state in Africa’s struggle for the liberation of Southern Africa. In spite of his stellar performance as foreign minister, he was summarily dropped in a cabinet reshuffle two years after being made minister. Only Babangida can give reasons for this but rumors had it that his intended rapprochement with Israel was not favorably looked upon in the north of our country. Some in ABU, the hotbed of northern academic radicalism led by Bala Yusuf Usman erroneously said Bolaji’s wife who is a Catholic was Jewish and that this accounted for Bolajj’s softness towards Israel. After his tenure as minister, Bolaji went back to academia but continued his engagement with politics until the  Moshood Abiola  conundrum when he was so involved with the revalidation of Abiola’s mandate that when Abacha’s tyranny began, he had to flee to Britain and joined forces with NADECO to see the end of Abacha’s tyranny. He narrowly escaped from being kidnapped in Benin Republic by goons sent after him and his colleagues in Benin.  In 2007, President Umar Yar’Adua chose him as deputy chairman of a committee to make recommendations for a reform of the electoral system. They worked very hard but no radical reforms were instituted. When President Jonathan set up a national body to give the country a new constitution after he took over from Yar’Adua, Akinyemi was one of those called to offer his expertise and the recommendations they made remain locked up in the archives to gather dust. Akinyemi’s contribution to the history of modern Nigeria remains imperishable. This contribution was most time undermined by petty jealousies, envy by his colleagues who did not have the same opportunities that Akinyemi had. In retirement, Akinyemi seems to devote his immense ability to nurturing the development of  a virile Yoruba movement within the overarching Nigerian search for unity. During most of these times I worked with Bolaji Akinyemi and his NIIA sponsored my research on Nigerian/Equatorial Guinea relations which became a blueprint for Nigeria’s policy to that neighboring country. My readers should permit my use of the familiar Bolaji in referring to this great man that I have known for close to 70 years! Bolaji is a fine and handsome man but under the beautiful exterior is steel. Bolaji when young had hot temper which only age has tempered. He served his country with absolute honesty and integrity with little material acquisition to show for it unlike many people who had less opportunity to serve and made little or no contribution to the nation as Bolaji did. He can at least rejoice that a grateful nation honored him with the highest civilian accolade of Commander of the Federal Republic (CFR).