To decongest the heavy human traffic in its accidents and emergency building, the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) has commenced the building of a new ultra-modern outpatient clinic to accommodate the interest of patients who often get rejected or referred to other hospitals due to lack of space. The project, when fully completed in 18 months, will comprise five buildings; each with four floors. The new building will consist of 256 consultation rooms, 16 waiting rooms, 16 nursing stations, meeting rooms and patient lifts each, 120-car park, cafeteria, among others, said the Chief Medical Director (CMD), LUTH, Prof Chris Bode. The ultra-modern hospital complex was facilitated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, who has agreed to champion the project through an intervention fund from the National Assembly. Read Also: How to improve female healthcare   A holistic response to mental health     Six ways to avoid ‘sudden’ slump     17-month-old baby needs N700, 000 for cancer treatment   Gbajabiamila, who delivered the 52nd convocation lecture of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) on Monday, was also performed the sod-turning of the new medical outpatient in LUTH. - Advertisement - The speaker, who identified lack of facilities and medical infrastructure as the leading cause of death in hospitals, decried the menace of rejecting patients as a result of lack of space. He urged the contractors to speed up the work, which is projected to be completed. An excited CMD thanked Gbajabiamila, describing him as a great friend of LUTH. “Our Accident and Emergency buildings were inaugurated over 45 years ago. With only the ground floor used for A & E and Operation Theatre while the remaining three floors serve as outpatient clinics. While our services had flourished and grown in the past years, we could not expand our emergency services to accommodate the burgeoning number of clients. Rooms to run OPD clinics also became fewer with long patients’ waiting time and fewer clinic opportunities,” Bode said.