In order to promote teachers development in Ekiti State and also create proper avenue for educational advancement that can place them above their counterparts globally; International Breweries Limited and Itel Mobile in collaboration with the Centre for Indigenous Knowledge and Development (CIKDAS) organised a one – day interactive forum for selected teachers from three senatorial districts across the State. In his welcome address,  The Chairman of the Ekiti Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Hon. Babatunde Abegunde charged teachers to make personal development a priority and be more creative in the discharge of their duties in order to achieve optimum performance. Abegunde, who was represented by the Executive Secretary of TESCOM, Mr Alani Daramola stressed the importance of self-development, which he described as a conscious attempt at improving oneself in various aspects of life towards becoming a self-fulfilled person. According to him, it is the conscious pursuit of personal growth by improving personal skills, competencies, talents, and knowledge that leads to overall success. He reiterated the resolve of the state government to continue partnering with interested public spirited individuals and corporate organisations in the task of developing the state.   Dangote, Emefiele hail Abiodun on investment opportunities     2022 Budget: What prospects for Nigeria’s economy?     ‘No hope for citizens in 2022 budget’   - Advertisement - In her remarks the Commissioner (II) TESCOM, Princess Jumoke Owoola who is also the Chief Executive Officer of CIKDAS explained that the programme was organised to prepare teachers in the state and put them in vantage position to tackle the numerous challenges in the current educational systems occasioned by the changes being experienced globally. Princess Owoola said that the programme was also aimed at complementing government efforts in capacity building for teachers adding that teachers’ improvement and capacity building are necessary tools for improving education system. She advised participants to take advantage of the opportunity provided by the seminar to improve their competence and positive attitudes; develop innovative educational approaches and models as well as attract community participation and resources.   One of the participants, Miss Funmilayo Ogundipe from Ayo Fasanmi Model College, Ado Ekiti, described the programme as an eye-opener, adding that she found it impactful for teachers’ development. Commending the state government and organisers for bringing together such laudable programme, Ogundipe, however, called for more regular training and retraining for teachers in the state. She also pledged on behalf of her colleagues to utilise the knowledge gained from the programme in order to achieve the desired result and justify the government and the development partners’ huge investment in the sector.