A fresh clash between farmers and herdsmen in Imeko-Afon Local Government Area of Ogun State has left five persons dead, many injured and houses burnt. The latest crisis popped up when herdsmen and some Ohori farmers were locked in a battle over the alleged destruction of farmlands and crops by grazing cattle. The clash, which occurred at Idofa village and led to the loss of lives and properties, followed the chasing away of the herders and their cattle by the people of Aworo community in Yewa North Local Government. In the process, it was alleged that the villagers killed three of the fleeing herders and their cows. A source in the area told newsmen that after the Aworo people had allegedly killed the three herdsmen in Idofa, a reprisal attack ensued on Thursday, leading to the death of two Yorubas, one of whom was set ablaze. - Advertisement - Houses, four maize barns, motorcycles and other valuables were also not spared by the vengeful attackers. “The Aworo people chased the herdsmen from Yewa North to Idofa in Imeko. They killed three of them there and killed their cows.   UPDATED: De Bruyne strikes as Man City beat Chelsea     Tuchel hits Lukaku after defeat to Man City     My meeting with Tinubu not about 2023- Fayemi   “On Thursday, the herdsmen returned in the dead of the night to launch an attack. They killed two persons, set houses and other properties on fire. “One of those killed was burnt in a house beyond recognition. It took the intervention of the police and the Amotekun corps to calm the situation “As we are talking, many Ohoris are injured, hundreds are now displaced at Imeko town. We need the attention of the Federal and State Governments to take care of the displaced persons,” the source said. Ogun Police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident on Saturday and assured that those behind the fatal clash would be arrested. “We heard about it. It is an unfortunate incident and we are investigating it. We have called on all stakeholders, including the Fulani communities that have been living in that place, who testified that they did not even know the reason for the attack. “We are investigating to ensure that those who carried out that dastardly act are apprehended in other not to cause further crises. “The situation is under control as more policemen have been deployed to the place. The Commissioner of Police has directed that the Area Commander should take charge of the security situation in the area. “No arrest has been made yet but we are on it and we are sure that those who committed that act will be apprehended,” Oyeyemi said.