The Minister of Interior Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has ordered officials of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCoS) to shoot dead any attempt to attack prison facilities across the country. Noting that the Correctional (Prison) facility is a red zone, the Minister said anyone who attempts to attack it should not be alive to tell the story. He gave the directive while addressing senior officers at the Agodi Custodial Centre of the NCoS during an official inspection tour of the facility on Monday. According to the Minister, the officers must make it impossible for any attack to penetrate the facility, saying such development must remain an attempt. He said the attacks on the custodial centres were not acceptable and must stop, adding that any attempt must henceforth be resisted with brutal force. - Advertisement - Aregbesola said: “The most important thing is the security impregnability of this facility. “This is a red zone, dangerous zone. Whoever attempt to breach the facility is already dead. He must not live to tell the story.   New texts for languages, English in 2022 UTME     JABU First Class graduates to get N25,000     Alleged P&ID scam: Court remands ex-director Taiga   “Any effort to breach our facility is not acceptable. Don’t shoot to injure but shoot to kill for any reason. “This is a total embodiment of the state to guarantee the security of the people.” He assures the officers that the government will do its best in ensuring that their welfare is a top priority as a way of ensuring effective service delivery. “We will do our best on your welfare to ensure effective service. “I must commend your work for not recording any case of Covid-19 in your facility. “You must be effective in preventing the penetration of this facility. “You must have the capacity to repell viciously any attempt to attack or invade this facility and an attempt must remain an attempt.” Based on the ongoing facility tour, the Minister has ordered the demolition of shops and business centres within and around the prison facility. He is expected to also tour the newly built medium facility at Olomi-Olunde area of Ibadan, the Oyo state capital city.