Even as Nigerians may be inclined to heave a heavy sigh of relief on the suspension of the proposed fuel subsidy removal, the sudden change exposes all that is wrong with policy and planning in this country. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed while announcing the suspension, rationalized it on account of heightened inflation and the attendant hardship the measure will impose on the citizenry. She said President Buhari “clearly does not want to do that… and that before subsidy is removed, a number of measures will be put in place to cushion the effects”. Good reasoning it would appear! Here is a minister who just in November last year, announced with fanfare the irrevocable commitment of the federal government to eliminate whatever remains of the so-called fuel subsidy regime by mid-2022. Then, she had justified the timing on what she called recent developments within the oil sector. These developments she said, included the signing into law of the Petroleum Industry Act, PIA, the envisaged full reactivation of four public refineries and coming on stream of three private refineries under construction in 2022. The minister was also not unaware of the unmitigated hardship fuel subsidy removal would engender given the primacy of the product to economic and social activities. To mitigate the effects of the proposed subsidy removal on the most vulnerable segment of the population, Ahmed had announced “a monthly transport subsidy in the form of cash transfer of N5, 000 to between 30-40 million deserving Nigerians”. The government envisaged that the ash transfers would mitigate whatever social disruptions that may come with the final elimination of fuel subsidy. - Advertisement - Ironically, the same minister is here again singing a new song; pontificating on what and what ought to be in place before subsidy removal. And one asks, why is it being realized now that the necessary and sufficient conditions for full elimination of fuel subsidy are not yet on ground? More so, after the same government had floated the idea of monthly cash transfer of N5, 000 to 40 million most vulnerable Nigerians as solution to unmitigated dislocation of the national economy bound to arise from more than 100 per cent increase in the price of fuel. If the reasons adduced by Ahmed for this volte face are hackneyed, the position of the minister of state for petroleum, Timipriye Sylva is even more confounding. Sylva, while justifying government’s back-pedalling, had said before subsidy is removed, certain things have to be in place to protect the Nigerian people. And he asked; “have we put all those things in place now. We feel we need some time to put everything in place so that when subsidy is removed, it will have minimal impact on the suffering people”. The question as to whether the government has put everything in place to protect the suffering people from the harsh effects of the subsidy removal should be answered by Sylva since he is a serving minister. At any rate, why did the government not address that question before it came up with the earlier timeline? Moreover, that trite question had been answered severally in the serial public objections to subsidy removal over the years. If the government failed to tap into the temperament of the people on this potentially explosive matter, that speaks volumes. Our sensibilities should not be further assaulted by a government that is obviously unable to do its homework. Why is the government realising belatedly that it needs to put measures in place to protect the people after it had dramatised the magic of the monthly cash transfers as solution? What becomes of the cash transfers in the new calculations? There is nothing that happened between November last year and now, neither have new facts not available to the government before it came up with the earlier target date emerged. There is also nothing in the reasons adduced by the government for its change of position that has not been in the public domain. If the government failed to tap into the vortex of public opinion on the matter, that only demonstrates its level of disconnect with the people.   A week lost to sit-at-home     NLC’s planned protests     A bill denied assent twice   It is also for the same reasons the government is now canvassing that the proposal has not gone down well with a large segment of the Nigerian people even when state governors and the federal government had focused largely on the revenue side and the purported quantum leap in development it will engender.  Is the government saying that all these facts were not available when it engaged its development partners to arrive at mid-2022 for the elimination of fuel subsidy? I do not think so. This column had raised questions on the propriety of the proposed cash transfers as the most effective measure to forestall any backlash arising from hurried fuel subsidy removal. The criterion for generating the 40 million potential beneficiaries was also interrogated even as the duration of the payment remained largely cloudy. There were fears that the cash transfers may well be another veritable avenue for greedy and rogue government officials to line their pockets to the detriment of set objective. The high level corruption that had marred the subsidy regime did not give comfort that things would be done differently. Issues were very clear and fears real for an informed decision to have been taken by the government. But that failed to happen as state governors and the National Economic Council insisted that fuel subsidy must go by mid this year. So, for the government to turn round and canvass the same reasons for which the policy had overtime been opposed; either it is impervious to public opinion or yet to disclose fully, the real reason for the sudden policy somersault. It is not surprising that political motive has been read into the fuel subsidy removal suspension. Coming on the heels of the unfolding campaigns for the 2023 national elections, there are suspicions that the government took the decision to save itself from anticipated crisis. Such a social upheaval on the eve of elections was bound to have serious repercussions on the electoral fortunes of the ruling government. But they should have known better. The planned warning strikes and demonstrations by organized labour were also foreboding signals that the government had tough times to contend with should it go ahead with its subsidy removal. These may have weighed in heavily to influence the change in policy than what we are now being made to believe. This angle is given further fillip by disclosures from Sylva that the suspension is billed for 18 months. Though the new date was ostensibly set to enable the government seek amendment to the PIA, its curious coincidence with the terminal date of Buhari’s regime reinforces the suspicion that political exigency is behind it all. By this calculation, the in-coming government will eventually be saddled with the immediate challenge of this potentially explosive decision. How fair it is to encumber a new regime with such volatile decision is left to be conjectured. It could have very devastating consequences for a new administration struggling to get serious grip on statecraft. Buhari’s regime could be accused of wittingly or unwittingly laying landmines for the incoming government. Since the government has suspended the subsidy removal, so be it. Any attempt to assign timeline for its implementation outside the tenure of the current regime is wrapped in duplicity and should be seen for what it is- an attempt to encumber and incapacitate the incoming administration. If a date must be assigned to subsidy removal by way of amendment to the PIA, it should fall squarely within the tenure of this regime. Buhari should be around to test the outcome of the measures he now wants to institute to mitigate the effects of subsidy removal and take responsibility for its success or failure.