It was the 19th Century Irish writer, Oscar Wilde, who once said “a dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.” From indications, that may be the lot of Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade regarding some visions he had nursed for his state, and his people’s preference that pitched into the contrary. Ayade had wanted to privatise 34 Cross River State-owned companies, but has had to toss the plan in view of Cross Riverians’ aversion to the idea. The governor, a professor of environmental microbiology and university teacher before joining politics, announced recently that even though privatising the state-owned firms was the right thing to do, he was giving up the idea in deference to the preference of his people. The state government had a few weeks ago put the policy proposal to a referendum, which returned a majority of ‘No’ verdict by the people. The governor explained that his desire to privatise the companies was borne out of positive intentions because government has no business running businesses, but he said he bowed to public sentiment “not because it is right but because it is politically correct.” He further noted: “There is a Privatisation Act of 2007 that empowers the state to carry out such action but it was necessary to seek the opinion of the people. This is so that it would not be said that I have sold the companies to myself or to my friends.”   Why Buhari signed 2022 budget, by Presidency     Olubadan: Another royal titan gone, says Tinubu     Ibadan mourns   Cross River used to be famed for yearly carnivals with an array of costumes worn by competing bands, besides other attractions of scenery that tantalise tourists. But on Ayade’s watch, the state has lost its festal vibes with the Christmas carnival shelved for two years in a row – ostensibly because of the Covid-19 pandemic but implicitly because the current administration lacks enthusiasm. Ayade justified the new trend, saying: “I took over a state that is basically a civil service state, happy with dancing on the streets during Christmas in the name of carnivals, which does not really yield much to the state. Experience has shown that the money we spend on hosting the carnival is far more than whatever comes into the state after it. Unfortunately, it is difficult for many people to see the big dreams of the governor as they prefer the filling of potholes, planting grasses, hosting carnivals and paying salaries.” He added that if Cross River would grow, it must go beyond being a civil service state with salary mentality. For a governor perceived as inhabiting an idealistic realm in disconnect from pedestrian reality, the deference to public sentiment this time equated to a needle in the bubble. This bubble has been consistently reflected in the titling of his administration’s yearly budget: from ‘Deep Vision’ (2016), ‘Infinite Transposition’ (2017) and ‘Kinetic Crystallization’ (2018) to ‘Qabalistic Densification’ (2019), ‘Olimpotic Meritemasis’ (2020), ‘Blush and Bliss’ (2021), and for 2022 ‘Budget of Conjugated Agglutination.’ With the botched privatisation bid, Ayade comes on the same wavelength with the people.