The leadership of the Police Service Commission (PSC) on Saturday said the recruitment of Police Officers from the rank of Constables to Cadet Inspectors and Cadet ASPs are and remains the Constitutional responsibility of the Commission. The process, PSC said was affirmed by a judgement of the Federal Court of Appeal. The development is followed Thursday’s workers protest over police recruitment and shutting of PSC office. The PSC management appealed to Staff to reconsider their combative approach and join hands with the management of the Commission to realize earliest resolutions of the matter according to the constitution and current judgement of the Court of Appeal. A statement issued by the Head, Press and Public Relations of PSC, Ikechukwu Ani said: “The attention of the management of the Police Service Commission has been drawn to several news publications on the above subject matter. “The Commission regrets that the issues raised in the publications by its Staff which were already receiving management attention, had to degenerate to a level where Staff forcefully locked up government offices and chased away Staff on legitimate duties. The Staff raised several issues but primarily the alleged hand over of the Constitutional responsibility of the Commission to recruit Police Officers to the Inspector General of Police; the delay in the conclusion of the 2021 staff promotion and training of staff were the major highlights. “It is necessary to state unequivocally that the recruitment of Police Officers from the rank of Constables to Cadet Inspectors and Cadet ASPs are and remains the Constitutional responsibility of the Commission and this was also affirmed not long ago by a judgement of the Federal Court of Appeal. The management of the Commission has no intention to abdicate this constitutional responsibility”.   2023: Nigeria needs a new crop of leaders, says presidential…     Buhari inherited too many setbacks – APC youth leader     Advertising: Henley Business School, AAAN award $28, 000…   PSC said the Management had few weeks ago addressed the Staff on the matter and had also followed up with contact with the Inspector General of Police to explain issues arising from the preparation for the conduct of the 2021 Recruitment process. “Earlier favourable judgement to the Inspector General of Police by the Federal High Court Abuja was used for the takeover of all Police recruitments including that of Police Academy. - Advertisement - At no time did Management willingly surrender the Commission’s mandate to the Nigeria Police Force. This, it will never contemplate”, he said. Ani said the management is currently taking up the recent announcement by the Police, of screening dates for the 2021 Constable Recruitment, and will ensure that the Constitutional responsibilities of the Commission are not hijacked. He said the PSC will insist on keeping to existing clearly defined roles for all parties including the PSC, NPF, Federal Character Commission and state Governments, adding that the Commission will obviously drive the 2021 Constable Recruitment in line with Constitutional provisions. He said on the 2021 staff promotion, Management will approve the recommendation of its Standing Committee on Establishment at its next plenary meeting. PSC said: “The Management has no problem with training of staff on police Recruitment and will not stand against any reasonable recommendations on that. Management believes that the Staff has a right to demonstrate, sit at home, declares warning strike but frowns at the forceful locking of government offices. The Management will continue to protect the interest of the Staff and had always done that even during the fight for the mandate of the Commission in the courts”.