Reinsurance is crucial to the success of insurance business. The insurance hemisphere shows that the bulk of our money goes abroad as a result of insufficient reinsurance capacity. A former Commissioner for Insurance, co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, FBS Reinsurance Limited, Mr. Fola Daniel, speaks on the challenges confronting the sector. Omobola Tolu-Kusimo met him in Lagos. With the birth of FBS Reinsurance Limited, you are back in the insurance industry after completion of your tenure as Commissioner for Insurance. What does this mean? The pioneering story of FBS Re began in faraway Morocco in 2016- that was the year after I completed my statutory two-term tenure as commissioner for Insurance. My professional colleagues and I met and we discussed the yearning gaps in capacity in the insurance industry, especially against the background of insufficient number of domiciled reinsurers in Nigeria and most African countries. A consensus was then reached that, as part of our collective give-back to the industry, there was a need to establish a new indigenous reinsurance company. My emergence as the CEO of FBS Re is a product of a number of factors: my past role as a chief executive of a reinsurance company was one; my passion for the development of local capacity was another and indeed the intense persuasion of the other promoters was also significant. I was considered the best suited to help lay a solid foundation. I accepted the challenge, in consonance with my passion for the advancement and growth of the industry. Did you see any gap that you have to bridge in the reinsurance market? Of course, there is a huge reinsurance capacity gap in the Nigerian insurance industry. The capacity gap even became more apparent, as a result of what ordinarily should be celebrated as a golden opportunity, the vesting of a minimum of 70 per cent insurable risks on local insurers on the oil and gas industry, through the instrumentality of the Nigerian content Act. Before this law, the industry was struggling to provide requisite capacity for traditional insurances, in the Fire, Engineering, Marine and other conventional classes of insurance. The opportunity in the Nigerian content law, only exposed our low level capacity which works against the industry to benefit from the provision of the law. The Nigerian insurance space, therefore, became a market to surf by many foreign reinsurers, to provide needed extra capacity. It will be recalled, that whereas several new insurance licenses were issued during the past 20 years, the newest reinsurance license was issued over 40 years ago. The huge capital entry, capital requirement and dearth of manpower militated against the emergence of local players. The aforementioned reasons made the entry of a new reinsurance company audacious but inevitable. - Advertisement - Would you say this is a good time to start this venture given the high inflation and unstable exchange rate in the country? I think there is no good or bad time to start a business. There are challenges and opportunities associated with any particular time. A business will thrive even in the face of difficulties or environmental challenges, if the business plan is tailored to address a pathway to a desired end. Our base operational currency is in Naira. But then, we accept foreign businesses which generate inflow of foreign exchange, in the same manner as we secure our exposure by way of retrocession cover, denominated in foreign currency. Foreign exchange and its associated fluctuation are a worldwide problem. There will be gains and some losses, but it is expected that an equilibrium situation will evolve to sustain the business as a going concern. What about the claims frequency and management cost that has been on the rise? What are the steps that insurance should take and how would it affect you as a reinsurer? An insurance company is set up to settle claims. They receive premium in expectation that at any given time, there would be claims. Occurrence of losses or claims is not a monumental event in the life of an insurance company. It is expected and normal. Nobody can guide against the frequency but underwriting measures may be developed to ameliorate the severity and impacts of losses.  The insurance premiums are designed in a way that envisages the occurrence of insured losses and adequate pricing to ensure ability to settle such losses.  The rising cost of management expenses is a troubling phenomenon for both insurance managers and investors. The increasing deployment of information technology is however, assisting many organisations to run efficiently and cost-effectively. While the world is bemoaning the outbreak of COVID-19, it has resulted in opportunity for management to reduce costs. A number of personnel now work from home, leading to a rethink of large office spaces and large personnel. Curtailing management expenses has become a key performance indicator for many managers. At some point, rate cutting was a rampant issue in the industry. But nothing seems to be said about it again. Is it that the industry has accepted it as a norm? Insurance is based on probability theory. It is the pooling of resources together by way of premium payment from which the losses of others will be met. It presupposes that every contributor of risk would pay a commensurate premium to the level of risks pooled. When an insurer receives inadequate premium for carried risks, it puts such insurers at risk of settlement default. Unfortunately, inappropriate rates became a marketing tool to win businesses by competing insurers. Insurers and Reinsurers are increasingly troubled by this industry malpractice as it affects their profitability and threatens their going concern status. I suspect some elements of rate cutting may still be with us, making the insuring public susceptible to delay or denial of claims settlement, thus creating nightmare for industry regulators. If the issue of rate cutting is no longer on the front burner, then one may suspect that underwriters have devise a more sustainable means of competition. That would be my expectations, as we collectively match towards growth and profitable of the insurance industry. How can Nigeria insurance sector shift from the present position of minimal contribution to the GDP to meaningful contribution?   ‘Why I’m passionate about empowering youths’     Dearth of infrastructure major challenge of mobile money     ‘Our plan is to be a conglomerate’   The minimal contribution of the sector to the nation’s GDP at the moment, is a passing phase. With the reinvigoration of the industry through injection of foreign capital, expertise, financial inclusive products, environmentally sensitive and pocket friendly insurance covers, we are on the right track to increasing the insurance density in our clime. The biggest raw material for insurance growth is the middle class of the society. Our middle class is growing and so is their insurance needs. The Government’s renewed focus on infrastructural development, housing, small scale business empowerment, are veritable impetus to propel growth.  It is envisaged that the evolving growth will assume a geometrical progression, thus, significantly impacting the sector’s contributions to the Nation’s GDP. COVID-19, no doubt, affected businesses globally. How would you assess the industry’s performance in the post-COVID-19 era? The COVID-19 pandemic no doubt was the most impactful phenomenon worldwide in the recent times, which negative effects remain with us to date. The year 2021 is the first full business year in most parts of the world, after its full-blown outbreak in the first quarter of 2020. It is assuming a new norm, and the emergence of a suspected deadlier Omicron variant evoking renewed fears and concern. The industry, as part of the global business community took a direct hit. The pandemic distorted the basis of mortality rate in life insurance business and caused a significant reduction in non-life businesses, owing to shutdowns and the attendant reduction in insurable interests. It may be premature to talk about insurance in post-COVID era, as the pandemic subsists, in spite of the development and application of vaccines worldwide. Nevertheless, the industry as part of the global society remains optimistic of a better future. Recapitalisation of insurance companies has been a controversial issue in the industry. What is your advice to effect a successful round of recapitalisation? The recurring controversy surrounding recapitalization in the industry, I would say is rather unfortunate and unnecessary. Every business needs a measure of capital for effective operations. There are two kinds of capitalization models in the insurance industry. The most common in our clime is the statutory capital, requiring operators to have prescribed minimum to operate as insurers. These capital requirements serve the twin purpose of enabling the operators to respond timely to claims settlement. On the other hand, it serves to attract only serious individual and corporate bodies to secure a license as insurers. Both are primarily aimed at protecting the insuring public against failures. In other jurisdictions, risk-based capital is in vogue. This model is largely self-regulatory, compelling managers of insurance companies to inject capital on the scale of their risk appetite. The African environment is largely still utilizing the prescriptive capital model. It is noteworthy however, that NAICOM is gearing towards risk-based capital, with the potential of downplaying the statutory capital, which has become a subject of misconceptions. I think the regulator is on the right path to enthroning international best model of capitalization.  Emerging risks in form of cyber risks, natural disasters and civil unrest is getting popular with the insuring public relying on foreign insurers despite local content law. What is your view on this? Yes, a number of relatively new risks in our environment are evolving at a rapid rate. These risks include cybercrime, riots, kidnapping and lately terrorism. The insurance industry in the last five years have progressively offered covers for these risks as part of innovation and response to needs. Twenty years ago, the incidence of kidnapping was an exception, but today it has sadly become new normal. Insurance is based on law of large numbers, to enable a scientific calculation of the probability of the risk manifesting. These large numbers of vices are tragically staring us in the face today. Terrorism is another insurance cover on our books, resulting from the occurrences in the recent years. The insurance practitioners are proactively designing new policies to deal with the new realities. What are your predictions fo 2022 going by government policies? I do not lay claim to any capacity to predict the future but, as an optimist i believe the society will get better with the collaboration of all and sundry. I envisage a continuing prosperous insurance industry living up to the expectations of the insuring public and other critical stakeholders. How do you think insecurity can be reduced in the country such that insurance and other businesses can thrive especially in the Northeast? The country will be safer when we all realise and accept that security is the business of everyone of us and not that of the government alone. We must support all efforts designed to make our communities, our country and the society a safer and secured for our collective wellbeing.