The refusal by President Buhari to assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill transmitted by the National Assembly towards the end of last year marked the second time he would decline assent to that bill. The Bukola Saraki-led National Assembly had also during Buhari’s first tenure sent a similar bill which the president declined assent to. Then, he had cited time constraints contending that the 2019 elections were so close to allow a proper implementation of the details of innovations in the bill. So it was that the bill could not be deployed to enhance the outcome of the 2019 elections despite its innovations in electronic transmission of election results. The popularity of that bill was so much so that almost immediately after the 2019 elections, agitations resonated for it to be dusted up by the National Assembly especially given the exigency of time the president pleaded for refusing assent to it. After that election, the general feeling was that the National Assembly should expedite action on the bill on good time to avert a situation the president would again cite the same reason for which he refused assent to the previous one. But that seemed not to have happened. The National Assembly did not initially seem to appreciate the urgency of the matter and its prospects in deepening democracy on these shores. However, the Lawan-led National Assembly rose up from slumber late last year, completed work on the bill and transmitted same for the assent of the president. But contrary to all expectations and predictions, the president withheld assent to the bill faulting the inclusion of direct primaries by political parties which he said has “serious adverse legal, financial, economic and security consequences which cannot be accommodated at the moment considering our nation’s peculiarities”. - Advertisement - Buhari went at lengths in his letter to the National Assembly to give reasons why direct primaries would pose daunting challenges not only for the political parties but the country at large. Nigerians were taken aback by the president’s decision especially against earlier experiences with the Saraki-led National Assembly. And given the other fine details of the bill on direct electronic transmission of election results by INEC, concerns arose as to whether we are not contending with a subterfuge to imperil the conduct of free, fair and credible elections. The National Assembly was obviously jolted by the decision which was not really surprising given the pressure mounted on the president by the governors.  In apparent display of displeasure with the president’s action, legislators embarked on a flurry of activities fuelling speculations that they were about to veto the president on this singular bill. But that was not to happen before they proceeded on recess to resume this January. As they resume this month, speculations have had a field day as to the options available to the National Assembly on the bill. Before the assembly went into recess, there were reports that some members were collecting signatures to veto the president’s position on the bill. There were also speculations on moves by the government to counter any attempt to veto the president. What are the options available to the National Assembly on the Electoral Act amendment bill as legislators resume duties this month? If the National Assembly insists in seeing the bill through in its current form, it could veto the president’s decision by mustering the stipulated constitutional two-thirds majority to have the bill sail through without further recourse to the president.   An arrest gone awry     Endangered Imo royal fathers     NDDC’s headship   They could also expunge aspects of the bill that relate to direct primaries which Buhari cited as his major grouse with the Electoral Act amendment bill. When this is done, the National Assembly would then re-transmit the bill for the assent of the president. If that happens, the president would have to assent to the bill since the very reason for his refusal has been addressed. This appears the rational option as it will stave off the possibility of a clash arising from the National Assembly having to veto the president. But there is no guarantee that the president would still assent to the bill after direct primaries may have been expunged from it. Then we would be left with the view that the president’s action is part of the larger agenda to stall changes and innovations that will herald a new dawn in the electoral history of the country. This school subscribes to the view that the president is really averse to changes in the Electoral Act given the advantage it is bound to give his party to manipulate the 2023 national elections. They see the president’s position as a subterfuge to play with time and stall the innovations in the bill. Though all these are still within the realm of speculations, it is difficult to dismiss them in view of our electoral past characterized by vaulting ambition by politicians to play against the rules of the game.  Time is fast running out and we may be pushed to point where the president would again cite time constraints to refuse assent to this all important bill. The National Assembly should move quickly after its resumption and expunge from the bill all that have to do with direct primaries. Thereafter, it should expeditiously transmit the amended bill for the assent of the president. What he does with it thereafter would be a veritable measure of the dispositions of his government to free, fair and credible elections. Buhari had on several occasions pledged commitment to a credible electoral process; one that reflects the collective will of the electorate as expressed at the ballot box. This is the time to give effect to such claims. He must now proceed beyond sanctimonies and pious statement and take concrete steps to match his words with action. The evidence of this will come obvious from his dispositions to the electoral act amendment bill that holds the ace for reliable and fool-proof elections. Even as the National Assembly is being persuaded not to toe the path of confrontation with the president on direct primaries, something still has to be done to check the excesses and overbearing influence of governors in determining who gets the party tickets. That is the key grouse against indirect primaries. So it is not just enough to fault direct primaries as the president did. The key issue is how to make the necessary adjustments in the indirect primary approach to give the people-the real owners of the party a greater say in who represents them at the various levels. That is the issue to contend with if we are really desirous of deepening democracy in this country. I had in this column argued that both the direct and indirect primaries’ approach have the prospects of approximating the collective will of party members if the rules are faithfully applied. So the issue is not as much with the options as the attitudinal dispositions of those whose responsibility it is to implement them. The governors and the leadership of the political parties are to blame for whatever failings that have brought indirect primaries to the current pass.  It is not enough to fault direct primary without making the necessary adjustments that will imbue confidence in party members that their votes count in electing members who wish to vie for political offices. There is need for serious adjustments in the indirect primaries approach to give party members more voice in the running of their affairs. That is the way not only to reduce disenchantments with the indirect primaries approach but also whittling down the lure of direct primaries. Ironically, the refusal by the president to assent to the bill is exposing an emerging preference for the status quo. His recent positions on state police, grazing routes and restructuring do not speak of a leader amenable to change. It remains to be conjectured what progress this country can possibly make with such a mind frame.