Stakeholders are worried as unclaimed auctioned goods and seized vehicles parked in the premises of Customs command and federal units in Lagos and Ogun states are fast turning their offices into junkyards, reports Kunle Akinrinade. Some operational offices of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) are currently choked by seized or unclaimed auctioned items including vehicles and hundreds of thousands of bags of rice. The goods, according to highly placed Customs sources, are worth close to N100 billion. Most of the items, especially vehicles, The Nation learnt, were seized from car smugglers, but they have not been claimed by the individuals who bid for them through the electronic auction arrangement put in place by the authorities of NCS. For instance, the government warehouse at the Federal Operations Unit (FOU ‘A’) of NCS in Ikeja, Lagos is overflowing with seized items while different brands of vehicles intercepted from smugglers litter the premises and are fast turning the place into a junkyard. Findings made by our correspondent revealed that most of the cargoes intercepted by men of the unit are kept at the training school within the premises of the unit, which also hosts a hostel for new trainees, thus compromising conducive learning environment for new students and trainees. - Advertisement - Investigation revealed that some perishable items have decomposed due to lack of facilities to preserve them. Many of the vehicles including cars, buses, trucks and motorcycles, some of which were used to convey contraband, have started wearing out. Some of the vehicles were said to have been intercepted from smugglers and motorists on inter-state highways when they could not produce evidence of customs duty while others were seized for being used to convey smuggled items. The situation at the customs area command in Ogun State is not any different. Many vehicles intercepted over the years litter the rear of the main office complex of the Ogun 2 Command in Abeokuta and the operational office of Ogun 1 Command in Idiroko, a border town on the boundary between Nigeria and the Republic of Benin.   How goods, vehicles overflow customs’ warehouses, premises At a recent briefing, the Controller of the Federal Operations Unit Zone ‘A’ in Lagos, Hussein Kehinde Ejibunu, said there was the need for new warehouses to be built at the Ikeja office of the zonal federal operations unit of Nigeria Customs Service. Ejibunu’s remarks were as a result of the space constraint at the Unit’s office premises and warehouse. For example, about 30,000 bags of foreign parboiled rice have been intercepted lately in addition to about 60,000 bags seized from smugglers during the time of the immediate past head of the Unit and kept at the same warehouse. It was also learnt that an average of 5,000 bags of foreign rice are impounded from smugglers on a weekly basis. Aside other items such as vegetable oil, used clothing, shoes, poultry products and unprocessed wood, about 13,535 bags of foreign rice were intercepted by men of the Unit in two weeks, all adding to the over bloated warehouse. Ejibunu noted that except for the distribution of some of the edible items in the camps of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) there is no other means of decongesting the already overflowing warehouses at the unit. The federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the distribution of seized rice to IDP camps to resolve the food crisis confronting displaced persons sheltered at the camps. The initiative was also a strategy by the federal government to prevent seized consignments of rice from getting spoilt or destroyed by pests and environmental condition. The situation is further compounded by unclaimed vehicles auctioned electronically, which worsened the already worrisome space constraint. It was said that successful bidders’ tardiness at removing the cars from the Customs Area Command at Idiroko, Ogun State, may not be unconnected with fear of attacks by persons described as “the original owners of the vehicles”, from whom the cars were seized but are still keeping tabs on them. A source who did not want his name in print said: ”Even as successful bidders, it is not easy to take the cars away, because the smugglers from whom they were seized would ambush the new owners and retrieve their  cars. Hence, they are left there to rot away. ”Many vehicles seized from smugglers and parked at the offices of the Command in Idiroko and Abeokuta are rotting away. Many of them are posh cars worth millions of naira and are fast turning into scraps many years after they were seized from smugglers. ”Many of the vehicles have become safe havens for poisonous snakes who hide in them and have been sighted on many occasions.’’   Stakeholders proffer solution Speedy evacuation of auctioned vehicles, industry experts said, is the solution to the mess which the goods have made of Customs offices. Others are of the opinion that  the goods should be returned to their owners on payment of duty and additional fines, to discourage people from smuggling. Smart Orji, Chief Executive Officer of Onboard Commodities Express Ltd, said “the contraband, especially vehicles, have body components that cannot withstand long exposure to harsh climatic conditions while parked at a spot for a long time, hence the dilapidated condition of  the vehicles.   Conflicts in Nigeria could escalate, World Bank warns     JOE ARIBO: I WANT TO LEAVE CAMEROON WITH SILVERWARE     QUEEN SOPHY YAH: I draw inspiration from black actors   “However, the best way of addressing the concentration of so many seized cars at the customs offices, which have virtually turned into scrap yard, is immediate evacuation of the vehicles. “This can be done by asking the owners to pay the exact duty they were trying to evade and additional fine. ”Vehicles impounded as means of conveyance should be compressed and destroyed, especially the thousands of motorcycles parked at the Idiroko Area Command.’  He added: ”Most of the edible products, such as rice, tomato and other food items, are supposed to be stored with certain room temperature. But some of them are piled up at Customs stores without the required temperature while many of them are even being kept at makeshift structures without adequate protection. “Therefore, most of these items decompose and become unfit for human consumption in a country where people are battling massive hunger.” It will be recalled that  about 1,800 bags of rice given as palliatives to the Oyo State Government during the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 were rejected by the state government on the grounds that they were not good for human consumption. The federal government had ordered the Nigeria Customs Service to donate 1,800 bags of rice each to Oyo, Osun and Ekiti states, and 800 bags to Ondo State as parts of efforts to alleviate the effects of coronavirus on residents of the four states. But Debo Akande, Executive Adviser on agribusiness to the Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, said the government had rejected its own share of the rice. Akande, explained that the decision to reject the rice was reached after the inspections done by the state’s food security committee of the COVID-19 task force. He said the state government discovered that the rice were infested by weevil and other pests, and took the decision in the interest of the health of residents of the state. Akande said: “We received these items from the Federal Government via the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and we brought them here to the warehouse, and it is in the process of further inspection; that we discovered that almost all the grains of rice has been infested by weevil and other pests,” he said. In his opinion, the Managing Director of First Marina Ltd, Abbey Fatukasi, urged Customs authorities to consider building bigger warehouses to accommodate the teeming seizures as well as building special centres where the vehicles can be parked to decongest the affected area commands and federal zonal units. He said: “It repulsive how the seized vehicles depreciate and other goods rot away at customs offices and warehouses with nothing being done to salvage the situation. ”The Nigeria Customs Service last year sufficiently met the revenue target given to it by the federal government. Therefore, part of the money should be spent on building new warehouses and large stores as well as special centres where vehicles can be kept. ”The two facilities are necessary to sanitise customs offices, make the environment clean and not expose the goods to attacks by pests and corrosive environmental conditions.” A customs clearing agent, Jimoh Gbeleyi, remarked that ”keeping seized items for too long does not make any economic sense at all. “For example, vehicles are rotting away and depreciating in worth when they could have been immediately auctioned to generate income for the government. ”When the e-auction started some years back, it initially failed because most of the cars had become scrap by the time they were displayed online for auction, and successful bidders were disappointed that what they purchased online was not what they saw when it was time to take possession of their cars. ”Now, leaving the vehicles to rot for so long might also result in devaluing their worth and might result in selling them as at prices that would not generate good income envisaged from their sale.” Efforts made to get the response of the National Public Relations Officer of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) Joseph Attah were futile. The calls our correspondent made to Attah’s mobile telephone went unanswered, while he did not also respond to a text message sent to his phone. However, a reliable source close to the Ogun 1 Command told our correspondent that some of the auctioned vehicles were currently being removed by their owners. The source said: ”Removal of auctioned goods has begun in Ogun 1 Command. It has been on in the last few days, and if you come around, you would see how the items, including vehicles, are being taken away from where they are parked or stored. ”I have witnessed the exercise, it is being well supervised and would build the confidence of the public in the auction of goods put in place by authorities.