The Board of Directors of Vintage Press Limited, publishers of The Nation, SportingLife and Gbelegbo, yesterday urged the company’s employees to remain committed to its growth. Vintage Press Limited Chairman Wale Edun spoke at a reception at the company’s headquarters in Lagos for employees who won awards at the 2021 editions of the Nigeria Media Merit Awards (NMMA) and others. Edun was accompanied by other board members: Prof. Adebayo Williams, Mr. Adeleke Adeyemo and Hon. Wale Oshun. Also in attendance was the Executive Director (Finance and Administration), Mr. Sunday Adeleke. The Nation won 16 honours, including Editor of the Year, at the 2021 NMMA. The newspaper had 35 nominations, the highest by any media organisation. - Advertisement - The Editor (Daily), Mr. Adeniyi Adesina, who gave the opening remarks on behalf of the Managing Director/Editor-in-Chief, Mr. Victor Ifijeh, thanked the board for its support for the management and workers. He pledged that the employees would continue to wins awards to show the organisation’s dominance in the industry. Mr. Adeleke urged the reporters to win more awards for the organisation. He added that the management remained committed to their welfare.   Petrol subsidy: No going back on rally, says Wabba     Galloping oil price: Can Nigeria seize the moment?     Lagos swears in pilgrim board’s members   Edun eulogised the workers for their support and dedication. The one-time Lagos State Finance Commissioner noted that the winning streak was made possible through team efforts. He urged other workers not feel left out. The board chairman also admonished female reporters to work hard and win more laurels for the frontline newspaper. Edun said: “We are here today to celebrate the award winners – CITN, NMMA, DAME – for our top performance. We have here everybody because it is a team effort. We all know how we were targeted during #EndSARS protests, but we scaled through and we bounced back.”  He also announced a bonus package for all staff members as a mark of appreciation for their dedication to duty. On behalf of the board, Edun presented letters to the winners, including Adeleke, who won the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) award. Other winners are: Adesina; Deputy Editor Emmanuel Oladesu, Associate Editor Olatunji Ololade, Senior Correspondent Collins Nweze, Assistant News Editor Innocent Duru, Assistant Editor Bola Olajuwon, Senior Correspondent Kevin Osa Okunbor, Chief Correspondent Kunle Akinrinade and Assistant Editor Chikodi Okereocha. Duru, who spoke on behalf of the winners, expressed appreciation to the board members for their support.  He said: “We are honoured to have you in our midst today. It is a very special day and we look forward to many of this kind of gathering.” Duru also appreciated the editors and the management for supporting reporters. Weekend Editor Festus Eriye applauded the board for interacting with the members of staff of the organisation.  He said: “We thank the board of directors, and we look forward to gathering here next year again.”