Still smarting from an unexpected loss of power to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party in Imo State is plotting a comeback. Behind the plot is a move to return former governor Emeka Ihedioha as the party’s gubernatorial candidate, writes Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan. THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State is unrelenting in its bid to return to power come 2023. Already, chieftains of the party within and outside the state are working round the clock to reposition the party ahead of the 2023 general election with their eyes on the governorship seat among other elective positions currently being held by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) under the leadership of Governor Hope Uzodimma. Ahead of the next general election, The Nation gathered that the PDP in Imo state have commenced moves to strengthen the party and reconcile all its warring groups. “Currently, we are focusing on ensuring unity within our ranks. It is only PDP that can defeat PDP in Imo state currently. The ruling party is troubled and we will take advantage of that to unseat them from government in our state. Imo state is a PDP state and we are ready, more than ever before, to return to power,” a chieftain of the party told our correspondent. Checks by The Nation revealed that party leaders across the state spent the better of the festive period holding meetings with chieftains and members of the party on how to further reposition the PDP ahead of the 2023 general election in the state. Reliable sources within the party told our correspondent that the meetings were a follow up to earlier ones among party topnotch aimed at reawakening the membership of the PDP in Imo state in preparation for next gubernatorial election. “Our leaders have identified what the problems are and we have all resolved to work in unity towards ensuring we are ready for the general election. The PDP is a very strong party in Imo state, but we must admit the reality; we were troubled by crisis, especially after our mandate was stolen from us and given to the APC in a very unusual judgment. But we are done with lamenting and we are determined to return to government house especially with the lackluster performance of the APC government,” a source added. - Advertisement - Speaking on the preparation of his party for 2023, National Secretary of the PDP, Senator Samuel Nnaemeka Anyanwu, boasted that his party will return to take over Imo come 2023 because the people of the state are looking forward to its coming. The former senator representing Owerri senatorial zone said, the people had faced a lot of hard times ranging from insecurity resulting in killings of youth and innocent souls which had made people not to visit their villages again; economic hardship resulting in unemployment, high cost of food items and other wares. Corroborating Anyanwu, former Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha confirmed that the PDP is working round the clock to ensure it is victorious in the next general election in the state. He charged Imo people to remain steadfast and committed to the PDP. He assured that the party will take over the reins of power in Imo again after the 2023 elections. According to him, the PDP is a serious political party with enviable traditions and plans for the good people of the state. He described the current administration in the state as ‘temporary’ and promised the people that come 2023, the PDP will return to put smiles on their faces.   The Ihedioha factor Amidst indications that some leaders of the party in the state are determined to scuttle the aspiration of former governor Emeka Ihedioha to pick the PDP governorship ticket for the 2023 contest, the leadership of the party has announced that it will be projecting the former deputy Speaker for the 2023 governorship election. The Nation gathered the announcement followed what some party leaders described as ‘an underground move by enemies of the party to create confusion in our midst. There are however indications that the move is not pleasing to some prominent party leaders. State Secretary of the PDP, Emenike Nmeregini, disclosed this in a statement. According to him, the party would rely on Ihedioha’s achievements when he was governor to campaign for the 2023 elections. “We have been inundated with calls by concerned people of Imo State over a flying rumour, syndicated in the social media by enemies of Imo State, purporting that our leader, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, CON will defect to the All Progressives Grand Alliance, (APGA) to vie for the 2023 governorship election. “This party initially did not consider a disclaimer necessary, for the simple reason that Rt. Hon. Ihedioha is not known to prostitute between political parties. He is known and has indeed remained a consequential leader, consistent major financier, loyal and dedicated member and leader of our party since helping to found it in 1998. For emphasis, there is no other truly democratic party in Nigeria and Imo State in particular, aside from the PDP. We are not unaware of the increasing desperation of agents of darkness, who are afraid of the imminent reclaiming of our stolen mandate come 2023. “It is incontrovertible that His Excellency Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON is our brand. And our message ahead of the 2023 general election is the celebrated achievements of the Rebuild Imo administration within the seven months. The PDP led Rebuild Imo administration laid a solid foundation for the rebuilding process of our state. It is on record that all the sectors of the state were receiving attention before the usurpers broke into the government house.”   Nigerians decry hassles of e-commerce     The presidential interviews     Ekiti ‘22: In order not to snatch defeat from the jaws of…   “Our party takes pride in the achievements of the Rebuild Imo administration for which we are being pressured by the people of Imo State across party lines to endeavour to seek their mandate to continue the rebuilding process. Lastly, we wish to warn mischief makers, agents of darkness, blackmailers, enemies of Imo State, and APC cohorts, to look elsewhere and stop any such fake news. Imo people are wiser and are vigilant to these and other devices of the enemies,” PDP said.   Subtle moves Meanwhile, checks by The Nation revealed that some prominent leaders across the southeast had put pressure on Ihedioha to dump the PDP and join the APGA ahead of the 2023 general elections. “These are not just political leaders. They cut across party affiliations and the move is part of efforts by concerned Igbo leaders to prepare the zone for the 2023 presidential election. I can tell you that following the success of APGA in Anambra and the emergence of Charles Soludo as governor-elect, there is a new thinking on the need to strengthen APGA and position it as a possible platform for the actualization of the election of a president of Igbo extraction,” a source claimed. It was gathered that Ihedioha was given the offer a thought when the leadership of the PDP in Imo state threw him the gubernatorial ticket kite. Unable to resist, the former deputy governor allegedly rescinded his decision to move into the APGA. However, his camp is banking on the leadership of the PDP to fulfill the promise of ensuring he emerges as the party’s governorship candidate. “The PDP will do itself a lot of good to keep that promise. Ihedioha is a man of peace and his actions are always dictated by the need for peace,” an associate of the politician said. Some other reliable sources within the party had insinuated that Ihedioha was not in good terms with the National Secretary of PDP, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, who also hails from the state, hence the decision of the erstwhile governor to leave PDP. But The Nation learnt that concerned party leaders had waded into the rift within the duo, which is largely political. “Whatever is the issue between them is being looked into and it will be resolved in the interest of the PDP. They are both our leaders and they care more about the success of the PDP than anything else.” Aside stopping the exit of its members to the APGA, it was also gathered that the PDP in Imo has been reaching out to some of its chieftains that dumped the party in recent times to return to the PDP ahead of the next general elections. “We are also talking to some APC chieftains to come over and join us. Many of them are currently unhappy where they are and in search of a new political home. We are in talks with them. We are ready to collaborate with them and do give and take in order for us all to achieve our collective desire which is to sack APC from government house,” he said. Senator Anyanwu revealed that all things being equal, the PDP in Imo State, has concluded plans to welcome back its lost members to the ruling APC this year. He described the level of expected defection of the former members to PDP as ” Tsunami of the greatest time”, confirming that the party at the National level and State are consulting with the former members as well as new members to make the party stronger for the 2023 general elections. He also emphasised that PDP is set to return to power with adequate preparations it is making to get a credible governorship candidate.   Assurances Ihedioha, a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, has recently reassured his followers that he will return to continue the good work he started for Imo people that was cut short due to the court judgement. “Be steadfast. Be patient. This suffering will not last forever. Soon, we will correct the problems and the masses will smile again,” Ihedioha said. Insisting that he has moved on with his life; focusing on the future after his 2019 Imo governorship debacle, he said that what happened to him when he was removed through the court was a temporary setback. Ihedioha assured his supporters that his popularity and acceptance among Imo people had soared higher and that his electoral value had tremendously increased in the State. He asked PDP members to go home and register more members, stressing that a lot of people want to join the party, as the APC had disappointed the masses, both at the State and the national level. Anyanwu on his own noted that PDP is the only party that can rewrite the wrongs of the past administrations especially on insecurity and dwindling economy of the nation. He said ” We have weighed other parties and non can make Nigeria happy like PDP, the insecurity in the country is getting worst ,corruption escalating on a daily basis, today the country is the most indebted in the world and yet we are still borrowing . “Look at in Imo most people don’t travel to their homes again especially in Orlu and Okigwe. PDP is back to rescue and rebuild Nigeria, only way to do that is to get a capable candidate ,there would be a political tsunami, an exodus from other parties ,PDP has no faction again, we are ready to bounce back to power, in the next few months those that has left the party would come back .” he assured.