The Katsina State Government said it plans to increase the number of enrollment in the State Contributory Health Care Management Agency to 700,000 this year. The Director-General, Katsina State Contributory Health Care Management Agency (KTSCHMA), Mal Muhammed Ibrahim, who disclosed this in Katsina while updating reporters on the performance of the Agency since its commencement six months ago said the state currently has 341,675 people who enrolled in the scheme, adding that 288,675 are government workers while 53,000 are private individuals. According to him, the organisation will encourage individuals to enrol in the scheme via affordable monthly contributions. He said: “We have our work plan to enrol more people in the scheme this year. Our target is 700,000 people before the end of the year, and we have begun work on that already.” The KTSCHMA boss said the state government had made available one per cent of the consolidated fund revenue in the 2022 budget as the take-off grant for the agency.   Kogi windstorm: NEMA distributes relief materials to victims     Ganduje presents staff of office to Emir of Gaya     Kontagora General Hospital records 85 deliveries, 14…   - Advertisement - “Governor Aminu Masari wants every resident in the state to have access to quality and affordable health care, and we are working in collaboration with the 422 health care facilities participating in the scheme across the state to make this a reality,” he said. Also, yesterday, the Managing Director of Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), Ahmad Dangiwa said the bank has launched the construction of 1,200 houses for various health co-operatives and labour unions in Katsina State. Dangiwa, who disclosed this during an inspection tour of the various houses funded by the bank which are under construction in Katsina State, said the unions approached the bank for the fund to build the houses for their members after they have acquired their land, conducted their own design, costing and approved their own developers, which the bank is now funding. He said: “We are here to inspect the projects funded by the FMBN to ensure that the money is properly utilised based on the agreement.” The site visited by the Managing Director of the bank included Funtua, Malumfashi and Dutsinma where the projects were at different stages of completion for the various co-operative societies.