The Police have expressed concern over the lack of interest of young Nigerians from the southern part of the country in joining the rank and file cadre (recruits). The disinterested posture, the service said, was evident in the ongoing recruitment exercise as mostly northerners applied to join the service as recruits. At a sensitisation programme held at the Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa, stakeholders however listed issues like poor remuneration/welfare, lack of adequate weapons, low entry qualifications, among others as disincentives to southern youths. They urged the police to up the bar to make the youths interested in joining the force as recruits, noting that most young persons in this part of the country were already graduates and not ready to be subjected to inhumane conditions of service. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs Folashade Jaji, said it has been observed over the years that the number of people joining the police and armed force has reduced. - Advertisement - “We wonder why that is happening, and we believe we should encourage the youth to join the Nigeria Police and other forces. “When we are all retired will there still be people in the police force that we can still go to for help? “We found out that Lagos State indigenes are under-represented and we urge the appropriate persons to work towards this. It means we will not have people to run to in the future. I encourage them to join the police and other force. “Maybe our youths are not encouraged by the behaviour of our police hence they are not joining. There is also a need to take care of the police welfare and needs.   Labour writes governors, wants fuel import stopped     ‘How I became first serving police SAN’     Simon tips Eagles for Qatar 2022 World Cup   “In some places where you see the police, you admire them and want to join because the right thing has been done in taking care of them…” He said. Similarly, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, who was represented by AIG Olusola Subair (rtd) said: “We all need to know that we can only attain prosperity in an ambience of security.” “To the police, we need to do a lot of homework that will make people to be attracted to the job. “The police officer must know that a little effort can go a long way to change the way you are perceived by the public. There has to be an effort to change the narrative.” Addressing the audience, Chairman, Police Service Commission (PSC), IGP Musiliu Smith (rtd.), assured that some of the issues raised would be looked into, urging that responsible and upright young citizens should be encouraged to apply to breach numerical shortfalls and put the country on the right path in efficient policing. Smith noted that the police and policing were indispensable to a peaceful and growing country that is determined to change the narrative on the issue of her internal security. He said: “We must continuously raise alarm if we notice that some criminal elements in our community are applying to join the police with the recommendation of some community leaders. “We must therefore all come together as a community to ensure that only the best are recruited into the Nigeria Police. The PSC has adopted an approach to improving police, citizens relationships through community engagement forums such as this one where issues that affect citizens are addressed. “The purpose of providing security and safety is defeated if the police as a security organisation are contaminated with persons who are criminally-minded thanks to the poor calibre of those applying for the recruitment. “No one knows better the character of its citizens than members of the community therefore, citizens are encouraged to kindly urge people of good character to join the force. “Those applying for intake should take the process seriously by preparing very well for the examination to give them the best possible chance of success.”