There is the temptation to make the tragic sense of things the touchstone of Nigerian politics. This desire to daub life dire, has for a long while, defined the tide of political partisanship and the transience of hope as a national ideal. In the fracas of faith and filth, the negligible attains significance while the essential gets consigned to the fringes of awareness. Had I the garb and lyricism of Sam Omatseye or the suave, gentle reproach of Segun Ayobolu, I’d school the situational activists and dubious ethicists chanting toxic rant about which candidate should contest or not. But the tantrums of social media cynics and “attack dogs” hardly determine the fate of any candidate or the outcome of an election. Most of them don’t get to vote. They are passion herdsmen and activists of dubious intent. There is no gainsaying many have joyously committed to the carnage of truth in pursuit of their selfish interests. In the fray, we experience the blooming of  fishy equivocation and crass sentimentality. - Advertisement - This tragic sense of things, is a response to the Nigerian experience. This manifests in the electorate’s detachment from patriotic endeavour. Most guilty is the Nigerian in his youth, who samples dissent but will not commit to progressive intent. Rustling ‘wokeness’ out of tired bromides, his sterile passion stifles patriotic fervour. It was the reflex of youth resistance to and misapprehension of political nature, that led most EndSARS activists to shun more constructive engagement in politics and thus rigged themselves out of the ongoing transition process. Many of them won’t get to vote because they do not have a voter’s card. Even so, they hurl the label, old cargo, at the country’s oligarchs. This writer too, had severally dismissed the latter as the predatory bunch in whose vice grip Nigeria asphyxiates and suffers a carnage of growth. Sadly, the youths have done too little to merit the upset they seek. Political power is never dished out  a la carte. It is not something you request and receive on a silver platter in some fancy restaurant. It is a few months to the 2023 general elections and Nigeria pulses with partisan spirit. Rather than validate the shenanigans of the herd, the electorate should focus on the crucial questions. Of the prospective candidates, whose politics echo our heartbeats? To what do they owe our reverence of them? By their citizenship, do they furnish pathways to empower disillusioned, jobless youths of Umukegwu, Akokwa, Urualla, Borno, Apongbon, Idumota, Agege, Agbor, Sango Ota, Sankwala, to mention a few? Do they teach the youth to abhor greed, selfishness, god complex? Do they impress that, in the end, only Nigerians get to choose what becomes of Nigeria, not  a coalition of shady friends from abroad and black ops-activated humanitarian agencies? The answer resonates in each candidate’s utterances and deeds. Transcendent moments and deeds are manifestations of an exalted intelligence. Who among the candidates possesses the  loftiest acumen? Whose antecedents in private or public office – or both – elicits the passionate tribute of a cheer? Whose past and present exploits incite the passing tribute of a sigh? Despite the youths’ dissatisfaction with the status quo, do they project the moral character, strength, political literacy and intelligence required to make the right choice? The ongoing jostle for political spoils is incantatory of Nigerian mind and nature. It is overtly ritualistic. Duplicitous analysts and oligarchs, comprising governors, lawmakers, and members of the presidential cabinet relentlessly pursue their selfish interests amid widespread suffering and bloodshed. Even the self-appointed progressives have shunned the lilies and languors of virtue for the raptures and roses of vice, as Dolores would say. Amid our suffering, they reconstruct Nigeria into a narrow commune, beholden to their selfish interpretations of power and political office.   Umahi suspends provost, bursar over fraudulent recruitment     Toxic dust along Orlu-Owerri Road     Is VAR killing the essence of AFCON?   Their virtues are short, and their vices extensive and implacable. Their lips, full of lust and laughter, attach to the country’s bosom like curled serpents that are fed from the breast. Every dispensation, they press with fanged lips where their reptilian predecessors have suckled. Nigeria thus becomes the doomed Cleopatra giving suck to their asps. When kicked out of office, they grudgingly recoil – but never quitting the corridors of power – to accord Nigeria the affliction of deadlier asps in the successive administration. It hardly matters whether we denounce them on the pages of newspapers, in the studios of popular TV, or the highly virulent comment threads of online media, Nigeria would never be rid of them until we set our grief’s needlepoint astride the prick of pain en  route to the 2023 general elections. Of the candidates, I see a true progressive, a patriot, and misunderstood titan. I see men enslaved to power and god complex. I see voyagers hampered by baggage from a past and present that would forever haunt them. Even the ‘new kids on the block’ come forged as minnows and bathetic ogres. I see a colossus whose handlers paint a ravishing portrait of him even as critics dismiss him as yet another genome of leadership, dastardly and base like the Casanova lost in the folds of the bearded meat. I see an electorate wrought of two extremes: cynical and apathetic. Very few candidates excite passion and hope, save the dangerous fits thrown by their pawns and puppets on the social media. It’s about time we identified the contender jostling to handle our heartfelt yearnings as his tuberous burden. The one who would cradle our dreams like eggs hatched by a tired fowl in the throes of twilight. Who among the candidates is best suited to handle and resolve the issues that embitter you and I? Who could tackle convincingly, beyond theory, the fundamental issues he would eventually grapple with as President? Many Nigerians are probably living through one of the worst decade of their lives. They read of bloody genocides at dawn, poverty and strife in the next city – many more live through such. And as usual, an economy patched with foreign loans, exaggerated growth and duplicity. It took a perfect gathering of bad leadership to get to this moment. It would take an imperfect cannonball of a man to brave through and survive it. Who, among the candidates is wrought of such fibre? What we should be interested in is a President-Elect capable of fostering the type of education and skilled force Nigeria needs to power her industry. We have no need of a big and egocentric President in hard times; what we need is a humble man of great depth. We need a President who would be forever indebted to Nigerians, for giving him the opportunity to serve. We need one now as today is spitting out monsters and tomorrow portends the birth of a thousand trolls. We are done believing in the dignified duplicity of treacherous men. We need a President who acknowledges that today, everything is broken, and that the very system that produced him needs to be fixed in a way that wouldn’t make deity of him and sacrificial lambs of the Nigerian people. We need a President capable of speaking gently and intelligently too. A President who listens. Nigeria deserves a man who internalises the citizenry’s griefs in order to end them. We may identify such a leader by his antecedents and present conduct. Let us seek the candidate who would become the blank screen, on which Nigerians of vastly different stripes may rally and project their agonies and wants. And he wouldn’t lose his head.