Oyo Sate governor, Seyi Makinde, yesterday wished National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu the best outing in his quest to become the president of the country after next year’s elections. Speaking as Tinubu’s host at the Oyo State Government House, Agodi, Ibadan where the latter paid a condolence visit to the governor and the people of the state over the death of three notable Oyo indigenes including the Soun Ogbomosho, the Olubadan of Ibadanland and Ex-Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, Makinde said that only the best is good enough for the country in next year’s election. Makinde, who was full of kind words for Tinubu, also commended the former Lagos State governor for rising above politics and political differences to visit him on the loss of the two prominent traditional rulers and a former governor in quick succession. “We have taken proper notice,” the governor said, adding: “We are really grateful for this visit because this is actually a political season. “This year that we are in, most political parties will elect their candidates towards the election that is coming next year. So, what this has demonstrated to us is that you stood for politics without bitterness. - Advertisement - “Because this is a political season, you might have said why do I need to come to Oyo Government House; that people may have different interpretations of it politically and all of that. But you sent a message across to me and I was delighted to host you in Ibadan, the Government House. “Yes, we lost two prominent traditional rulers almost in quick succession. It was Soun first, and we were planning for the burial when Olubadan also happened. “And we were still in the middle of that, as a matter of fact, I spoke with Governor Akala few days back, telling him that the roads we are constructing from Ogbomosho to Iseyin, he would be the one to flag it off. “Few people said he would not accept that assignment from us, but I called him, he accepted and said government will come and go but our state will remain; whatever we do is wherever others will take over and continue. “So I can say that in Oyo State, we also tried to take politics out of what we call Omoluabi.” Makinde seized the opportunity of the visit to tease the APC flag bearer in the 2019 governorship polls, Adebayo Adelabu, and a former ALGON chairman in the state, Abass Aleshinloye, saying they were the ones giving him troubles in the state. He, however, added that the kind of politics played in Oyo State is the type that does not betray brotherhood and unity of purpose. He said: “We are indeed very grateful for this visit. You are appreciated. “When you came in, I looked at some of the people in your entourage, from Bayo (Adelabu) to Aleshinloye (Abass). These are the people that are always causing trouble for me in this state. “But for us, we end at the political level. Once it is not politics, we relate and we believe that is the path to the development of this country. “Yes, we may fight and struggle for political positions, but once it ends, it is because we know that power can only come from God. Otherwise, people like me from 2007 when I started…   Epe agog as son donates care centre for the elderly     Bloody night in Zamfara     Buhari, Osinbajo, govs honour fallen heroes on Armed Forces…   “You addressed me as Distinguished Governor, but I never went to the Senate. I went in absentia because I contested twice to go to the Senate and I lost. “So, we believe that power only comes from God and He gives it to whoever He likes to give it at whatever time. “So, let me thank you and your entourage for this visit and let you know that we are very appreciative of it, and we have taken proper notice that you have risen above politics and all that is going on around here to come and share with us at this moment of our grief, and we say thank you. “Let me also use this opportunity to wish you well in your political quest to govern this nation. We want the best for this country and only the best is good enough for us at this particular time.” Earlier in his remarks, the APC National Leader commended Makinde for being accommodating and receiving him and the entourage despite the short notice among other developmental strides of the Makinde led administration in the state. Noting that he was not in the state for politics but to commiserate with the governor and people of the state, Tinubu lauded Makinde for making Ibadan peaceful and devoid of the violence, rancour and others as were being reported in other places. Tinubu said: “I want to thank you, Mr Governor. It was only last night that I learnt that the aircraft that would bring me from Abuja was available, and l said we have to do it before it gets too late. “Having lost the Olubadan of Ibadan, a former governor of this state Adebayo Alao-Akala and the Soun of Ogbomoso, the essence for us is to go back to the sense of value of the people and their lives. “When I flashed back to my last encounter with the Olubadan when he came to Lagos with his Olori, I didn’t know he came to say goodbye. “Suddenly, we heard of Alao-Akala, and with these situations, we share your loss. You as the governor on the saddle of power take responsibility for the situation here. “I want to say that we thank God that Ibadan has been peaceful. It is not a den of violent attacks or anything. It is a peaceful place. “Every other thing that has happened has taught us in the books of both religions that one day, we are just passing through, we all will go. But no matter how long it is, it is difficult to absorb the loss easily. “The Olubadan of Ibadan has contributed immensely to the stability, peace and love that radiated throughout Oyo land. “Akala has governed this place before. We are in a historic environment that has contributed so much to our democracy in Africa, and you are beholding the history, not only for Oyo state but our democracy in West Africa. “Thank you for being accommodating. We gave you quite a short notice and you responded. Thank you. That is a demonstration of good character. It is rare in this world. People sometimes get intoxicated with power and arrogance of office can be overwhelming, but not with you. “It is very good that we are able to be here not on politics. We love and appreciate your feelings and we share your grief with you. “May their souls rest in peace. May Oyo State continue to grow in leaps and bounds and have a rapid development which is a dream for all of us. Thank you for receiving us.” Some of the dignitaries in the company of the presidential aspirant include, Chief Pius Akinyelure (former National Vice Chairman, Southwest and board member of NNPC), Alhaji Ibrahim Masari (former National Welfare Officer of APC), Hon James Abiodun Faleke (Chairman, Finance Committe, House of Reps), Senator Adesoji Akanbi, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, Alhaji Fatai Ibikunle and Hon Tolu Sadipe, among others.