The Olu of Warri, Ogiame Atuwaste lll, has described the age of one of Africa’s longest reigning monarchs, the Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom, HRM Richard Layieguen, as “significant”, giving the time of his birth. The Ovie Ogoni-Oghoro I yesterday received the Olu of Warri at his palace in Olomu, Ughelli South Local Government Area of Delta State, as part of celebrations marking his 105th birthday. Born in 1917, the centenarian marked his 105th birthday on Thursday. The Olu of Warri, whose late father Atuwatse II was a close ally of the celebrant and his kingdom, said he came to continue the relationship from where his father stopped. “We’ve come to celebrate with you on your birthday. We’ve received tremendous hospitality from our Urhobo brothers since we arrived here. - Advertisement - “I’m happy for what has been presented to us today. My words won’t be many, but heavy.  At 120, the Bible says Moses’ eyes were not dimmed. You’re carrying this age well. 105 means you were born in 1917, shortly after Nigeria was amalgamated. “I think it’s symbolic that God has permitted me to see and sit down close to such a person to call a brother. “For you to have seen Nigeria in her infant stage and you’re still here, I want to say that you’ve broken the seal that restricted Nigeria. “And I believe wholeheartedly because we don’t have any monarch that’s close in terms of age.  God has ensured that you have seen the beginning of the greatness of this country. It’s significant that your eyes saw it and I’m reminded of the Bible man (Zachariah) whose eyes saw Christ and requested to depart.   FG, States, LGAs share N699.824bn December 2021 revenue     Revealed: Real reason Nasarawa farmer beat wife to death     Ex-army chief warns of social upheavals over parlous economy   “I’m not saying you’re going soon. This land will be known for fruitfulness, duration, quality. Today is a new day for the kingdom. “You’ll enjoy a new level of support from your subjects,” the 21st Olu of Warri, who ascended his fathers’ throne August 21, 2021, prayed. Responding, the centenarian traditional ruler, Ovie Ogoni-Oghoro, who was elated at the Olu’s visit, said the presence of the Warri monarch was like that of his father and assured that the cordial relationship between the two kingdom would continue. “I’m happy that you’re here as a continuation of that relationship that I had with your father. “I feel like it is Ogiame Atuwatse II that is sitting beside me. His way of expression and other things show this. “I want to make it loud and clear to the Itsekiri nation that the relationship between us will continue. “Your reign will be for long, in peace. Your kingdom will be God’s kingdom. You’ll see the wonders of God. You as my son you’ll live and reign longer than me,” the Olomu king prayed. The high points of the visitation, which witnessed the heavy presence of chiefs from both kingdoms, were the breaking of the traditional kolanuts and a cultural display by an Urhobo troupe.