Back in 2014, as the resurgent opposition pummelled Goodluck Jonathan’s reeling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration, it saw opportunities in the challenges confronting it, to shape its campaign template. Where the government was being embarrassed daily by a slew scandals, the opposition presented itself as the alternative that would clean up the Augean stable, contrasting its candidate’s Spartan lifestyle with the obscene display of plundered wealth by the then powers-that-be. Where Jonathan appeared clueless to stop the insurgency that was setting off bombs in the federal capital city and elsewhere, the opposition offered up a retired general with a tough reputation as what the doctor ordered. The struggling economy was not in the sorry shape it is today. Still, it was troubled and people were horrified at the prospect of the dollar to naira exchange rate cresting N200. Not many would have envisaged it would be verging on N600 to one. As terrible as these issues were, the perception that the country was in the hands of a weak leader who was being manipulated by his appointees was another killer blow. I recall how back then former President Olusegun Obasanjo dismissively suggested that five women were the ones actually running the country. - Advertisement - Nearly eight years after, a fairly competent opposition could have dusted up the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign template with minor adjustments and run with it in 2023. Which isn’t to say that the Buhari administration hasn’t accomplished certain things in its time in office. The problem is Nigeria’s challenges today are so overwhelming they dwarf whatever modest achievements the president has. He may have gotten trains running and managed to deliver a Second Niger Bridge in the Southeast, constructed roads and bridges, but those are just trickles of good news in a larger sea of bad ones. Take the economy for instance. There were few statistical bright spots last year. In Q2, the country recorded its biggest GDP growth under Buhari. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) announced that the economy grew by 5.01 percent, following the upward growth trajectory of 0.51 percent in Q1 2021. That same pattern was sustained in Q3 with 4.03 percent. But what does that statistical positivity translate to considering that unemployment rate in the fourth quarter of 2020 which was at a 33.3 percent high, was projected by no other than Doyin Salami, chairman, Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) and now Economic Adviser, to hit 40 percent by the end of 2021? If more than one-third of the populace are not working, the country isn’t working. There’s not much hope that the jobless rate is about to come crashing down. A link definitely exists between the sky-high unemployment rates and the insecurity menace. The devil has been finding jobs for idle hands and paying generously too. According to a report by SB Morgen (SBM) Intelligence, an estimated N10 billion was demanded by kidnappers ($19.96m) in the first six months of last year. I would suggest those estimates are quite conservative. But the insecurity problem is fast veering off the tangent of mere criminality to crimes against humanity. Last week newspapers reported how bandits killed over 200 innocent citizens in a mindless orgy of bloodletting in Zamfara State.   Kingmakers ratify Lekan Balogun as Olubadan     Convention: Divided APC governors seek Buhari’s help     Why businesses are shrinking, by World Bank   The Buhari government is now placing all its bets on a bombing campaign using its newly-acquired Tucano jets. But even if as Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, suggests carpet bombing does the trick and defangs the bandits, what about the underlying conditions that threw them up? Will they also be bombed out of existence? Insurgency in the Northeast and banditry in the Northwest have devastated the northern economy – with far-reaching consequences for the entire country. Farming has taken a hit along with its supporting value chain and dire consequences for food security. Productive hands have fled, preferring to eke out a living riding commercial motorcycles down South. Against this backdrop, I am not sure why anyone would want to be president given the scary challenges awaiting whoever takes over from Buhari. Interestingly, rumours suggest that even Jonathan, once condemned as incompetent in handling lesser troubles, is keen on returning to confront problems that have become behemoths. So what sort of president does the country need at this point? For starters, we’ve seen with the incumbent that the hood doesn’t make the monk. The belief that a retired general would do a better job of securing the country has not held up. At this point we don’t necessarily need a former security operative but a visionary with a plan; someone who understands that the country – especially the North – isn’t going to be stabilised just by bombing forests. What solutions do they have that are superior to Buhari’s famous order to security agents to shoot on sight anyone found in the bush with an AK-47? Jonathan recruited mercenaries to tackle Boko Haram in the period leading to the 2015 polls and there was a brief respite. What solutions can our would-be presidents bring to the table that are different from the blunt axes currently being deployed? The next president must be someone who understands business. He should be someone the local and international business community can trust. Nigeria’s current crises will not abate until there’s significant positive movement on the economic front. He must be a unifier who can begin healing to the country not just from the polarisations of recent years, but also from the additional damage that would be done as aspirants go into full blooded battle for tickets of the two leading parties. Already, we are seeing a troubling willingness on the part of politicians to tear up agreements that have evolved through the years for peaceful power sharing. Flawed as it may be, zoning has been a template that stabilised the polity from the Second Republic till date. The suggestion that it was just a device conjured to deal with a momentary problem is fraudulent. Even those who make a song and dance as why merit should be the yardstick for picking the next president, don’t have a measure by which an individual’s suitability for that high office can be judged? Are you qualified because of elocution or erudition? Remember we once had a PhD as president and Nigerians threw him out. In the end we are left with the aspirants’ track record and our gut feeling. Sit back, pass the popcorn, you’re about to witness one of the most thrilling reality shows on earth as Nigeria picks a new president.