Some Yoruba actors and actresses are not giving up on love after their first marriages crashed.  These celebrities chose to give love another chance and have been having a loving time with their spouses. Here are nine Yoruba Nollywood actors/actresses who remarried:  1. Toyin Abraham - Advertisement - You most likely would know her as Toyin Aimakhu. The producer and director got married to a Nollywood actor Adeniji Johnson in 2013. The union appeared sweet on social media as the duo never ceased to gush on each other. Surprisingly, in 2015, news went round that the celebrity couples were having it hot as they announced their separation. It is however interesting to know that the duo has moved on with their lives as Toyin Abraham recently welcomed a baby boy with another actor Kolawole Ajeyemi. 2. Bukky Wright Bukky Wright was married to Gboyega Amu, who is the father of her two sons. Shortly after separating from Amu, due to what she termed irreconcilable differences, she moved into the arms of fellow actor and former member of the House of Representatives, Rotimi Makinde without officially divorcing Gboyega Amu. The union lasted a few years before she moved on in the same fashion and found solace in the arms of society journalist and image-maker, Femi Davies. Bukky and Femi got married at the Akodo Registry in Lagos. 3. Solomon Akiyesi Solomon Akiyesi has been married four times. He wedded his university love, Ezinne in 2003. He was alleged to still be married to Ezinne when he contracted another marriage with Lilian, who was said to be eight-month pregnant and living in Port Harcourt when Solomon attempted to marry another wife, Uloma Agwu in Lagos on April 13, 2013. Akiyesi and Agwu were almost pronounced as husband and wife when Lilian stormed the Overcomer’s World Outreach church, Surulere Lagos where the wedding was going on. She stormed the place with some family members and policemen 4. Clarion Chukwura   Kayamata seller Jaruma: I’m President-in-waiting     AFCON 2021: Why I stopped watching football – Naira Marley     I miss bachelorhood, says D’banj   Clarion Chukwura tied the nuptial knot with her US-based fiancé, Anthony Boyd making it her third marriage. She once had a relationship with Afro-Juju legend, Sir Shina Peters and bore a son, Clarence Peters after she ended her first marriage to a certain Mr. Abiola in 2003. She then remarried Femi Oduneye popularly known as Femi Egyptian in 2004. They, however, separated in 2006, after which they got back together before they finally got divorced. She, however, lost her first husband, Tunde Abiola, and her second spouse, Femi Oduneye in 2017. 5. Femi Adebayo The actor, filmmaker and director has three children with his first wife Khadijat. This was his first marriage and, just as many things in life, turned out to be a failure. Khadijat gave birth to the three adorable kids within the eight years of their marriage but in the end, they decided not to wait any longer and broke apart He got married to Omotayo Adebayo after staying out of marriage for 8 years. They got married in October 2016. 6. Mercy Aigbe Mercy Aigbe, who is popular for her fashion sense on social media, was a wife to an Igbo man and had a beautiful daughter for him but the union couldn’t stand the test of time as it crashed a few years later. Mercy and Lanre officially tied the knot at the Ikoyi Registry in 2013 but the marriage acrashed in 2017. Mercy on Sunday, January 23, 2022 unveiled her new boo four years after leaving her erstwhile husband, Lanre Gentry. 7. Foluke Daramola-Salako She married Babatunde Sobowale in 2005 and the union ended in 2008 after two kids over allegations of wife-battering and infidelity. The actress has since remarried and is happy with her latest husband, Kayode Salako. 8. Doris Simeon   She was once married to a movie producer and director Daniel Ademinokan. Doris and Daniel met on a movie set where love bound them. Together the couple bore a son, David Ademinokan but separated in May 2013 with a subsequent court divorce. However, Doris Simeon found love again as she got married to Taiwo Oduala in 2019. 9. Shan George George’s first marriage was in 1985 when she was 16. She had two children for her first husband, whom she left in 1991 when she was 21. It is rumoured that she married a certain man which didn’t last as well. She later met and married Anthony Nwosisi, making him the third husband but the marriage too did not last.