Operators of the SIFAX Shipping ICT Limited, a subsidiary of SIFAX Group said, it has embarked on a massive expansion of its Ijora off dock container terminal, Lagos, to reduce congestion and facilitate trade at Lagos ports The terminal, its Group Executive Vice Chairman, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi said, has acquired adjoining properties to increase its total capacity from the 15,000 square meters at inception in 2020 to 83,000 square meters this new year. Afolabi hinted the company has contracted China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) Nigeria Limited, a world-class construction company, for the construction of the terminal’s pavement to increase its capacity and boost maritime trade. Afolabi did not mention how much it would cost his company to engage the CCECC, but sources close to the company told The Nation that the purchase of the adjoining properties and development of the terminal to international standard, may not be less than N50 billion. But the step to expand the terminal,  Afolabi said, was taken by his company, in order to ensure that the facility operates in line with the global best practices and standards in terms of infrastructural development and trade promotion. - Advertisement - The terminal, findings revealed, operates by moving consignments to its facility through barges for onward delivery to customers, thereby avoiding traffic congestion and reducing cost and time.   Zinox chief boosts NCS Innovation Fund with N50m     215Mw Kudenda power project for completion this year     Group get new secretary general   According to Afolabi: “it sounds so unbelievable that the off dock terminal is just one year old, going by the impact made in such a short period of time. “Our stakeholders have been treated to a whole new experience in cargo clearance. Consignments are moved to the terminal through barges without the hassles of traffic congestion. Goods are cleared in record time while the location of the terminal makes it attractive for truckers. All these have increased our patronage and made the initial terminal capacity inadequate to satisfy the increasing demand.” “The terminal has consequently acquired adjoining properties to increase its total capacity from the 15,000 square meters at inception to 83,000 square meters. In order to ensure that the terminal operates in line with global standards in terms of infrastructure, the companyt has contracted China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) Nigeria Limited, a world-class construction company, for the construction of the terminal’s pavement. Also seaking at the contract signing ceremony in Lagos, Paul vd Linden, Managing Director, SIFAX Shipping ICT Limited, said the strategic nature of the terminal and the need to build a durable infrastructure at the facility necessitated the choice of CCECC. According to Linden, “CCECC is a notable construction company with a track record of excellent service across the country. Having expanded the size of the terminal, we needed to put the terminal floor in a world-class state and that’s the reason CCECC was contracted. Due to the heavy-duty equipment that have been deployed, a super solid concrete surface that can withstand the pressure became necessary. We are excited with this agreement signed with CCECC and we are convinced they will deliver the project within the agreed time.” He said further, that some of the future plan of the terminal, which has been positioned as a model in terms of technology deployment, modern facilities, excellent customer service and infrastructural development, include the building of a strong quay in readiness to berth feeder vessels, as well as the purchase of more cargo handling equipment and a transit park for trucks using the facility