Former Director- General Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr Muda Yusuf has  frowned  at a recent tax policy of government  compelling those who have tax disputes to pay 50 per cent of the amount in dispute before their appeal can be heard. He said the policy is contrary to the principle of natural justice and constitutes an obstruction to fair hearing. Calling for its abolition, he explained that the rule is in conflict with the FIRS Establishment Act that setup the tribunal He requested that this rule be expunged from the proceedings of the tax appeal tribunals in the interest of fair hearing. He stated this when he spoke to The Nation. While commending the government for proposing the removal of the 0.25 per cent of turnover levy imposed on companies for NASENI (National Science and Engineering Institute) levy, he however, frowned at the rate new taxes are frequently added to the myriad of taxes on the already over-burdened private sector. He said the taxes include but not limited to Education Tax, Information Technology Tax, Police Fund levy, and the Tertiary Healthcare Fund levy recently passed by National Assembly, among others. - Advertisement - “This is in addition to the burden of dealing with multiple tax agencies from FIRS to States IRS, Customs, etc all trying to collect revenue and conduct tax audits. These taxes should be harmonised.” On Cash Reserves Requirements (CRR), he stated that the CRR imposed on the banks is one of the highest globally. Yusuf said the CRR which is currently at 27.5 per cent has become a major impediment to financial intermediation by the banks. Even more disturbing is that effective CRR is as high as 50 per cent he added or more for some banks. According to him financial intermediation is supposed to be the major function and essence of the banking system. The economist said high CRR has made it difficult for the banks to play their primary role of financial intermediation as a result their profitability has been adversely impacted because of limited room for credit creation activities. He asked for a reduction in CRR to allow banks to be better placed to play their primary role of financial intermediation in the economy.   Govt. urged to disburse agric funds directly to farmers     Ecobank earmarks N100b special fund for MSMEs     Stanbic IBTC drives sustainable digital finance   On the foreign exchange management by the CBN, he regretted that the challenge in the outgoing year was multidimensional as according to him it was a major predicament that investors had to grapple in 2021. Giving further insight into the challenges, he said they include a sharp depreciation of the currency over the last one year, liquidity crisis in the foreign exchange market, which manifests in the acute shortage of foreign exchange in the official window. Others are volatility of the exchange rate which creates considerable uncertainty and unpredictability for investors. On the impact of depreciation on business, Yusuf said it led to high cost of production because of the high import dependence of our manufacturing sector for imported raw materials and equipment, low sales and turnover because of the consequential increase in price and resultant contraction in demand, erosion of profit margins because not all the additional cost could be passed on consumers and spike in business continuity risk for many businesses. Speaking on the impact of Forex liquidity, Yusuf  who is also the CEO of Centre for  Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE),  said   the availability of Forex to investors in the economy has remained a major issue .”The CPPE would like to appeal to the finance minister to review the recent provisions to Tax Appeal Tribunals rules compelling those who have tax disputes to pay 50 per cent of the amount in dispute before their appeal can be heard. We submit that this is contrary to the principle of natural justice; it constitutes an obstruction to fair hearing. We therefore call on the finance minister to review this policy urgently. Besides, the rule is in conflict with the FIRS Establishment Act that setup the tribunal. We therefore request that this rule be expunged from the proceedings of the tax appeal tribunals in the interest of fair hearing”. While commending the government for proposing the removal of the 0.25 per cent of turnover levy imposed on companies for NASENI (National Science and Engineering Institute) levy, he  regretted   that new taxes are  surreptitiously added to the myriad of taxes on the already over-burdened private sector. These according to him include the Education Tax, Information Technology tax, Police Fund levy, and the Tertiary Healthcare Fund levy recently passed by NASS among others. This he  said are in addition to the burden of dealing with multiple tax agencies from FIRS to States IRS, Customs, etc all trying to collect revenue and conduct tax audits.  He canvassed the harmonisation of the taxes. In his words the CRR imposed on the Nigerian banks is one of the highest globally. The CRR which is currently at 27.5 per cent has become a major impediment to financial intermediation by the banks. Even more disturbing is the fact that effective CRR is as high as 50 percent or more for some banks. Yet, financial intermediation is supposed to be the major function and essence of the banking system. The high CRR has made it difficult for the banks to play their primary role of financial intermediation.  Their profitability is also adversely impacted because of limited room for credit creation activities, he added.