Manchester United star player Cristiano Ronaldo was furious on Wednesday night after coach Ralf Rangnick substituted him on the second half. Goals from Anthony Elanga, Mason Greenwood and Marcus Rashford were enough to see United through at Brentford Community Stadium and ended a run of two Premier League games without a win. But Ronaldo was not happy with Ralf Rangnick’s decision to take him off and made his feelings known on the bench. The Portugal striker had not featured for United since January 3 due to a hip problem. And on his return to the team after two games out, he failed to make the scoresheet as the Reds’ young attacking stars took centre-stage. - Advertisement - Once Greenwood put his side 2-0 up after 70 minutes, interim manager Rangnick chose to take the veteran out of the game and bring on Harry Maguire to bolster his defence. That decision, however, did not impress Ronaldo.   Iheanacho cried hard when he was dropped for last AFCON…     New texts for English, other languages in 2022 UTME     LIRS to employers: File your tax returns   “Why me? Why me … Why would you take me off?” he was seen to mutter as he trudged off the pitch before throwing his jacket to the floor. His frustration continued as he sat alone on a step, before Rangnick came over to offer some apparent words of comfort to his vexed star. Since returning to United Ronaldo has made his presence felt mostly in the Champions League, where a remarkable run of six goals in five games led the Reds to first place in their group. Domestically, though, both he and his club have more of a mixed record. Eight goals in 17 games marks a solid if relatively unspectacular tally in front of the net for the lethal scorer, while United remain in seventh place despite Wednesday’s victory, two points off West Ham in the last Champions League qualifying spot. Recent reports, moreover, suggest that the ex-Real Madrid and Juventus ace is unsettled at Old Trafford and could even seek a move away should United fail to make the Champions League for 2022-23.