Since the 2021-22 Premier League season commenced on August 13, 2021, eight clubs have sacked their managers. Watford sacked two managers within the space of three months in what appears to be the management running of patience over the inability of the managers to deliver in the season whose final match round will take place on May 22, 2022. Manchester City are the defending champions, having won their fifth Premier League title during the previous season. The current season saw the return of full attendance after the final third of the 2019–20 and the entirety of the 2020–21 seasons were held with limited or no attendance due to the restrictions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. - Advertisement - Watford sacked Xisco Munoz, the first manager of the campaign to lose his job in England, on October 3, 2021. He was succeeded by Claudio Ranieri. Munoz led the club to promotion from the Championship in 2020-21. He was dismissed just seven games into the new campaign with the club sitting in 15th position. Steve Bruce was shown the exit by Newcastle on October 20, 2021. The second manager to be sacked in the Premier League came as no surprise to anyone. His dismissal followed their Saudi-led takeover on October 20. Bruce spent two years as Newcastle boss but the new owners, the richest in world football, were naturally looking for a more high-profile manager. Tottenham confirmed Nuno Espirito Santo’s dismissal on November 1, 2021. Nuno was the third Premier League boss to be fired, lasting just 10 games as Tottenham boss before being shown the door. The Portuguese had left Wolves at the end of last season before joining Spurs, but failed to impress at Spurs and was given his marching orders with the Lilywhites eighth in the league at the time. He was replaced by Conte.   Nadal survives Shapovalov scare to keep record bid intact     BREAKING: NASS harmonises Electoral Bill, agrees on…     Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists kill four, abduct 24 in Chibok   Daniel Farke was sacked by Norwich City on November 6, 2021. Oddly enough, Farke’s dismissal came right after the club’s first Premier League win of the season, when Farke’s side beat Brentford 2-1. Aston Villa dismissed Dean Smith on November 7, 2021, exactly a day after Farke’s sack. Smith was sent packing after a poor start to the season. Manchester United relieved Ole Gunnar Solskjaer of his duty on November 21, 2021. Solskjaer departed immediately after the November transfer window closed following a stunning 4-1 loss against Watford. The Norwegian had spent much of his near three years in charge doing just enough to dodge the sack only for his luck to run out after a run of five Premier League defeats in seven games. Solskjaer is undoubtedly the most high-profile to go with the Norwegian having been replaced, in the interim at least by Ralf Rangnick. Everton fired Rafa Benitez just sixteen days into 2022. The first manager of 2022 to be sacked in the Premier League was shown the way out after going four months without a league win. Watford sacked Claudio Ranieri on Monday January 24, 2022. He’s the second manager to be sacked by the club in the season, just three months after the dismissal of his predecessor, Munoz. Ranieri followed Benitez only eight days later, shortly after watching his Watford side hammered 3-0 by Norwich. The latest manager to be dismissed is a veteran Italian coach famous for leading Leicester to the Premier League title in 2015-16. Watford became the first Premier League team to sack two managers this season, with Ranieri jettisoned after a miserable 3-0 defeat against Norwich, which leaves the Hornets deep in relegation trouble.