It’s a cause for concern that kidnapping for ransom continues to thrive in the country and the perpetrators are prospering. On the other hand, those who pay ransom to get kidnap victims released groan as they bear the burden. Two cases recently grabbed the headlines, highlighting the pain of people who have had to pay ransom to bandits-cum-kidnappers. In one instance, on January 16, residents of Nahuche in Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara State demanded the intervention of Governor Bello Matawalle. They marched in protest to the Government House in Gusau, the state capital, following the abduction of some members of the community. “We have suffered more than 13 attacks, lost more than 50 persons, and have so far, spent over N200m in the last two years as ransom and for settling vigilante groups, but all to no avail,” their spokesman said.  He added that bandits recently abducted a prominent businessman in the village, Alhaji Hadi Babangeme, and killed him even after collecting N35m as ransom. In another instance two days earlier, the president of the Nigerian Baptist Convention (NBC), Dr Israel Akanji, declared that it had paid N250m for the release of students kidnapped from Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna State, last year.  Bandits had invaded the school in July 2021 and carried out a mass kidnapping involving 121 students. - Advertisement - “Initially, we didn’t want to spend money. We didn’t believe in spending any money. That was how we began. I even said openly that we would not spend money but I am also saying openly now that we have had to spend money. We were forced to spend money,” Akanji was reported saying.  He justified the payment of ransom, saying “these bandits were telling us that they would start killing our children one by one.” It was indeed disappointing that the authorities failed to rescue the kidnapped students, and the bandits freed them in batches over a period of seven months.  From July 25, 2021 to January 1, this year, 120 students were released, remaining one in captivity.   Christopher Alao-Akala (1950-2022)     How to be a bootlicker in Nigerian politics     National Convention: APC stakeholders reject February date   In September 2021, the police in Abuja showed to the public three suspects, Adamu Bello, Isiaku Lawal and Muazu Abubakar, who allegedly participated in the mass abduction. One of them, Abubakar, was quoted as saying 25 people carried out the kidnapping. “We kidnapped them because we needed money,” he was reported saying. At the time, the police said they were “closing in on the others.” Nothing has been heard from the police about progress made regarding the case since then. This leaves much to be desired. Both cases show that kidnapping for ransom is thriving because people are forced to pay ransom in the face of the failure of the authorities to tackle kidnapping. It is noteworthy that the police usually claim no ransom was paid when abductees are reported released.  Contrary to the narrative of the police, the evidence shows that ransom payment is the usual response in kidnap cases. In many cases, ransom payers do so out of a sense of helplessness. According to a study, more than $18m was paid as ransom to kidnappers in the country from 2011 to 2020, and the greater part of the payment was from 2016 to 2020 when about $11m was paid. These are huge figures in the local currency, which shows that kidnapping for ransom is flourishing. Some analysts forecast that kidnap-for-ransom cases will increase in the country as a result of increasingly poor socio-economic conditions and weak security.  This is a disturbing scenario, considering that Nigeria is already ranked among countries with the highest kidnap-for-ransom cases. The sad reality is that the frequent cases of kidnapping for ransom, and ransom payment, indicate that the security agencies are underperforming. This is unacceptable.