Ordinarily, the focus of today’s column should be the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations which opens today in Cameroon with the opener being the clash between the Indomitable Lions and Burkina Faso. A lot to write about the competition no doubt, but one is pained that in Nigeria’s fifth attempt to win the diadem in Cameroon, not one player plies his trade in our domestic league except John Noble of Enyimba. It is a travesty of sort knowing that the last time the country lifted the trophy in South Africa, precisely on February 10, 2013, a home-based player, Sunday Mbah scored the winning goal. Mbah’s feat highlighted the contributions of other home-based players in the trophy-winning Super Eagles in 2013. In last week’s edition of The Nation newspaper and her sister newspaper Sportinglife, I warned about the likelihood of a referee being killed in one of our domestic league venues. It looked like a farfetched possibility with many readers claiming I was being an alarmist, even when I stated categorically at the beginning of the column last week that I wasn’t an alarmist nor a harbinger of bad news. I also stressed that I wasn’t a prophet of doom. Behold, last week Sunday in Uyo, images emerged on social media showing where an official walked up to the referee and gave him TWO dirty slaps in public glare. It could have been a gun, or a machete, or a rock slammed on the referee’s head – death abi? A backroom staff of Dakkada chose to take the law into his hands by assaulting a match official during the game. Did I hear you say ordinary slap? The referee could have slumped because he wasn’t expecting it and hit his head on a concrete object. The official marched forward like he had a quarrel with the referee and released two quick slaps on the face of the referee. This official walked away as if he had completed one of the routines of the army parade with one of the two officials who walked towards the pitch as the referees were filling out for the half-time before the idiot assaulted the referee, looking the other way. It was very shameful. It also showed where the instructions came from. It is common knowledge that chaos at match venues is always caused by the home team’s fans. This attack on the referee is the second in four weeks with no mention by the league’s organisers about the punishment meted on the assailants or the hammer falling on heads of the Katsina State FA officials over the fracas which occurred in Katsina in a home game against visiting Enugu Rangers International, which the Flying Antelopes won 2-1. It was one of the opening games in a new season. The organisers should identify and punish the touts who caused the mayhem in Katsina. We should condemn selective justice, which is what it would translate to when considering what happened in Uyo last week. - Advertisement - It was soul-lifting reading the directive by the new Chief Executive Officer, Davidson Owumi calling for the details of the shameful act in Uyo, pointing out that: “We can assure all, that we have zero tolerance for hooliganism and acts that are capable of bringing the game into disrepute. “After consultations with the compliance unit, the League body’s action will serve as a deterrent for those that are bent on dragging our football into the mud,” Owumi said. Well said Owumi. But you should immediately call for the match report for the opening week in Katsina so all such acts of crowd violence are stopped by ensuring that those found to be culpable are made to face the wrath of the law. Owumi, you have shown that you are ready to work with the ease in which the rules in the books were applied to this case except that no pronouncement was made on the Akwa Ibom State FA officials for the negligence of duty. Bravo Owumi for putting your foot down on the immediate imposition of sanctions to all those fingered in the show of shame in Uyo. For the record this is the ruling:” Dakkada was ordered to pay the sum of N250,000 each to the Assistant Referee and General Manager of Remo Stars for medical expenses and may include any additional verifiable and authenticated medical costs. While ordering Dakkada to play a minimum of three home matches at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City, the LMC ruled that the club would only be permitted to return to its home stadium upon receipt of a satisfactory report or update on the formal report to the Police and prosecution of the club official involved in the alleged assault. The prosecution must be authenticated by the LMC’s legal team and compliance unit. ”The club must pay the stipulated fines within seven working days and have a two points deduction, which shall be suspended for a probationary period of the remainder of the season.   Before a referee is killed     NPFL: Same old stories, pity     Let’s stop the league if…   “Both the club and the charged official have 48-hours from the date of the notice to submit to the summary jurisdiction or elect to face a disciplinary hearing.” Yes, there were other good decisions concerning people who failed in the duties on that day. But, nothing against the Akwa State FA officials.  Great to note also that those fingered in the ignominy have a chance to be heard through an appeal. My plea to Owumi is to ensure that punishment given is served out instead of coming after one month to say reduce the period on grounds that they are remorseful. Followers of the game want to know the punishment meted out on the state FA since the referees were in their custody. I also don’t want to believe that a club could produce a release as a defence where it was stated that their duty to the referee was before and during the match. Whatever happened to the referees after their matches were entirely their business. Is this true, Owumi? Can’t you easily see where the problems lie if a club could say so? Owumi, you need to put your foot down on the urgent need for clubs (both home and away teams) to have video recordings of their matches. Any team that destroys or makes it impossible for any team to record games should be stopped from playing on such a pitch and three points deducted from what they may have amassed. There is also the urgent need to do refreshers courses in all departments of the game such that everyone knows what the requirements are and where each person’s boundaries end or/and start. It is unwise to ask clubs to pay for referees’ entitlement yet, we expect such officials to be unbiased? How do they face their financiers back in the hotel after matches? The moral question, if you ask me. League organisers should devise a means by which the logistics of referees before, during, and after matches are handled by companies with experts versed in the hospitality business. This would reduce the contact hours of the referees and his/her hosts before and after games. Not forgetting the match Commissioners who play vital roles, besides judging the referees’ handling of matches. Owumi, what is apparent from what transpired in Katsina and Uyo is the need for the organisers to quickly seal a contract with either the former rights holder DSTV or any other company for the television rights. Pity, no stadium in the country where matches are played has CCTV gadgets to track law offenders easily. I cringe watching other African countries showcase their domestic leagues on DSTV, leaving ours in the doldrums. Soon these countries would be beating Nigerian teams and our national sides easily. No one can forget in a hurry how the Central Africa Republic beat Nigeria 1-0 inside the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos. The laughable attempt at using a supposedly VAR in resolving a dispute in Owerri again reminds the organisers to secure a television rights holder for the competition.  The terrible aspect of this VAR incident was only one of the team’s fans dragged the innocent fellow recording the game to provide his machine as evidence. No machine to allow everyone to see the bone of contention. The cheated side’s players sat on the turf having seen enough of bad officiating. Could it, therefore be true that a game was held with torn goalpost nets? That the disputed goal was shot through the hole in the net? Isn’t it the duty of the match officials to inspect such things? Recall how Jose Mourinho asked UEFA to crosscheck the height of a goalpost, which he said was inaccurate. Mourinho was right. The goalpost was replaced before the game was held. Everything is done professionally Dear Davidson Owumi, football is business. Owumi, this is your life.