AS soon as you set your eyes on the slim, tall and beautiful lady, you are attracted by her elegance and charisma. Her sash announces her as Miss blind Nigeria and as she sashayed elegantly around the MUSON center Lagos, you are amazed at her confidence, soft spoken accent, guts, dreams, the infectious laughter, warmth and aura that radiates. Welcome to the world of Faith Ihediwa who is currently a final year English Language undergraduate of the University of Lagos. How easy was it getting into the University of Lagos? At first I never believed that a visually impaired person can enjoy something as good as going into the university. But I thank God for the great home Bethsaida that God used to make this happen. They took away that veil from my face and made me understand that in disability there is ability. Is it convenient climbing the stairs or getting to lectures on time? - Advertisement - Yes, I have a helper in school. In addition, even though there is staircase in the University of Lagos, we have lifts that takes us to the lecture rooms with ease. My target is to get a first class and I know that God can do it How has it been? To an extent, it has not been easy especially when it comes to the phonetics part. Trying out sounds like p, t, k and b, d, g. For those of us that are visually impaired it is usually difficult for us to write the signs. So, what we do is to tell our friend that this is it and that is what it should be. Sometimes, during the examinations they have to skip that part for us. Instead they give us theories to write. What are some of the extra curriculum activities that you engage in on campus? Some of the extra curriculum activities are interesting and I participate in them. I go to parties just to have fun. I also attend seminars and things that give me a better view about life. What are the other plans that you have? I would like to be an advertiser in future because I am very good when it comes to voice over and so many other things related to creativity. I would show you some of my artworks after the interview so that you have an idea of what I am talking about. I do advertisement for people and I enjoy it. How did you get to win the Miss Blind Nigeria pageant?  I competed with all the visually impaired ladies in Nigeria from the different states in the country. It was a very interesting and memorable experience for me and the ladies. They all came to Lagos for the competition and the experience is something that I treasure so much. And by the grace of God, I emerged as a winner at the end of the day. When did the competition take place? The Miss blind Nigeria pageant took place in 2019 and I have been carrying out my duties as the queen. So, far, I would say that they journey has been awesome and quite memorable. When are they going to have the next competition for a new queen? If anybody can withstand my beauty and the level of my intelligence then the person is good to go. For most pageants, the beauty queen usually has a pet project. Do you have something that you are working on?   2021: And all that we cannot leave behind (1)     ‘I don’t micromanage people’     P-Square: Untold story of how twin brothers had always…   Yes, I also have a pet project that I am handling. My own project is something that is also very interesting. My aim is to go to the rural areas to bring in the visually impaired one, motivate them and give them a sense of belonging. Most parents believe that the moment your child is blind, the child is useless. The child for them is worth nothing to them and the society. That is not the case and we need to change that mindset. So, I would be going around to educate them, champion the cause of visually impaired people especially the young ones and let them know that the child is a treasure; you can get something very unique and great from the child. As an example, I make them know that yes, I am blind but I am into different things, sometimes even doing things that people who can see are not doing. I am a student, I cook and I am involved in so many other activities on my own. This are the things that I make them understand and that had made me a source of inspiration and motivation. In doing this, I have been able to bring more than 20 students to Bethsaida home during this transformation process. Most of them are in the University of Nsukka presently and other universities. Tell us about your parents and the role they played in your life? My parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ihediwa are lovely people. They are the best parents anyone can ask for in the world. Despite my disability, they have supported me so much and it did not cease or reduce the love that they have for me. They still give me that respect and give me attention as well as treat me as I am meant to be treated. Were you born blind? Not at all! I got blind at the age of 15 years. It actually happened immediately after my senior WAEC examination. I did my WAEC Examinations at Flourish College, Love hall, Ketu Lagos. My performance in school then was awesome, I had B’s and A’s and did very well when the results came out. What was the first reaction of the family when it happened? At first it was not easy at all. But as time went on, they adjusted gradually and got to understand that a blind person can still be relevant to the society. It was at that point that my parents got to accept the condition and began to work on ways to channel me to places and things where my dreams can be fulfilled. What do they do for a living? They are into business and they are very dedicated and hardworking people. I admire their energy, courage and perseverance. What plans do you have for the future? I want to become a professor of English Language. By the grace of God, I also want to be an author, to write books. That is why I am into writing poems. I have numerous poems that I have written and also showed some lecturers in the university and they have been approved by them. Tell us about the people that you look up to, your role models and mentors? One of the people that I admire is the great writer, Chinua Achebe. The other is Professor Wole Soyinka; he is a great writer and a great activist, a super role model to many people. Those are the kind of people that I look up to. I love their level of writing, creativity and the fact that they stand out in many ways. They pass and communicate their message to their readers in a way that is mind blowing. You must be very stylish from a younger age, looking at how you are dressed and the way you catwalk? I rehearse every time, each time I walk is an opportunity to assess myself and tell the world the stuff that I am made of. I walk with style, I talk with style, and everything I do is done with a sense of style. So, at every time and every moment. I do my rehearsal and I am proud of who I have become. I know that I have a great future ahead. How have you been enjoying the festive season? I must say that it has been very interesting with a number of activities that are memorable.  As you can see we are here at the MUSON centre for the Musical show and it is something that we are all excited about.  This is Mr Blind Nigeria and we are all enthusiastic about what we are experiencing today, we look forward to  the coming year with a lot of expectations.  I strongly believe that it will come with new opportunities to excel. What advice do you have for Nigerians? We have to show love and care for one another. We are all brothers and sisters no matter where you come from. At this time, my message is that we must care for the next person. We must all work hard to achieve a better future for the next generation.  Our collective effort is needed to make the Nation  better and great. A lot of young people have great potentials and it is important for our leaders to include their views when planning.