TheWill  newspaper has named the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, as its Person of the Year. The announcement was made on the double cover stories of newspaper’s Christmas edition , entitled: ”Emefiele: Passionate Central Banker in Turbulent Times” and “Godwin Emefiele: Revolutionary Banker That Walks His Talk”, in its print, online and other versions. In arriving at the choice of Emefiele, who is Nigeria’s 10th indigenous Central Bank Governor,  the newspaper said: “Since he first assumed office on June 4, 2014,  Godwin Ifeanyichukwu Emefiele, Nigeria’s 10th indigenous Central Bank Governor, has been in the eye of the storm over the apex bank’s monetary policies. “The reason is simple. There is an organic relationship between the Central Bank and the economy of a nation; the bank’s policies have far-reaching implications on the people’s wealth-creating abilities and standard of living. It is therefore a matter, of course, that Emefiele is a household name to different people for different reasons.   Payroll firm Bento expands to Ghana, Kenya, Rwanda      Firm launches initiative to boost tech career     Firm unveils business TV channel on Startimes   - Advertisement - “At one time, he was applauded by proponents of the bank’s policy initiatives. At the other, he was lambasted by critics for what they perceive as deliberate moves to worsen an already bad situation. But this passionate Central Banker has been consistent in his actions, which underlies the fact that he means well for the nation and the economy with his boundless belief in people-oriented policies. “Unarguably, Emefiele’s coming on board as CBN Governor first in June 2014 and his re-appointment in June 2019, brought hope and calm to an economy that witnessed two recessions and suffered the scourge of the Covid-19 pandemic under his watch.” “Upon his first appointment, Emefiele unveiled his 10-point agenda, which spelt out, unambiguously, his plan to make the CBN more people-focused.”