When the 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nations kicks off tomorrow with a match between the hosts Cameroon and Burkina Faso, several world-class players will be seen in action during the four-week-long tournament. African football fans will be able to see all the best action of the Africa Cup of Nations on StarTimes’ World Football channel as Africa’s leading digital-TV operator will be showing the games live and in HD. Africa’s gain during that time is often Europe’s loss as clubs like Liverpool, Manchester City, PSG, AC Milan, and Bayern Munich will be without some of their star players as they do duty for their respective national teams. As a result, the competition has not been without its controversy, but all of that will be forgotten when the matches get underway. Although the tournament has been expanded to 24 teams for the first time in its long history, the pre-tournament favourites comprise the usual suspects.   FCT SWAN drums support for Super Eagles     AFCON: Musa, Chukwueze strikes sink Coton Sport in practice…     MTN to cheer Super Eagles to victory   - Advertisement - Cameroon have already won the showpiece of African football five times and as hosts are certainly in the running to add another title. Coached by former Portuguese international Toni Conceicao, the Indomitable Lions  blends veteran players like goalkeeper André Onana, André-Frank Zambo Anguissa, Vincent Aboubakar, and Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting with youngsters like Bordeaux’s Jean Onana and Ignatius Ganago, who plays for Lens. The hosts have been paired in Group A with Burkina Faso, Cape Verde and Ethiopia. With the four best-placed third-ranked teams also advancing to the round of the last 16, it would be a huge surprise if the hosts do not make it into the knock-out stage. The holders, Algeria, potentially have a much tougher task. They are in Group E, together with Equatorial Guinea, Sierra Leone and Côte d’Ivoire, who have a formidable squad, headlined by: Franck Kessie, Nicolas Pépé, Wilfried Zaha and Sébastien Haller. Three-time champions Nigeria’s preparations were thrown into disarray when German coach Gernot Rohr was dismissed shortly before the start of the tournament.