Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have raided a relaxation centre, popularly called Garden in Abuja and arrested six people for allegedly selling drug cookies and noodles. The Agency’s spokesman, Femi Babafemi disclosed this in a statement yesterday. He said following credible intelligence, the operatives raided the garden at Wuse Zone 5 behind Shoprite, where a lady Rachael Famiyesun, 29, who deals in drug cookies, was arrested along with her salesgirl, Stella Sunday, 20. He said beside the cookies, they were also caught selling bottles of a black currant drink popularly called Zobo prepared with Cannabis. Babafemi said another business operator in the garden, Moses Obi, 30, was also arrested with his salesgirl, Aisha Abdulrahman, 19, for selling indomie noodles prepared with Cannabis. - Advertisement - He added that a barman, Ahonye Jonah, 31, who works with the owner of the garden, was equally arrested while one of their customers, 38-year-old Ngozi Justina Emelogu was also picked up during the raid on Wednesday January 19, 2022.   Zamfara: Burying patriotism in the courtyard of bitter…     A week lost to sit-at-home     Issues that will shape 2023 politics   He said two days earlier, officers of the FCT command of the Agency equally raided the Zuba Yam Market, where a drug dealer, Haruna Hassan was arrested with 19.3kg Cannabis. Babafemi also said attempts by drug traffickers to export 1.53 kilograms of cocaine hidden inside hair cream to London, and another 880 grams of cocaine concealed inside synthetic hair to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, as well as three grams of cocaine and five grams of cannabis to Cyprus packed inside locally made shoes through two major courier companies in Lagos have been foiled by narcotic officers attached to the firms. The statement reads: “In Edo State, operatives on Tuesday, January 18 intercepted a Toyota Camry car with Reg. No. FKJ 897 DG (LAGOS) loaded with 360.4kg Cannabis sativa heading to Abuja and arrested the driver, Nurudeen Subaru, 42, in Auchi, Etsako West area of the state. The following day, the Edo command officers also evacuated 111kg cannabis stored in a bush at Iruekpen, Esan West Local Government Area while 276 compressed blocks of the same substance weighing 248.4kg were recovered from one Austin Okongwu (aka Igwe), 45, at Agenebode, Etsako East while moving the drug in a Lexus saloon car with registration No ABC 583 MJ (ABUJA). “Also on Wednesday, January 19, a raid on a drug joint in the Edo state capital, Benin, led to the arrest of three drug dealers: Kelly Ogbebor, 38; Daniel Oviawe, 35, and Kelly Kenmakonam, 29 with different quantities of cocaine and heroin seized from them. “In Plateau State, attempt by 29-year-old Ifeoma Godwin Sade, wife of a drug dealer, Ifeanyi Onyeasi, 34, to swallow 12grams of cocaine found in their house at Agingi, Rukuba road, Jos, during an arrest operation was scuttled by operatives who retrieved the drug from her throat on Sunday, January 16. Also recovered from them was a monetary exhibit of N234, 650. “While commending the officers and men of the FCT, Edo, Plateau, Adamawa, Kano and Directorate of Investigation and General Investigations for the arrests and seizures, Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) urged them and their counterparts in other commands to remain vigilant and always proactive.”