If you are a football star, comedian, or you do break dancing, wear jeans or a dress with the Star of David, or maybe you have taken the COVID-19 vaccine, you are a sinner on your way to hell. Welcome to the incredulous world of Evangelist Funmilayo Adebayo aka Mummy G.O, writes Chinyere Okoroafor The slim, dark woman in a blue gown, matching headgear, a black jacket and horn-rimmed glasses rested her right elbow on the high lectern at the church pulpit before speaking into the microphone in her hand. “Anyhow that you cut your hair and your scalp shows,” she told her congregation, “it is a sin.” For emphasis, she approached a man in a purple shirt with a white collar who quickly stood up cuddling his bible. Pointing at him, she turned to the congregation again and said: “Do you know that the way this man cut his hair is a sin? - Advertisement - And then she approaches another, and another, convicting them all of sin for their style of hair. This is the world of the rave of the moment Evangelist Funmilayo Adebayo aka Mummy G.O, the General Overseer of Rapture Proclaimer Evangelical Church of God(RAPEC) in Lagos State. Adebayo’s sermons have sparked controversies and inspired hilarious memes on social media following what many consider her incredulous teachings on sin and hell. Who is Adebayo? Speaking about herself, she said: “I used to be a super agent of the devil by training for 300 years in the deep sea.” She once said she was originally a man in Egypt, Northern Africa but eventually died in a war. She added that she was reborn in Nigeria after she was trained and sent for an industrial training (IT) in Egypt. How she came to limelight It is not clear when her sermons began courting controversy. Some have said the preacher first caught the attention of social media users in 2021 with her rendition of the song ‘Kpatakpata.’ But checks from The Nation showed the singer in that video was not Adebayo. Among Adebayo’s viral messages is one where the clergywoman said break dancing originated from the land of the dead. In that video shot inside her church, a large white projector showcased a break dance video while she explained what break dancing meant “Where did break dancing generate from? Michael Jackson. He got power from the dead land. What is the land of the dead? Skeleton. Skeleton is not for the living. If you break dance, you’re telling God you’re dead,” Adebayo said. In another video, the preacher claimed that all footballers are going to hell and all men on skin shave cut are also candidates of hell fire. In yet another, she claimed that people who use ATMs and MasterCard have successfully bought a free ticket to hell. The clergywoman also claimed in another video that the US-based company Walt Disney projects the number 666 in the design of its name with 666 being the biblical mark of the Antichrist as widely held by Christians. On the COVID-19 vaccine, she said in another video that those who take the vaccine should never anticipate heaven. She also stated that antibiotics is dangerous and that Indomie noodles is a food dedicated to idols. “You can eat other noddle but Indomie is highly polluted,” she claimed. She has become a top trend on Twitter for sentencing jeans, perfume and necklaces wearers to hellfire. Even comedians who light up moods are not spared of her hellfire, so also cartoonists. In her world, merely wearing a shirt emblazoned with a star condemns one to damnation. Nigerian celebrities   Zamfara massacre: we’ll smoke out terrorists, Buhari…     Cross River communities where girls are used as collateral,…     Two die in Edo accident, drink-laden bus set ablaze   According to her, Nollywood actress, Tonto Dikeh, is not a human being by birth. Tiwa Savage was not spared as she said anyone listening to the diva’s songs will not make heaven. She said singer Olamide is a member of illuminati who deals directly with the devil as well as other singers. American celebrities Rihanna and Lady Gaga according to Adebayo are Lucifer’s brides. “What Lucifer loves most is sexual intercourse. Lucifer have (sic) intercourse everyday. Do you know lucifer used to do marriage? He married Rihanna and Lady Gaga. Remember the Baphomet position she made in her song “Umbrella”? if you know what it means you will never sing that in your life.” American Lottery She said there is no rapture for anyone who has won American Lottery. On Deodorant (Sure) “I can say Roll On is good but do you know Sure! Sure! Very simple but highly demonic. There is a perfume called Iris, if you use that perfume, I’m telling you, the spirit of fornication will come upon you. There is another perfume called Happiness, very cheap with fine odour, many people know it. My dear, if you have started using it, something different will be happening to you, and you will never please God that time.” Virginity In another video, she said her husband was surprised that she was a virgin again even after several intercourse when they courted. “Because of my lack of knowledge to the wrong person. Do you know that when that man married me. He was once my boyfriend before I became born again oh. When we got married and on the day we met, this man stood up and said Funmi what is happening now? Are you not formerly my girlfriend? Why am I sleeping with you and you become virgin again why? It took this man more than 30mins before he can penetrate because automatically I became a virgin. Yes! My husband was surprised, how come your body became closed? I prayed and He answered me and I’m not joking, He can do it for you again. Even till today, my body still remain tight and I’m not joking.” Drug pusher “I wasn’t a fool before I met Christ. I was a cocaine pusher. I sold guns and rented ammunition to robbers. I was a hired killer. I had boys at my disposal. Whenever I want to give information to politicians, they pay me millions. “Obasanjo knows me very well. We are close pals. Even Babangida knows me. The police had no guts to arrest me. Sijuade, the Ooni of Ife, it was when I met him that his business started booming. “The kind of cocaine I smuggled, I used flying carpet, straight to Germany and America. I don’t use airplanes. The reason why I have this knowledge is due to my long journey in the kingdom of darkness.” On football stars “Anybody that dies as a football star shall go to hell. Write it down. I’m not forcing you to believe it. If your child or brother becomes a star in ball, it’s an automatic certificate to hell. “Especially you boys, when we tell you that ball is not good, you hate it. If you know it’s a sin, raise your hand. Football is a sin. It is a game of antichrist. That is why many general overseers and big churches are fighting me.” On handset “All of you children telling your parents to buy handset for you on your birthday, you’re asking for the ticket to hellfire.” On Comedians “My dear, if you are here and your dream is to become a comedian, I want you to renounce Jesus before that. You must renounce Jesus and reject him. To become a comedian means you’re destined for hell.” On hair attachments “The first attachment on earth, I am the one that produced it. The name is Amigo. And we’re the ones that have the company that produced it. The image of Versace, the whole head on that thing is snake. If you have ever watched that film “Clash of the Titans” before raise up your hand. Medusa is the one that gave me covenant power of attachment. I’m telling you, I made covenant with Medusa before he gave me covenant power of attachment. I made covenant with the Queen of the coast before she gave me covenant power to make the first relaxer. And the name of the first relaxer in the whole world is Ultrasheen, I’m the one that produce it with the covenant of hell. Now that I’m born again I dropped it. I bet you, if you die with just a single attachment on your hair, hell fire is sure. On Jeans “Let me tell you something about jeans. In the kingdom of darkness, I was rated to the highest level, the executive member. We sit in meetings face to face with lucifer before Jesus Christ arrested me. We used to hold meetings regularly, in California, Russia and Nine nine realm. A day came when in a meeting in nine nine realm another agent raised a question of how do we gather souls for the kingdom of antichrist, how do we control their hearts. Let me tell you, the real name of jeans is “global uniform of antichrist” “So if you put on jeans, you are promoting antichrist to come.” Her pictures have also gone viral in memes with some inscriptions not credited to her but created to mimick her typical statements about hell.