The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has said it has not begun selling the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry forms. It warned candidates to be wary of fraud. In a statement, the board noted that the sale of forms would be well publicised when the time comes. The statement reads: “The attention of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has been drawn to the activities of unwholesome elements who had been misleading the general public on the purported commencement of the sale of 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) application documents. “For the avoidance of doubt, any information in circulation purporting to have emanated from the Board to the effect that the sale of the 2022 UTME and DE forms has commenced is not only fraudulent but is a calculated attempt by mischief makers to create unnecessary panic among prospective candidates for their own selfish ends. - Advertisement -   Lagos set to reopen Dowen College     JUST IN: Navy intercepts N10b worth of cocaine     BREAKING: Gunmen bomb police division, free detainees in Imo   “It should be noted that the commencement of the sale of the Board’s application documents in any given year has never been shrouded in mystery. “Rather, it is always a well-publicised undertaking in the print media as well as online and electronic platforms. “Although, the Board has concluded all arrangements to commence the sale of the 2022 UTME/DE Application Documents in due course but it is yet to fix any date for its commencement. “The general public is, therefore, by this notice urged to be mindful of speculators who are in the habit of second-guessing the Board’s on certain procedural issues with the aim of defrauding hapless candidates. “The Board wishes to inform the general public that they would be sufficiently informed of the commencement of the sale of EPINs once approval has been granted by relevant authorities. “Furthermore, the announcement of a suitable date to commence the sale would be accompanied by well-defined information on the procedures for the purchase of the e-pins, creating a profile, and where to go for biometric capturing, among other essential details.”