Candidates writing any of the three major Nigerian languages, Arabic and Literature in English in the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) are to use new literature textbooks for the examination. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) listed the new books, numbering 21, in its Monday Bulletin, noting that the text would be used for this year’s examination. The publication reads: “These changes would take effect from the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME).” The board is yet to open registration for the examination. With six textbooks, Arabic has the highest number of books among the subjects, followed by Literature in English and Yoruba, which have five each. Igbo and Hausa have three textbooks each.   JABU First Class graduates to get N25,000     Alleged P&ID scam: Court remands ex-director Taiga     PHOTOS: Alaafin, wives celebrate 51st coronation anniversary   - Advertisement - The textbooks for Literature in English are: Lion and the Jewel by Wole Soyinka; Look Back in Anger by John Osborne; Second Class Citizen by Buchi Emecheta; Unexpected Joy at Dawn by Alex Agyei Agyiri; and Wuthering Heights by Emile Bronte. The books for Arabic are: The Nigerian Arabic Poems: a case study between the old and the new, by Abdulwahab Dan Ladi Shith; Diwaanur Riyardh: A collection of Arabic Poems, by Dr. Isah Alabi Abubakar; The Prospect Of Arabic Language in Nigeria, by Murtadh Badamasi; A Selection of Pulpit Counselling, by Adam Abdullahi Al-Ilory; Why The Anger On Us. A literature text, by Muhammad Salisu Mai Ango; and The perfection/Adornment of Pages: A book of poems, by Abdullahi Bin Fodio. For Hausa, candidates are expected to read: Zube by Turmin Danya for Prose; Waka by Wakokin Hausa for Poetry; and Wasan Kwaikwayo by Abin Da Kamar Wuya for Drama. Candidates writing Igbo should get Iduuazi by Chinedu Ofomata for Prose; Abu by Nolue Emenanjo for Poetry; and Ejije by Odunke Artists for Drama. The five books for Yoruba are: Akojopo Alo Ijapa Apa Kin-in-ni by Adeboye Babalola (University Press Plc,Ibadan); Awon Oriki Orile Metadinlogbon by Adeboye Babalola (Learn African Plc, Lagos); Moremi Ajasoro by Debo Awe (Elyon Publishers, Ilesa); Oro Enu Akewi by Ayomide Akanji (Genius Books Publishers, Ibadan); Nitori Owo by Akinwumi Isola (Sumob Publishers, Osogbo).