Ijebu Ode Grammar School 1972 set (JOGS 72 Club) has donated a solar inverter to the school. This was done to commemorate its members’ 50 years of enrolment into the institution. The anniversary held last weekend on the school premises in Ijebu Ode. JOGS 72 Club also renovated the toilet facility it earlier built; equipped a classroom with desks and chairs and contributed to an ongoing ICT centre project. Speaking at the event, Commissioner for Education Science and Technology, Ogun State, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu has stressed the need for alumni associations to support government in improving education across the country. He said: “There is need for old students to support government in taking schools to greater heights. It is important for alumni to collaborate with government to boost development in their various alma mater.” The Commissioner, also an old boy of the school, while inaugurating projects donated by JOGS 72 Club, lauded the old students for their contribution to the development of the school. - Advertisement - “The 1972 set has always proved its mettle to contribute to the development of Ijebu Ode Grammar School. I am not surprised with what they have done.In fact,there are so many things they have done that is not recorded here,” he said.   Pupil gets scholarship to dream school despite not making…     New texts for English, other languages in 2022 UTME     Corruption probe pitches Osun College against…   President JOGS 72 Club, Mr. Bolaji Onabolu noted that adequate support must be put in place to ensure proper use of donated projects. Speaking on other projects executed by the set, he said: “We equipped the library during our 25th anniversary, sponsored the Aionian School games via donation. We also engaged in external decoration of 1938 block during the centenary celebrations, apart from donation of granite as our contribution during the infrastructure renewal project. We also built a toilet to mark 40 years of our graduation from the school.” Onabolu admonished pupils of the school to be dedicated to their studies; else they risked paying the price for mediocrity. Chairman Planning Committee, Dr. Sunday Olu-Daniels, reiterated the association’s commitment to repositioning the school. He also cautioned pupils against internet fraud and the get-rich-quick syndrome. Meanwhile, six outstanding and 10 indigent pupils were given cash awards. Awards were also given to teachers of the 72 set and members of the set.