NBA Africa and Hennessy, the world’s best-selling cognac, have announced that NBA Crossover, an invite-only lifestyle event that will showcase the convergence of the NBA and popular culture through the art, fashion, music, and technology that surround today’s game, will take place in Africa for the first time on February 5 at Landmark Beach Front in Lagos, Nigeria. As part of NBA Crossover, Africa’s first floating basketball court will be displayed at Ikoyi Link Bridge in Lagos from February 3 to 5. In addition, on February 5 Hennessy will be the Presenting Partner of a celebrity basketball game at Landmark Beach Front featuring Nigerian artists, performers, and media personalities.   Salah wants first AFCON title with Egypt     Qatar 2022 Cup Play-Off: Ghana shops for new coach for…     Cameroon gov’t to ease access at Olembe stadium   NBA Africa and Hennessy will also donate a basketball court to the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency at Ikorodu Recreational Park as part of their Lagos State’s commitment to providing people in the state with access to sport. “We at Hennessy are thrilled to partner with NBA Africa to create this unforgettable experience in Lagos. Nigeria is such an important market for both Hennessy and the NBA, and this event is something we’ve been looking forward to for some time,” said Hennessy President & CEO Laurent Boillot. “We are thrilled to celebrate the NBA’s landmark 75th Anniversary Season with Hennessy in such iconic fashion,” said NBA Africa CEO Victor Williams. “Nigerian players have had a tremendous impact on basketball and the NBA, and it is only fitting that we host our first NBA Crossover event on the continent in Lagos, where there is already tremendous talent and passion for the game.” NBA Africa Vice President & Country Head of Nigeria, Gbemisola Abudu said: “I look forward to NBA Crossover and to working with my colleagues to expand our engagement with Nigerian fans, partners, and basketball stakeholders in the months and years to come.”