The Federal Government has disclosed the nation’s annual burden of leprosy significantly dropped by 74.45 per cent in 26 years from 7,827 in 1994 to less than 2,000 in 2020. It further stated that Nigeria was among the countries that attained the World Health Organization (WHO) elimination target of less than one leprosy case per 10,000 populations at the National level in the year 2000. It however disclosed that leprosy is still a public health problem in the country, as Nigeria is among the few countries in the world that is still reporting greater than 1,000 new leprosy cases annually. The Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who made these known in Abuja, during a briefing to commemorate this year’s World Leprosy Day, explained that leprosy is curable and treatment is free. According to him, early reporting significantly reduces the chance of having deformities and post-exposure prophylaxis is available for contacts of leprosy patients.   Infertility: Specialist lists benefits of traditional…     Lassa kills 26 in three weeks- NCDC     CONHESS: You’re people’s Gov, health unions hail AbdulRasaq   - Advertisement - He said: “Leprosy is a mildly infectious disease caused by a slow multiplying bacillus, Mycobacterium leprae with an incubation period of about 5 years. Symptoms can take as long as 20 years to appear. The disease mainly affects the skin, peripheral nerves, mucosa of the upper respiratory tract, and also the eyes. Leprosy is transmitted via droplets, from the nose and mouth, during close and frequent contacts with untreated cases. Untreated leprosy could lead to life-long disabilities affecting the skin, nerves, limbs and eyes. “According to the report of the 2015 National Leprosy review, 18 states in the federation are still endemic for Leprosy although anecdotal evidence suggests pockets of Leprosy endemicity in almost every state of the federation. “In 2020, Nigeria notified 1,508 new Leprosy cases. Furthermore, a 5-year trend of newly notified Leprosy cases showed a multi-bacillary (infectious type) leprosy proportion of over 90 per cent; proportion of cases with visible deformity of over 13 per cent; and child proportion of over 6 per cent. “The Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) through the National TB, Leprosy and Buruli Ulcer Control Programme (NTBLCP), with the support of partners since inception has successfully treated over 33,000 leprosy patients (including adults and children) from 2009 till date. “All 774 Local Government Areas (LGAs) in the country have at least one multi-drug therapy (MDT) clinic for management of leprosy patients. Twenty-five referral/rehabilitation centres for persons affected by Leprosy patients have been established nation-wide.”