Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, on Monday, announced automatic employment and donation of N1 million each to the two best graduating students of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a total of 6,257 students graduated at the 30th and 31st combined convocation of the Ogun government-owned university. NAN also reports that Iloka Ebuka of the Faculty of Pharmacy graduated with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 4.92 to emerge as the best student in the 2020/2021 session. Also, Fatima Awolumate of the Faculty of Agricultural Economics scored a CGPA of 4.82 to emerge as the best graduating student of 2019/2020 session. Abiodun, while speaking at the ceremony, urged tertiary institutions in the country to use research and innovation to inspire practical and lasting solutions to the myriad of challenges facing humanity. - Advertisement - He said that solutions should be sought for local challenges, stressing the need to encourage and cultivate the culture of innovation, ingenuity and technology among the youth. The governor, while congratulating the graduands, urged them to persevere in life and avoid the temptation of using a short cut to succeed. “You must also understand that your education does not end here. In fact, you will be starting a new form of education in the school of life. “My advice to you is to find a good mentor to help you actualise your dreams. Do not work in isolation, but recognise the value of learning from others and the value of networking.   Police appoint first female adviser for JTF in Chad     UPDATED: NASS transmits reworked Electoral Act Bill to…     Fire guts company yard in Delta   “In the end, you will be defined by your commitments. These are the ingredients for success and fulfillment. Shortcuts do not take anybody to any good place,” he said. Abiodun urged the youth, particularly students, to emulate the best graduating students in learning and character of diligence and hard work. He said that his administration had approved the construction of a 1,600-bed space hostel in the university to ease the accommodation challenges being faced by students. Giving an account of his stewardship, the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ganiyu Olatunde, who is rounding off his tenure, highlighted some of the achievements since he assumed office. Olatunde said that the university had witnessed significant growth and development in its operation and administrative sectors. “Discipline is a major focus of this administration and it had been integrated as a culture. “We ensured that our students are well behaved and decently dressed by enforcing a dress code that enhanced the moral standard in this great institution,” he said.   (NAN)