The National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC), the Recycling and Development Initiative of Nigeria (REDIN) and the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) have into strategic partnership aimed at developing a national regulation for End-of-Life Vehicles recycling in Nigeria. The Director General, NADDC Jelani Aliyu who gave this hint, said this in line with the growing need for proper recycling of ELVs including the environmental and economic sustainability of the sector, the organisations teamed up to ensure recycling framework across Nigeria and build automotive recycling facilities that support local industries and create thousands of jobs for Nigerians. According to him, NADDC obtained evidence-based information to establish an ELV recycling regulation to facilitate cooperation between members of the existing ELV scrap metal recycling value chain and design a framework for coordinating the ELV recycling industry in Nigeria, spelling out the objectives as, Ensuring proper management of End-of-Life Vehicles in Nigeria, Effective use of resources by reducing waste from automotive usage. Ensure that vehicle owners, manufacturers, dealers and relevant Government agencies deliver abandoned scrap vehicle to recycling facilities nationwide, among others.   Guinness Nigeria launches drink-driving e-learning module     Honeywell Group sets sights on key growth sectors     NAFDAC boss drums support for local content   On his part, the Chief Executive Officer, REDIN, Terseer Ugboh said the ELV recycling project will develop the automotive recycling sector and create 40, 000 direct and indirect jobs in Nigeria. Recycle over 140,000tons of ferrous and non-ferrous metals annually. Recycle over 1,000,000 used batteries annually and recycle over two million used tyres annually. He added that there is the recycling of millions of litters of used engine oils annually to also generate over N100billion in annual revenue from the sector, protect the environment from hazards and keep the roads and highways safer. The ELV recycling project will develop the automotive recycling sector and create 40,000 direct and indirect jobs in Nigeria Recycle over 140,000tons of ferrous and non-ferrous metals annually. - Advertisement - On automotive recycling it has been proposed that a one-off fee of N5, 000 is made at the point of registration of the car with the vehicle inspection office or state vehicle registration authority in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility programme. This fund will potentially generate N25billion in the first year of implementation from vehicles already on our roads and N2.5billion annually from new car registrations.