The Nigerian police yesterday refuted reports of the crash of one of its helicopters in Bauchi State. It said neither did its chopper crash nor its officers die in the purported crash. Some reports had claimed that a helicopter belonging to the Nigerian police, with registration number Bell 429 5N-MDA, crashed in Bauchi on Wednesday and injured six persons. But Force Headquarters spokesman Frank Mba, a Commissioner of Police (CP), told our correspondent in Abuja that the helicopter did not crash. He said what happened was a controlled landing of a police helicopter that did not result in any casualty. - Advertisement - In a statement, Mba said: “The Nigeria Police helicopter, Bell 429 5N-MDA, flying from Abuja to Bauchi on Wednesday, January 26, 2022, was involved in a controlled safe landing at the Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa International Airport, Bauchi. “The chopper did not crash, as was reported in some sections of the media, and none of the occupants sustained any injury whatsoever. All six on board, including the pilot and co-pilot, are in good condition.   Irabor seeks media-military partnership for effective…     Need for new roadmap on power sector     NGO seeks proposals for community funded-projects   “Similarly, the helicopter, which was flown by one of the best police pilots, was professionally safe-landed with minor damage on the rear rotor as a result of an obstacle at the landing spot. The incident occurred around 7:30 p.m (local time).” Read Also: How military helicopter attacked us in Rivers waterways – victim Mba added that the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, praised the Police Air Wing for their professionalism in safe-landing the chopper and averting any serious air mishap. Also, the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has begun investigations into the crash of the incident. A statement by its spokesman, Mr. Tunji Oketumbi, said the bureau was soliciting information from the public to enable it carry out a detailed probe. “The NPF helicopter departed Abuja at 16:54 UTC for Bauchi with six persons on board, maintaining 5,500 feet. There were some injuries but no fatality. “The investigating agency, AIB-N, needs and hereby solicits your assistance. We want the public to know that we would be amenable to receiving any video clips, evidence, or information any member of the public may have of the accident that can assist us with this investigation. “The Bureau will appreciate that the general public and press respect the privacy of the people involved and not assume the cause of the accident until a formal report is released,” the statement said.