Canada Immigration expert Victor Ola, shared the success story of Mr. Kingsley which inspired him to do more when it comes to helping people relocate to Canada all by themselves in 2022. A popular proverb that says: “a good turn deserves another”, Mr. Kingsley fed Victor Ola back after securing the UK study and work visa which seems to be an unachievable task for him. Just as many people out there want more out of life, looking to relocate to a place where they can mix up with people of different races, get exposed to different environments, feel the touches of nature and explore life to their satisfaction, Mr. Kingsley also wanted to relocate and study abroad.      Mr. Kingsley on several occasions has employed the services of immigration agents to help him process the visa. “The advice I would never give to anyone in this advanced technology age where the resourceful information is readily at your fingertip.” - Advertisement - Unfortunately, either the visa agent fled with his money or eventually gave him a visa rejection letter. Could it be that schooling abroad is not the experience that Mr. Kingsley would taste? He got frustrated and wanted to give up on his relocation dreams after being scammed by different so-called visa agent, a concerned friend referred Mr. Kingsley to me, says Victor Ola I shared with him what he could have done better and what he needed to do in his next application.   Tiv monarch blesses Ayom’s presidential ambition     Yellow Card resumes naira deposits, withdrawals in Nigeria     DBN: NOTICE  OF  EXTRA ORDINARY  GENERAL MEETING   Being a brilliant applicant, Mr. Kingsley followed everything I told him, he searched through the huge list of institutions offering scholarships and submitted applications to schools of his choice. Fortunately for him, he got admission into Nottingham Trent University, and Glasgow Caledonian University in the UK. Left with double options, He chose Glasgow Caledonian University due to his personal review of the institutions. The issue of agents ripping helpless applicants is a matter for another day! Not, in any case, should you throw your money in the garbage. I’ve received emails from individuals that have been scammed by these so-called agents! My one cent is that, you need to be proactive yourself especially in this day and age where resourceful information is at your disposal. Join my live workshop here ⇒  https://noieltstocanada.com/ and get yourself exposed to the immigration process of Canada, UK, USA among others.        The information being taught in the session of No IELTS To Canada workshop is not bound to only Canada, many applicants have used it to relocate to Canada, UK, USA and other European countries. Also, you’ll be exposed to how to process admission into the Canadian school of your choice, you know how to apply for a guaranteed entrance scholarship, and a list of companies that give educational loans to students from anywhere in the world in case you couldn’t get a scholarship. Importantly, you’ll see how to get your first job as a new immigrant without prior experience and with no Canadian work experience once you land in Canada. If you’re dead serious about your study and work abroad dream, you need to avoid agent headaches and write your story like Mr.  Kingsley by joining the No IELTS To Canada workshop session now at https://noieltstocanada.com/ All your questions and concerns about this reliable & fastest pathway will be answered in the on-going workshop so watch till the end because you’ll get my WhatsApp number. Click on this link to know more https://noieltstocanada.com/ Web tags:  ielts 4.5 accepted in universities in Canada,  without ielts study visa countries list 2022, scholarship without ielts requirement, Canada immigration without ielts 2022, study in Canada without ielts from Nigeria, study masters in Canada for free, study abroad fully funded scholarships, is ielts compulsory for Canada student visa, which university does not require ielts in Canada, Canada study permit without ielts, how to go Canada without ielts The best time to start your relocation process to Canada is now. The longer you wait, the harder it becomes!!!