The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said only parties that conducted valid primaries in line with Section 87 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended), would be given access code with which to upload the list and particulars of their candidates for the June 18 and July 16 Ekiti and Osun governorship elections. It said the elections would be conducted under the existing legal framework and its regulations and guidelines. The commission said it would consolidate and deepen its creative and innovative strategies in the deployment of technology in the electoral process. It hinted on measures adopted to ensure that the governorship elections were credible, noting that the people’s votes would determine the outcome of both elections. “More fundamentally, the commission will utilise INEC result viewing portal to upload polling unit results in its dedicated result viewing portal.” - Advertisement - INEC National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee Festus Okoye said the commission would deploy its Bimodal Voter Accreditation Device (BVAS) for fingerprint and facial accreditation for both elections.   Makinde: Oyo has lost most experienced politician     Northcentral lawmakers pass vote of confidence in Buni,…     2023: Members, not leaders, will choose PDP’s presidential…   He warned multiple registrants to keep away from the polling units, saying those engaged in identity theft would have no place at the polling units. Okoye said hawkers of permanent voter cards would be rendered powerless and redundant during the elections. He said: “The commission will meet and take a decision on further devolution of the CVR to the registration areas in Ekiti and Ondo states. The continuous voter registration exercise is taking place at the state and local government offices of the commission. “The commission will also deploy its state of the art Bimodal Voter Accreditation Device (BVAS) for fingerprint and facial accreditation. Multiple registrants must keep away from the polling units. Those engaged in identity theft will have no place at the polling units and hawkers of permanent voter cards will be rendered powerless and redundant. “We urge stakeholders to cooperate with the commission to deliver good elections in both states. “The commission will carry out robust voter education in the states and the votes of the people will be the determinant of the outcome of both elections.”