The name Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen is more associated with business, the corporate world and boardrooms. He is one of those conservative aristocratcs who regard politics as too murky to wade in. But he recently joined mainstream politics and pitched his tent with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In an interview with selected journalists he stated that he’s on a mission to drive an ethical and intellectual revolution in the main opposition party. GBADE OGUNWALE was there He was every inch pensive as he sits in one of the sofas in the expansive living room that Sunday afternoon. His aristocratic mien belied the agitation within, apparently stirred by the grim socio-economic indices and the frightening security situation around the country. Mohammed Hayatu-Deen had been a key player in the top echelon of the corporate world for close to four decades before he retired. Like every other Nigerian, he has come face-to-face with the grim realities and the dire consequences wrong political choices have had on the country. According to him, sitting down in one’s comfort zone to watch the decay from the sidelines can no longer be an option. What prompted his foray into politics? “As an economist and a technocrat, I have a passionate commitment to this nation’s development and progress. I have thought long and hard about the calamity that has befallen our dear country and identified many factors that are responsible for this grim state of affairs. One of them is the glaring absence of citizens action and participation in the political affairs of the nation. Many of us are simply complacent and just happy to go about seeking our daily bread and not bothering to take an active interest in how we are governed and administered. But how do we ever expect change to happen if we, as citizens, do not effectively participate in the political process, demand results from leaders and hold them accountable? It therefore goes without saying that such a desired change can only happen if we significantly expand citizens participation in democratic and political institutions by taking concerted action to deepen and enrich the pool of political practitioners”, he submits. Why join PDP? - Advertisement - Hayatu-Deen says: “After a profound and deep reflection, I have decided to put my lot with the Peoples Democratic Party by getting on board as a member of the party. Why the PDP? For a number of reasons. Chief among which are that the PDP is one of two major political parties in Nigeria, and it has a national outlook. As a matter of fact, PDP was a pioneer party when Nigeria came out of military rule 21 years ago and ruled the country for 16 years. In the period that it was in the saddle, it had accumulated substantial experience in governing. In the six years hence that it has been in opposition, I believe it has had time to reflect on its achievements and failures and it seems apparent that it has taken some lessons on board as it reboots its strategy to recapture power in 2023”. According to him, there is relative stability in the main opposition party and there are signs that suggest that the party has been able to put its house in order. Hayatu-Deen says: “In the last several months, the evidence on the ground would seem to suggest that PDP has put its act together based on the disciplined and seamless manner it conducted elections for various party offices and organs, the heavy emphasis it has placed on merit in the election of the leadership of the party and the mature and methodical manner in which it has proceeded to conduct its affairs since the election. “However, there still remains a long hard road to travel and therefore complacency can not be an option as Nigerians are watching keenly and closely”. Nigeria heading in the wrong direction “It is there for all to see that the nation is headed in the wrong direction. As an economist and a fiscal conservative, my heart bleeds when I see the signposts of what would have otherwise been a dynamic, innovative and globally competitive country being eviscerate by chronically inefficient allocation of resources and mismanagement. Ordinarily, given the rich endowments of this blessed nation, we should be running an economy that should function, and function at its peak by generating superlative levels of economic output and high levels of economic growth in the range of 10 -15% per annum sustained over a decade and more. But the reality today is very different as industrial graveyards litter our national landscape, resulting in sharp contraction in output accompanied by unusually high levels of underemployment and unemployment. Consequently the government (which should be small and an enabler of business) is ballooning while businesses (large, medium and small) are shrinking. No wonder, then, that the vast sections of this country have been torched up by bandits and terrorists who are hell bent on extracting more than their fair share through the back door what they believe should legitimately accrue to them through the front door based on their expectations of dividends of democracy”, he says. Overview of the economy “The signs of decay have been looming on the horizon for quite some time. But over the last 13 years, the economy and our society have literally been in free fall as we have been witnesses to the sharp and rapid unraveling of our way of life, our dignity and self worth as a people and our time honored institutions. Despite the abundant blessings bestowed on this beautiful land by Almighty God, something as basic as putting bread and butter on the table is a daily struggle for the majority of Nigerian families. For a great number of our fellow citizens, getting clothed and having a roof over their heads is a utopian dream. And collectively, for all of us as citizens, we can no longer feel safe or secure in our homes, streets or highways. It is common knowledge that having unfettered access to basic social amenities such as potable water, good sanitary conditions, stable and reliable electricity, good motor-able roads, decent and affordable public transportation systems, quality education and healthcare, social safety nets to protect the weak and the downtrodden – all of which have been taken for granted for centuries in other climes, have so far eluded the Nigerian people. “In short, for the greater number of our fellow citizens, life is ‘nasty, brutish and short’ as Thomas Hobbes put it crisply. Our sacred national anthem, which is the glue that binds us as one nation is observed more in the breach than in practice as we see the foundations of our union come under severe stresses and strains. But by far the most perplexing and egregious issue of the moment is the carnage being unleashed on citizens by connoisseurs of violence and terror all over our peace loving and God fearing communities. Not by the wildest stretch of the imagination did I ever conceive of the nation being bathed by such vast oceans of blood of innocent men, women and children in tandem with the displacement of entire communities”. Political aspiration   Family retrieves corpse of murdered OAU MBA student from…     Trader gets wish for divorce because husband loves his dog…     Ekiti 150: Whose errand boys?   I am not aspiring to any political office. My aspiration right now is to actually influence the platform of the PDP, by making sure that issues of insecurity are brought to the party platform. As we go towards 2023, I will like to see a lot of debate around the issue of insecurity. The second thing that I am actually interested in is that the nation is actually fractured and divided and what I would like to see is to bring the country back together, so that we can celebrate our unity in diversity. A lot of issues that are going on are a product of extreme poverty. And when people are very poor and devastated divisions come in. “Secondly, the way the country is governed, particularly at the level of the states, these people are very despondent and it leaves them with bitter disappointment. So it is important therefore to actually reunite the people by doing what is right for them, by giving some services. These are the kinds of ideas that I have. I will like to build them into a policy blueprint throughout the campaign season. These things will be pushed, depending on the agenda. So that if the PDP wins the election in 2023, both at the national and sub national levels, these matters are brought to the front burner as important issues of our time, and must be dealt with because the country is clearly facing a great danger. Experience and engagements “By far, the greatest experience that shaped my outlook in this field was my rich career in New Nigeria Development Company Limited (NNDC), the single largest diversified holding company in Nigeria with investments in 145 companies straddling a large spectrum of industries – which I had the distinct privilege of leading as Group Chief Executive Officer. I have since the end of my corporate career in FSB International Bank PLC as its CEO for 15 years, continued to be involved in a variety of civic projects. I had the unique privilege of serving as Chairman of the Committee on the Economy under the General Danjuma led Presidential Advisory Committee established by President Jonathan. I proceeded to serve President-elect Buhari in exactly the same capacity under the 2015 Presidential Transition Committee led by late Alhaji Ahmed Joda. Both of these unique experiences gave me deep insights into the challenges and opportunities confronting our fatherland and the bold, practical common sense actions required to make Nigeria a run away success story that would make it one of the foremost leaders in the emerging markets. “My service in these Presidential Advisory Committees gave me a powerful motivation to establish an NGO, the Renaissance Development Forum, which I serve as its Founder and Chairman along with some highly accomplished technocrats as a way of giving back to society. As part of this service, we are currently devoting considerable intellectual and financial resources towards the vexing issue of the 14 million out-of-school children, beginning with the need to get the ‘Almajiris’ off the streets and mainstream them into an integrated islamic cum formal education so that they can become productive and independent economic agents. Similarly, in my home state of Borno, we have recently kick started a nascent NGO – Borno Development Foundation – which seeks to foster long term sustainable development in Borno State as a means of fast tracking the reconstruction, rehabilitation and transformation of the state during the post insurgency phase. “One of the commendable traditions of the PDP for most of its governing history lies in its ability to foster a climate conducive to cross fertilization of ideas, openness and debate. I will therefore give it my all and strive to place matters pertaining to the economic well-being of the Nigerian people as well as the burning issues of insecurity afflicting our communities all over the country at the centre of the party platform. “For all of the above reasons and much more, I give my solemn pledge that I will donate the full measure of my energy and devotion as a member to advance the interests of the Party, my beloved community and the country that I love so dearly”. Links with PDP National Chairman, Ayu “One of my most profound reasons for standing with the PDP has to do with my abiding faith and implicit trust in Dr Iyorchia Ayu, the newly minted Chairman of the Party. Dr Ayu and myself have been classmates and friends from our early days in Ahmadu Bello University. Throughout our academic days and in the decades that have ensued, we have remained glued as intellectual soulmates and sparring partners- he as a university don initially, before coming to the national limelight at a tender age to occupy positions of preeminence in various institutions of government; and I as an economist having the singular fortune of assuming the leadership of two major corporate institutions at a very tender age for a combined period of 20 years. “In my other civic callings as a founding member of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and eventually becoming its Chairman and subsequently as a key member of the seminal Vision 2020 project, Dr Ayu who was then serving as Federal Minister at various times, and I had collaborated on a number of important national endeavours. “Our friendship and partnership has stood the test of time and we share many ethos and values in common. We share a common view on global affairs and Nigeria’s place in Africa as a dominant but benevolent and friendly power”. Continuing, he said: “We both agree that the Nigerian people are better off if we all join forces to build a united, inclusive, equitable and just society in which a visionary and competent government can establish the enabling environment to unleash the creative energies of the private sector to turbo charge the economy, generate jobs in abundance and deliver national prosperity; and hence rescue millions of our fellow citizens out of a vicious and debilitating poverty trap. Dr Ayu is a uniquely gifted and astute political leader and statesman who has the vision, the boldness and courage of his conviction to provide the kind of leadership that the party and the nation deserve at this hour of need.”