The best graduating student of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), for 2019/2020,  Florence Akinwunmi, revealed that she planned to become the best in her department. However, her joy knew no bounds when she was announced as the overall best graduating student at the convocation. Akinwunmi graduated  from the Biochemistry Department with  4.77 Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA). Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, she explained how she was able to scale through despite the difficulty accompanying academic success. When asked how she was able to cope with  lecturers’ strict marking system, she said: “I tried to study my lecturers  to know what they wanted.” She explained that no lecturer would want to fail his or her student, but students can only battle with marking guides. - Advertisement - “As a student, we should know how to answer questions correctly. It is not a must you answer all questions during examination,but the ones you answer should be well written,” she said.   IBBUL student develops App     Women and human trafficking     Minister urges alumni to transform alma mater   Explaining how she came out in flying colours, she said she learnt how to answer questions from her  mentors at Federal  Polytechnic, Offa, where she bagged her National Diploma. ” I read and assimilate during the day, I can’t read beyond 12 am in the midnight, so I spend the day  judiciously. I can read from 7 am to 7 pm,” she said. Akinwunmi explained that hard work, luck and  prayer  helped her in becoming outstanding. On how she will impact the world, she said: “We all know this is an era of a pandemic. As a Biochemist, I can provide a solution to it. Cancer is also a major threat, we can also find a solution to that and many more through our research.” While advising the students, she said: “The key to academic excellence is persistent reading. They must be studious, focused, disciplined and dedicated to their studies. “They should do away with reading to pass but read to understand and most importantly prayer so as to sail through. Excellence is a journey. We must not be static. We must keep moving forward because this is just an achievement at the preliminary stage,” she concluded.