A coalition of civil society organisations have picked holes in the 2021 draft electoral Bill rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari, calling on the National Assembly to effect the errors before transmitting it to the President. The CSOs urged members of the National Assembly to carry out a comprehensive review of the bill to ensure all editorial, drafting and cross-referencing gaps identified are addressed before sending it back to President Buhari for his assent. It also called on the National Assembly to shelve all primordial interests by removing the contentious direct primary clause from the bill before passage to the President for assent. The CSOs also said the country was in a national emergency following the refusal of President Buhari to sign the Electoral Bill into law. They said the refusal of the President to sign the Electoral Bill into law will affect the Osun, Ekiti and the Federal Capital Territory Municipal elections. - Advertisement - It noted that the decision of the President to withhold assent would deny the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) the opportunity to test the various innovations, especially electronic transmission of results in the Bill in these elections. The CSOs who made the call yesterday in Abuja included members of Yiaga Africa; International Press Centre (IPC); Centre for Citizens with Disability (CCD); The Albino Foundation; CLEEN Foundation; Institute for Media and Society (IMS); Nigerian Women Trust Fund (NWTF); Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ); Partners for Electoral Reform (PER); Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC); Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) and Nigerian Network of Non-Governmental Organisations (NNNGO). Speaking on behalf of the CSOs, Yiaga Africa’s Executive Director, Samson Itodo, disclosed that civil society groups had already undertaken an in-depth and comprehensive review of the bill and identified drafting errors, repetition and cross-referencing gaps in eleven sections of the Bill. According to Itodo, Cross-referencing errors were identified in five sections of the bill, including grammatical errors in two sections, duplicate provisions in three sections and conflicting provisions in one section of the bill. He added: “Without doubt, these errors will cause controversies and legal complications in the implementation of the bill when enacted.” Itodo recalled that in August 2018, President Buhari premised his decision to decline assent to the 2018 Electoral (Amendment) Bill on certain drafting errors and cross-referencing gaps in the Bill.   COVID-19: 6,500 inbound passengers on the loose, Lagos…     Tinubu: With collective will, nothing will stop us from our…     Tinubu support group inaugurated in Delta   He said: “Therefore, it is imperative for the National Assembly to ensure due diligence before transmitting the Electoral Bill 2021 back to the President for assent to prevent the current bill from suffering the same fate. “As part of civil society’s contributions to the ongoing reform process, a detailed memorandum was submitted to the leadership of the National Assembly on December 29, 2021. “The memorandum highlights the affected sections and specific recommendations for addressing the errors. “As the nation prepares for the off-cycle elections in the FCT, Ekiti and Osun and the 2023 general elections, a new legal framework is required to safeguard the integrity of these elections. “The Electoral Bill 2021 is replete with provisions that address electoral manipulation and the intractable and protracted problem of poor election logistics. “Furthermore, the bill strengthens INEC’s financial independence and it also empowers the commission to reject falsified election results. “The newly introduced timelines for key electoral activities in the bill will facilitate early electoral preparations and promote issue-based political engagement. “Therefore, it is imperative for the National Assembly and the President to ensure the electoral reform process is concluded expeditiously. “Any further delay in concluding the process of enacting the Electoral Bill 2021 will directly impact preparations for the 2023 General Election. “As noted earlier in our previous statement, a climate of legal uncertainties will befall upcoming elections and Nigeria will lose the opportunity to test the efficacy of new innovations introduced in the electoral Bill, especially during the off-cycle elections in Ekiti and Osun, before deployment for the 2023 General Elections.” Also speaking, Convener, Nigeria civil society situation room, Ene Obi, called on the National Assembly to address the identified drafting errors in the eleven sections of the bill before re-transmitting the Electoral Bill 2021 for Presidential Assent. Obi reiterated the CSOs’ earlier call on the National Assembly to expeditiously conclude the process and re-transmit the Electoral Bill 2021 to the President for assent within 30 days from 21st December, 2021. She urged the President to assent to the Bill within a week upon receipt from the National Assembly, maintaining that civil society groups, media, and development partners must sustain the effort to safeguard the Electoral Bill from policy capture, manipulation and subversion of the people’s will.