General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has assured Nigerians of better days to come as far as life and breadth remained. He spoke at the annual yearly thanksgiving organised by the Lagos State government held at the Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja. This year’s annual thanksgiving’s theme is ‘Songs of Thanksgiving’, taken from Jeremiah Chapter 30 Verse 19. Adeboye took his message from Psalm 150:6, saying: “Let everything that has breadth praise the Lord.” According to him, the presence of life and breadth signifies hope. - Advertisement - “As long as you are still breathing, there is hope. No matter the spiritual captivity, hope is on the horizon if you are still breathing. “If you are still breathing, your captivity will end and tomorrow will be brighter. “It is also important to cry for salvation when there is still breadth because now is the day of salvation,” he said. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who thanked God for keeping the people to see the new year, promised that his administration would complete all ongoing projects. He said: “The Holy Bible is full of summons of thanksgiving to God for his abiding mercies. “Psalm 100 verse 4 – 5 asks us to ‘Enter His gates with a song of thanksgiving and His courts with praise. Be thankful to Him, bless and praise His name, for the Lord is good; His mercy and lovingkindness are everlasting, His faithfulness endures to all generations.’ “Indeed, the faithfulness of the Almighty endures to all generations. His mercies and goodness have been abundant upon our lives, as individuals, as families, as a state, and as a nation. Read Also: COVID-19: Adeboye enlists 1,000 prayer warriors over Omicron   Ibadan mourns     2023: Jonathan meets with coordinators     Post-Biafran syndrome   “Every New Year comes with the opportunity to start afresh; to dream new dreams and envision new visions, of personal change, of self-improvement, of the pursuit of new levels and vistas in our lives and our undertakings. “But it is also an opportunity to look back at the outgoing year, to highlight the lessons we learned, to review the steps we took and to learn from the mistakes we made. “This season is therefore both for looking back and looking forward. And in these acts, we will no doubt find much to be thankful for. “2021 was a year of global pandemic and economic meltdown, it was also a year of bouncing back from the destruction visited on our state following the EndSARS protests. “We are grateful to God for the strength to overcome the mindless violence our state experienced. “We are deeply grateful that what the forces of darkness planned for our state did not come to pass. We have our faith anchored in the word of the Lord in Joshua 1: 9, which charges us to ‘Be strong and courageous and not be terrified or dismayed, for the Lord our God is with us wherever we go.’ “This 2022 is a special year for us as an administration because it will be the final full year of the four-year mandate you gave us in 2019. “It will therefore be a season of consolidation, a year in which we hope to complete all ongoing projects and significantly advance our journey towards the Greater Lagos of our collective desire. “By the special grace of God, the vision of having the largest Rice Mill in sub-Saharan Africa and one of the largest in the world will become a reality this year. “This year will witness a milestone achievement in the rail transportation system as we expect the 37km Red and 27.5km Blue Line Rail projects to commence commercial operations between the last quarter of this year and first quarter of 2023. “These are just a handful of the projects that will be completed or advanced this year. Indeed, 2022 will witness remarkable development on various fronts – infrastructure, technology, health and education, security, and many more; all of which will translate to a significant improvement in the quality of life of the people…” Dignitaries at the thanksgiving were Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat; National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. Also present were the Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa; Minister of Works and Housing Babatunde Fashola (SAN); his wife Abimbola; former Deputy Governors Kofoworola Bucknor-Akerele; Femi Pedro; Abiodun Ogunleye; and Sarah Sosan, among others.