Indigenous digital company, Zinox Group, has set aside over N500million for job creation which will promote peace in Imo State. Its Chairman, Leo Stan Ekeh, made the pledge during the quarterly Stakeholders Meeting/Luncheon hosted by the Imo State government at Government House. Eke who was the chairman of the occasion, said the 21st century is a knowledge economy which demands a new attitude and mindset. He added that hard work, brilliance, humility and a firm belief in God are essential ingredients for success, adding that the state is blessed with a number of youths with these qualities. He said if he could achieve so much from nothing, certainly the current crop of young people in the state are better exposed, more brilliant and in a better position to achieve even more. He said the N500million fund would be used to establish a finishing school which would polish fresh graduates as well as the unemployed, equipping the beneficiaries with world class skills that would transform them into highly sought-after prospects that can compete with their peers globally. - Advertisement - He added that the products of the school would become more marketable and would secure gainful employment in Nigeria and abroad. He promised to source resource persons from around the world to mentor the beneficiaries and equally re-train their trainers.   Glo supports Benin Great GSM Village festival     BUA Foods lists N720b shares on Stock Exchange     Buhari appoints Okadigbo’s widow NNPC chair   Ekeh, who used the opportunity to sue for peace in the state, also appealed to all aggrieved parties to forgive and forget the wrongs of the past, even as he urged them to join forces with the current administration to restore the glory of the state. In addition, he called on the media to exercise some restraint in their reportage and to refrain from unfairly portraying the state in bad light as a hotbed of insecurity. ‘‘I am not a politician and I will never be one in my lifetime. But nobody can convince me to fight against my state. Imo State belongs to all of us. We need to join hands with the current administration and whoever is in power to develop the state for our children and unborn generations,’’ he said. Further, Ekeh called on other well-meaning Imo indigenes at home and in the Diaspora to support the government and to join hands and commit to the latest project by volunteering to sponsor a minimum of five beneficiaries across each town through the finishing school. He added that the project would commence with the best qualified five per town until every unemployed graduate is re-trained in Imo state. ‘‘Through this finishing school, we will equally train the trainers and leverage on our brothers and sisters, both in Nigeria and in the Diaspora with global competences to re-train our unemployed and underemployed graduates to enhance their profiles in the global marketplace,’’ he said. Also speaking at the event, the state governor, Sen Hope Uzodinma, who delivered a scorecard of his administration’s performance within the past two years, hailed Ekeh for his unceasing contributions to the development of the state. While thanking him for his many selfless and philanthropic gestures in the past, Uzodinma also expressed gratitude to the Zinox boss for his latest initiative, adding that the proposed project would go a long way in supporting the state government’s human capital development drive. Uzodinma, who announced the rebuilding of the demolished Eke Ukwu market, among other developmental projects across the state, restated his determination to ensure that the state regained its rightful place as the pride of the Southeast and a tourist/investors’ haven. He said: ‘‘My beloved Ndi-Imo, I want to reiterate my resolve to serve with all my heart and with all my strength, with the fear of God. One thing you can be assured of is that under my watch as your governor, not a pin belonging to Imo State will ever be unaccounted for. Another thing you can be sure of is that our dear Imo will become great again.’’