•’I will sign if suspect gets death sentence’ •Suspect charged to court for homicide •Aisha Buhari backs capital punishment for killer •Hisbah urges justice The Kano State Government yesterday revoked the certificates of operation of all private schools in the state for revalidation. The Commissioner for Education, Mr Muhammad Sanusi-Kiru, disclosed this while briefing reporters in Kano. - Advertisement - Sanusi-Kiru hinged the decision by the state government on the murder of Hanifa Abubakar, a five-year-old pupil of Noble Kids Comprehensive College allegedly killed by the proprietor of the school. He said the withdrawal of the certificates of operation of the private schools was to allow for revalidation and screening of the proprietors of those schools. “All the certificates issued to private schools in the state are hereby revoked. “The ministry will evolve criteria for the recertification of all private schools, which include Ministry of Justice and Department of State Services (DSS),” the commissioner said. Apparently angry over the gruesome murder of Hanifa, Governor Ganduje yesterday promised to assent to a death sentence on the principal suspect who abducted and killed the five-year-old if the court pronounces so. “I will abide by the constitutional provision, as a governor, when the death sentence is passed by the court,” Governor Ganduje said. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary Abba Anwar said Ganduje vowed to sign the death warrant when he paid a condolence visit with his Deputy, Nasuru Yusuf Gawuna, the Majority Leader of the State House of Assembly, Labaran Abdul Madari and other top government functionaries, at the late Hanifa’s family residence in Dakata/Kawaji yesterday. “We have good confirmation from the court handling the process that, justice would be done. No stone would be left unturned.  The Nation gathered that the court yesterday promised “speedy dispensation of justice.” Also yesterday, the principal suspect in the abduction and killing of Hanifa Abubakar was charged to court. He was arraigned before Chief Magistrate Court 12 Gidan Murtala in Kano, police said.   Mercy Aigbe’s ex-husband, Lanre Gentry breaks silence     SAN, 6 lawyers face sanctions over conflicting court orders     Govt: petrol subsidy stays   Tanko, who is the deceased’s teacher, had told the police he poured rat killer poison in tea in an empty container of BoBo Yoghurt and gave it to the little girl who drank and died. He said he used the N100, 000 to offset his teachers’ salaries. “I bought the rat poison for N100. When she died, I buried her in the school,” he revealed. However, irate youths yesterday took the laws into their own hands by setting the school ablaze. Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has pledged to “meticulously monitor and ensure the prosecution of anyone found culpable.” In a statement by the Commissioner for Information Muhammad Garba, the governor said: “The government is terribly disturbed that people entrusted with the care of children only turn out to be their murderers.” In a related development, the wife of President Muhammadu Buhari Aisha said she is in support of capital punishment for Abdulmalik Tanko, the alleged killer of Hanifa Abubakar. Mrs Buhari made her stance known via a post on her Instagram handle on Sunday. Abubakar was kidnapped in December and later killed after her abductors demanded N6 million ransoms. On Thursday, the police in Kano arrested Tanko, Abubakar’s proprietor, who allegedly abducted and killed her. In a video that surfaced online, one Abdallah Gadon Kaya, an Islamic cleric, called on the federal and Kano State governments to see to it that the suspect is served capital punishment. Mrs Buhari shared the video and captioned it with a statement in Hausa loosely meaning “we support Mallam’s judgment” and called on the attention of the Inspector-General of Police and the Attorney-General of the Federation to the matter. Also, the Kano State Hisbah Board has urged the police and relevant stakeholders to ensure speedy prosecution of Abdulmalik Tanko. This is contained in a statement by the Public Relations Officer of the Board, Mr Lawan Ibrahim-Fagge yesterday in Kano. Ibrahim-Fagge quoted the Commander-General of the Board, Dr Harun Ibn-Sina as condemning the killing, describing it as one of the worst terrible incidents that have happened in the history of the state.