Niger Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello has blamed two villages in the Allawa community in Shiroro local government area for making the Saturday terrorist attack in Galadima Kogo successful. He explained that the early withdrawal of the Joint Security Taskforce from the attacked community was tactical for the personnel to re-strategise. The Governor, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Berje, said that if the people were proactive enough, the terrorists would not have successfully carried out such an attack that claimed several lives and left many houses and properties destroyed. “The Governor condemn the attack on Galadiman Kogo stressing that it would have been unsuccessful if villagers from Galape and Kudodo in Allawa community had alerted the security agencies when they noticed movements of the terrorists towards the town,” the statement reads. The Nation had reported over 18 people were killed, 40 injured and an unknown number abducted when terrorists invaded Galadima Kogo community in Shiroro local government area on Saturday evening. - Advertisement - The attack, which lasted for hours, was carried out after the terrorists issued a four- day notice informing the villagers of their coming.   Olubadan succession row: High Chiefs withdraw suit     JUST IN: Everton confirm Frank Lampard new coach     Aubameyang arrives Barcelona for transfer deadline move   It was also learnt that security personnel were withdrawn from Galadima Kogo before the attack occurred. The Governor, who described the attack as unfortunate, urged villagers in the affected communities to endeavour to provide credible information to the Joint Security Taskforce stationed in the area. “Villagers in the affected communities should endeavour to provide credible information to the Joint Security Taskforce stationed in the area. “Security agencies cannot perform effectively and efficiently without getting appropriate support and intelligence from the people,” the statement reads. The statement further said 11 members of the Joint Security Taskforce were killed alongside several villagers while many were injured. The Governor also called for calm and urged the fleeing communities in Galadiman Kogo and Kuchi in Shiroro and Munya Local Government Areas to await the swift and immediate response from the Joint Security Taskforce. He also explained that the State Government had secured clearance from President Muhammadu Buhari to carry out intensive military operations in Shiroro, Munya and Rafi Local Governments axis, assuring that ground and airstrikes would continue to comb the areas to flush out those miscreants. “We have really run out of patience with the terrorists and we’ll use every means possible to bring an end to these incessant bloody attacks on innocent people. We will do everything to stop the killings and return normalcy to the affected communities,” he said.