The power of sports in uniting people, especially countrymen and women with divergent opinions can’t be overemphasised. For Nigerians, watching sports can be very addictive. You will be shocked at the level of awareness from the elderly, who you would ordinarily think should be disinterested because of the generational gap. What stands out is that the elderly are excited and feel a strong sense of belonging when the younger ones hug them in celebrations. The scene which thrills me the most is when grandpa and his grandchildren discuss the beautiful game and its trends. Perhaps such kids’ parents didn’t have the luxury of sitting down with their fathers the way their kids are doing. All parents were very strict. I digress! I was in Abuja during the week and I took time to watch the matches of the Africa Cup of Nations in viewing centres and gauge it with what operates here in Lagos. No difference. Nigerians are following the AFCON games and they have been excited over the exit of Ghana’s Black Stars. I joined them in their celebrations because of the rivalry between the Black Stars of Ghana and Nigeria’s Super Eagles. Could it be that AFCON matches rate better than the Premier League and other European leagues? Foul. The paradigm shift rests with the fact that Chelsea FC has been fumbling recently with the Blues’ spate of drawn matches. Asides,  fans of the rival teams in the Premier League are not too keen on watching those rescheduled games because Manchester City looks like runaway winners of the trophy this season. Again, teasing fans have found respite in the fabulous displays of the Super Eagles in their two games against Egypt and Sudan, with the latter trounced 3-1in Garoua. Eagles’ outings have been impressive beginning with the uncanny way in which Austin Eguavoen evolved a method to silence Pharaohs’ legend Mohammed Salah in the opening game the Eagles’ approach to the opener against Pharaohs was tentative. They played with caution with their set objective of stopping Salah in his tracks. It worked but they were wasteful in front of the goalpost largely because of the way the players assembled in Abuja before hitting Garoua on January 6.  Indeed, Eguavoen has restored confidence in the players with many pursuing the target of playing ugly if that is what they need to do to win games. Of course, the second game against Sudan was one in which the players were more assertive in their performance resulting in the goals which they scored with aplomb. Eguavoen needs to educate our players to learn how not to impede the opposition’s striker inside the penalty box and from set-piece since the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) would spot the offence the way it did in the second game by fishing out Ola Aina stepping on the opponent’s toes during the melee arising from a corner kick. - Advertisement - Eguavoen showed he understood his trade by parading players who sat on the bench in the first two matches against Guinea Bissau. That decision gave Eguavoen the opportunity to assess the depth in the strength of his team and options are available to him en route to getting to the finals, where anything is possible. With six goals scored and one conceded, bookmakers have tipped the swift-playing Super Eagles to play against the Indomitable Lions, all things being equal. But football, like the Sierra Leoneans, would say is like biscuits, you would never know where it would crack if you try to divide it into bits. Otherwise, the Black Stars of Ghana and the Desert Warriors of Algeria would still be participating in the matches of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations held in Cameroon. They aren’t in one of the several shocking results which have characterised the 2021  AFCON in Cameroon.  Cote d’Ivoire eliminated the title holders Algeria from the Africa Cup of Nations, Cameroon 2021with a 3-1 to finish top of Group E and setting up a mouth-watering Round of 16 in Douala on Wednesday in easily the star match of the round with the world to see Liverpool’s Egyptian star Mohammed Salah rise to the occasion to lift the Pharaohs with goals to The Promised Land. Nigeria is drawn against the Tunisians in easily the star fixture of the Round of 16 matches if we are to follow the history of the competition. Not so any longer as both countries are a shadow of their past. They appear to be rebuilding their squads, so the spark expected from them would end at the level of pre-match discussion leading to the game on Sunday. Read Also: People beginning to respect Super Eagles, says Coach Eguavoen   AFCON 2021: Nothing to cheer, but…     Owumi, this is your life     Before a referee is killed   For the Tunisians, their situation is precarious given the spate of Covid-19 cases which has hit her squads in spite of the fact that CAF increased the number of players that a participating country can field in the biannual competition from the conventional 23 to 28 players. Before the Thursday last group game against the Gambia 12 players in the 28-man squad contracted COVID-19, the country’s football federation said Wednesday. Key player Wahbi Khazri is among the players to test positive. The report stated further that: “This evening (Wednesday) the players took part in a training session with 16 players present and the rest absent due to Covid-19 contamination,” the federation said on its Facebook page. The federation also said: “Tuesday, the tests revealed the contamination of Ali Maaloul, Aymen Dahmen, Ghailene Chaalali, Mohamed Ali Ben Romdhane, Wahbi Khazri, Ali Jemal and Mohamed Amine Ben Hmida who have been isolated from the group.” The Tunisians were beaten 1-0 by Gambians by a sweet left-footer from Gambia’s striker, Musa Barrow in the dying minutes of the game. The Carthage Eagles bounced back from their controversial opening 1-0 loss to Mali, when the referee blew the final whistle early, by thrashing Mauritania 4-0 in their second game. Right-back Mohamed Drager has though recovered from the virus. The Tunisians are hoping that five other players, positive since the start of the tournament, will test negative. The Tunisians are not what they are renowned for in this competition, having struggled to handle the hard-tackling Malians who their morphological advantage to muscle the Tunisians off the ball. The Desert Warriors have lost the flair and speed in their game, leaving them vulnerable at the rear on the counter. On paper and current form at the competition, Nigeria’s Super Eagles look like the odds on favourite to qualify for the quarter-finals in the country’s quest for the fourth Africa Cup of Nations win, having won it in 1980 in Lagos, 1994 in Tunisia and in 2013 in South Africa. In fact, Eagles coach Austin ‘Cerezo’ Eguavoen played in the final game for the Super Eagles. If Eguavoen succeeds to guide Nigeria to lift the trophy on February 6 in Yaoundé, he would become the second person after the late Stephen Okechukwu Keshi to lift the trophy as a former player and as coach of the team. Several other nationals have achieved this feat too. But fellow Super Eagles striker Victor Osimhen who isn’t in Cameroon, having withdrawn over health matters arising from a facial injury and being a victim of the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic watched how his teammates beat Guinea Bissau. Osimhen who watched Wednesday’s game in Naples was very impressed with what he saw describing his colleagues’ overall outing as ”brilliant.” “Brilliant performance from the whole squad! Special mentions Moses Simon, Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho,” Osimhen tweeted. No doubt the trio Ndidi, Simon and Iheanacho who Osimhen listed have been exceptional for Nigeria at the championship and they would need to motivate their mates on the pitch to give their best against the Tunisians who have what it takes to upset Nigeria if they are handled with kids gloves.  The Super Eagles should strive to convert their goal-scoring chances. They should fight back to retrieve the ball if a colleague loses the ball to the opponents since this game is hinged on teamwork and a high level of concentration and tactical discipline throughout the duration of the game. These are the ingredients needed to win a football game. Up Super Eagles! Up Nigeria!