People become parents via different means. It could be through birth, adoption or surrogacy. Surrogacy is a scientific option for conception. It is defined as a practice where a woman (a surrogate) carries a child for another person through artificial insemination of eggs. Surrogacy is not very common because the African society has the mentality that a woman must carry a child for her to be seen as a mother. But it is heartwarming celebrities are beginning to share and talk about their fertility and surrogacy experiences. - Advertisement - The actress recently spoke openly about her decision to have a child through surrogacy. In an interview with blogger Stella Dimoko Korkus, she revealed that got her daughter through surrogacy. Kanye West and wife also hired a surrogate to carry their third and fourth child, Chicago and Psalm. This was because the reality star had suffered from placenta accreta during both of her pregnancies with son Saint and daughter North.   Nigerian-American rapper, King Joel rewards school with…     Ex-BBNaija’s Angel applauds self for accomplishments…     BREAKING: D’Banj, Simi join Nigerian Idol judges   Nigerian-born British royal, Viscountess Emma Weymouth and her husband welcomed their second child, Henry via surrogacy. She spoke about surrogacy for her second child because of a near-death experience while giving birth to her first son, John. Soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo is a dad of three. His son was born in June 2010 and he also welcomed a boy and girl twin in the summer of 2017. All his three kids were born surrogates. He has made sure to keep the identities of his surrogates private and has sole custody of all three children. Ex-beauty queen Nike Oshinowo also welcomed a set of twin via surrogacy. She battled with Endometriosis for 34 years. The pains of conception forced her to opt for gestational surrogacy. The Bollywood actor and his interior designer wife, Gauri Khan are also proud parents to three children – Aryan Khan, Suhana Khan and Abram Khan. Their last son, Abram Khan was welcomed in 2013 via surrogacy.