Colleagues and fans of popular leading Yoruba actresses Iyabo Ojo and Fathia Balogun Williams have expressed joy following the squashing of a two-year beef. The duo’s reconciliation was a result of the intervention of Lagos State Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Musiliu Akinsanya, also known as MC Oluomo and veteran actor, Olaiya Igwe as revealed by the actresses on their social media pages. Taking to their respective Instagram pages, the movie stars shared loving photo(s) of themselves as they excitedly posed for the camera. They appreciated MC Oluomo and Igwe for being agents of peace that brought about their reconciliation as they preached peace and love. Captioning her post, Iya Ojo wrote: “It’s all peace & love faithiawilliams. How we go take follow each other again remain o chai …… ig expert over to you. - Advertisement - “Thank you @kingmcoluomo @olaiyaigwefilms.” Similarly, Faithia Balogun’s post caption read: “Happy new year iy.. @iyaboojodepris ..@kingmcoluomo @olaiyaigwefilms more wisdom and understanding..let peace reign.” Reacting to their reconciliation, their colleagues and fans hit the comment section to celebrate and pray for the duo. Mercy Aigbe said: “I love to see this. God bless you both.”   Bobrisky begs billionaires to patronise his ‘market’     Tobi Bakre: My wife’s ‘legwork’ stole my heart     Yemi Alade becomes brand ambassador for ‘Ankara’…   Omowunmi Ajiboye wrote: “I love this. God bless you both.” Murphy Afolabi stated: “Thank God.” Isholayoung said: “I am happy that I am alive to see this happen, I have always prayed for this day… It obvious 2022 is gonna be an amazing year..” ____missyhottie wrote: “Awwwww .. so happy to see this. I miss una vibes.” Doyin Kukoyi stated: “Thank God. Happy to see this.” Bimbo Success said: “Am happy to see this ooo,oluwaseun oluwaseun oluwaseun.” adejokeshua wrote: “I love this …….so happy big sisters….let peace and love reign.” Chidimma Aneke stated: “God Bless you both.” Funke Etti wrote: “God bless you both @faithiawilliams @iyaboojofespris love u.”     A post shared by Oba Alice Iyabo Ojo (@iyaboojofespris)