President Muhammad Buhari has urged the Super Eagles to soar high at the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) taking place in Cameroon. This was the highpoint of the dinner organized for the team by the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development ahead of the team’s departure at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. The Sports Minister in his address to the team, read by Agba, said the Super Eagles are being sent forth as Nigerian ambassadors and worthy representatives to Cameroon. “Mr. President believes this Super Eagles squad has the skills and talents to excel at the AFCON in Cameroon and over 200 million Nigerians are fully behind you. “Three times we have been Champions of Africa by winning the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), that was in 1980, 1994 and 2013, and many other times we have ended as losing finalists and bronze medalists but this time around we want you to strike gold in Cameroon on the 6th of February, 2022 when the tournament’s final match will be played.   BetKing to fly five fans to watch AFCON finals     Covid chaos stop Senegal flight to Cameroon     Salah issues AFCON battle cry   - Advertisement - “We have followed your preparations for this tournament and have seen the challenges that you have faced with the late release from your clubs, the Covid-19 protocols, injuries, and other factors, we urge you not to be deterred by these and rather see these obstacles as stepping stones to your success and glory. We are also appealing to you to demonstrate that Nigerian spirit of determination, focus, resilience, discipline, and conquest on and off the pitch,” he added. Dare also urged the players to have self-belief and trust in the coaching crew led by Augustine Eguavoen. Abubakar however, thanked the team for their patriotism and said the dinner was the Ministry’s ‘little’ effort at encouraging them to give their best and excelling at the biennial continental football showpiece. The Minister of State for Finance, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba; the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Ismail Abubakar; the Director of Federations and Elite Athletes Development (FEAD), Simon Ebhojiaye; Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) 2nd Vice President, Shehu Dikko; NFF General Secretary, Mohammed Sanusi, and board members, Ibrahim Gusau and Yahaya Kwande were in attendance. Nigeria’s campaign in Cameroon begins on January 11, against Egypt in Garoua.