Ahead of the 2023 presidential election, many state legislators in the Northcentral have passed a vote of confidence in the Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The legislators also endorsed Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello for President in 2023, being the only person that has shown interest in the position from the zone. They spoke with one voice yesterday in Abuja at the end of a one-day extraordinary meeting of APC legislatures from the six states of the Northcentral. They encouraged Bello to continue to pursue his ambition, saying he remained the only person the zone could rally round “for it to be counted in the power equation of the country”. The lawmakers stressed that the CECPC needed the support and cooperation of all party faithful to reposition the party for better performance and victory in the 2023 polls. - Advertisement - According to the convener, the immediate past Speaker of the Niger State House of Assembly, Ahmed Marafa, the extraordinary meeting was convened to discuss the political future of the zone with respect to what he called the power equation in the country.   2023: Members, not leaders, will choose PDP’s presidential…     Buhari inaugurates N8.7b police security vehicles, equipment     13 not 37 people killed in Niger attack, say police   He urged members from the six states in the zone to ensure that well-meaning men and women come together and agitate for a fair share for the zone. Also, Kogi State House of Assembly Speaker Matthew Kolawole, who initiated the meeting over one year ago, hailed the lawmakers for their quick response to the meeting. The lawmaker noted that it would go a long way to show their genuine efforts to look after the welfare of their people. He said since 1960, the zone had been neglected in the democratically elected leadership map of the country, despite its endowed human resources. Kolawole said the time had come for all and sundry, irrespective of party affiliations, to rise up and join hands to agitate for a Northcentral presidency in 2023. In a communiqué issued at the end of their one-day roundtable, the lawmakers urged party faithful at all levels to support and cooperate with Buni to complete the good job that attracted many people into the party since he assumed office. They also urged all the leaders in the Northcentral to continue to pursue the region’s presidency without prejudice to their personal aspiration, pointing out that the number one position in the country would be more beneficial to the zone and the nation at large.