The allegations by Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike that some security officers own illegal refineries in the State have jolted the Police and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Wike, had while giving local government chairmen 48 hours to compile list of illegal refineries’ owners and operators in their domains, accused a particular Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and personnel of the NSCDC anti-vandal unit of owning illegal refineries. The Governor said: “It’s unfortunate for this country how security people will be involved in illegal bunkering. I can’t believe it. Mr. CP, I thank you for transferring the DPO in Rumuji, who owns a refinery. “But the man must leave here, not transferred. He must leave this State. I can’t be Governor here and security man owns an illegal refinery. No, it is not possible…the man has to go. Take him to wherever they allow bunkering.” On the NSCDC personnel, he said: “Transfer the man, and tell him to leave. He is a complete saboteur. I mean how can security men be the one involved in this. What kind of country are we?” - Advertisement - It was gathered that the accusations forced the Police and the NSCDC to take actions against the persons named by the Governor. It was learnt that the DPO was immediately redeployed while a panel headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police was inaugurated to investigate the matter. Confirming the development in a statement, the acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Grace Iringe-Koko described the allegations as disturbing.   Nasarawa Police arrest man for allegedly raping 80-year-old…     NDLEA intercepts 1.5million Tramadol tablets enroute Kebbi,…     PDP Governors meet to review 2023 takeover bid   The statement said: “The Rivers State Police Command, received with concern, the news making the rounds that a Divisional Police Officer in the state, is involved in illegal bunkering activities. “The officer was immediately redeployed and a panel headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police, inaugurated to investigate the matter. The outcome shall be made public and the officer punished appropriately if the allegations are confirmed”. The statement reiterated the commitment of the command to support the state government in its war against illegal oil bunkering and assured the public that the command would not spare any indicted person no matter how highly placed. Also, the Commandant-General of NSCDC, Dr Ahmed Abubakar Audi, over the weekend disbanded the anti-vandal unit of the Rivers state Command following allegations. A statement in Abuja by the Director Public Relations of the Corps, DCC Olusola Odumosu, said the CG received with shock and dismay, the allegations levelled against the anti-vandal unit by Wike. The statement said: “Worried by this disappointing development, the CG has ordered the suspension of head of the anti-vandal team and the disbandment of the unit with immediate effect, pending the outcome of an independent enquiry set up to look into the weighty allegations levelled against the unit by the governor”, the statement added. The NSCDC boss also disclosed that the extant rules and regulations guiding the Corps operations and the general ethics of the service requires complete display of total discipline, integrity, incorruptibility, transparency and accountability on the part of every personnel, hence, the reason for this immediate action”. He directed the Acting DCG in charge of investigation and intelligence to summon all the personnel involved to the National Headquarters, Abuja for further investigation.