Diplomatic relations between Nigeria and China dates back to 1971 one year after African countries played a critical role in helping China re-join the United Nations amid protests from the United States. The friendly relations built based on peaceful togetherness shared economic development strategy at the bilateral level, and political solidarity in their multilateral relations, has been cordially consummated by both countries for five decades so far. Nigeria as the largest economy and the most populous country in Africa has important international and regional influences, unique characteristics that have made the country a “strategic partner” that China attaches great importance to in Africa, and the first African country to be designated by China as “Strategic Partner”. The friendly relations between the two countries reached another milestone with the visit of the Chinese Foreign Affairs Minister to Nigeria earlier this year and the two sides reaching consensus on seven key areas. First on the continuous strengthening of the cooperation in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and firmly supporting each other until the pandemic is completely overcome. - Advertisement - The two countries agreed to advance cooperation in jointly promoting the construction of the Belt and Road by closely aligning China’s new development pattern with Nigeria’s new national development plan. China pledged to vigorously promote the construction of key projects in Nigeria to help Nigeria accelerate industrialisation and improve its independent development capabilities. In Addition, the two countries assented to jointly expand cooperation into areas including digital economy and green economy to achieve diversified development; deepen military and security cooperation in efforts to enhance Nigeria’s capacity in safeguarding national security. Also, China and Nigeria agreed to closely coordinate international and regional affairs, practice multilateralism, and safeguard the common interests of developing countries. Aside from the much-reported China’s phenomenal economic cooperation with Nigeria in the forms of loans, aids and foreign direct investment, in the area of security, as Nigeria continues to fight the war against insurgents, kidnappers and bandits, China has been one ally that has consistently stood the test of time with unwavering and unconditional military support for Nigeria. Bilateral military cooperation between the two countries was taken to a deeper level in the fight against terrorism in Nigeria when the duo signed the Protocol on China’s provision of military assistance gratis to Nigeria in 2020 covering diplomatic exchanges, defence procurement and capacity building through training with a commitment to for reinforcement in cooperation to fight terrorism in the country. All the key areas of cooperation between the two countries are firmly rooted within the ambit of the spirit and tenets of the South-South relations where Nigeria and China are active players. South-South relations is guided by the doctrine of non-interference wherein there is equality and mutual respect for sovereignty among members. China’s position on its relations with African countries has been guided by five principles of “friendship, sovereign equality, non-intervention, mutually beneficial development and international cooperation”. China-Africa relations is deeply hinged on non-interference and respect for African countries’ independent choice of the road to development. This position is a major shift from the existing traditional vertical relations between the developed countries and developing countries of Africa and fits into the perspective of Beijing’s official non-interference policy, which aligns with the principles of the South-South relations compared to the North South relations that are rooted in economic and political conditionalities.   ‘Nigeria’s N3tr trade deficit alarming’     OPEC+ raises Feb quota by 400,000mbpd     Banks’ capital base strong, says CBN   This commitment to non-interference and mutual respect has become the pillars of the relationship between China and Nigeria with the relationship growing in leaps and bounds over the years. Not only has China been Nigeria’s and Africa’s number one development partner, but the country has also continued to stand with Nigeria and other African countries in giving voice to issues of interest to Nigeria as well as Africa in global forum. No wonder China’s terms of engagement with Africa has been described as potentially marking for the continent the most significant shift in external relations since the end of the cold war and China’s engagement with Africa has shaken up the old and fraying one dominated by cautious western donors and former colonial powers. Within the context of mutual respect and understanding of the shared similar historical trajectories, African countries in most cases have acknowledged the fact that China is the official representative of the Chinese people despite the continued existence of Taiwan. For instance, Nigeria and China have the privilege of sharing in common the dark experiences of foreign invasion and subjections in form of colonialism and its attendant rape of their socio-cultural heritage. The duo has an in-depth understanding of the significant role unity in diversity plays in nation-building and development having both experienced civil wars and its painful costs. This explains why on January 11, 2017, Nigeria took measures in recognizing the one-China principle and ordered the trade representation office of Taiwan to be relocated from Abuja to Lagos, the economic hub of the country. Nigeria’s position was clearly summed up in the statement from the minister of foreign affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama that “Taiwan will stop enjoying any privileges because it is not a country that is recognised under international law, and under the position we have taken internationally, we recognise the people of China. Taiwan will not have any diplomatic representation in Nigeria.” This firmly put a seal on Nigeria’s recognition of Taiwan as an indivisible part of China. Even with the relocation, Taiwan still has a trade representation office in Nigeria which means that there is still room for some level of recognition, though not at the official diplomatic level. However, this relocation order should be a prelude to more assertive measures from Nigeria on the status of Taiwan in the country. While some may have seen Nigeria’s action on Taiwan as politically and economically motivated with pressure from China, it makes more strategic sense for Nigeria to adopt the measure and even take a cue from countries who have taken firmer actions on the status of Taiwan like Nicaragua did recently. Nigeria must stick to the “One China” principle bottom line in its economic and trade engagements with Taiwan and not allow itself to be drawn by Taiwan into the island’s controversial anti-One China principle demands. A leaf needs to be borrowed from the Baltic state of Lithuania who improperly got entangled in the Taiwan issue by toeing the script of the United States to stoke the fire of the anti-one-China principle with no benefits to the country and its people. The implication of this is that it not only sends a strong message about Nigeria’s stand on the “One China” principle but also by extension, sends a similar message about the “One Nigeria” principle as the country strives to maintain an indivisible sovereign entity in the face of pockets of agitations for separation and self-determination. It is a well-known fact that China does not oppose trading with Taiwan as long as there is no official contact signifying a recognition of Taiwan as a sovereign country. This means as the trade relations between Nigeria and Taiwan continues to exist, it must be without a formal trade representation office marinated with a diplomatic undertone.