Barely 48 hours after the news of 5-year old Hanifa Abubakar who was kidnapped and later poisoned by her teacher in Kano went viral, residents of Zaria in Kaduna State are also mourning an 8-year- old girl old, Asma’u, who was kidnapped and later killed by her neighbour. Asmau who spent 42 days in the hands of her abductors was said to be kidnapped by one of their neighbours on the 9th of December, 2021. Speaking in an interview, father of the Asma’u, Alh Shuaibu Wa’alamu told newsmen in Zaria at the weekend how she was abducted. “My daughter was abducted on the 9th of December and when she failed to return home, I lodged a formal complaint with the police. “After some days, the abductors began to call my number and demanded N15m. But we negotiated and I first gave them N2m.   PSA appoints Doguwa DG     EEFP, Export and Sell prepare exporters to explore $400b…     Abia community deserted following killing of two soldiers   - Advertisement - “They collected the money in Rigasa area of Kaduna. Later, they called me again and demanded for another N1. 045m as the only condition to release my daughter. I did not argue. But I gave the money to them. “However, after paying the ransom as demanded on the 19th of January, they called me to tell me they had killed my daughter. And they immediately switched-off their phones. “From the initial stage, I was following her abductors and doing their biddings because of the fear of losing my daughter. Now, they have killed her. “I know those who abducted her and killed her. They are around us. I have strong evidence. I have told the police. And they are on it. In fact, the suspects have been arrested,” he disclosed. Meanwhile, Kaduna State Police Command confirmed the incident, as the Command’s spokesman, ASP Muhammed Jalige simply said that investigations were ongoing on the incident. Though Jalige could not immediately confirm the arrest of the suspect, he told our correspondent that, “what I can tell you right now is that investigations are ongoing. I have to get across to our men in Zaria, then details of the incident will be released later.”