Two persons were burnt beyond recognition and over 30 houses and properties worth millions of naira were destroyed following an accident involving a liquefied petroleum gas tanker and a granite truck in Ohoror Community in Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State. It was gathered that the accident occurred at about 3:00 a.m. yesterday when the granite truck rammed into the stationed LPG-laden tanker at Ohoro Junction axis of the East/West Road. A source indigenous to the community who identified himself as Mr Dennis Israel said: “The granite-laden truck was heading towards the port from Ughelli when the driver rammed into the stationary gas-laden tanker and in the process collided with other tankers which ignited the fire, killing the driver of the LPG tanker, his conductor and over 30 houses and properties razed. Denis said: “The tanker drivers double-parked along the roadside and the granite truck rammed into one of them which fell on the parked ones, thereby discharging its products on the road. A victim of the incident, who gave his name as Sapele Clement said:  “At about 3:00 a.m., we heard a loud sound and we saw fire everywhere. We have no option but to run for our dear lives. Nothing was rescued except for the clothes we were wearing. - Advertisement - In a chat with reporters at the scene, Delta State Commissioner for Higher Education, Prof. Patrick Muoboghare who is from the community said: “This is very devastating and I panicked when I heard of it. You can see the level of destruction, the structures destroyed in the community.   Six Yahoo Boys convicted in Osun, Ekiti     Sylvester Oromoni: Dowen College’s founder, board quit     Youths set two robbery suspects ablaze in Imo   Read Also: JUST IN: Many feared dead, injured as explosion rocks Ghana From the report I got from my people so far, nobody indigenous to the area died in the process; they were very alert as soon as it happened. They were able to break houses for people to escape despite the heat emanating from the fire. If the youth had not blocked the drainage with sand to prevent the diesel from flowing further, it would have been more disastrous but the destruction is not describable. Unfortunately, two persons died as they could not get out of the tanker before it went up in flames. Also, the Delta State Commissioner for Oil and Gas, Prince Emmanuel Amgbaduba lamented the unexpected hardship the fire incident has caused the people. Amgbaduba, who was at the scene of the incident with Prof. Patrick Muoboghare, the Commissioner for Higher Education said: “On our arrival, I thought it was a war zone because it was in a war situation you see stuff like this as it is not a good sight to behold. Special Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Youth Development, Clement Osieta whose brother is a victim said: “When the incident happened, I contacted some government officials and they mobilised to bring firefighters. Unfortunately, the firefighters could not do anything as they did not have the apparatus to do the work effectively.”