Malcomines Polo team has emerged winners of the annual Jos International Polo tournament champions in a keenly contested match that ended 7 as against four and half against Keffi Pony. At the commencement of the final match, Keffi Pony, were awarded one and half goal, for their handicap, however, the combined superb skilful play by Hamisu Buba (+4), and Argentine player Aleiro Alegburo Aramburu (+6), led by team captain Murtala Ahmadu Laushi (+1), and Fernando Munez (+3), the Malcomines outclassed quartet of Pony’s Ahmad Wadada (+1), Aliyu Tijani (+2), Abdulmalik Badamasi (+3) and Argentine player Santiago Marambio (+6). Malcomines proprietor who doubles as the team captain, Murtala Ahmadu Laushi, expressed delight that his team has retained its trophy, and become the overall winner of the entire week-long event. He said, that the Jos Polo , which was elevated to international level will continue to strive higher, stressing the game has brighter future towards improving cohesion, unity and peace amongst the people. He said: “ In the 2022 tournament, 33 teams and 130 players participated, adding that more teams are expected to participate in next championship.” - Advertisement - He said they will continue to invest in the game, recruits and encourage young talents to join the game as well as promoting peaceful coexistence.   AFCON 2021: Okoye, Moses, Sanusi swell Eagles to 13     Osimhen disappointed to miss AFCON but will be there…     Gbajabiamila to face chess champion in friendly game   Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, who was represented by Hon. Yusuf Garddi, chairman House Committee on Navy, assured that government will continue to support the game of Polo, for its potentials of promoting tourism, economic prosperity and opening up the state to the world. “As patron of the Jos polo club, I reassured you that we will develop the facilities for the game of polo in Plateau state and also encourage grassroots participation particularly among the younger generation,” he said. Lalong thanked the Nigerian Polo Federation (NPF), the leadership of the Jos Polo Club, as well as NASCO Group of Companies for consistently hosting and sponsorship of the tournament by upgrading the facilities and scoreboard,as over N19 m was budgeted for the tournament. He congratulated Malcomines, Keffi Pony, NASCO, and the winners of various prize categories of the tournament. “For those who are not taking home prizes, you are also winners as this tournament would not have been successful without your participation,” he said. While, Dokaji Team won the lmani cup,NASCO retained the president cup for the third. However, among the nine emirs who graced occasion, include that of Bauchi, Gombe Wase, Kanam, Nassarawa, Keffi,Aten Aku Karshin, and Tuka.