Former Chief of Defence Staff, General Alexander Ogomudia (rtd.), yesterday, warned of dire consequences except Nigeria resolves  it’s multifaceted economic challenges bedeviling its sustainable growth. General Ogomudia disclosed this at the public presentation/launch of a book titled ‘200 Most Outstanding Deltans’ in Asaba, Delta capital. He said financial engineering was imperative to generate resources that would boost the economy of the nation and its foreign reserves to enable  the country to interface with the global economic system. According to him, the present situation in the country, if left unresolved, could lead to inability of the government to pay salaries with the attendant consequences of social upheavals unless the government would continue to take loans. His words: “we were told that Nigeria needs a total of N13.57 trillion naira to run as a country but we are barely able to generate N5.5 trillion naira in revenue out of which, last year, we spent N4.2 trillion naira on debt servicing thus leaving only N1.3 trillion naira as against N13.57 trillion which we needed to run the country. - Advertisement - “You will agree with me that resolving this kind of economic challenge will require great financial engineering. “This kind of engineering is also needed to generate resources we need to run our country and the foreign reserves needed for us to interface with the global economic system.   Odili: Court issues final warning to immigration lawyer over…     NSITF pays N867m claims in 2021     COVID-19: Northwest, Southwest lead in first dose…   “This situation, if left unresolved, could lead to the inability of the government to pay salaries with the attendant consequences of social upheavals unless we are going to continue to take loans,” the retired General said. Speaking on the book (200 Most Outstanding Deltans) jointly authored by Powell Tos, Kennedy Bienose and Mr Nelson Egware, Ogomudia said the publication was a powerhouse of individuals whose personal achievements are truly outstanding. According to Ogomudia who was the Chairman at the ceremony, the book, by implication, speaks to the subject of development be it in Delta State, some other states or in Nigeria generally as a country. “To some people, the event of today is an ordinary one but to me, it is unique and special since it mirrors a perspective to development which recognises achievements, hard work and the idealism of performance par excellence. “From the names of those who made the list in this first edition, it is clear that putting the list together, like the Secretary said, is a herculean task. “I am aware that Delta State parades some of the best talents in this country. Therefore, the list would have been a lot longer than what we have now but I believe that subsequent editions, like the Secretary said, would definitely address all that have been omitted.” Ogomudia noted that those Deltans recognised through the publication, was a further manifestation of a little mustard seed which, he said, was planted by Governor Ibori at the onset of democratic governance in 1999, adding that Ibori set the stage for the recognition of Deltans who were able to make it to the top of their careers.