After a significant absence from television interviews, President Muhammadu Buhari once again spoke to Nigerians last week. This column had suggested last June after he gave Arise Television a highly controversial interview that he would neither gain nor lose anything by granting any more interviews, and would in fact do well not to grant any interview again until his tenure ended. But he granted two interviews anyway, in short order, and has managed, as predicted, to stoke public dismay at the way he fudged questions on the economy, complicated political and cultural issues, and veered off course on many critical questions pertaining to statistical indicators. But there is mercifully a respite. Despite his pious outlook, he has stayed somewhat clear of religious controversies in all his interviews. The two interviews granted to Channels Television and Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) last week may not be the last in the 17 months left of his tenure, but they will likely be the most impactful before he leaves office. They dealt with wide-ranging issues on politics, elections and economy, and his answers opened a window into his worldview and leadership. Researchers will find them useful. When he gave an interview to Arise Television last June, and stirred the hornets’ nest by the way he handled the questions posed at him, it was thought that his aides would lean on him to foreclose any further interviews until his term expired. This column also tried to coax him away from further interviews, not simply because of the manifest absence of substance in his answers, but also because his primordial instinct constantly suffused his perceptions. Neither he nor his aides regarded public admonition. He has now given two interviews; he will probably still give a few more before May 2023, especially when his presidency becomes truly lame duck, and his opinions become nugatory. It is too late to press him against any more interviews, and nothing he says in further interviews will damage him or his presidency beyond what Nigerians recognise and wince at. What is clear is that over the decades, his ideas and perceptions have changed very little. They will not change significantly between now and next year. He had decades out of office to reexamine and refine his ideas; he declined the invitation and stood pat, an ossification that the last two elections had rewarded handsomely. President Buhari is said to be a man of his word, as an officer and gentleman, and as a pious person and leader. But as time and current events in the All Progressives Congress (APC) have shown, not to say ex-governor Bisi Akande’s book, he has never denied himself the luxury of interpreting and modifying his promises in the peculiar but sometimes mystifying manner that is his custom. It must be said of him, for a man often regarded as inflexible and even autocratic, that he has never met an interviewer’s probing questions with the anger, sanctimoniousness and justifications of his predecessors. When ruffled, ex-president Goodluck Jonathan’s lips quivered with subdued fury, his voice rising in measured harangue against those who held the views framed into questions by his interviewers. In interviews, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo was a bear and a tiger rolled into one. He was capable of railing at his interviewers and even insulting them, and also quite eager to speak condescendingly to everyone, including and especially Nigerians. President Buhari seldom raises his voice and has little appetite to vent his spleen at mischievous interviewers, but his fury is reserved exclusively for secessionists. No matter how provocative and antagonistic your questions are, as long as you do not profess secession, he will answer you with measured cadence or, better still, head off in a totally different direction. There is often little substance in his responses, but he will not intimidate or insult the interviewer. On the whole, both the Channels and NTA interviews, despite not being substantially different from past interviews, are troubling and revelatory. Alarmingly, the president comes across as still nestling in the past, is uncomfortable with the present, and is deeply suspicious of the future. For obvious reasons, the Channels interview is more revealing. No interview would be complete without a question on the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu. Asked whether he was contemplating a political solution as urged by Igbo leaders last year, the president bristles uncharacteristically. He had given conciliatory indication last November when Igbo leaders under the aegis of Highly Respected Igbo Greats visited him that though they asked for a difficult thing regarding the release of the IPOB leader, he would consider their request. The Igbo leaders promised to placate and rein in the angry young man and turn his fierce rhetoric into dulcet tones; but they showed no proof how they hoped to perform that magic. Perhaps President Buhari saw through the whole gambit. In any case, he turned defiant at the question on Mr Kanu’s release and insisted that the judiciary should have the last say. The judiciary, he insisted implausibly, if not entirely mendaciously, was one institution he would not dare to interfere with. He easily forgot how he and his aides stalled the elevation of Walter Onnoghen to the apex court leadership, and then extrajudiciously plotted his downfall. And he also forgot how his presidency disdained court judgements on ex-National Security Adviser (NSA) Col Sambo Dasuki (Retd.) and the Shiite leader Ibraheem El-Zakzaky. - Advertisement - If Channels had not asked a question on state police, its interviewers would have been remiss in their assignments. They did, but the president’s response was expansively and archaically circumlocutory. He was expected to give a brief analysis on the current state of insecurity in Nigeria and the factors that predispose the nation to breakdown of law and order. And he ought to cap his analysis with futuristic solutions, including the option of state police, indicating whether he favours it or not, and if not, why not. Instead he circumnavigated to a largely colonial past that harked back to the period of indirect rule, where native police and traditional chiefs worked together in bucolic serenity, sometimes oppressively, and at other times effectively. He invited the country to interrogate why the past system now seems unworkable. Incredibly, he omitted the almost revolutionary changes which have drastically altered the structures of society, economy and politics, and failed to link these changes with the indispensable need for new and futuristic paradigms, technologies and structures to combat new manifestations of crime. And if state governments would not allow local governments to function as designed by the constitution, said the president triumphantly, they would be incapable of allowing state police to function as designed by an amended constitution. This attempt at syllogism fails so badly that it is pointless to respond.   Nigerians decry hassles of e-commerce     Ekiti ‘22: In order not to snatch defeat from the jaws of…     Nigeria 2022: Permutations, postulations and projections…   And then there came the almighty question on relentless clashes between herders and farmers. Few expected the president to change his opinion on the subject, seeing that he also owns cattle and finds the rustic and anachronistic life of herdsmen captivatingly romantic and beguiling. He said nothing of significance about farmers, nor addressed why food prices are skyrocketing; instead he sought by the force of law and arms a return to the cul de sac which past grazing routes and grazing grounds implied. He made no exploratory arguments about modern grazing methods, including ranches and the positive spin-offs in milk and beef production. Alas, he wants grazing routes and grazing grounds to be urgently reclaimed by force and amply funded for, in his opinion, that would be ‘bottom-up’ approach. He must, however, decide whether his already chequered presidency can afford the disruptive, one-sided and impracticable option he is dogmatically selling as a sure cure. Most of the grazing grounds are gone, and his 17 months left in office will be too short to reclaim them. The grazing routes are also heavily circumscribed and impossible to delineate again and protect. There is little he can do, even with the questionable gazette he and his Justice minister have spoken eloquently but errantly about.  One more from Channels Television, and then to NTA. The president spoke on the subject of his successor whose identity he prefers to keep close to his chest for now. Should he let the cat out of the bag, he feared, the candidate could be eliminated. The president’s logic is inscrutable. In the first instance, there is nothing wrong with backing someone for the presidency. What is problematic is imposition. And as influential as he is in the party, it would be befuddling to imagine that he fears bringing that influence to bear on the party in the same way he brought it to bear when he and his men plotted the dethronement of former party chairman Adams Oshiomhole. He will have to campaign for a candidate in the presidential election, and he knows it will be far easier should his party present a candidate who warms the cockles of his heart. But reading through his response carefully, it seemed in some ways that he said he wasn’t backing any aspirant. Put that down to language inexactitude. The truth is that he has someone in mind, but perhaps fears that opposition to that someone might be so intense within the party that the aspirant could be ‘eliminated’ from the contest, not killed. Is he so secretive that his aides and confidants don’t already know? But whether the president likes it or not, he will have to zero in on an aspirant, if he has not already done so, and back that person to the hilt. He must learn from the mistakes of Chief Obasanjo who backed weak candidates, foisted them on the party, and rigged them into the presidential office. The consequences were far-reaching not only for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which went on to lose the presidency eight years later, but for the country which was so destabilised that it nearly went under. Worse, the economy nosedived, and today nearly all the brilliant achievements of the Obasanjo era have been wiped out, all because he imposed weak candidates he erroneously thought would do his bidding. At best, President Buhari has had a mixed bag of achievements to boast of; at worst, the country can’t wait to see the end of his presidency, notwithstanding his controversial and debt-fuelled legacy in infrastructural renewal. Many Nigerians have already made up their minds about President Buhari’s place in history. There is little he can do to change their minds in 17 months. But there is much he can do to ensure a competent successor who would protect his legacy, come rain or shine. He cannot of course impose anyone, and must be tactical about revealing his preferences at the right time, as he said in the Channels interview, but he is right to worry in the NTA interview about how history would view him after his departure. When he remarked that he didn’t expect Nigerians to appreciate him after leaving office, he was acknowledging his keen awareness of critics’ unfavourable opinion of him. But by adding that he wanted Nigerians to appreciate he had done his best, it is also a plaintive cry for recognition and understanding. The only thing standing between him and that recognition is the competence of his successor. The president may have been parochial almost all through his presidency, but he must prove skeptics wrong by enabling power shift to the south, diminishing the role religion plays in elections, controlling the overweening and often undemocratic influence of pampered governors, neutralising the selfish and insular roles former presidents like Chief Obasanjo play in succession, and coaxing the country into a future that is much fairer and juster than the one he has nervously tried to cobble together for eight years. The president’s admission that all is not well with his party, the APC, reflects his inexpert handling of party affairs, if not his culpability. He had sanctioned the unlawful, court-induced dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led party executives in 2020 despite the latter leading the campaign that won him re-election months earlier. There were a few things wrong with the Oshiomhole-led executives, but they were not consequential enough to engineer the wholesale expurgation of party leaders whose commitment and passion for the party were never in doubt. More than a year later, the interim executives are hard put to deliver a better party for the members, let alone one capable of trouncing the opposition in an election year in which social media, vicious and dirty campaigns, and poor reasoning and judgement could play influential role in producing the next president. The president has warned that if the interim executives can’t get the party to do what is right, the opposition might have a walk-over. He is right. Not only did the Mai Mala Buni-led interim executives initially toy with postponing the February convention, after at least two postponements, they have also unleashed a plethora of plots and intrigues upon the party designed to reshape the convention and deliver a predetermined outcome for the presidential contest. As the president said on the NTA interview about age not being on his side, there is suspicion should the convention produce a lousy outcome and the party goes into the next elections divided, a possibility looking increasingly realistic, he might resign himself to the inevitable defeat. His mind is pretty much made up about the hereafter. He believes he has done his best, even if he is not applauded, and he thinks he will survive unscathed if the PDP wins the presidency and unleashes anti-graft officers on APC chiefs. He may not say this to his party chiefs privately in the direct and inelegant way he is used to, but he will use this scenario, as he appears to be doing already, to beat them into shape, and their swords into ploughshares in a manner of speaking. Whether they will listen is another thing entirely, particularly the governors who seem to have the upper hand today but lack the savvy, ingenuity and vision to appreciate how dangerously close to the wind they are sailing. If they have not already realised it, it is one thing to plot a coup within the party, it is another thing to run the party soundly. Sadly for them, the president’s performance in office has not been stellar, and they may have no coattails on which to ride into office in 2023 if they do not get their act together in the selfless manner expected of them in both the national convention and the state and federal nominations.