Roger Federer sent a classy message of congratulations to Australian Open champion Rafael Nadal after the Spaniard eclipsed the Grand Slam title record they shared with Novak Djokovic. Nadal produced an awe-inspiring comeback in the trophy-decider on Sunday, recovering from losing the first two sets to beat Daniil Medvedev in a thriller. The Melbourne match went on for almost five-and-a-half hours as the Spaniard refused to give up and gave his all to eventually secure a 2-6, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 victory. The man from Mallorca’s win was made even more incredible by the fact it comes just a few months after he was hinting at retirement as he recovered from a painful foot injury. Federer, whose total of 20 Grand Slam titles was eclipsed as a result of Nadal’s victory, jokingly referenced those talks of retirement as he congratulated his great rival. - Advertisement - “What a match!” he wrote in a public message on his Instagram story.”To my friend and great rival @RafaelNadal. Heartfelt congratulations on becoming the first man to win 21 Grand Slam singles titles. “A few months ago we were joking about both being on crutches. Amazing. Never underestimate a great champion.   Ighalo swaps Al Hilal for Al Shabab     Salah admits tough semis test against Cameroon     CAMEROON 2021 BITS & PIECES   “Your incredible work ethic, dedication, and fighting spirit are an inspiration to me and countless others around the world. “I am proud to share this era with you and honoured to play a role in pushing you to achieve more. As you have done for me in the past 18 years. “I am sure you have more achievements ahead but for now enjoy this one!” Nadal’s victory was his 21st major singles title, taking him one ahead of the previous record of 20 he shared with Federer and Djokovic. Speaking on-court at the Rod Laver Arena after his win, Nadal was grateful to simply still be playing the game he loves. “I don’t know what to say guys. For me, it is just amazing. I did not know if I would be back on the tour playing tennis again,” he admitted.”You don’t know how much it means to be back here. You are amazing and thank you so much for all of your support. “Without a doubt, it is one of the most emotional [periods] of my career. To have the support I have received the last three weeks will stay in my heart. So many, many thanks.”