Samuel Adebayo, the son of founder, Rapture Proclaimer Evangelical Church of God, Evang. Funmilayo Adebayo, nicknamed Mummy GO, has said that his mother was not bothered about the hellfire memes circulating on social media. The 54-year-old preacher has been making waves on social media. She became more famous after several clips of her controversial sermons surfaced online. Her photographs have also gone viral in memes, with inscriptions that mimick her statements about hell. But the preacher’s son clarified that many of the trending texts attributed to his mum in the memes about hellfire were fabricated and untrue imaginations. - Advertisement - Among her viral messages is one where the clergywoman said break dancing originated from the land of the dead. “Where did break dancing generate from? Michael Jackson. He got power from the dead land. What is the land of the dead? Skeleton. Skeleton is not for the living. If you break dance, you’re telling God you’re dead,” she said. In one of the several memes, the woman said boys who give girls money in 2022 will be “giving away their glory”. She also said in another trending video that “I wasn’t a fool before I met Christ. I was a cocaine pusher. I sold guns and rented ammunition to robbers.   Maritime varsity didn’t receive N3b from NIMASA, says VC     Trailer kills woman, injures four in Anambra crash     NSCDC destroys illegal modular refineries in Abia   “I was a hired killer. I had boys at my disposal. Whenever I want to give information to politicians, they pay me millions. “Obasanjo knows me very well. We are close pals. Even Babangida knows me. The police had no guts to arrest me. Sijuade, the Ooni of Ife, it was when I met him that his business started booming. “The kind of cocaine I smuggled, I used flying carpet, straight to Germany and America. I don’t use airplanes. The reason why I have this knowledge is due to my long journey in the kingdom of darkness.” The preacher’s son urged social media users not to take his mother’s comments personal but to feel free to ignore or accept any of her sermons that align with their belief system. He said in an interview with Punch: “Social media has always been a platform where anything can be posted at any point in time but everything that has been posted about her saying she said this and that are all lies. “Nothing is true about the memes; they are just fabricating the memes, everybody with their contents, writing all sorts of things and tagging her pictures. We are used to it; the best thing is to ignore them. “Even though she said everything about hell, there is nowhere she said by fire, by force, people must agree and accept what she is saying. I don’t think she has ever made that kind of statement before. “Everybody is entitled to believe what they want to believe. I don’t know why people are taking it personal. “There is the freedom to believe whatever one wants to believe and neglect whatever one wants to neglect but there is always the freedom of expression. “Even Christ didn’t say that people must accept Him by fire by force as the son of God.”