CHAIRMAN-ELECT of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State Pastor Cornelius Ojelabi has hailed House of Representatives member James Faleke for including party members among those he empowered last week. Items distributed are 100 mini-buses, 30 tricycles, grinding machines, industrial sewing machines, deep freezers, generating sets, hair driers, mechanical tools, vulcanising machines, barbers’ kits, wheel chairs for the physically-challenged and related economic tools for residents in the lawmaker’s Ikeja Federal Constituency. Ojelabi, who was at the Police College venue of the distribution, said Faleke made the people of Ikeja feel the positive impact of good governance. He said: “Thank you for taking good care of our people. Thank you for projecting the image of our party positively. Thank you for making us proud. “You have been among the few elected politicians giving hope to people and the electorate about our party, APC. You are delivering on the vision of President Muhammadu Buhari on lifting as many Nigerians as possible out of poverty. This is exactly what Faleke has done and is still doing. I want to admonish our leaders, especially at the ward level, to ensure the many people benefit.   Southeast most qualified to produce Buhari’s successor, says…     Afe Babalola urges govt to address dearth of cash in banks     OPEC worried over threat to release 70mb from reserves   - Advertisement - “We should allow the majority of all to feel the impact of these laudable empowerment programmes as sponsored by Faleke.” Faleke said the distribution was part of efforts to take youths off the streets and help them live meaningful lives. The lawmaker, who is the House committee chairman on Finance, said: “I want you all to know that we did empowerment programmes for our people in Ikeja Federal Constituency all-year round from January till December across various spectrums. Up till date, 7,192 constituents have been empowered this year alone, and much more will be done in 2022 by God’s grace. “The essence of doing this empowerment is to take most of our youths off the streets and we have succeeded in doing that partially. This is the second phase; we saw the outcome of the first phase on our youths as the lucky ones surprised us with the turnaround in their lives. Some of them now take care of their families and even their communities. “We tried our best to carry everybody along in this second phase, which is majorly for youths and women within the community, not necessarily party members, voters and leaders. As long as you contribute your quota to the development of the constituency, you are entitled to it. “Those benefiting from today’s gesture represent various strata of the society. We also can’t put a value on it because it runs into millions.”