The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has said Abia State High Court Wednesday’s judgement has vindicated its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu over “jump bail” and other sundry allegations levelled against him. It said the ruling also exposed the truth about the alleged plot to eliminate those seen as supporters and sympathisers of Biafra agitation. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB further praised the courage of the presiding Judge in delivering the judgement, which it said had redeemed the image of the nation’s judiciary. It urged other judges handling its matters to help salvage the judiciary’s battered image globally, boasting that it would continue to win Nigeria in any other court. The statement partly reads: “Following the victory judgment received yesterday the 19th of January 2022 in Abia State High Court sitting in Umuahia, we commend the Presiding Judge for his courage to declare the infamous military invasion of our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s house illegal. - Advertisement - “We commend the court for granting justice to our leader at a time Nigeria judiciary is fast losing the confidence of the world due to compromised rulings by some corrupt judiciary officers. “This latest judgment has to some extent redeemed the image of the judiciary in Nigeria and we ask other judges handling IPOB matter to help salvage completely the battered image of judiciary in Nigeria in the eyes of your global colleagues in the judiciary. “We equally appreciate the efforts of Barrister Aloy Ejimakor and his team of lawyers for securing true judgment in this matter.   PHOTOS: Tinubu meets IBB over 2023     Terrorists almost bombed me near Kawo bridge in 2014 –…     Youths burn truck for crushing motorcycle rider   “Since September 14th , 2017 when this atrocity was committed no Court in Nigeria has been brave enough to condemn the barbarity and brutality of the military until this judgement. “Nigeria security agencies Invaded our Leader’s compound in Afarukwu kingdom in Ibeku Umuahia on 14th September 2017 with the single objective to eliminate our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU but God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama saved him from the evil hands of fulani controlled federal government security agencies. “It is true that the award of #1billion damages can not eguate or compensate the enormous loss of life occasioned by that barbaric military action, however the symbolism is very clear. “The Umuahia High Court rulling exposed the truth about the goings-on to eliminate anybody found as supporter and sympathiser of Biafra agitation. “The judgement also vindicated our leader who never jumped bail contrary to allegation but only escaped assassination by the military. “The recent trump-up charges preferred against our leader Mazi Nnamdi are another indication that NIGERIA has nothing against him. “The best thing for Nigeria government and its security is to release our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU unconditionally and redeem their image across the world because the world is watching what is going on in Nigeria. “NIGERIA should give us date for referendum to ascertain whether or not our people want to continue with the so called One NIGERIA. “The only thing that can stop the agitation is date for referendum on the freedom for the people of Biafra. We will continue to win NIGERIA in every Court.”