The engagement of former BBNaija housemate, Tochi to his US-based girlfriend is already besieged with rumours of a breakup. The 29-year-old estate agent deleted the romantic video, which captured the moments he proposed to his fiancée off his Instagram page less than 24 hours after it went viral. Amid rumours of ‘breakfast’, his fiancée, Chioma has also taken to her Insta story to share a cryptic message noting life has so much more to offer than just the attention and validation people seek. She also added no one will use her personality to trend. Chioma wrote: “There’s so much more to life than the attention/validation that you seek so much for from the outside world… but it’s not me that’s gonna be used to trend… everybody rest ijn.” - Advertisement - Fans and followers have hit the comment section of the reality TV Star’s last post to quiz on why he deleted his engagement video and if he’s truly been served ‘breakfast’ by his fiancée. damilare_justin asked: “You don chop breakfast or not?” nosimprabolani said: “Just here to check for the video.”   Let ‘dear Sylvester Oromoni’s soul rest,’ Dowen College…     Mummy GO’s church beefs up ‘security’ amid viral videos     Military: Leah Sharibu, others will be rescued   annynft wrote: “Some people are already here to confirm if the video was deleted true true ceemplybecca quizzed: “Them serve you breakfast or them nor serve you breakfast? classy_tessy stated: “Sorry bro. Breakfast Na ur mate.” mhiz_frances_123 queried: “Why did you delete your engagement video na hmmmmm.” johnnyjames8184 said: “Bruh sorry for the breakfast you received from beautiichii.” naauruu asked: “You chop breakfast Abi u no chop ?I’ll ask you one last time, Tochi you chop breakfast abi u no chop ? We sha dey wait for your reply.” makaskuri wrote: “How far guy, what did you had for breakfast ? Jollof or poundo?” senatorjuliet stated: “Sometimes you should actually ASK a woman if she wants a PUBLIC PROPOSAL, to avoid this kind embarrassment. Chei. Ndo.” beth_dipo said: “Even with your beards you still chop breakfast.”