Relations, friends, neighbours and well-wishers started thronging the residence of the next-in-line to the throne, High Chief Lekan Balogun, who until Oba,Saliu Adetunji’s demise, was the Otun Olubadan of Ibadan. Activities began to swell around his Alarere residence since about 9:00 am when Oba Adetunji’s demise had been fully confirmed. The crowd began to gather as people trickled in by the minutes. They rejoiced and felicitated Balogun who received them with joy. Decking green ankara and traditional abetiaja hat to match, 79-year old Balogun was calm as he exchanged pleasantries with guests. He looked healthy and cracked jokes as his nature. But he declined an interview with reporters. By 2:30 pm, guests were already being treated to amala and ewedu meal in Balogun’s compound. The shouting of ‘Kabiyesi, Kabiyesi‘ rented the air as they paid obeisance. Policemen had been deployed to the residence to protect the expectedly incoming oba. - Advertisement - The monarch passed on at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan at 1.15 am according to the hospital. He was said to have taken I’ll since about one week ago. The late oba was referred to the UCH from a private hospital in Ibadan at about 9.30 pm on Saturday, January 1. A statement by the Head of Public Relations Unit of the hospital said: “Oba Adetunji was immediately admitted at the ICU where the Chief Medical Director CMD, Prof. Jesse Abiodun Otegbayo directed that a high-powered medical team be constituted to provide the best medical treatment to him. “By 1.15 am today, His Imperial Majesty breathed his last breath. “The CMD was at the ICU in the early hours of today to pay the late Olubadan his last respect. According to the CMD, ‘the Olubadan was a father to all of us. His reign was peaceful. We went to him on a few occasions when we had problems and he gave us listening ears.’ “Afterward, the CMD wrote a  letter of notification of the demise of the revered monarch to His Excellency Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State which was received by the Permanent Secretary of the Oyo State Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Dr. Bashiru Olanrewaju on behalf of the Oyo State Government. A similar letter was written to the family of the departed Olubadan. “The CMD further ensured that the remains of the late Monarch were taken care of in a manner befitting to the late Olubadan. “Professor Otegbayo also escorted the corpse of Oba Adetunji from the ICU to a waiting ambulance and handed the corpse to the family and other dignitaries on the ground.” The demise of Oba Adetunji’s predecessor the late Oba Samuel Odulana (Odugade 1) in 2016 paved the way to Oba Adetunji’s ascension to the throne. The former was highly regarded for his education and achievements in public service before becoming the Olubadan. His long life also attracted attention to the throne. Adetunji was the Balogun of Ibadan land before he was enthroned as the Olubadan. Enthroned on March 4, 2016, Oba Adetunji was welcomed to a peaceful reign. But trouble started when the state government under the leadership of the late governor Abiola Ajimobi reviewed the Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration in 2017 to allow 10 of the 11 high chiefs to wear beaded crown as obas. The only female, who is the Iyalode of Ibadan is the 11th member.   Suspension dollar sales: 15,000 BDC jobs at risk     Ibadan mourns     State House visitors to undergo COVID-19 test, says …   Though the late governor explained that the review was done with the approval of the monarch, Oba Adetunji disclaimed it and insisted that the governor had no right to interfere in the Ibadan chieftain y system. He rejected the idea though he welcomed the aspect of the review which elevated his throne to that of imperial majesty (he who enthrones other obas). Ajimobi ignored Adetunji’s opposition to the review and enthroned nine of the 10 male high chiefs who accepted the review. Only High Chief Rashidi Ladoja rejected the offer. Ladoja, who is a former governor of the state, later dragged Ajimobi and the state government to court over the review. He argued that the review would upset the orderliness in choosing new Olubadans. In the traditional system, the most senior high chief succeeds any Olubadan who joins his ancestors. The controversial review troubled the late Olubadan as his high chiefs who were crowned obas started meeting separately at the historic Mapo Hall for their weekly meetings. Oba Adetunji had warned that anyone coming for the Olubadan-In-Council meeting must neither wear a crown nor address himself as oba. The situation left Oba Adetunji taking decisions alone as the controversy raged for two years. The monarch had been previously accused by the high chiefs of taking unilateral decisions on issues affecting the city. They also accused him of allowing his wife Queen Rasheedat sit in council meetings and force her opinions on the council. But Adetunji denied the allegations, insisting that no chief has the right to challenge the Olubadan. The high chiefs claimed that no decisions can be taken without them but Adetunji insisted that the role of high chiefs as members of the Olubadan-In-Council are merely advisory. Even with the reconciliation, there was no love lost between Oba Adetunji and the high chiefs. Oba Adetunji, an originally trained tailor, became a successful music promoter. He opened a tailor shop in Agarawu area of Lagos Island where he sew both native and English dresses. One day in 1960, Adetunji recalled that the late Badejo Okusanya visited his shop to buy many attires from him. After the purchase, the customer advised the tailor to get a load carrier (alaaru) to convey the heavy clothes to his car but to his surprise, the young Adetunji delivered  the heavy load by himself. Impressed by his hard work and commitment, the late oba recalled that Okusanya then returned and offered him some records, advising that he could play them to entertain his customers and attract potential ones and also sell some to earn extra income. To his surprise again, Adetunji sold all the records. Then he said Okusanya invited him and introduced him to other marketers after revealing to him that he (Okusanya) and Adetunji’s father started the music marketing business together 20 years earlier. “I sold out everything and I took the money back to him and this was in 1960. Then he revealed to me that him and my father started the business in 1940. So he took me to other marketers who sell records and that was how I started till date.” He said. From there, Adetunji took deeper interest in the business and began to invest in it. He ended up as the proprietor of three marketing companies -Omo Aje Sound Studio, Adetunji Label and Babalaje Records before ascending the throne of the Olubadan. He produced some successful Fuji and Juju musicians including Ebenezer Obey,  Wasiu Ayinde and Alh. Dauda Epoakara. Fortune smiled on the late monarch as music entrepreneur. He recalled that he ascended the Olubadan throne 40 years after he became Mogaji of his compound.