Suspected gunmen have reportedly killed six persons between last Friday and Monday in Rijiyan Giwa and Du community of Shendam and Bassa Local Government Areas of Plateau State. Reports from the two communities indicate that three were killed from a family of three by gunmen suspected to be Fulani bandits in Rijiyan Giwa in Shendam Local Government Area. Three others killed were from the Du Community, Kwall district in Bassa Local Government Area. The Nation reported gunmen killed four miners in Dong community in the Jos North Local Government Area four days ago. The victims in Shendam identified as Talwa Gobak, his wife, Nenpomwa Talwa Gobak and 12- year-old daughter Nyokdel Talwa Gobak were said to have been murdered in the early hours of last Friday when the suspected gunmen broke into their home. - Advertisement - The assailants reportedly made straight to their bedroom and opened fire on the victims on their bed, killing them instantly and vanished into thin air. A source in the community, who spoke to on condition of anonymity, said around 4am on the fateful day, gunshots were heard in the direction of the residence of the victims. But before residents could reach them, the attackers had already killed the victims and escaped unnoticed. The victims, who were farmers said to have migrated from Kabwir in Kanke local government area were engaged in the cultivation of yam.   Ekiti PDP primaries: Accreditation begins amid heavy…     Gunmen abduct teacher, four others in Yobe – Police     #ENDSARS panel youth rep is Olu of Ikeja designate   Another source said the suspected Fulani bandits carried out the crime over an issue between the late Talwa and some Fulani. Speaking to reporters, the immediate younger brother to late Talwa, Hon. Sati Gobak described his late elder brother as man of peace who lived his life pursuing peaceful ventures. “For the past 30 years that he has lived in that community, he never had any problem with anybody, not to my knowledge. “I have visited him on several occasions and had interactions with members of his host community (including traditional and community leaders) who always described as a man of peace”. On what he thought could have prompted the attack, Sati said: “Well I wouldn’t know exactly what but what I can only say is that a week before his death, some Fulani broke into his yam barn and stole some yam but were caught red handed and ordered by the Vigilante to pay a fine. Unfortunately, he was killed the day the fine was to be paid,” he said. For the Bassa local government area incident, spokesman for the Miango Youth Development Association, Nuhu Bitrus, confirmed the latest killing to reporters in Jos . Bitrus said the three victims were on a motorcycle when the gunmen attacked them. He said the incident happened on Monday in Du community, Kwall district, in the Bassa LGA. Bitrus said: “Around 8.20pm on Monday, January 24, 2022, Some Rigwe youths on a motorcycle were ambushed at Du village, Kwall district, Bassa LGA of Plateau State.Three were killed instantly, while one sustained gunshot injuries.” The youth leader, who condemned the incident, identified the deceased as 46-year-old Chayi Gado, 33-year- old Monday Daro, and 32-year-old Ezekiel Peter while the injured person is Iveh Gah, 42. The Plateau Police Command, spokesman, ASP Gabriel Ubah, told the Nation: “We are in a meeting. I will get back to you “.