The Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) deserves commendation for the establishment of the Nigerian Diaspora Trust Fund (NDITF) and the publication of the compendium titled +600 Diaspora Icons @ 60, which is geared towards the promotion of diaspora investment into Nigeria, and the celebration of Nigerian giants across the world. As stated by President Muhammadu Buhari at the launching of the programme and book presentation, “Nigerians in the Diaspora are our Ambassadors-at-Large by their character, comportment and daily actions.” He enjoined that “they should be the best and excel in all their endeavours, and they should ‘give back’ by contributing to the development of Nigeria.” Of note, Nigerians in diaspora by their remittances have done a lot of good to the country’s economy, either by sustaining relations at home or investing in various aspects of our national economy. Their remittance of foreign currency has helped our exchange rate. So, the initiative of NiDCOM to establish the NDITF, a private sector window to support diaspora investments in our country is a welcome development. But we quickly add that the initiative must be properly structured so that there will be transparency and accountability in its management. It will be unfair if after it is launched under the canopy of the Federal Government, it is treated lackadaisically as a private affair, like the Police Trust Fund launched with fanfare, under President Olusegun Obasanjo. If it requires a legal framework to structure it, that should be put in place. Again, such standardisation will ensure that the vision espoused by the present leadership of NiDCOM is sustained, even after there is a change of guard. We are also optimistic, like the president, about the potential reimaging of Nigerians in diaspora, the majority of whom have suffered reputation challenge as a result of the activities of a few bad eggs who create the impression that Nigerians are scammers.   Youths, #EndSARS and 2023 elections     Fixing what ain’t broken?     2023: Wike’s presidential posters flood Abuja   As stated by President Buhari: “irrespective of the few bad eggs among us, and every nation has such bad eggs, Nigeria remains a great country, populated by great people, living at home or abroad, making us proud.” He went on: “This compendium attests to that fact and the names of people and the fields they have excelled, speak about their resilience and how exceptional Nigerians, both at home and abroad, have become.” - Advertisement - We hope the establishment of the NDITF will also help stem the ugly incidence of relations in Nigeria scamming their compatriots abroad, who send hard-earned resources for one form of investment or another. Such tales that Nigerians who have spent their entire working life abroad come home disappointed, when they are told the monies they sent have been mismanaged by relations whom they trusted. Perhaps with a structure in place, there can be oversights which will bring confidence to such investors. As the world keeps changing, there is need to channel some resources earned in foreign lands back home for safety. Whether as formal investments in the national economic space, or investment in private spheres, we join the clarion call for diaspora investment in the country. A structured investment platform would also help Nigerians engage in big-ticket joint ventures that will be beneficial to the country and the investors. The launching of a compendium will provide a reference material to know who is where and who can do what. It would provide material for collaboration and exchange of ideas. As stated by President Buhari: “As we launch the compendium of excellent Nigerians today, we are also celebrating some of our best, nationally and globally”. We therefore join the president to commend the Abike Dabiri-Erewa-led NiDCOM for the innovative idea, and urge for its sustenance.