Masters Energy, a petrol station belonging to the Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development Masters Energy Dr.Uche Ogah has been gutted by fire in Abia State. The station is located along the busy Aba road in Umuahia North local government area. The fire incident, which caused pandemonium on the major road, forced diversion of vehicular movements to other exit routes to avoid further escalation or damages to other adjourning properties and vehicles plying the road. No life was lost in the fire incident that engulfed the petroleum tanker discharging it’s content at the station. The acting State Comptroller of Abia Fire Service, Mr. Arua Nnanna said the tanker was discharging 43,000 liters PMS (Petroleum Motor Spirit) into the station’s fuel dump when it went into flames.   First multi-million rice mill commences operation in Imo     18 klled, several abducted as terrorists sack Niger…     How Igbobi College shaped my life — Osinbajo   - Advertisement - According to Nnanna, the fire incident was caused by the generator that was being used to transfer the PMS from the tanker to the fuel dump. “From what we got, the generator that they were using to transfer PMS from the tanker to the fuel dump caught fire. “They couldn’t contain the fire. We were called and both the state and federal government fire service personnel swung into action to contain the fire and make sure that is didn’t spread to other places. “Part of the filing station was affected, but the good story is that no life was lost and we were able to save property worth millions of naira as well because if we had not come, the damage on adjourning buildings would have been huge.” He urged petroleum station owners to equip their facility with fire extinguisher and ensure that fire service is within their facility any time that they are discharging petroleum products within their facility to avoid a repetition of such incident. The Chief of Staff to the Governor Okezie Ikpeazu ,Mr. Anthony Agbazuere among others were handy to ensure the fire was put off.