No fewer than 183,000 All Progressives Congress (APC) members will today pick the governorship standard bearer by direct primary. APC Governorship Committee Chairman Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru assured aspirants of a level-playing field. According to him, “option A4 direct primary” would be adopted in conformity with the party’s guidelines. Badaru said his panel would organise a credible shadow poll. Badaru added: “The party has a guideline in the conduct of direct primary, which is the accreditation of party members after getting their voter cards and party membership slips carrying their photographs and their names should also be contained in the party registers in their respective wards. - Advertisement - “After this is done, the members would now queue behind the agents of their preferred aspirants in each ward before counting. It is whatever that is counted across the wards and acceptable to all agents that will be collated and announced accordingly. “I have my integrity to protect just like every other member of this committee. Nobody will be cheated. I have the assurance that we will end this primary with all aspirants commending us for doing a good job. We shall all laugh together after the process”. Badaru directed each aspirant to nominate 20 persons that would work with the committee as local organising committee. He explained that he decided to adopt the modality to make the process more credible and acceptable. A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Senator Biodun Olujimi, yesterday pulled out of the primary, shortly after its commencement in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Olujimi told reporters that her decision to withdraw from the primary was informed by alleged irregularities during the accreditation of delegates.   Decision leaves govt with no option than to borrow, says…     #JusticeForHanifa: How soon can it be served?     Subsidy: Governors, Labour accuse NNPC of insincerity   The PDP chieftain said that she could not be part of a political process that had excluded party delegates who are mainly her supporters. Olujimi alleged the accreditation excercise was outrightly fraught with irregularities, adding that the process was sabotaged by the list of delegates brought by Governor Udom Emmanuel-led electoral team. She said the list was doctored in favour of a particular aspirant. Olujimi said other aspirants have the full complement of the delegates from their local government given to them by the party while she was given only 12 from her local government. She said: “I pulled out because every other aspirant has full compliments of delegates from their local government. It pleased the party to give me only 12 automatic delegates in mine.” “I have six local governments in my Ekiti South District as a sitting senator. They gave full compliments of delegates to somebody in four of my local government. And the two that were left, including my own local government. They gave me 12 delegates out of 78.” “In the second local government, they gave me only 10 delegates. How do you go from your home with a broken hoe and then, you are going to ask the people to give their own to you to till the ground?”. “I feel maybe it is because of my gender or maybe the party feels I have not done enough for it. That is why they would have done that to me”. “So, when they’ve done that to me, it didn’t make sense to continue with the process. When asked how the party arrived at giving out automatic delegates to aspirants, she said: “What happened was that for two years, we’ve been fighting over an illegal congress and somehow, a few weeks ago, they approved it for one group.” “There have been two groups that have been fighting. And we said there was no congress because it was hijacked. Two weeks ago, the party approved that one group should take all the fourteen executives, and those of us that had been fighting should wait.” When asked whether she stepped down for any aspirant, Olujimi said she never stepped down, adding that she pulled out of the race.