There is water in many places in Nigeria, but scarcely a drop that is clean. That has given way for the birth of the water industry in the country for the past two decades. But the gripe by the producers that over 25 regulatory agencies are suffocating the otherwise nascent industry gives cause for concern. Although they did not list the agencies, or the media did not report them, the body involved is known as the Association of Table Waters Producers of Nigeria (ATWAP). They are concerned about challenges in bringing good water to fellow citizens, hence they held a conference and its national president, Chinwe Ativie, openly complained. The challenges are also affecting their ability to make profit. “This is why the convention is tagged ‘Atajere’ which means you have to sell to be profitable and it has been flagged off even in the North Central and other parts of the country,” said Ativie. “We have decided that whatever we put in as our cost of production, we would input in our selling price to remain in business because water is life and if we begin to cut corners for water production, the lives of Nigerians would be at risk.” The idea of overlapping agencies implies, as some of the sellers have indicated, “more taxes.” It inevitably would imply a rise in the cost of producing safe water. - Advertisement - It reflects a lack of coordination in the organisation of the industry. It also means state and federal agencies are chocking the water business. If agriculture is getting privileged attention, table water deserves no less. “Before the advent of COVID-19, we were buying one of our materials for producing water at N500 per kg, but post-COVID, we are buying it for N1,500 per kg, so it really affected our members where some of our members were closing factories across the country, giving opportunities to quacks to take over the market which might lead to an outbreak of cholera,” noted Prince Ademola Adeyeye, zonal coordinator of the southwest and Kwara part of the business.   Research is the way to go     Agric: What Nigerians expect from Fed Govt this year     Ayade: from bubble to burst   The challenges, other than overregulation, include poor power availability, high cost of equipment and scarcity of foreign exchange. This opens the way for quacks who endanger the lives of Nigerians because they do not adhere to safety standards. Such quacks do not treat the water. They, for most part, draw the water from wells and boreholes, fill bottles and sachets, label them, refrigerate them and package them for sale like other respectable organisations. The credulous consumer is placed in harm’s way with the risks of water-borne diseases as well as deaths. Quite a few of such quack factories have been identified and shut down. For them, business is easy. But the genuine factories that number over 16,000 in the country need quite a few essentials to operate. They need nylons, plastic and equipment, which are not cheap and have to be sourced abroad. Only in 2021, 2,153 factories were approved for operation. The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is the visible agency that works with ATWAP to ensure compliance to safety standards. And we urge them to pay attention to the quacks, while the federal and state governments must work together to ensure that the table water industry is not taxed out of existence. Water does not only have to be potable, but also affordable. If water is expensive, citizens may be forced to patronise quacks and access water in unclean places like rivers and sewers. So, what ATWAP is calling for is not merely the survival of their business, but also of their fellow citizens. Making water drinkable is part of the Nigerian project of making life livable.