Although the Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP), Lagos State Ministry of Justice absolved five pupils, and workers of Dowen College Lekki, Lagos of complicity in the death of Sylvester Oromoni Jnr, a JSS 2 pupil Tuesday last week, stakeholders in the education sector, parents seem dissatisfied with the outcome of the case. Oromoni died November 31, 2021 – four days shy of his 12th birthday after falling ill due to injuries his family claimed were allegedly caused by beating from senior students forcing him to join a cult.  The school had claimed he got injured while playing football. According to the DPP report, quoting the autopsy conducted by six pathologists at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) last month, Oromoni died of “Septicaemia, Lobar Pneumonia with Acute Pyelonephritis, Pyomyositis of the right ankle and Acute Bacteria Pneumonia due to severe Sepsis.” With the DPP saying the autopsy did not link the accused to Oromoni’s death, the police released the five pupils he named who allegedly bullied him for not joining a cult, as well as some members of staff in charge of the boarding house from custody. - Advertisement - However, the school remains shut as the second term of the 2021/2022 academic session enters the second week. The Lagos State Ministry of Education initially released a statement last Thursday stating that the school would only be reopened if it fulfilled certain conditions. Though silent on the issues to be addressed, the statement noted that the ministry conducted a thorough inspection of the school before it was shut on December 3. The statement reads in part: “we will consider the possibility of reopening the school only when all issues surrounding school administration have been appropriately attended to.’ However, the statement was withdrawn shortly afterward with the ministry saying it would respond appropriately soon. Last Thursday, the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) staged a protest in front of the school in the wake of the advice DPP that absolved some students and staff of blame in the death of a JSS2 pupil of the school, Sylvester Oromoni Jnr. The group faulted the government for clearing the school and threatened trouble if Dowen College was reopened. In a video, a spokesman for the group faulted the DPP for releasing the accused before concluding the investigation. He said: “We are here today to express our anger and grievances with the fake and corrupt report released by the Lagos State Director of Public Prosecution that this school where cultists are being trained is cleared. “They cleared the same people that killed our son without trial, without concluded investigation; they said they cleared this school to reopen. “If they open the school, the whole Ijaw youths will come here on Monday with our school bags, feeding bottles and join we that are already on ground. “So now, we want to send a message to the governor of this state; I believe he is a well-trained person, if he supports injustice, then this school will not have peace.” Stakeholders, educators and many parents have lamented the turn the case has taken.  They lamented that justice was not served.  They are worried that it would dampen the anti-bullying fervor the case generated. Deputy National President, National Parent Teacher Association of Nigeria (NAPTAN), Chief Adeolu Ogunbanjo stated that the only option left for the parents of the deceased is to go to court. He said the autopsy report was shocking because there seemed to be evidence that  Oromoni was beaten black and blue before his demise. “Unfortunately, the Police have come up with a different report exonerating staff and pupils. Parents are dissatisfied and the only option is to go to court and challenge the report and entire process,” he said. A Lekki-based parent, Mrs. Stephanie Kadiri, said the authorities need to investigate the claims of bullying raised by the late pupil’s family even if the autopsy report did not give evidence of trauma.   Understanding Olubadan succession row     Obasanjo’s provocative statement on Niger Delta oil     Alao-Akala: When not to die   “None of the investigations are making any reference or inference to the fact that there was a bullying or beating that took place.  It is making me wonder how at the point of death an 11-year old boy can say such-and-such persons beat me; and called the names.  I don’t think the parents knew those names before the boy mentioned them.  They are not giving the full details.  For example, the toxicology result has not been openly stated. Then based on an autopsy result they say there is no evidence of trauma.  Is there evidence of bullying?  Was the boy beaten?  Okay, there is no blunt force trauma; does it mean that he was not beaten? There are many sides of the case that it is almost like it is being flushed underneath. “There is so many things that the government or whoever is investigating is not giving full disclosure.  I think that is why people are aggravated; I think that is why people are doubting or second-guessing the system and suspecting a foul play,” she said. Coordinator Child Protection Network Lagos State, Mrs Ronke Oyelakin urged the Lagos State Government and all parties involved which includes the Ministry of Justice and the Nigerian Police to look into the matter again and thoroughly. She said: “The deceased’s mother said the management of Dowen College, Lekki Lagos claimed her late son sustained the injury while playing football. “How has this been proven that he engaged in football activities?  Why was he bringing out blood from his mouth, to what extent was the injury that affected him so bad that he was in pain till death? “The school obviously has a case to answer. The child was in their custody and should be protected. What went wrong?” Oyelakin noted that a safeguarding or child protection policy statement makes it clear what organisations or groups will do to keep children safe. “Safeguarding policies in schools must consider all safeguarding risks, from abuse and neglect, etc. Staff who work with children must sign this policy and should be binding on them. “All staff have a responsibility to follow the 5 R’s (Recognise, Respond, Report, Record & Refer). “Safeguarding ensures children grow up with the best life chances and that all individuals are given safe and effective care. In short terms, safeguarding is what we do to prevent harm, while child protection is the way in which we respond to harm,” she said. She added that it was very key for school owners to ensure they have this policy in place in their schools and they should be responsible for the safety and protection of every child in their custody. “We do not want any child to die in our schools again so it is expedient that all hands must be on deck. Child Protection Network is in all the 20 LGAs of Lagos State and we are embarking on rigorous and increased awareness on prevention of abuse of any forms,” she added. Human Rights Activist and Convener Break The Silence Foundation, a nongovernmental organisation, Yomi Fabiyi cautioned against speculations, social media trials and assumptions on the matter. He expressed confidence that the Lagos State Government would always listen to legitimate grievances. “Government cannot try any case outside the provision of the law. It is sad but we must all abide by the law at all times “My concerns are with the parent of the deceased (Sylvester Oromoni Jnr), may God console them and rest the boy in peace. I trust the Lagos Government always; they will do the needful on the matter and within the ambit of the law. The rights of all concerns as far as I am concerned is been respected, we are observing with keen interest. Don’t forget, the rule of law is sacrosanct,” he said. Proprietor of Le Poshe School, Ikoyi, Mrs. Ronke Adeniyi, is worried that the DPP advice may dampen the anti-bullying campaign. “It will definitely reduce the fervour if left like this,” she said. However, she said she was looking forward to the outcome of the Inquest into the death which begins on Saturday. The Chief Coroner of Lagos State, Justice M. A. Dada, has said the inquest will begin on January 15 at Magistrate Court No. 4, Epe District. An inquest is expected to provide a clearer picture into the circumstances surrounding Oromoni’s death as all parties will share what they know. However, it carries no legal weight.  Perhaps after the inquest, stakeholders may find closure on the case.