The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Friday asked the Department of State Services (DSS) to stop harrassing Catholic priest and founder of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, and other clerics who pray for its detained leader Nnamdi Kanu. The group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, also warned against humiliating and intimidating its leader and members. The group said Kanu was not evil but a special gift from God. It stressed that people should not be harrassed for their religious views, insisting that Nigeria is not for a particular sect. The statement partly reads: “We wish to commend men and women of God who devoted their precious time and energy to pray for the protection of our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu who has been incarcerated in the DSS custody in Abuja since June 2021. - Advertisement - “The prayers of these men of God have turned Nigeria and its leadership into confusion since the beginning of this year 2022. “We realise that the…Federal Government and its security agencies are confused as a result of the intense prayers of these men of God including Rev. Father Ejikeme Mbaka of Adoration Ministries Enugu; and Reverend father of Ebube Mmunso Ministry, Uke in Idemili LGA Anambra State. “We call other men and women of God Almighty who hear what God is saying to join others in telling government to stop humiliating and intimidating Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and IPOB members because Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is not evil but a special gift from God Almighty but unfortunately, Nigerians don’t appreciate what they have. “Again, we are warming DSS to stop intimidating and humiliating men and women of God Almighty because they spoke about Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “People should not be harrassed because of their religious views… “The DSS and other security agencies can kill the messenger but cannot kill the message. “The message which Mazi Nnamdi Kanu passed has gone deep into the minds of Nigerians and they understood the truth about Nigeria and its evil government.   Kalu meets Ikpeazu as defection rumour heightens     Anambra Correctional Centre inmates to sit for WAEC, others     BREAKING: Aggrieved APC members ask court to stop convention   “People of God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama would come out and defend their sheep because God Almighty Chukwu Okike Abiama handed them over to them as shepherd.” IPOB leader Kanu is on trial over treasonable felony charges at the Federal High Court in Abuja. He has been in the DSS custody since he was brought back to the country. IPOB claimed Kanu was a victim of extraordinary rendition. The charges against Kanu read in part: *Bright Chimezie, Chidiebere Onwidiwe, Benjamin Madubugwu, David Nwawuisi and Kanu, in 2014 and 2015, in Nigeria and London, conspired to broadcast on Radio Biafra their plan to secede from Nigeria and form the Republic of Biafra, thereby committing an offence punishable under Section 516 of the Criminal Code Act, Cap. C77 of 2004. *Kanu illegally smuggled radio transmitters into Nigeria, which he used to disseminate “hate broadcasts”, encouraging the “secession of the Republic of Biafra”, from Nigeria. *Kanu imported a Radio transmitter known as TRAM 50L, which was concealed in a container that was declared as used household items, to use same to disseminate information about secession plans by the IPOB. *Kanu, “on or about the 28th April, 2015 in London, United Kingdom did in a broadcast on Radio Biafra monitored in Enugu, Enugu state and other parts of Nigeria within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, referred to Major General Muhammadu Buhari, GCON, President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as a paedophile, a terrorist, an idiot and an embodiment of evil, knowing same to be false and you thereby committed an offence contrary to section 375 of the Criminal Code Act, Cap C. 38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004”. *The defendants committed treasonable felony, an offence punishable under Section 41(C) of the Criminal Code Act, CAP C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria. *The defendants managed the affairs of the IPOB, “an unlawful society”. IPOB seeks an independent state of Biafra and claims to be nonviolent. But security agencies have accused IPOB and its security arm, the Eastern Security Network (ESN), of being behind most of the acts of violence and destruction in the Southeast.