Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has backed a former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim for president in 2023. Anyim was also one-time Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The governor, who received Anyim in his Umuobiakwa, Obingwa Local Government Area country home, described him as “a man whose public service credentials and experience are good enough for the Presidency of Nigeria”. Ikpeazu assured Anyim of his support, noting that what mattered was “just for the Igbos to be given a chance to produce the next Nigerian President”. Ikpeazu said: “No other tribe in Nigeria has demonstrated practical belief in the Nigerian nation better than the Igbos as can be seen from the fact that our people live and invest heavily in every part of the country.” - Advertisement - He added that in the Southeast and across the country, “the credentials of Senator Anyim stand very tall”. Anyim said he came to formally inform Ikpeazu and the party leadership in the state of his plans to contest for president in the 2023 general elections.   UNIBEN directs admission seekers to upload O’ level results     Odumosu: why I ordered arrest of four estate guards, woman     New Olubadan likely this week   He believes the Southeast is the most qualified zone in Nigeria to produce the next President based on equity and justice. Anyim said that he decided to make himself available “after a careful analysis of my antecedents, experience, passion and wide contacts across the country.” He called for the support of the governor and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, assuring that he would be a candidate and a President that Nigeria would be proud of. Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe, last month also backed Anyim for president. Abaribe, who represents Abia South District in the Senate, said: “My brother is the only one that has declared his intention to run for the office of the president. “I will give him all the support because he has all it takes to make Nigeria better again. “Therefore, I encourage all Nigerians to support this noble intention.”