Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader Nnamdi Kanu yesterday pleaded not guilty to the 15-count terrorism charge filed against him by the Federal Government. He filed a preliminary objection to the charge, praying the Federal High Court in Abuja to strike out or quash them. Also yesterday, an Umuahia High Court in Abia State awarded N1billion damages to Kanu in a judgment on his fundamental rights suit. The court held that the Federal Government violated his right and owes him an apology. - Advertisement - Proceedings in the Federal High Court were adjourned until February 16 when Kanu’s pending applications will be heard. After his plea was taken, the lead prosecuting lawyer, Magaji Labaran, said the state was ready to open its case, adding that two of his witnesses were in court. Lead defence counsel, Dr Mike Ozekhome (SAN), said the defence filed the preliminary objection on Tuesday evening. “We are asking that the defendant should be discharged and acquitted as there is nothing in this charge. It has no basis at all. “We also have a motion requesting the court to grant bail to the defendant,” Ozekhome said. Labaran said both applications were not ripe for hearing, adding that he needed time to respond. “In essence, the business of the day cannot be allowed to be truncated by these applications,” he said. Ruling, Justice Binta Nyako held that since the first application was challenging the competence of the charge, it was appropriate to consider it first. The judge added: “As for the second motion (on the issue of bail), I don’t even want to talk about it, at least not at this stage.”   Governors tighten grip on APC ahead convention     Cross River to become net supplier of processed chicken,…     PHOTOS: Lagos acquires two speed trains from U.S. for city…   At the commencement of proceedings, Labaran, who noted that Kanu wore the same attire despite the judge’s directive the previous day that he be allowed to change clothes, said the defendant refused to wear a new outfit. “My lord, based on your order yesterday (Tuesday), we provided the defendant with a new orthopaedic mattress, pillows and blankets. “As for his appearance, he chose to wear this particular one because he said that it is a designer apparel.” Responding Ozekhome said: “My lord, what happened was that by the time proceedings ended yesterday (Tuesday) and because it was not his visiting day, we were not able to pass to him some clothes we obtained for him. “We even discussed it with him this morning and he said that on the next visiting day, he would want to have the new clothes.” Ozekhome praised the State Security Services (SSS) for providing his client with new mattress and pillows. “I want to commend the SSS and the court for ensuring that it was done.” The judge insisted that the defendant should appear subsequently in new clothes. In Abia, Justice Benson Anya held that some of the claims in Kanu’s suit filed through one of his lawyers Aloy Ejimakor had merit. The IPOB leader had sought N5billion damages against the Federal Government for the invasion of his father’s house in Afaraukwu Ibeku on September 10, 2017, by the military. Justice Anya condemned the military invasion, describing it as notorious and brazen. The judge ordered the Federal Government to issue a public apology in three national dailies to Kanu over the illegal invasion of his residence. Justice Anya struck out other reliefs sought by Kanu, including on his repatriation from Kenya and detention by the Department of State Services (DSS). He urged the Federal Government to consider a political resolution of the Kanu case.