All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu yesterday described the death of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Adetunji Saliu, Aje Ogungunniso I, as an exit of a royal titan. The news of the demise of the highly-referred royal father, the former Lagos State governor said, saddened him. Tinubu wrote in a condolence message sent from his Media Office by Mr. Tunde Rahman: “Kabiyesi passed on at a ripe age of 93, which we are extremely grateful to God for. “But this demise has robbed us of his wisdom and wise counseling. He never withheld his deep insights and rich perspectives from those who sought his guidance. “Particularly coming shortly after the death of another top ranking traditional ruler in Yorubaland and precisely in Oyo State, this passing truly rankles. The late Olubadan was a sage. He was humble, humane, mature, calm and decent, always a symbol of unruffled dignity.   Why Buhari signed 2022 budget, by Presidency     Post-Biafran syndrome     Nigerian investors earn N7.76tr in two years   - Advertisement - “Before he mounted the throne, Oba Adetunji had made his name as a successful businessman and music and entertainment promoter who contributed a lot to uplift the careers of many top musicians in the land, thus contributing his quota to the growth of our country’s economy. “On the throne, the late Olubadan worked assiduously for peace and stability of not only Ibadanland, Oyo State and Yorubaland, but also the entire country. He superintended over the ancient city with even-handedness. “I had a close personal relationship with Kabiyesi and I will deeply miss him. When I had the privilege of receiving him in audience in Lagos recently, little did I know it was a farewell visit. “My condolences to his family, particularly Olori Rasheedat Ololade, and their children, members of the Olubadan-in-Council,  including Otun Olubadan, Senator Lekan Balogun, and Osi Olubadan, Senator Rashidi Ladoja, the Mogajis and the princes. May God Almighty comfort them all. “I commiserate with Governor Seyi Makinde, the government and people of the state who would now have to endure the demise of another top traditional ruler, barely three weeks after the passing of the Soun of Ogbomosoland, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi, Ajagungbade 111. “I must also extend my sympathy to the sons and daughters of Ibadanland over the loss of this eminent traditional ruler. May the gentle soul of Oba Adetunji rest in perfect peace.”