Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has reached an agreement with Barcelona over a loan deal until the end of the season, according to reports. However, the deal will only go ahead if Ousmane Dembele – who is out of contract in the summer – leaves the club before the January window closes. Dembele has been linked with a move away from the Catalan giants after publicly releasing a statement accusing them of trying to blackmail him into signing a new contract. Meanwhile, Aubameyang has fallen out of favour under Mikel Arteta after a disciplinary breach led to him being stripped of the captain’s armband. Therefore, Arsenal are eager to get his £350,000-a-week wages off their books before the January transfer window closes. - Advertisement - According to Spanish reporter Gerard Romero, Aubameyang has agreed in principle to sign for Barcelona on loan.   Luis Diaz undergoes medical ahead of £45m Liverpool move     AFCON: Morocco plan to silence Egypt’s Salah     Durosilorun wins again as Lagos Squash tournament ends   However, Aubameyang’s transfer is hanging in the balance as Barcelona will only move forward with the deal if the forward’s former Borussia Dortmund team-mate Dembele leaves. Should Dembele leave the Catalan giants, Aubameyang’s deal will go through. Should he stay at the club, Aubameyang’s deal will collapse. The Spanish reporter took to Twitter to say: ‘Aubameyang enters [Barcelona] if Ousmane leaves. ‘Barca has a closed financial agreement with the player, until June on loan. Conditions that can allow your arrival. Arsenal need the footballer to leave.’ Dembele has publicly clashed with Barcelona – releasing a statement accusing them of trying to blackmail him into signing a new contract. Dembele released the statement after Barcelona’s director of football Mateu Alemany said the player should leave the club ‘as soon as possible’ following a breakdown in contract talks. As it stands, Dembele has just six months left on his current deal and could be set for a last-gasp transfer deal. Should it happen, Aubameyang will look to rediscover his form at Barca – having scored 233 goals in 376 games in the last 10 seasons for Borussia Dortmund and Arsenal.