•Davido  DMW label boss, David ‘Davido’ Adeleke is the last child of Dr Adedeji Adeleke, the CEO of Pacific Holdings Limited. Adeleke is also the founder and president of Adeleke University in Ede, Osun State. Davido hit the music industry in 2011 with ‘Back When’ featuring Naetochukwu ‘Naeto C’ Chikwe.   •Mayorkun - Advertisement -  Mayowa ‘Mayorkun’ Adewale is the son of popular Nollywood actor, Toyin Adewale, prominent for her roles in Yoruba movies. Mayorkun was discovered by Davido, who signed him to his label, DMW. After releasing ‘Eleko’ in 2016, the former banker has gone ahead to churn out other hit songs attracting awards and accolades from his fans.   •Falz  ‘Bop Daddy’ crooner, Folarin ‘Falz’ Falana is the son of human rights lawyer and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Femi Falana. Falz, who is also a trained lawyer, has award winning rap songs under his belt, and has featured in movies, winning the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCA) twice.   •Naeto C  Naetochukwu ‘Naeto C’ Chikwe is the son of Kema Chikwe, the former Minister of Transport, and then Aviation, during former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration. Kema is also a former ambassador to the Republic of Ireland. She is the National Woman Leader of the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Naeto C, during his time as one of the most sought-after rappers, won notable awards including MTV Africa Music Awards 2008 – Best New Musician; 2009 Channel O Music Video Awards – Video of the Year and MTV Africa Music Awards 2009 – Best New Artist. Read Also: Davido attacks cousin over Osun 2022 governorship ambition •Lojay    I stand with Mompha, says Bobrisky     Why I abandoned school, by Portable     ‘Davido is selfless and a blessing to many’   Lekan ‘Lojay’ Osifeso Jnr, who is unarguably one of the raves of the moment is named after his father, Lekan Osifeso, Chairman of Retro Group of companies and Lekai Construction Company, a major player within the construction industry space. Lojay took the music industry by storm with ‘Monalisa’, enlisting the production expertise of popular music producer, Sarz.   •DJ Cuppy  Florence ’DJ Cuppy’ Otedola is the daughter of serial businessman, Femi Otedola, with stakes across different sectors of the economy. DJ Cuppy started out as a DJ before trying her hands on music and recording success featuring artistes like Tekno, Zlatan Ibile, Teni, Fireboy DML among others.   •L.A.X  ‘Sempe’ crooner, Damilola ‘L.A.X’ Afolabi is the son of Taiwo Afolabi, founder and CEO of SIFAX Group, a conglomerate that deals in maritime, aviation, haulage, hospitality, financial services and oil and gas. Afolabi recently hosted the crème de la crème including Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the launch of Lagos Marriot Hotel.   •Kach  Uche ‘Kach’ Kachikwu is the son Ibe Kachikwu, former Minister of State for Petroleum. Kach’s song titled ‘Dino’ named after Senator Dino Melaye went viral after he featured him in the music video. The trap music singer has been one of the few voices promoting the genre in Nigeria.   •Tolani  Olawunmi ‘Tolani’ Otedola is also one of the daughters of businessman, Femi Otedola.   •Chubbz  Seni ‘Chubbz’ Saraki is the son of former Senate President Olubukola Saraki. The rapper is one of the most important young people behind the solidification of the Alté movement and culture in Nigeria. He has worked with artistes like Odunsi the Engine, Lady Donli and Cruel Santino on crafting their music projects. He’s also the Editor-in-Chief at The NATIVE – a key music publication for young Africans at home and in the diaspora. He co-founded the magazine with his colleague, Teezee of the DRB Lasgidi group, who is also a rapper.   •Tillaman  Adetona ‘Tillaman’ Adeyemi who prides himself as ‘the real omoba’ is the son of Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi.