Air Peace, Nigeria’s leading airline, has announced the deployment of its brand new Embraer 195-E2 and Boeing 737 aircraft on the Anambra route. Spokesperson of the airline, Stanley Olisa, confirmed the development in a statement issued in Lagos on Wednesday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the development followed the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCCA) recent approval of the Anambra Airport to operate B737-700 and its equivalent aircraft. Olisa explained that the airline has also increased flight frequencies on specific domestic routes, including Anambra. He noted that the airline’s brand new Embraer 195-E2 and Boeing 737 aircraft, with more passenger capacity, would be deployed on the route, adding that frequency had been increased to daily flights for Anambra. - Advertisement - “This new development means more flight availability for passengers flying the route, which is reflective of the airline’s resolve to ease the burden of air travel in the country.   Subsidy extension stalls Petroleum Industry Act     Wrestling contest, Dickson and other matters     Ex-Governor Nyame sues Taraba, CBN over unpaid pension   “Also the flights to Yola and Ibadan will also now be operated daily while Gombe flights will now be operated five days a week. “Passengers can now connect Owerri with three daily flights from Lagos and Abuja on the brand new Embraer 195-E2. These additional frequencies will take effect from Jan. 28, 2022,” he said. NAN recalled that Air Peace is the first airline to touch down at the new Anambra Airport on April 30, 2021, and commenced scheduled operations properly on Dec. 7, with an initial frequency of four flights weekly. The airport had recorded 142 flights with 3,865 passengers landing and taking off after one month of its inauguration. Air Peace leads the industry with 20 domestic routes, six regional routes and two international destinations while it operates an increasing modern fleet of 34 aircraft, including five brand new Embraer 195-E2s and four Airbus 320s. (NAN)