ChIeF Executive Officer of Periscope Engineering Kamaldeen Adefemi has given reasons why national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu is the best man for president in 2023. Adefemi noted that Tinubu’s capacity to lead Nigeria was not in doubt considering his achievements as governor of Lagos State between 1999 and 2007. He said Tinubu’s vision and blueprint brought Lagos to the position where other states now look to it as a model of good governance. “When Tinubu was Lagos governor, we knew what the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state was and where he moved it to before he left office. ‘’We also know what places, such as Oshodi, Kudirat Abiola Way, Oba Akran, and others, looked like and what he turned them to be before he left. - Advertisement - “It takes someone with vision, someone who can look into the future and put his blueprint down to have good governance.   Reps urge IG to probe alleged attacks, killings by security…     It’s all making sense now!     Mummy G.O. in Dubai   ‘’The Lagos Waste Management Agency (LAWMA), Kick Against Indiscipline (KAI), Lagos State Transport Management Authority (LASTMA) and others were created by Tinubu; even the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) that came to be after his exit… ‘’He created jobs for youths. He took youths off the streets because many of them were employed by LAWMA, KAI, LASTMA and other agencies that he created.” On Tinubu’s age, which critics have capitalised on, Adefemi said: “We have many young people in positions of power who messed things up. Youth inclusion in governance is important but, in this case, it is not about age because Asiwaju has the constitutional right and the capacity to lead Nigeria, and I strongly believe age is still on his side.” Adefemi, a former aspirant to the Lagos State House of Assembly, added that Nigeria needs a unifier like Tinubu to unite the country, especially at this time of religious and ethnic disunity. “Nigeria has never been this torn apart religiously and ethnically, and Tinubu is one politician who can unify this country. ‘’Nigeria needs Tinubu now because he is a leader  ready to invest in other people… He has eyes for the right people. Tinubu has the capacity to select the right people. If you delegate the right duty to the right people, you are good, and Tinubu has that capacity,” he said.