Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has asked civil servants to prepare for working virtually as part of measures being put in place to guard against the spread of the new covid-19 variant, Omicron. Fayemi said one of the opportunities in the adversity of Covid-19 is that more workers would learn to work smarter with the aid of modern technology. He stated this yesterday when he paid an unscheduled visit to workers at the State Secretariat Complex in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. The visit, according to the governor, was meant to felicitate with workers in the New Year and to pay attention to issues that can serve as challenges to their performances in the new year.   Gunmen abduct three Chinese workers in Niger     Court remands two for attempted murder, robbery     RRS nabs ex-convicts, others for stealing from accident…   He maintained that a lot of development had taken place in the secretariat with landscaping and completion of more buildings to create more space for office accommodation. - Advertisement - Fayemi added that adequate preparation had been made in all the offices to ensure compliance with covid-19 safety protocols. “We ensured that adequate provisions were made for the covid-19 protocols in the various offices, but what is important now is they are back and in coming back, we still owe a duty of protection to them in their various offices; that’s partly, why I have to go round to see what is going on for myself. “It is a new year; it is a new dawn and it is a year of fulfillment as we have described it and we pray that our workers would be imbued with the enthusiasm and the commitment to work smarter and work harder; smarter because in the age of COVID-19, we worked virtually now. At the level of the Executive council, all our executive council meetings are being held virtually. We still meet every week but we meet virtually because we now have a new variant of covid-19, which is even mutating faster than the previous variants that we have had,” the governor added.