In his January 2020 New Year Message to the nation, President Buhari, in a prophetically optimistic mood, declared the 2020s as Nigeria’s decade: “Today marks a new decade. It is a time of hope, optimism and fresh possibilities. We look forward as a nation to the 2020s as the opportunity to build on the foundations we have laid together on security, diversification of our economy and taking on the curse of corruption. These are the pledges on which I have been twice elected President and remain the framework for a stable, sustainable and more prosperous future.” ——President Buhari’s New Year Message, January 1, 2020, paragraph 1 It was his first New Year message after his reelection to a second and final term as president. Upbeat in his assessment, he saw it as a time of “fresh possibilities” with a hope of “the opportunity to build on the foundations we have laid together on security, diversification of our economy and taking on the curse of corruption.” And in case they forgot, the president reminded the nation that these were the pledges on which he was elected twice as President and they “remain the framework for a stable, sustainable and more prosperous future.” That January 2020 message was by my count, 23 paragraphs long. The president talked about democratic elections, security and safety, including the challenge of violent extremism, the economy, including agricultural revolution and the African Continental Free Trade Area, infrastructure development, including power and the new deal with Siemens, and tackling corruption, rounding it up with a list of the infrastructural projects lined up for 2020. - Advertisement - What was missing in that speech was any mention of the challenges of nation-building and the action that might be warranted. Was it an oversight? Was it deliberate? After all, nation building was not one of the pledges on which the president was elected twice according to his declaration. I am not sure of what to make of that declaration and the apparent denial of the nationality question and the attendant issue of restructuring, which has been pressed since at least 1994. The massive support that APC received in 2015 especially from the South was anchored on its promise on devolution of power, which was an acknowledgement of a problem with the structure of governance. On the other hand, however, the president was right. If the people really cared about restructuring or at least power devolution, and the president’s party didn’t keep its promise for four years, they wouldn’t have voted for him a second time in 2019. In other words, the national question, restructuring or power devolution, did not appear to be on the boiler plates of a critical mass of voters. With victory in hand in 2019, the president may have concluded that it was only a few noise makers that agitate for restructuring. A year later, in his January 2021 New Year message, President Buhari appeared to acknowledge the country’s “difficult journey to nationhood”: “We must remember that we also celebrated the historic occasion of our sixty years as an independent and sovereign country on October 1st 2020. In the spirit of hope and gratitude, I would like to remind us again that as a country on the difficult journey to nationhood and greatness, we have confounded the many pundits at home and around the world who never gave the newly-born country that emerged unto the world stage on 1st October 1960 a chance of surviving much longer than a few years. “Yet, here we are, 61 years by the next anniversary in October,…. we are standing tall in the comity of nations as one country united under the will of God and also actively growing that indivisible Nigerian spirit that has enabled us, year after year, decade after decade, to weather all stormy waters and emerge stronger and better where others have fallen and disintegrated. This nation, this Nigeria, will survive and thrive.” -—President Buhari’s New Year Message, January 1, 2021, paragraphs 5 & 6     IPOB’s New Year gift     What Super  Eagles are saying….     Buhari to APC: intra-party rift invitation to PDP victory   But as can be seen from the above excerpt, he mockingly stuck it in the face of the many pundits who doubted the survival of the country beyond a few years. And with hands proudly beating the chest, he noted that at 61, “we are still standing tall in the comity of nations as one country united under the will of God and also actively growing that indivisible Nigerian spirit”, declaring that “this Nigeria will survive and thrive.” With this conviction, Buhari moved on to his favorite litany of pep talk on “security, economy, and anti-corruption.” It is possible that the national question was not even in the president’s mind when he made that observation on the “difficult journey to nationhood.” Just a few months before his January 2021 speech, the country witnessed a nationwide anti-police brutality youth protests, which threatened the legitimacy of his government. His message was a direct response to “the understandable protests” and “ongoing challenges” which he promised to face “head-on”, not with answers to the question of structure, which he didn’t acknowledge to be a genuine question, but with ideas “to secure the future of our youth.” Indeed, President Buhari not only implicitly disregarded the national question and agitation for restructuring or self-determination, he explicitly and boldly affirmed our indivisibility with a shout-out to our “constant readiness to invest faith and hope in the destiny we share as a united country built on the diversity of its peoples.” For him, there is “the Nigerian spirit of oneness, togetherness, and unity.” It is hard to say if all this is aspirational or futuristic thinking, or if it is the reality as the president perceives it. Surely, if we focus on the agitations for self-determination around the country, we are faced with a different reality. But again, the president may be up to something. With the 2023 election fever running high, we may soon find agitators at the beck and call of political parties and their candidates. Even IPOB succumbed to Anambra election fever! So, is there truly a widespread grass-root national focus on restructuring or self-determination? The President’s 2022 New Year message delivered a week ago tomorrow was not substantially different from the previous two that we have just discussed: “We remain grateful to the Almighty God for yet another year attained as a country, united by a common destiny and resolute in our determination to overcome the several challenges along the path to build the great and prosperous nation of our d ream… “The path to nationhood is often fraught with unpredictable difficulties and challenges, and most tried and tested nations have often prevailed through dogged determination, resilience, concerted commitment to unity, and the conviction that the whole of the nation, standing together against all odds, is by far greater and would ultimately be more prosperous and viable than the sum of its distinguishable parts.” —President Buhari’s New Year Message, January 1, 2022, paragraphs 1 & 4. The President expressed gratitude to God for “yet another year as a country, united by a common destiny and resolute in our determination to overcome the several challenges along the path to build the great and prosperous nation of our dream.” He also acknowledged the “unpredictable difficulties and challenges” along the “path to nationhood” and that it takes “dogged determination, resilience, concerted commitment to unity, and the…whole nation, standing together against all odds” to prevail. Obviously, again, we have a distinct message here. The unpredictable difficulties and challenges are not unique to us. We need strong determination and commitment to unity to overcome. But what does this demand of us? Take another look at the root cause of the challenges? Is it the structure? Is it leadership? Is it governance system? Will dogged determination and resilience meet the challenges without paying attention to the root cause? Three years into “Nigeria’s decade”, are we condemned to playing the ostrich? As long as the agitation loses steam during elections, as long as elections are run, lost and won, and deep-pocket oligarchs achieve their ambitions, there will always be a country on an interminable path to nationhood.