Just a few weeks after President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Federal Government’s Budget 2022 into law, Nigerians are already finding out that the outcome is actually anything but what the rigorous exercise should be. First was what President Buhari described as “worrisome changes” in the approved budget: the inclusion of 6,576 new projects by the National Assembly after the members had apparently deemed the 10,733 projects proposed by the executive as unworthy of funding and so deleted them. Now, thanks to BudgIT, a transparency and accountability advocacy organisation, there is in addition to these a new revelation of massive duplication of projects that could only have been borne out of either brazen corruption or an astounding lack of rigour – or both. Based on the organisation’s preliminary analysis of the 21,108 capital projects in the 2022 approved budget, it found 460 duplicated projects all amounting to a whopping N378.9billion. And this is hardly the first time this would be happening. Last year, for instance, BudgIT found a total of 316 projects similarly duplicated with the anti-graft body, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) verifying the number to be 257 and the Budget Office in a separate exercise confirming the existence of 185 such projects said to be worth N20.13bn – although the latter claimed public funds were not released for the projects. To describe the trend as deplorable is probably an understatement. As we have always noted, the budget, more than just another routine fiscal instrument expected to drive development, is also a law duly passed by parliament, which means that citizens expect utmost fidelity, both in terms of the spirit that undergirds it and also in the hard figures that ultimately spring forth from its pages.   Aribo, Eguavoen admits Eagles ‘not good enough’     Tunisia outsmarted Super Eagles, says Okocha     Many injured as train crashes into Dangote truck, tricycle…   Now, we do not deny the possibility of honest mistakes being made of such nature that a fledgling National Assembly Budget Office, had it been in place, could have ameliorated. But when anomalies rise up to the level that has been observed – the gross distortion that would warrant the president voicing out grave concerns about its inoperability, to which it is now added the latest troubling findings of unconscionable duplication by its handlers, Nigerians can only but wonder if that annual fiscal exercise has not actually lost its essence. Truth however is that the National Assembly is not even alone in the business of bastardising the budget process. BudgIT in fact identified countless instances showing the federal bureaucracy and elements in the executive branch as being no less complicit in the recurring but potentially criminal enterprise of budget inflation. Among the cases specifically mentioned are the N20.8billion requested by the Presidency to construct a 14-bed presidential wing at the existing State House Medical Centre that could only be described as not only inauspicious at this time but curious; the scandalous provision of N28.72million for the purchase of two units of 10Kg washing machine and six units of television sets in the State House Lagos Liaison Office, among others. - Advertisement - And then the National Agency For Great Green Wall, set up to prevent land degradation and desertification afflicting 11 states in northern Nigeria and to boost food security – setting aside a whopping N1.3billion or 64% of its capital budget to purchase motorcycles, street lights and other projects unrelated to its mandate. The few cited above merely provide a window into the grave misunderstanding of what a national priority should be, particularly at a difficult time such as this. And this is a budget that would require the borrowing of N6.29trillion to execute. Nigeria and Nigerians surely deserve better. They deserve value for every kobo appropriated; which means that projects found not to be in alignment with national priorities should get no dime of public funds. The budget is, after all, as good as the availability of the revenue to fund it. Which is why eternal vigilance must remain the word for every Nigerian.