Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has said his administration will introduce a community-based water supply scheme called ‘water kiosking’. Abiodun, who made this known in his new year broadcast, said the initiative would not only give the much needed succour to the people, but would also ensure that water was made available across the state. He said:  “We will ensure improved provision of potable water supply in our major towns and cities through continuous upgrade of production capacity and distribution network. We are introducing community-based water supply known as ‘water kiosking’, a new initiative that will bring potable water supply to several communities across the state.” On the issue of some parents and guardians bullying teachers in the state, the governor said such act would be met with swift sanctions. “Let me, however, warn that any act by pupils, students, parents and guardians that undermines the conducive environment for teaching and learning will be met with swift and severe sanctions. Our schools and institutions cannot be practice pitches for any form of violence, either against a fellow learner or teachers. Ogun State is renowned for Omoluabi ethos and no one will be allowed to undermine this proud heritage,” he said. - Advertisement - Abiodun, while also noting that his administration would implement its Public Private Partnership initiatives for power generation, added that the initiative would improve and guarantee electricity supply to major cities and clusters. The governor, who said that the implementation of its multi modal transport master plan would begin with its modern bus mass transit, added that the mass transit scheme, when launched across the state, would be deepened and extended to cover other modes of transportation. Disclosing that the rejigged Ogun State Health Insurance Scheme would be unveiled for the use of the people in the new year, Abiodun acknowledged the enterprising spirit of market men and women, saying he had approved the injection of more funds into the Oko’wo Dapo Scheme. He added that the Ogun State Enterprise Development Agency would roll out initiatives to support the micro, small and medium enterprises.   AbdulRazaq attributes success in health care to committed…     Council presents gifts to first Baby-of-the-Year     Lagos APC chair hails Faleke for lifting constituents   “This month, the rejigged Ogun State Health Insurance Scheme will be unveiled. I am delighted that even ahead of the formal launch, the scheme has recorded significant enlistment of would-be beneficiaries. “I salute the enterprising spirit of our market men and women. You are the backbone of trade and commerce. We will continue to empower and provide you with all the necessary support to make the new year more rewarding and prosperous for you. “In this regard, I have approved the injection and disbursement of additional funds into the Oko’wo Dapo Scheme. The scheme has been repackaged to benefit from the lessons and improve on the pilot scheme,” he said. The governor said a Mother and Child hospital, in conjunction with the AbdulSamad Rabiu Africa Initiative, would soon berth at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, adding that the public private partnership agreement in respect of the 250 bed hospital left uncompleted by the past administration would soon be finalised. “Our secondary and tertiary health institutions will continue to receive due attention. Specifically, the ongoing rehabilitation and upgrade of facilities at Olabisi Onabanjo Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu. This flagship tertiary health facility will also host our new ultra-modern mother and child hospital through partnership with the private sector (the AbdulSamad Rabiu Africa Initiative (ASR Africa).  Likewise, the public private partnership agreement in respect of the 250-bed proposed specialist hospital at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta will be finalised and operationalised,” he said. Abiodun, however, said his administration would complete and inaugurate ongoing projects that were either initiated or inherited by his administration. He listed roads that would receive  attention by his administration  to  include Ijoko-Akute-Alagbole Road; Siun-Owode Road; and Ilishan-Ago Iwoye road, among others. “Our priority will be to complete and inaugurate all the ongoing projects that we have either initiated or inherited that have direct economic benefits to the people. Some of these projects include Atan-Lusada-Agbara expressway, which on  completion,  will represent the most expensive  road project by this administration. “Some of the roads that will be completed and inaugurated this year are: the Ilaro-Owode Road Yewa,Kemta -Somorin Road Abeokuta, Panseke-Adigbe Road Abeokuta, Denro- Shasi – Akute Road Ifo, Sagamu – Iperu-Sapade Road, Molipa – Fesogboye Road Ijebu Ode, Lafenwa – Rounder Road, Abeokuta, Joju Road  Otta, Oke Ola road  Imeko Afon, Aiyetoro Imasayi road Yewa north, Ilase Koko Alare road Ipokia and the Muslim College road Ijebu Igbo. “Other roads that will receive priority attention by our administration this year include Ijoko-Akute-Alagbole Road; Siun –