The King of New world beats, King Sunny Ade and John Asien, Director General of the Nigerian Copyrights Commission have rewarded blind singer, Chude Mountain for his steadfastness. Chude Mountain began counting his blessings after he attended the AGM of the Music Copyright Society of Nigeria, MCSN and performed a song. His rendition had attracted KSA, who promised to pay for the production and release of the song rendered by the blind Chude Mountain. KSA informed the Mayo Ayilaran led MCSN that he would be contributing to the growth of the visually impaired musician and member of the MCSN. As if that was all, Chude Mountain was again surprised when the DG of the NCC, who had spotted the challenged singer at the AGM offered to provide him with a cane to enable him to move about without much aid.\ - Advertisement -   Eedris Abdulkareem takes a swipe at Charly Boy after 19…     Lagos state announces plans to immortalise Sound Sultan     My parents aren’t forcing me to do music, Burna Boy’s sister…   Prof Asein, who made the promise during the AGM, recently presented the cane to Mountain at the MCSN headquarters in the presence of the CEO, Mayo Ayilaran. Mountain acknowledged the receipt of the cane saying the gift was more precious than a car. The DG also promised to introduce the visually impaired member to some associations to help him further. The head of the Lagos State office of the NCC, Matthew Ojo stressed the need for society to do more in helping integrate the visually impaired better into society. He also noted that if there are more members who are visually impaired or disabled, the DG of NCC will be more willing to help out. Mr Ayilaran appreciated the gesture and also congratulated the beneficiary saying despite his challenges, he’s a vibrant member of the MCSN. The beneficiary also sang a song in which KSA promises to bankroll the production and distribution. ‘I am surprised, very happy but not also surprised because the DG has done so much for society. I am happy he noticed my condition and helped in his own way,’ Chude said.