ANNONYMOUS: Hello, I retired from the Nigeria Police in 2015. I recall that President Muhammadu Buhari approved a certain amount for pensioners, including a minimum wage and subsequential adjustment benefit. Some federal establishment have received this money in arrears, including 2.5 per cent’ arrears. Any time we demanded the fund,  PenCom would reply that it had been paid to our PFAs. Yet, our PFAs deny the remittance. Why has PenCom refused to remit the fund to them when retirees in other federal establishment have collected their entitlements? PENCOM: Please be advised that the payments approved by the president have since been paid to the pension fund administrators (PFAs). Kindly liaise with your PFA for further assistance. Thank you. OLATUNJI: Dear Madam, I have some cash in my account with my PFA. My company shut down during the COVID-19 lockdown. Since then, I have not secured any job. - Advertisement - I have approached my PFA that I wanted to collect my contribution to start a business. It said I could only be given 25 per cent of my total contribution.  I pleaded with them that 25 per cent of my account balance could not help me. But they are not listening. Please I need your help. PENCOM: Please be advised that due to the balance in your RSA, you are only entitled to withdraw 25 per cent as lump sum while the  balance will be spread as your monthly pension. Kindly liaise with your PFA for further assistance. Thank you. CHUKWUKADIBIA: Good day, Madam. I am Chukwukadibia. I registered with Premium Pensions Limited as a Constable with my phone, now an Inspector. I later lost the phone with the SIM card. Worse still, I no longer have access to it and have not been receiving alerts on my RSA from Premium for years. Kindly help me.   Online retirement plan awareness programme makes debut     PenCom urged to consider contributors’ basic needs     PenCom to review Pension Act 2014   PENCOM: The complainant is advised to visit Premium Pensions Limited for update on your details and request for alerts. COMRADE WAHAB: My name is Wahab. l am a retired from the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) in 2014. Before the commencement of my retirement, l am supposed to go for pre-retirement empowerment by the management with the financial benefits. As at now, this has not happened for me. Please help me to investigate. My colleagues have already gone for the pre-retirement empowerment and they have received financial benefits attached to it. I don’t know why my own case is different, please help me to investigate. Again, I heard that our president, Muhammadu Buhari,has released money to pay pensioners pensions, gratuities and other outstanding. But my pension funds administrator, Premium Pension did not send any information to me. PTAD: Please forward your name as well as your RSA PIN details to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you. ABDULLAHI: Good day, my name is Abdullahi, the son of the late Inspector Etubi. You earlier informed me that everything had been settled. We were asked to provide our father’s name and RSA PIN to enable the commission to investigate further. We have done that. We learnt from The Nation that we were among the next batch to be paid. But we are yet to be paid. Kindly help. PENCOM: Investigation has shown that you have not submitted such details to our database. Kindly visit your PFA to ensure that your documents are further submitted to the Commission. OKOH: Good day, Omobola, I really want to appreciate your efforts in helping senior citizens to resolve their nagging post-service issues through your pages in The Nation. It is as gratifying as it’s salutary. May bless the newspaper. The platform has gone a long way to bring the pension reform to the fore for pensioners. However, I will like to plead, though not within the purview of the platform, but related to pensioners’ handicap, the National Housing Fund (NHF), to which workers make contributions. It was expected that at retirement, the retiree gets his contributions refunded. It’s unfortunate that after a year or two of retirement, neither the Federal Mortgage Bank or the National Housing Fund is saying or doing anything to make refund of accumulated and earned contributions. We would appreciate it, therefore, if your platform would extend the gesture to this issue. We really appreciate your good works as a national service to humanity. PENCOM: Please be advised that the above complaint is not within the purview of the National Pension Commission. Please re-direct the complaint to the necessary authority. Thank you.