Edo State Government has directed the retirement of the permanent secretaries of the Ministry of Education and the Post-Primary Education Board, as well as the two head teachers of Idogbo Secondary School, following students’ rampage on December 3 last year. The decision was reached yesterday during an executive council meeting chaired by Governor Godwin Obaseki, at the Government House, Benin. Commissioner for Communication and Orientation Andrew Emwanta, after the meeting, disclosed that the members of the executive council reached the decision after they considered the report of a committee empanelled by the council and chaired by Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, to investigate the remote and immediate causes of the fracas and make recommendations to the government. He said: “The executive council also approved the rehabilitation of the school, which is now to operate as a Junior Secondary School.” The commissioner said the executive council directed that Idogbo Secondary School would reopen on February 1 and that all pupils were to go through re-admission and pay a levy, before they would be readmitted, to repair the damaged items in the school. - Advertisement - Governor Obaseki has said his administration would pursue programmes and projects aimed at ensuring economic prosperity for the state and improving people’s lives.   Bayelsa community halts oil exploration at Shell’s…     Uzodimma puts N5m bounty on bandits     Wike seeks safe, healthy states, says commissioner   He called for the support and collaboration of residents to ensure the realisation of the government’s Making Edo Great Again (MEGA) agenda. Obaseki said yesterday in Benin at the inauguration of a prayer lodge at the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria’s (PFN’s) headquarters that his government was committed to delivering the dividends of democracy to the people. The governor, calling for the collaboration of stakeholders towards the attainment of a better state, warned citizens to be wary of detractors, who, he noted, were bent on causing crisis for their selfish gains, ahead of the 2023 general election. He said: “We are rehabilitating and constructing roads. We are putting in place street lights, building infrastructures and developing the economy of Edo State. We are ready to do more for the people, as my emphasis this year is on the people. “We want to partner you, the PFN, because you are closer to the people and interact with them daily. We want to collaborate with you to deliver the dividends of democracy to Edo people. “We will also partner you to bring health care closer to the people through Edo-HIP, ensuring affordable health care for Edo people.