The Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said that the newly acquired two  high-speed trains by the State government will be on track by the fourth quarter of the year. The governor disclosed this on Friday during an interview on Sunrise Daily, Channels Television breakfast programme, where he outlined efforts being made by his administration to address the gridlock on Lagos roads. According to the governor, “the trains will be on track by the fourth quarter; the terminal stations will be ready by the fourth quarter.” He disclosed that Lagosians would be actively moving with trains by the fourth quarter of this year. If we don’t bring passengers on, it will be for security reasons. “It will probably be things around communication that we are trying to test, things around operational training.” - Advertisement - Earlier in the week, the state government announced that it had acquired two new sets of 10 cars Talgo 330kmph trains for its Red Line rail project, as part of efforts to improve traffic management and transportation. The governor completed the acquisition deal of the two new speed trains on January 18 at an event held inside the Milwaukee facilities of Spanish train manufacturer, Talgo Incorporated in the United States. He had informed the audience at the event that the trains would be heading to Lagos for the 37km track rail project expected to have 11 stations and be the first operational metro system in West Africa when completed.   Don’t blame Wike for our disunity, say Ogoni leaders     Burkina Faso coup: ECOWAS to engage with coupists on way…     APC group pushes for Al-Makura’s chairmanship bid   The governor, also said during the TV programme that he would consult Lagosians before making a decision on whether to run for a second term in office in the 2023 general elections or not. Asked during the television programme on Friday about his political future and whether he has a plan for a second term as Lagos governor, Sanwo-Olu said, “As we speak, we’ve done two-thirds of our time, about 66 per cent because we count it every day. The field is not open yet; the race has not been declared open but for me, these four years that I have promised my citizens, I put in every bit of my sweat into it.” Sanwo-Olu scored his administration, saying we are “doing a very good job”, adding that the citizens would decide whether to allow his cabinet complete what it started. “I will ask, I will consult, and that is how you get it done, keep your focus on, try and finish very strong. When it is time for us to do all of the politicking, we will do it,” he said. Speaking on what his administration has done so far, he said the people of the state would not deny its administration a second term. “I think we are doing a very good job. “If I dare say so, I think that the citizens know what it is they will be missing if they don’t let us continue to wrap up all the things we are doing.” He added, “As we speak, we have done about two-thirds of our time – about 65.7 per cent, because we count it every day. The field is not open yet; the race has not been declared open yet. But for me, it is about ensuring that these four years that I have promised my citizens, I put every bit of my sweat into it.”