Popular radio personality, Toke Makinwa, has called out bloggers while avowing to go hard on them in the new year. She said they were obsessed with what she does with her private part. Some bloggers had alleged the OAP’s involvement with Aliyu Abubakar, noting she dragged him to court after he refused to fulfil promises made to her. Makinwa, however, denied dating and dragging the Abuja-based business mogul to court over unfulfilled promises. The 37-year-old through her legal team in a letter signed by her lawyer, Adeyinka Olumide-Fusika SAN, addressed to Funmi Falana, Abubakar’s lawyer, claimed she has never met him. - Advertisement - The actress said she had never heard Abubakar’s name or “of his existence as a human being” before a call was put to her about the rumour. The letter, titled ‘Re: Toke Makinwa Allegedly Drags Sugar Daddy to court over Unfulfilled Promises,’ reads in part: “My client, Toke Makinwa, is surprised to receive your letter in the above caption dated January 1, 2022, even after she had, on an earlier telephone call on the same issue, told Mr Feml Falana, SAN that she has never heard of your client’s name or his existence as a human being before his phone call.   I’m a gold digger, money can buy my love, says actress     Davido acquires new house in Banana Island     Burna Boy acquires 2022 Lamborghini edition   “Perhaps you will consider redirecting your demand letter to the mischievous characters (that is, the online publishers) who, hiding under the anonymity of the internet and obviously aiming to exploit my client’s name and image to attract traffic to their worthless websites, authored and published the fictional association of your client with her, which speaking frankly, demeans her self worth as a woman and insults her psyche as a human being (as may have been the further motive of the fabricators and purveyors).” The 37-year-old television host, while addressing bloggers in a lengthy post via the micblogging app, said she would not continue to condone their disrespect especially as it concerns what she does with her ‘private part.’ Toke wrote: “I really hate to give life to drama but at some point, some things really just have to be addressed once and for all, bloggers really need to do better this year, you may not like me, it’s ok but what you won’t continue to do is disrespect me. It’s enough. “Many a time false narratives have been created over the years. “Most times I have looked away thinking you’ll get bored and the truth will always speak for itself but the obsession with my vagina and where it’s been or who it is servicing is completely crazy. “I really don’t want to start my year like this bit I won’t let all I have built over the year be reduced to false stories that go on for so long, especially when I’m in the middle of important things going on with me. I get it, agenda must agend but let’s be guided. “I could launch businesses, empower a community, find the cure to cancer and they won’t care to promote it but stories about who I’m sleeping with, you see that one, they’ll hawk it like gala on the street and this year I’m not looking away again.”