Nigeria’s opponent in Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup Play-Off, Ghana yesterday suffered a setback in their campaign after their head coach Milovan Rajevac was dismissed from his position after the Black Stars were knocked out of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. The Serbian who led Ghana to the 2022 World Cup qualifiers play-offs, was severely criticized for the team’s performance, which saw the team make it past their group just ahead of South Africa on head-to-head after a controversial penalty from Andre Ayew. Entering the Africa Cup of Nations, Rajevac had the chance to improve his shows with the Black Stars, as they were drawn in Group C alongside, Morocco, Gabon, and Comoros. A late defeat to Morocco followed by a late draw with Gabon and then a shocking 3-2 defeat to Comoros saw the team finish fourth and go back home early.   Salah wants first AFCON title with Egypt     Cameroon gov’t to ease access at Olembe stadium     Okowa leads AFN delegation to Ebewele burial   This led the GFA to dismiss the Serbian coach after just eight games in charge and will look for a new name to take charge of the team in the World Cup playoffs. - Advertisement - While the Ghana Football Association is yet to announce who will replace Rajevac, reports claimed that Egypt’s former manager Hossam El-Badry could be close to taking the job. Meanwhile, ahead of Ghana’s high profile Qatar 2022 World Cup Play-off doubleheader against Super Eagles of Nigeria in March, the Black Stars captain Andrè Ayew and his brother Jordan are still very committed to the Black Stars, according to their spokesperson Fiifi Tackie. Tackie dismissed local media reports claiming the famous brothers have quit Black Stars following the team’s abysmal showing at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Tackie wrote on Twitter, “Andrè and Jordan Ayew are still very committed to the Black Stars team as they have always been. They will keep donning the Black Stars jersey to represent Ghana and give the team their very best on and off the pitch, as always.”