The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) late last year unveiled a new platform, the ‘e-Form A’, to ease access to forex by end users, viewed as a necessary intervention to overcome difficulties associated with the foreign exchange management and delivery chain. Group Business Editor SIMEON EBULU reports. The Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) rollout of the e-Form ‘A’ to address forex access for credible end users, wasn’t borne out of a desire to lengthen the list of policy measures on foreign exchange management and disbursement, but it was essentially designed to cut off human interface often fingered as one of the major hiccups in the process of making hard currency available to those legally in need and who qualify to obtain it in accordance with the bank’s regulations. More often than not (and this has been proven to be true), Nigerians seeking to travel overseas and seeking to obtain dollars, or pound sterling, including the Euro, usually meet a gridlock when they approach the banks to process documents for forex. It’s been reported and verified in many cases, that a good number of persons are either denied the greenback by their banks for whatever reasons, or sometimes they are unduly subjected to meeting unrelated conditions not envisaged by them, and certainly not in the line of the apex bank’s purview. Some other times, the customers are made to keep several appointments that at the end, tend to frustrate, or truncate the purpose for which the forex request was initiated. Complaints upon complaints of one nature, or the other have pushed the CBN over time to continue to vary and amend the rules, so much so that on the issue of forex, it was becoming like a lost battle. But a relentless CBN and its Governor, Godwin Emefiele won’t give up. From its policy of denial of forex to BDCs and the official forex ban, or restriction of forex to more than 41 items that the bank is certain can be manufactured locally, on the one hand, and other policies designed to increase local productive capacity for exports, on the other, the CBN has somewhat come to the conclusion, that winning the battle of making forex available and disbursing same to end users in a seamless manner, devoid of rancour and the blame-game, would for all time remain elusive, if the one factor of human interface between seekers and providers of hard currencies, was not addressed. - Advertisement - Along the forex management trajectory route, so far, there appears to be no saints, human or institutional. From source to end users, poachers abound, combining to frustrate every efforts of the CBN to find a common ground where, at least for a season, the bank’s efforts and its forex policies can be tested and allowed to work. Having found none as yet, after so many trials and experimentation, the CBN once again, rolled out the e-Form A, which hopefully should put some distance, or insulate  the people involved in this intricate forex management exercise, one from another. The kernel of the e-Form ‘A’ in the processing of forex, is the migration of applications for forex to the online platform, such that all the activities involved from when a person applies for and obtains the requisite currency, either for PTA/BTA, medicals, education and others, are done electronically with timelines. This is about the third month in the life of this policy since the CBN Director, Trade and Exchange Department, Dr. Ozoemena Nnaji unveiled the policy in November, 2021, in a circular, headlined, ‘’of Form ‘A’ on the Trade Monitoring System.” The introduction of the new measure foreclosed the usage of all hard copies of Forms ‘A’ created on or before November 2, 2021. A 15-day allowance was given by CBN to allow for those in possession of the hard copy of the Form A to utilise them, or forfeit same if the deadline was not met.    Features of e-Form ‘A’  According to the apex bank, the ‘e-Form A’ represents an application form designed by the CBN to pay for service transactions under invisible trade. The form allows customers to purchase forex at the CBN or interbank rate and to make payments for eligible services as predetermined by the foreign exchange manual. Taken together, the e-Form ‘A’, is meant to replace the hard copy and customers using the e-Form A are required to pay a charge of N5,000 as fee per declaration of e-Form ‘A’. The CBN in its circular introducing the electronic system, outlined the features of the e-Form ‘A’ thus: “The e-Form ‘A’ shall replace the hard copy of Form ‘A’ for invincible transactions [PTA/BTA, medicals, education, other remittances with effect from November 30, 2021,” saying  “all authorised dealers are required to ensure that the processing of Form ’A’ shall only be done electronically on the Trade Monitoring System accessible at http://www.tradesystem.gov.ng.” The bank said the general public is required to obtain a valid Bank Verification Number (BVN) from their authorised dealer banks, pointing out that the BVN is a prerequisite for customers to access the Trade System for e-Form ‘A’ application. The e-Form ‘A’, the CBN said, is web-based and allows the general public to initiate the Form from their offices/homes and submit same to the authorised dealer bank, adding that a charge of N5,000  fee per declaration of e-Form ‘A’ is applicable. The fee, the bank said, took effect from November 30, 2021. According to the apex bank, “there will be a direct debit from the processing bank’s current account for each declaration which should be recovered along with the charge on the customer by the bank. However, customers for the e-Form ‘A’ should be separated from other bank charges.” The CBN expressly stated that all hard copies of Forms ‘A’ established on, or before November 2, 2021 (prior to the commencement of the e-Form ‘A’) shall be utilised within 15 working days of the establishment of the form. “For the avoidance of doubt, all established hard copies of Forms ‘A’ for which disbursement had not been made within the transition period of 15 working days shall be deemed cancelled,” the CBN stressed, instructing in the main, that banks were required “to inform their customers of the development for compliance.” The introduction of the ‘e-Form A’ is another of several initiatives of the CBN to ensure easy access to forex and related services by bank customers.   N8.47b scanners lie fallow at ports     British fintech firm raises $7.4m for emerging markets     Startups get $2.5b funding in five years   In a sense, this measure equally dovetails into others that the bank had taken, including its stoppage of selling foreign exchange (FOREX) to Bureau De Changes (BDCs) operators. The apex bank had envisaged that availing BDCs $10,000 weekly would ease access to the greenback by end-users and eventually halt the seemingly scarce FOREX, and as well shore up the exchange rate in favour of the Naira. But this was not to be, rather it led to the astronomical rise of the number of BDCs in the country from a mere 74 in 2005 to over 5,500 BDCs as of July 27, 2021. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele lamented that were the quantum leap in the number of the BDCs (5,426 in 16 years) a reflection of real growth in that sector and in support of the attainment of the CBN targeted objectives, there wouldn’t have been any cause for alarm, rather the increase, in his words, “was informed by selfish interests and the perpetuation of illicit transactions which are antithetical to Nigeria’s socio-economic growth and a negation of the nation’s apex bank’s monetary policy projections.” For many years, he said, the activities of some of the BDCs have continued to undermine genuine efforts at stabilising the currency which informed CBN’s commencement of weekly sales of FOREX to the BDC operators. It is a known fact that the apex bank had been supplying each licensed BDC upwards of $10,000 twice per week at the rate of N393 with a mandate to sell with a margin of N2. Regrettably, he said, instead of easing access to FOREX and enhancing the exchange rate of the Naira, the BDCs’ operators engaged in round-tripping and hoarding of FOREX, thereby creating artificial scarcity to sell at higher than approved rates thus serving as conduit pipes for money laundering and indulging in many other illicit transactions not envisaged by the CBN. Emefiele further listed the negative implications of the compliance failures of the BDCs to include the dollarisation of the Nigerian economy, subversion of the cashless policy, common ownership of several BDCs by the same operators in the sector in order to obtain multiple FOREX from the CBN, and continued patronage of illegal BDCs by international organisations and embassies, saying that these unwholesome activities were the build-up to the ban on sales of FOREX to the BDCs. The CBN chief added: “In total disregard of the difficulty that the apex bank is facing in meeting its mandate of maintaining the country’s foreign exchange reserves to safeguard the value of the naira, we have continued to observe that stakeholders in some of the sub-sectors have not been helpful in this direction. In particular, we have noted with disappointment and great concerns, that our Bureau De Change operators have abandoned the original objective of their establishment which was to serve retail end users who need $5,000 or less. Instead, they have become (illegal) wholesale dealers in foreign exchange to the tune of millions of dollars per transaction.” At no time had the CBN pushed a new forex policy, or moderated an existing one in isolation of either responding to an institutional infraction, or the need to enhance its functionality. The introduction of the ‘e-Form A’ serves no less a purpose. The introduction of electronic application for foreign exchange is expected to simplify the process of accessing the greenback. The electronic application for foreign exchange  has also been described as a major tool to help ease access to forex for travelers, operators of SMEs, those paying school fees, health bills and others that need the greenback for genuine transactions. With the new policy, Nigerians are now able to apply for forex online, with the deployment of the electronic Form ‘A’ which has expedited applications for PTA/BTA, medicals, education, and other remittances. To ensure full compliance with the new policy, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) have been put on notice that there would be consequences if they deny travellers and other foreign exchange (forex) users access to dollars. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, at an undisclosed meeting, cautioned chief executives of the banks to desist from denying customers, particularly travellers, access to foreign exchange for Personal Travel Allowance (PTA), Basic Travel Allowance (BTA), tuition fees and medical payments. He also warned that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) must not be denied transactions for the repatriation of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) proceeds. The CBN chief said it will be raising the amount of foreign exchange allocated to banks to meet the requests of customers. Based on the CBN guidelines, a company can buy up to $5,000 BTA per quarter, while an individual is entitled to $4,000 PTA per quarter. Sources at the meeting that was held over the challenge faced by customers in accessing forex from their banks, said that Emefiele warned that the CBN would severely deal with any bank that denied customers the opportunity to purchase foreign exchange for legitimate purposes. The sources disclosed that the CBN Management frowned at the seeming difficulty customers experienced in accessing foreign exchange through their respective banks, particularly for invisibles such as PTA and requests bordering on tuition and healthcare needs. The sources further hinted that the CBN may release several hotlines for aggrieved customers to report any bank that fail to sell forex to them even when they have provided required documentations. The Acting Director, Corporate Communications Department at the CBN, Osita Nwanisobi, said the apex bank remained committed to ensuring liquidity in the foreign exchange market to meet genuine and legitimate demands of customers, adding that CBN agreed to increase the amount allocated to banks for travelers, small and medium enterprises, among others. “The banks also agreed to operate something akin to foreign exchange imprest account such that the coffers of banks will be replenished so long as they retire the initial amounts to the satisfaction of the CBN.”  Nwanisobi urged interested members of the public seeking to purchase foreign exchange for PTA, BTA, payment of tuition fees or medical fees to approach their respective banks for that purpose. “We wish to assure members of the public that the CBN shall continue to monitor market developments and is committed to ensuring an efficient FX market for all legitimate users,” he added.