Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement Mr. Ikharo Attah has rated the level of compliance to COVID-19 Vaccination by the staff of Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) at 70 per cent. Attah made the remark yesterday, while briefing reporters after conducting them round the FCT departments and agencies to check the level of compliance by the workers in Abuja. The minister’s aide commended the turn up of those who had received the jab since the beginning of the enforcement of “no vaccination, no entry” into the Area 11 Garki Secretariat of FCTA. “From Monday, we witnessed massive turnout of staff that are fully vaccinated. We have gone to FCT departments and agencies and have seen that the workers are fully vaccinated. “What we will continue to insist is that the vaccination is not by force; we are not forcing people to take the job or vaccine. - Advertisement - “We are only telling people to come with either COVID-19 negative result test or proof of vaccination. “We are happy that there is high level of compliance, as of today the enforcement hit 70 per cent with the impressive turn up and the ongoing vaccination we are almost there.”   Over 18 million Omicron cases reported in one week, says WHO     Over five million Nigerians get second vaccine dose     South-East among 10 worst performing States in COVID…   On those staying away from their offices, Attah explained that the Permanent Secretary, FCTA, Mr. Olusade Adesola, said “such staff would be treated as someone who stay away from work”. But, Minister Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Malam Muhammad Bello yesterday tested negative to COVID-19 virus. He stated this in a message he sent on his official Facebook page titled: “I’m now free of COVID-19”. According to him, “Best regards to all. Pleased to report that after taking my prescribed course of COVID-19 medication, I feel very well and great. The doctors have confirmed that I’m now free of the virus and it’s OK for me to resume all official activities. “I wish to convey my sincere appreciation to all those who showed great concern on my health status, through various channels of communication. “I also wish to commend the FCTA medical team for their commitment and dedication to duty. All COVID-19 patients in the FCT are truly thankful to you. “Let me use this opportunity to further reiterate that COVID-19 is very much around. Therefore once more, I appeal to residents to get themselves vaccinated. Doing so could save their lives”. The minister came down with COVID-19 on December 31, 2021.