Lassa fever claimed two lives in Kaduna yesterday. The Director of Disease Control of Kaduna State Primary Health Care Development Agency (KSPHCDA), Dr Hamza Ibrahim Ikara told reporters that the two cases comprised a male and a female. Ikara said the cases were recorded in Kubau and Chikun local government areas of the state, adding that these were the first cases recorded this year. The director said contact-tracing was ongoing for those who had contact with the victims, while the state government had activated its surveillance for more case detection and proper treatment. He said the risk communication team had also been alerted as awareness was ongoing through jingles, community sensitisation across the state. - Advertisement - Ikara urged the public to maintain personal hygiene and environmental sanitation, while patrons should avoid consuming bush meat and to report any suspected cases promptly. In another development, the Kaduna State Fire Service said it recorded 716 fire incidents and 30 deaths last year.   Nasarawa to investors: Take advantage of enhanced power…     ‘NYSC D-G source of pride to armed forces’     Benue Assembly confirms eight commissioner-nominees   The Director of the State Fire Service, Mr Paul Aboi, who said disclosed this yesterday in a chat with reporters in Kaduna said the outbreaks were recorded in Kaduna, Zaria and Kafanchan. He said the fire outbreaks were caused mainly by carelessness in the use of electrical appliances and ignorance about the handling of naked fires. Aboi said January recorded the highest number of incidence with 112 outbreaks, while 94 cases were recorded in March, 91 cases in December and 76 in April during the year under review. He said in the course of responding to fire distress calls, the office rescued 44 people, 110 injured while 30 people died. Aboi said the service was doing its best to bring fire disasters in the state to the barest. He also said the state lost more than N3.7 billion to the fire outbreaks while properties worth N139 billion were saved. “When there is fire, we want the people to call us in good time and motorists should give way for our fire engines to get to those emergencies in good time,” he said. The director said there was need for residents to switch off all electrical appliances when not in use and to keep inflammable materials away from their homes.