Lagos State Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has appointed Mr Shakir Ayinde Gafar, an engineer as the Chairman of Lagos State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board. A statement by the Head of Service, Mr Hakeem Muri-Okunola said the governor also appointed Imam AbdulHakeem Kosoko as the Executive Secretary of the board.  Other members of the board are Dr Fausat Dabiri; Alhaji Yusuf Ara; Dr AbdulKabir Paramole; Lola Shonibare and Alhaji Mojeed Sanni. The statement stated that the new Board Chairman and members are to serve for a renewable period of three years as provided in the extant laws with effect from January 1, 2022. The appointment, the statement said, followed the expiration of the tenure of office of the previous members. Imam Kosoko, who takes over from Mr Rahman Ishola, appealed to workers to show absolute commitment and dedication to their official duties.   13 not 37 people killed in Niger attack, say police     NDLEA secures 50 convictions against drug dealers in Enugu     ‘Southeast states among 10 worst performing in vaccination’   - Advertisement - Speaking during the send-forth organised by the board in honour of Ishola, who was redeployed, Imam Kosoko promised to ensure equity and justice during his administration. He urged the staff to eschew gossip or any other form of distraction.  The Executive Secretary described his predecessor as a wonderful colleague, brother and friend of many years. Ishola expressed his appreciation to Allah for His mercy throughout his tenure on the board. While acknowledging that Imam Kosoko and himself have been friends and colleagues over the years, he said he never felt bad about his redeployment “because as a Muslim, nothing is permanent in this world and that posting is a normal exercise in the civil service.” Ishola said he remained the first civil servant to be given a political appointment as an Executive Secretary of the Board since it was established in 1976 and had personally won many awards in that capacity. He urged the members of staff to extend the maximum cooperation given to him during his tenure to his successor.