Kia Nigeria, the leading automobile brand in the country, has partnered with Fixit45 to offer customers genuine spare parts and exceptional aftersales service. The commitment to provide the very best aftersales service delivery and customer experience to thousands of customers nationwide is at the core of this partnership as both companies are raising the bar in offering Kia Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEMs) auto parts, quality repairs, and best-in-class service delivery to provide amazing value-added service to all Kia customers. The shifting consumer interests and the need to meet their expectations with exceptional service delivery has propelled Kia Nigeria to extend its reach by signing a new partnership agreement with Fixit45 to continue to offer genuine spare parts and the delivery of cutting-edge services in the country. The partnership is aimed at keeping pace with consumers’ evolving wants and needs in order to remain competitive. From inception, the vision of KIA Nigeria has been to bring world-class facilities closer to customers and offer quality service delivery that exceeds customers’ expectations. Hence, the partnership with Fixit45 is to further expand Kia’s market reach and ease of access to teeming customers in the country.   Tesla hikes self-driving package cost     Rolls-Royce achieves all-time record sales     Tesla recalls nearly 500,000 cars to fix safety defects   According to Sanjay Tatpati, Kia Nigeria Chief Operating Officer, “Customer-centricity is at the epicenter of everything we do at Kia and our partnership with Fixit45, is aimed at giving optimum value to customers to ensure that they have access to the value-oriented service and genuine spare parts. Our goal is to make quality Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEMs) auto parts accessible and affordable to our teeming customers to ensure they have an exceptional ownership experience with our Kia vehicles.” - Advertisement - Fixit45 Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder,  Justus Obaoye, said: “At Fixit45, we are firm believers in the power of mobility to not only enable socio-economic development and inspire ideas but also facilitate value-creating interactions that make society better. Convenience and curating a service experience that is best-in-class is what we are all about. This partnership is a testament to our collaborating ethos and our passion to move the automotive aftermarket industry forward. We are excited to have found a synergistic partner in Kia as we continue to drive and deliver quality services and automotive products to end-users. We share the same ideals of providing solutions that help people and organizations move and we are excited at the transformative opportunities that this relationship will produce.” Speaking on the partnership, Kia Nigeria Marketing Manager Olawale Jimoh, said: “This joint venture with Fixit45 is an important step in our expansion plans for the Nigerian market. Finding the right partners to work with, in satisfying our customers is very vital to us. We are delighted to work with the experienced team of Fixit45 and are confident that our customers will be the ultimate beneficiaries of this relationship.” Abdulazeez Ogunjobi, co-founder & CTO, Fixit45: “Technology helps us to disrupt a segment that has largely been based on brick-and-mortar operations. Our robust end-to-end ecosystem platform empowers us to cater to a diverse range of needs in the aftermarket industry. We are looking to drive a significant shift and help more vendors and customers to come online to enjoy convenience, quality, and affordable products and services via this partnership with Kia Nigeria.”