President Muhammadu Buhari, Governors Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Mai Mala Buni (Yobe) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi) have mourned former presidential candidate of defunct National Republican Convention (NRC), Alhaji Bashir Tofa. Tofa died yesterday at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital after a protracted illness and was buried according to Islamic rites in Kano. He was 74. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President described the late politician and businessman as a nationalist whose personage would be difficult to replace. President Buhari, who has commiserated with Governor Ganduje, has also sent a high-powered delegation to Kano to express his condolences. - Advertisement - The statement said: “President Buhari leads the nation in mourning Bashir Tofa, a politician of note, who once ran as presidential candidate in a two-horse race, who was also a promoter of Islamic culture and civilisation. “The late Tofa was noted for his untiring commitment to public enlightenment and was unafraid to speak the truth all the time that he lived. “He set up the Bureau for Islamic Propagation (BIP) in the mid-1980s, which helped to unite Muslim scholars in the northern states, narrowing the differences that characterised their relationships. The BIP also published books and newspapers.” In a statement by Kano State Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, Governor Ganduje recalled that as a businessman, trader and philanthropist, the late Tofa touched the lives of many people, especially the downtrodden, and that his legacies would be approximated for posterity. “The legacy of his political beliefs and triumphs will be important footnotes in the literature of Nigeria’s government and politics for generations yet to come. “He was a great man, a quintessential democrat and outstanding statesman who left very bold prints on the politics and political history of Nigeria.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, Governor Fayemi said: “Alhaji Bashir Tofa was a leader who had passion for the people and who was always ready to sacrifice anything to ensure a society where government is accountable to the people.   Mother, children missing as herdsmen in army uniform invade…     Gunmen abduct bride-to-be on wedding day in Plateau     No more national anthem singing in Southeast schools, IPOB…   “We shall miss his amiable personality and sundry contributions to nation building.” In his condolence message, Buni, who is the Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), described the late Tofa as “an iconic politician who shared the values of politics as a call to service, to promote good governance and to improve the lives of the electorate”. He added: “The late Tofa was a fine gentleman, a true democrat and a nationalist with a definition of politics as a tool for service delivery.” Bello described Tofa’s death as a great loss not only to Kano State but to Nigeria. “The death of Alhaji Tofa will no doubt create a vacuum in Nigeria’s political space. “He was a gentleman politician who believed in service delivery and developmental democracy. “We pray to Allah (SWT) to grant their souls eternal rest in Al-Jannah Fir’daous,” he said. Also, the mouthpiece of Northern Nigeria, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), and Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), yesterday mourned Tofa. In the statements by their spokespersons Emmanuel Yawe and Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, both organisations described the late Tofa as a successful businessman who invested his time, energy and money during the formative stages of the forum. “The ACF is saddened by news of the death one of its founding members, Alhaji Bashir Tofa… “Tofa was a man of many parts: sometimes a national politician, community leader or an international businessman. His participation in the 1993 presidential election as the candidate of the NRC overshadowed all other things he did; maybe because (the late) Moshood Abiola was involved or because it was finally annulled. “Every time that election was mentioned, his name just came up. It was as if he never did anything (else) in life other than participate in that election. “Whatever happened to that election should not be blamed on him. He was as much a victim of military meddlesomeness in politics as Abiola was,” ACF said.