The national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, will succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2023 presidential election, a support group under the aegis of Progressives Solidarity for Asiwaju (PSA), has said. Other contenders, PSA said, would file behind the former Lagos State governor, though everybody is free to be ambitious to rule Nigeria. Addressing reporters in Abuja, the Director of Budget and Finance for PSA in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter, Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, said Asiwaju Tinubu is experienced enough and had built many people across religions and regions. Idris said Asiwaju Tinubu is not just a robust politician but a phenomenon and strategist par excellence. The director said the APC National Leader’s antecedents in politics and private life remain intimidating. - Advertisement - He promised that PSA would ensure that Asiwaju Tinubu wins the “primary elections in APC and, ultimately, the general election in 2023”. Idris said Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora are yearning for a Tinubu-led administration that will bring succor to the people.   Ex-Finance Minister Okongwu, dies at 87     Ex-Governor Alao-Akala found dead in his bathroom     Ex-Governor Alao-Akala dies at 71   He said: “We are in a democracy. Everybody is free to be ambitious to rule this country. I can tell you that all the people coming out, at the end of the day, will queue behind Asiwaju Tinubu. “We know what Asiwaju Tinubu did as governor of Lagos State. He builds people and most of his political students today, almost all of them, are occupying very sensitive and big positions in this country. And they are all delivering. All he has done is enough for him to be the next President.” “We know he is very capable and experienced. We all know that Nigeria today is at a crossroads. This is not the time for experimentation. We need very experienced hands to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari. That is the reason we are giving Asiwaju Tinubu our support. “Asiwaju Tinubu is a detribalised Nigerian, a man who is a friend to everybody, regardless of their religions and regions. We are very convinced that he will take us to the Promised Land. “Nigeria needs an unrepentant progressive, a visionary with the penchant for impactful deliverables. Nigeria needs a builder, a people’s person, an achiever, a human capital developer to take her out of the current quagmire and build on the gains of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. “Asiwaju Tinubu’s pedigree and achievements are clear and measurable. He has the political will and capacity to turn our land into an Eldorado within a short time.”