President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle has expressed fears that politicians and political office holders are now focusing on the 2023 general elections instead of tackling the insecurity in the country. Ayokunle urged the government and all stakeholders to ensure the survival and peace of the nation before 2023 elections can take place. He accused the government of not doing enough to put an end to the incessant killings and kidnappings across the country. The CAN boss in his New Year message said: “criminals have turned our roads into death traps where they now kidnap for money, apparently due to the poor conditions of our roads and all of a sudden kidnapping has become a big business as the innocent people are being kidnapped and ransom in millions are being demanded and paid. “It appears as if our governments have got to their wits’ end over the menace of insecurity. Their major focus now is on the 2023 general election. Can the 2023 election happen if the nation is over-run by criminals? Our nation must survive first and be at peace before the election can take place.   Buhari to Nigerians: future will be written in gold     I’ll run for Ebonyi governorship, Senator Ogba…     4.5 million Nigerians fully vaccinated, says Fed Govt   - Advertisement - “Except for the mercy of God to intervene divinely and miraculously, we would be like Sodom and Gomorrah. It is only God who can make the 2023 general election a reality. It is only God in his own way who can teach our leaders the right step to take.” Ayokunle, in a statement issued on Friday urged churches to pray fervently for peace and progress of the country. He said: “It gladdens my heart to say a resounding HAPPY NEW YEAR 2022 to all Nigerians irrespective of their religious, tribal and political persuasions. Glory be to our God who helps us to escape all dangers and threats of the Year 2021 occasioned by the criminal activities of the bandits, terrorists, kidnappers and other unscrupulous elements amidst us. “2021 was one year too many as a result of the ways and manners these criminals have been operating with impunity as if this is not the country we have been all these years. It is as if they have taken over the country. They invade communities, markets, churches and schools. They kill, maim, destroy and kidnap without much resistance or hindrance. “We have cried in vain for help from the developed world and the United Nations. They seem to be more occupied and busy with COVID-19 than pay attention to the daily destruction of lives going on in Nigeria. At this juncture, I call on all Nigerians, irrespective of their religious affiliations, to rise up and cry for the mercy of God that can preserve us and bring an end to all these pains.”