Igba Ogbole is first and foremost a journalist, then a prolific author whose prose fictions and others have been creating the desired impact in his home state of Benue and beyond. Recently he began a project termed mobile bookshop meant to get books closer to the people. He tells EDOZIE UDEZE what prompted the project and other issues that always inform the direction of his fictional narratives. YOU just commenced a mobile library project in your home state of Benue. What does the project entail? Mobile bookshop, not library. The idea is to take books directly to those desirous of purchasing them but do not have the time to visit the stationery bookshops. It entails moving about with books and delivering them to anyone interested. People have so many competing demands that they need to be encouraged in whatever way possible to buy books to read and enrich their intellect and private libraries. The project also aims at encouraging people to read. Equally, it aims at introducing and promoting new titles. For now, I have started with my own titles. Later, I will add others. In the last few years ,you have occupied yourself with literary offerings that seem prophetic and futuristic. To what extent do you think literary narratives can go to redress the anomalies in the Nigerian society? Books, quality books that focus on contemporary narratives, can help to address societal ills, to a large extent. The Nigerian society is being consumed by festering maladies such as corruption, insecurity, unemployment, poverty and hunger, among others. Volumes of literary pieces churned out over time have drawn copious attention to these challenges and even proffered solutions to them. Ideas from such literary narratives have been applied by some of the discerning in society to address these problems. However, there is a major limitation to how much can be achieved through literary discourse(s) in our clime-poor reading culture. Many people, including state actors and other stakeholders who should ordinarily leverage on the rich literary narratives to tackle societal challenges in Nigeria, hardly read! So, the immediate task is to strive hard to change the attitude of our people, especially the leaders, towards reading. They should be impressed upon to read regularly because there is so much to gain from doing so. - Advertisement - Your first prose fiction addressed the herdsmen marauding tendencies in your locality and forewarned about bandits. How much euphoria does it give you when you look back? Euphoria may not be the right word. Rather, it should be either sadness or anger, or both rolled into one. When I wrote Arrows of Anguish, the novel you referred to, I had thought that unless swift and decisive action was taken against the militant herdsmen terrorising Benue State, they would blossom into different, more deadly variants. And it didn’t need any prophetic gift for one to see that danger. Here is a society where the unemployment level is scandalously high; where poverty and hunger have become ubiquitous companions of the people. Treating militant herdsmen with kids’ gloves was certainly an invitation to greater violent enterprises from the mass of the unemployed! The same scenario is still playing out! It is rather funny that we are wasting valuable time debating whether or not bandits should be declared terrorists! What is in a name? Have we successfully decapitated Boko Haram after declaring it a terrorist group? Why don’t we channel our energy and time into confronting this menace headlong until we diminish them comprehensively? I am sad that two years after Arrows of Anguish, the situation the book cried out over has worsened. As a journalist and public commentator, what is it that journalists are doing or not doing well to investigate and checkmate the insecurity menace in Nigeria? Journalists, some journalists, have lived up to their calling by effectively and constantly drawing public attention to the hydra headed insecurity challenge through their reports, interviews and analysis. They have done a lot, no doubt. However, because the journalists are also Nigerians influenced by a poisonous polity that is divisive, ethnocentric and largely insincere, some of them allow their professional calling to be subsumed by those other interests. This explains why some journalists or media houses would fail to give proper and timely attention to the issue of insecurity.   ‘Market research, analysis the future of brand…     Famous sculptors feast at Igue Festival     When love towers above hate   From instance, when, long ago, Benue State was under siege by militant herdsmen and the Governor of the State, Dr. Samuel Ortom, was running everywhere crying out for commensurate intervention, some media houses failed completely to report the atrocities being visited on the state while some even derided the governor and the people. Incidentally, now that the Benue experience is being shared by other parts of the country, such journalists and media houses are reporting! In addition, journalists need to devote more interest to investigative reporting of insecurity. A lot still appears to be shrouded in mystery about the insurgency, banditry and other forms of criminality. For instance, proper follow up has yet to be done on the reported sponsors of insecurity. What became of the story that some bureau de change operators were involved in channelling funds to terrorists? Journalists need to do more. Yes, sometimes their reports are ignored by those who should act on them, and this can be quite discouraging. But they should continue to do their bit. Posterity will treat them kindly. Benue State was the hotbed of kidnappers and bandits for a long time. Now it seems all have calmed down. What is responsible? Strictly speaking, Benue has never been a “hotbed of kidnappers and bandits for a long time”. Rather, Benue has been a hotbed, theatre of militant herdsmen massacres over the years. The peoples and lands of Agatu, Gwer West, Makurdi, Guma, Logo, Buruku, Okpokwu, Tarka, Gboko and other local government areas of the state have over the years come under periodic attacks by militant herdsmen. During such attacks, decapitated and butchered bodies of men, women and children would litter everywhere while the survivors would be driven off their ancestral lands and forced to endure the harrowing experience of camp life! Many are still languishing in the camps because they can’t return home for two main reasons: their houses have been destroyed and they are still scared that if they returned home, the marauders would still come for them! Yes, some calm is being witnessed. As to the reason for this, it is difficult to say. Perhaps, the strident cry by the governor and people of the state has made some impact and the militants and their sponsor have decided to let the innocent people be. Perhaps, the Benue State Open Grazing and Ranches Establishment Law is working. Perhaps the security agencies have finally found a way to keep the killers off Benue land. Whatever the reason might be, we are grateful to God and pray that the calm subsists endlessly. Tell us. How do you have time to write, to research your themes, given your tight schedule as a Director? The truth is that it is not easy, especially if you are one who is committed to excellence. I do not devote any special time for researching my themes as it were. Anywhere, any time I get an idea or read something useful to my project, I put it down in a jotter or the notebook in my phone. I try to read other great writers to sharpen my skill. Surfing through the internet also comes handy and I do that anywhere, anytime. I do most of my writings in the night. And because most of the themes I work on dwell on contemporary issues, it is much easier to relate. For instance, my latest prose novel, Matilda, is anchored on the themes of love, betrayal, rape and success. A commonwealth award winning author and senior lecturer with the Benue State University, Dr. Maria Ajima says this of the novel: “Matilda, the heroine in this spellbinding fast paced novel is a wide eyed inexperienced village girl who suffers . . . She is betrayed by her heartthrob . . . but at the end, she rises like the phoenix to become a successful advocate of justice. The story of an interplay between fate, determination and hard work is deftly woven around themes of love, rape and betrayal”. So, the time might not be there but with determination, much can still be achieved.