The Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday pledged to adopt the principle of fairness in solving the crisis facing the party in the state. The 11- man delegation, which was led by Senator Adamu Abdullahi, met with Governor Dapo Abiodun, the leader of the party and former governor Segun Osoba and the immediate past governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. The committee, after meeting with Abiodun at the Presidential Lodge, said it was in the state on a mission to reconcile aggrieved party members. The former governor of Nassarawa State, who said the committee visited the governor to intimate him with its mission, noted that the desire of the party at the national level was to have peace among its members in Ogun. - Advertisement - “We are here with a mission of meeting our party members and to see the best way we can pilot the reconciliation efforts of the party,” he said. “It is the concern of our party at the national level that peace prevails in this state. And we will do everything to ensure that nothing truncates that peace. “We owe the party a duty by ensuring that principlesof fair hearing is given to all parties involved.”   2023: PDP has settled for northern presidential candidate –…     Capital importation hits $1.7bn, says NBS     Denmark releases suspected Nigerian pirates   In his remarks, Osoba described the committee members as seasoned administrators and people of proven character. He enjoined them to ensure equity, fairness and ensure that justice was done in the course of carrying out their assignment. Speaking, Governor Abiodun acknowledged that there is bound to be friction in a party as big as the APC and lauded the party for choosing the path of reconciliation to guard against polarising the party in Ogun. “This Committee was carefully chosen to further strengthen the party. It is important to continue to have peace and harmony among us. “Though there is bound to be conflict here and there, we must continue to find a way to cooperate, and I am happy to have you with us today. “We will cooperate with you to ensure peace in our state,” Abiodun said. The Reconciliation Committee Chairman thereafter presented a copy of petitions received so far to the governor. Other members of the Committee are former governors Sullivan Chime, Ali Sa’ad Burnin-Kudu and ex-deputy governors Idiat Ranti Adebule, Suleiman Argungu and Moses Adeyemo, and Cross River State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Betta Edu and Dr. Samuel Jimba, who is the head of the secretariat.