The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Akwa Ibom Congress Committee, Yusuf Banki Sheriff and Secretary of the Committee, Sule Yakubu have written a petition against Stephen Leo Ntukekpo, who claims to be APC chair in the State. The petitions were written to Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba; Director-General of the Department of State Service (DSS) Yusuf Magaji Bichi and the Chairman, Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Gov. Mai Mala Buni. The duo accused Ntukekpo of perjury and forging their signatures on several fake documents submitted to an Abuja Federal High Court (Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/1635/2021) as purported results of the APC State Congresses in Akwa Ibom. IGP Baba, Governor Buni and Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Mahmood Yakubu also received the petitions.   Ijaws canvassing for Delta governorship slot, against zoning     Lagos APC to Lagosians: expect a better 2022     Garba Shehu follows Tinubu media support group on twitter   - Advertisement - Sheriff and Yakubu stated in their separate petitions obtained in Abuja by newsmen, that Ntukekpo and his cohorts did not participate in the Congresses they superintended over and could not have emerged in a contest they were not part of. The petitioners contend that the documents filed by Ntukekpo and others in a suit entered into at the Federal High Court, Abuja Judicial Division, are forged and therefore fraudulent. They demanded a thorough investigation of the case with a view to establishing a clear case of forgery against Ntukekpo and all others mentioned in the suit, and lawful sanctions against them for the criminal act. Hon. Augustine Ekanem and Nkereuwem Enyongekere emerged as Chairman and Secretary in the Congress conducted by Yusuf Banki Sheriff and Yakubu Sule and monitored by INEC officials and security agents at the Sheer Grace Arena, Uyo. They are due to be inaugurated alongside other recognised and legitimate Akwa Ibom State Executives on Thursday 3rd February 2022.