I t is only natural that in recent times President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed his desire to bequeath a worthy and enduring legacy to the next administration after him and the nation. The administration’s eight-year tenure comes to an end in May, next year, and the drumbeats of the forthcoming electioneering campaign season are already beating loudly. A critical factor for the realisation of the administration’s hopes of completing many of the ongoing legacy projects, starting new ones and handing over a healthier economy to its successor is the efficient and effective implementation of the 2022 budget. And a heartwarming development in this respect is the speedy consideration and action by all stakeholders resulting in timely passage of the budget into law. While the 2022 appropriation bill was laid before the joint session of the National Assembly on October 7, 2021, the approved budget of N17.13 trillion was signed into law by the President on December 31, last year. Indeed, a central feature of the relationship between the 9th National Assembly and the executive since 2019 has been a more harmonious working collaboration compared to what the situation was during the life of the 8th assembly. That dispensation was characterised by protracted delays in the passage of the annual budgets engendered largely by partisan quibbling between the two arms of government. The casualties were inevitably the wellbeing of the economy and by extension, the welfare of the people. It is thus a welcome development that there is now a greater sense of urgency and common purpose on the part of both the executive and legislature in conceptualising and implementing the budget. An indication of this new spirit of concord was that President Buhari signed the bill into law despite the reservations of the executive as regards what was described as “worrisome changes” by the National Assembly to the executive budget proposal. While the legislature reportedly reduced the provision for a number of strategic projects, it inserted 6,576 new schemes worth about N37billion into the budget. Overall, the National Assembly increased the budget spending plan from the N16.391 billion proposed by the executive to N17.13 trillion, an increase of N735.8 billion.   New year window     Magodo brouhaha     Credible polls   - Advertisement - Explaining why the President approved the bill rather than send it back to the legislature over his objections for the process to start afresh, presidential spokesman, Mallam Shehu Garba, said, “Given Mr President’s commitment to improving the lot of the common man, it was felt that it would not be wise to throw away the baby with the bath water. Ongoing capital projects, critical recurrent votes, priority new projects – all feature in the 2022 budget and Mr President’s forbearance in assenting to the budget will save these provisions from implementation delays and other challenges”. Throwing further light on this, the President himself stressed that he signed the bill into law to enable the commencement of its implementation from January 1, 2022, stating however that “I will revert to the National Assembly with a request for amendment and/or virement as soon as the assembly resumes to ensure that critical ongoing projects that are cardinal to this administration and those nearing completion do not suffer a setback due to reduced funding”. The wisdom of the President’s action is beyond dispute. Since the National Assembly is not expected to be a rubber stamp to the executive, these kinds of differences over the budget and other legislations are natural and even welcome. What is important is that in their actions, all parties must be motivated by the public good rather than selfish considerations. Perhaps the significant upgrading of the budgetary office of the National Assembly both in terms of funding and quality of personnel will also enhance the quality of the legislature’s contribution to the budgetary process. Demonstrating his administration’s commitment to a smooth fiscal transition to its successor, President Buhari indicated that since the 2023 budget will be a transitory one, work will commence immediately towards the submission of the 2023-2025 medium term expenditure framework and fiscal strategy paper as well as the 2023 appropriation bill to the National Assembly. This is commendable. It is also important that the heads of ministries, departments and agencies heed the President’s directive to work hard to meet budgetary targets. This is particularly critical with regard to improved revenue generation so as to reduce the necessity to resort to foreign loans. For, the administration must also be concerned that one of its legacies is not to plunge the nation and future generations into debt peonage.