As much as many detest to hear about the word cheating in a relationship or union, it doesn’t eradicate its actual existence. There’s no greater betrayal than finding out one’s husband is cheating. Although, women are sometimes culpable but the ‘cheating’ space seem to be owned more by men. According to experts, the following are 10 reasons why your husband may just be cheating on you by having an affair. Resentment is one of the primary emotional triggers of cheating. Specifically, the feelings of being neglected, wherein their infidelity becomes a way to recapture their partner’s attention. - Advertisement - Some husbands have an excessive need for attention and feel neglected however, they fail to communicate same to their partners and resort to cheating instead. Validation/vulnerability is also another the key reasons why married men cheat. In a bid to satisfy the “hunger for attention,” men can look outside of their relationship and find themselves engaging in workplace affairs, where finding the admiration and appreciation they seek might be more readily available to them. The feelings of stifled or limited self-expression a person may feel within their own relationship can lead them to cheat on the spouses. When this happens, the person in question may feel they need to look outside of their existing partnership for a connection that allows them to express themselves in whatever way they don’t feel they’re able to with their partner. Self-expression is key when it comes to communication in a relationship. Toxic-masculinity is real and creating space where you can nurture SQ (SPIRITUAL QUOTIENT) and EQ (EMOTIONAL QUOTIENT) in your connection will only strengthen it. Affairs are “rarely about sex” but in fact, have more to do with desire specifically, the desire for that which one doesn’t have. An inflated man needs to self-gratify. When your main concern is me, me, me, you tend to lose sight of the bigger picture, more specifically, the value in long term goals.   17 types of k*sses and meanings     Seven things partners should avoid in relationship     10 most expensive celebrity divorces of all time   Disappointment is one of the main causes of infidelity. As it relates to disappointment, some partners find themselves unable to cope with a lack of excitement or the flaws of their long-term relationships, and so they engage in an affair as an alternative to dealing with the confrontation of communicating their disappointment to their partner. There’s no doubt that infidelity happens year round but there’s just something about the holidays. Much as we’d like to think that during the most festive time of year, family is number one on everyone’s mind, it’s just not always the case. In fact, oftentimes it happens that one (or both) people in a relationship can find themselves feeling so overwhelmed by the season, and underwhelmed by their partner, that their better half ends up taking a back seat to their own search for something a little more exciting regardless of whether it lands them on the “naughty” list. Some people believe the financial-factor has more to do with cheating that the intimacy-factor. In the sense that, a ‘wage gap’ between partners might be the thing that sends the person who earns less looking for a way to even the footing in the relationship. While this ties into the idea of resentment, it goes a further to identify men as the gender most likely to take lesser-earnings to heart between themselves and their significant other. At its core, cheating is more of a symptom than a cause of something, Precisely, a symptom of an inability to connect with one’s partner, and not something purely rooted in lust. The result of this disconnection being even the simplest of connected moments that one partner might experience with someone else, in which they may see this new person or connection as a source of replenishment for what they feel is missing at home. We are never able to meet all of our needs on our own, in spite of our desire for independence. Relationship(s) is the logical source for those emotional needs which we need help satisfying. The core reason for cheating is as simple as someone feeling their emotional needs aren’t being met in their relationship.