The lawmaker representing Eti-Osa Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Babajide Obanikoro has assured his constituents that he will continue to provide good representation for the benefit of the people and that he will carry everyone along in the discharge of his duties. Obanikoro who gave the assurance recently during his third town hall meeting and empowerment in Lagos said since his assumption of office in June 2019 he has always dedicated himself towards the fulfilment of his campaign promises, to make life better for them and other Lagosians. During the occasion, the lawmaker who was elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presented a cheque for the payment of the bursaries of some indigent students in the constituency, distributed 1000 laptops to students of various schools in the constituency, residents’ associations, as well as to officers of the Nigeria Police in Eti-Osa. At the empowerment programme, which was done in conjunction with the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), he also gave out cheques to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to fund their businesses. He said: “This year, we plan to focus on the technological advancement of our constituents. We believe the world has gone digital and the earlier we keyed into it, the better for our growth. That is why we have decided to start the year by distributing 1000 laptops to some of our students, residents’ associations and also to our friends, some officers of police stations in Eti-Osa. - Advertisement - “It is my belief these laptops will aid our students in schoolwork, help some of our constituents in their businesses and our Police Stations in areas of information management and record-keeping. Today, we will also be giving some of our students’ bursary to enable them to meet some of their immediate school financial needs. Lastly, we have some petty traders who will be beneficiaries of cash grants to help boost their businesses. “All areas focused on today, you will agree with me are key sectors that affect and drive the economy of our dear constituency. You all will also agree with me that injecting these empowerment programmes into our constituency will increase the gross domestic products (GDP) of Eti-Osa and give succour to our constituents.” Obanikoro said he has always provided good representation for his constituents and Lagosians in general by sponsoring or supporting bills that would improve the lives of the people. For instance, he said: “In the recently approved 2022 Appropriation Bill signed by President Muhammadu Buhari, we made sure provisions were made for the completion of most of our ongoing projects and new ones will be coming up mostly in the areas of infrastructure.   Understanding Olubadan succession row     Contenders, pretenders for Ekiti PDP ticket     Seven aspirants battle for Ekiti APC governorship ticket   “In the course of the year, we have identified a lot of training for artisans in our constituency to help them adopt better techniques, finesse, access to more funds and better equipment with the focus majorly on engaging our youths. “We will also heavily align with the Federal Government’s focus on agriculture by training more people and helping to secure agricultural soft loans for our people. In order words, we have identified some support programmes for the farmers in Eti-Osa in the year 2022.” Obanikoro’s first motion on the floor of the House of Representatives on his assumption of office was on the rehabilitation of the barracks in his Eti-Osa constituency. He said no other constituency in the country has more barracks than Eti-Osa. He has also co-sponsored a motion on the immortalization of Dr. Stella Adedevoh who put in efforts to ensure that the Ebola crisis didn’t spread further than First Consultant Hospital, located in Obalende, in EtiOsa Federal Constituency. Other motions he co-sponsored include one calling for the capturing of Nigerians in Diaspora in the electoral reform amendment bill, a motion on the need to urgently address the deplorable state of infrastructure, lack of amenities and inhumane treatment of patients at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH, and the one on the need to urgently evacuate abandoned planes from the country’s runways because it gives the impression that the country lacks seriousness. The APC Deputy Chairman, Lagos State, Moshood Olanrewaju Maiyegun said it is not surprising that the lawmaker representing Eti-Osa Federal Constituency is doing well; adding “he is just following the footsteps of his father”. Maiyegun who represented the Lagos APC chairman, Cornelius Ojelabi said the most important thing at the moment is the 2023 general elections and every member has a role to play during the contest. He said: “It is important that we get to work straight away. Our leaders in Eti-Osa, please forgive me, but you must set the ball rolling by calling a meeting to mobilise all our members to get involved in the campaign for the progress of our party. It is not a question of boasting that we have one million registered members, but when it comes to election day only about 300,000 persons will turn out to cast their ballot. This is not a good development. “So, we must reconcile differences with aggrieved members within the council and mobilize all members to come out and vote, particularly because our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu is in the race for the presidency. It is incumbent on all members to join the campaign; one member should be able to mobilize 10 or 15 people in his community to come out and vote. So, every resident of Eti-Osa Local Government and beyond should ensure that they have their permanent voter’s card (PVC). “Babajide, we acknowledge that you are doing well and anybody doing well deserves another chance.” The occasion was graced by chieftains of the party, including the father of the lawmaker, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, former Commissioner for Finance and a member of the Lagos Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), Mr. Wale Edun, former Deputy Governor Femi Pedro and former Attorney General and Commission for Justice, Supo Shashore (SAN). Olubankole Singer, rapper, actor, and politician, Wellington, popularly known by his stage name, Banky W., who lives within the constituency, was also there.  A former House of Representatives member, Alhaji Yahaya Dosunmu chaired the occasion.