The fire in South Africa’s parliament has revealed that it was not insured. This is a common thread for government property especially in developing  countries where insurance is ‘nobody’s business’ though it is the routine responsibility of elected officials and civil servants to maintain infrastructure and hand it over intact to the succeeding political regime. Perhaps because there are thousands of government buildings and the risk of fire is low, it is a risk worth taking…until a fire occurs. Of course, Nigeria lost many buildings to fires started in fraud-related suspicious or obvious riotous conditions- where insurers can wriggle out of liability. ‘To insure or not to insure public property?’ is a question for political assemblies. No one is immune from fire. Nigeria faces frequent fire incidents in buildings housing documents in corruption or election related matters. Public markets are common victims around January-March’s harmattan. But we never learn and probably have no market insurance and inadequate market fire-fighting methodology. State governors, during these current 2022 seasonal fires, should raise a ‘Fire Prevention Alarm!’ for market management committees on better ‘Emergency Harmattan Fire Prevention Measures’ for easier access for fire engines, more water points, more training. Governors should discuss insurance policy for markets. These measures will reduce the incidence, cost and severity of ‘Harmattan Market Fires’. - Advertisement - Many governors, like the presidency face coming elections. They will be judged on their performance to date and they will especially be judged by their performance in this ‘last lap’ year 2022. This year, the fourth year in the four-year political cycle and sometimes the 8th year in a two term governance cycle, is historically the ‘Year of Nothing Happen’ or ‘Year of Progress Paralysis’ because everything  ‘not considered  for political advantage’ is pushed forward and put on the back burner, ignored and abandoned till after the all-consuming elections. This has resulted in a crippling ‘three years work, one year election’ cycle with a one year, 25% of performance time ‘full stop’ to development, and paralysis of even normal servicing of needs in the state. Only a few exemplary governors have worked diligently to their last day in office, keeping their four-year contract with the citizens. Governors are believed to acquire ‘Election War Chests’ in their last year in the billions abandoning their sworn oath to work to the last day for the citizens irrespective of their party affiliations.   ‘2022- Stop violent and corruption terrorism’     Speaking back – 2002; Speaking out – 2022     Recycling Cards; Tutu-RIPP; 2022   If the governor is also a good person, he will realise that the last lap, the last year, is even more important than the previous three or seven years in office in the judgement of the citizens whether they are voters or not. Governor you cannot bribe all the citizens with an ‘Election War Chest’ stolen from the same people. But you can bribe all with your Good Governance development till your handover date. Every single governor has won or lost elections, through normal or rigging methods. But the wise governor has always paid attention to winning the minds and hearts of the citizens through good activities so that even if the election is lost by foul means or fair, his Good Governance reputation will be intact. This 2022 is the time for the ‘Good Person Governor’ side to shine through with insistence on the continuation of Good Governance, the filling of every pothole, provision of and replenishment of medicines and medical machines for professionals and patients, the provision of text and non-text reading books for teachers and schoolchildren. Nigeria has been too slow at meeting SDGs and cannot afford to stop progress for one election year. When such good governors eventually leave office and walk the streets and even when they die, as we all must, the citizens will sigh, some will cry, many will smile and say, ‘He was a GGG-Good Governance Governor, God Rest His Soul’. Let the citizens not think back to ‘your bad old days’ and then sneer, hiss, dismiss, spit, curse or even worse proclaim good riddance, arrogant, did nothing for the citizens, only serviced his party people, created more problems than solutions, roads he built lasted less than his tenure, had nothing to show, a negative tenure drawing the state backwards. All have been the voice of the people and said before but, pray, never again. Those who witnessed the passing of past Nigerian presidents have heard all shades of opinions from the citizenry. From president to pauper, we will all leave the world at an accelerated rate due to the ravages of mostly politically precipitated crime, terrorism, covid and kidnapping. Surely all serving governors face their 2022 ‘Legacy Year’. Yes, fine buildings are popular exit strategies for governors. However, the hearts of soon-to-vote citizenry can be swayed easier by Good Governance works than by bribes-for-votes or even beautiful buildings amidst dirty hospitals and rubbish schools and potholed roads. Mr Governor, work till election day as if to live in the hearts of citizens during 2022. It will be a better election strategy than amassing an ‘Election War Chest’ to employ constantly abandoned and drop-out youth  as thugs, who should have been trained and redirected during your four years in office and not incubated for the ‘2022 Election War’. Train and upgrade the youth to keep them away from 2022 violence and in peaceful voting queues at election time. Good governors can change Nigeria by changing their ways. Let ‘Last Lap Good Governance’ win elections.