SIR: On January 22, 2021, the federal government launched an e-ticketing platform for the online purchase of tickets at the Abuja-Kaduna, Kaduna-Abuja rail corridor.  Then, the minister of transportation, Right Honourable Rotimi Amaechi, had assured that the platform will solve commuters’ complaint of ticket racketeering, enhance efficiency, ease hardship and promote accountability. Unfortunately, things are contrary to the assurances by the minister as it is a known fact that commercial sellers have continued to sell tickets at exorbitant prices. They book almost 75-80% of the tickets for themselves, thereby keeping passengers stranded with no option other than buying it unofficially from them with a minimum of 35% increase in price. Indeed, when the federal government declared free train rides from December 24, 2021 to January 4 to ease the cost of transportation and to enable citizens to enjoy the festive period (Christmas and New Year), the Abuja operators continued to sell tickets to passengers for a while – during the same period. Shockingly, the Kaduna railway operators were not left out in this ignoble act. Just as absurd and disheartening is that the railway management were aware of this, but did nothing to stop it. As now that people are battling the economic hardship, the federal government decided to make an unannounced train fare hike on the economy class from N2500 to N4000. - Advertisement - One recalls that the federal government increased train fares amidst precautionary measures to curtail COVID-19, promising to reduce the train fares whenever the country is almost free from the virus. Sadly, the government reneged on this promise and decided to welcome us with a further increment.   Buhari: Journey so far     Compensating Magodo judgement creditors     A country at Ground Zero   Personally, I think this is not the right time for the federal government to increase train fare (not official though) given the economic crisis at hand, more so at a time many households cannot afford three square meals a day, let alone children’s school fees and shelter. And to think that this is coming at a time when Kaduna-Abuja road has become a death trap with kidnappers operating freely; scaring all road users and a time nobody is willing to risk his life plying that road. The federal government should do something about the train workers at (Abuja and Rigasa stations). They should as well rethink the unannounced fare hike they recently made, if the train service is indeed targeted at serving the masses.   Rigasa, Kaduna