Goods worth millions of naira were destroyed during fire outbreaks in the popular Ogbe-Ijoh Market located at Warri in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State yesterday. A food market near the Federal Polytechnic, Oko in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State was also razed by fire as well as a section of the mortuary at the General Hospital, Onitsha; also in Anambra State. Also, at the weekend, shop owners at the popular Emejiaka Plaza located along Ngwa Road, off Ngwa Road Market have lost property worth millions of naira in a Saturday evening fire outbreak that engulfed the building. On-the-spot assessment at Ogbe-Ijoh Market located in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State revealed that most goods, ranging from frozen foods, boutiques, food stuffs like bags of rice, beans, onions, and dried fish among others were lost to the inferno which affected scores of stalls and shops. - Advertisement - Though the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, it was gathered that it started at about 2:00 p.m. Although security operatives were on ground to control the crowd and further avert looting of wares, some of the crowd was sighted trying to salvage what was left over by the fire. A fire fighter truck had already expended its content and was returning for a refill, while the fire raged on in other parts of the market, with owners looking on helplessly. The Divisional Secretary, Red Cross, Warri South Division, Cyril Kokarhaye, who led his team to the scene of the inferno, said no casualty had been recorded so far. Also, a section of the mortuary at the General Hospital, Onitsha in Anambra State was gutted by fire. In addition to that, a food market near the Federal Polytechnic, Oko in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra State was also razed by fire. The Nation gathered that all corpses at the morgue were burnt beyond recognition while items worth millions of naira were destroyed in the market. An eyewitness said the police. who arrived at the scene shortly after the incident quickly barricaded the area to prevent people from looting the shops. Confirming the hospital incident, Director, State Fire Service, Martin Agbili, said the fire which occurred around 12:34 p.m. was caused by bush burning. Police spokesman, Ikenga Tochukwu, who confirmed the market fire incident, said the Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng had ordered comprehensive investigation into the incident.   300 die in accidents in Ogun, says FRSC     Gunmen kill four Plateau mining workers     ‘Six months’ forex inflows can offset Nigeria’s $44b debts’   In Abia State, shop owners lost millions of naira to fire at the Emejiaka Plaza which houses not less than 500 tailors, including others dealing on clothing and tailoring materials. The Nation gathered that the fire outbreak began at the shop of a tailor whose name was yet-to-be ascertained. He was said to be refilling the tank of the generating set without switching it off. It was gathered that the traders scampered for safety when it became obvious that they could not contain the fire. It was gathered that the fire incident began at 4:00 p.m. on Saturday and lasted till 7:00 p.m. Fire service personnel who would not want to be named attributed the rate of the fore rage to the rise in temperature and heat from the numerous generator sets in use at the same time by the densely populated plaza. No life was lost in the fire incident, but some of the affected shop owners who spoke amid tears begged the state governor and public-spirited individuals to come to their aides. In Kebbi State, a non-governmental organization (NGO), Khadimiyya for Justice and Development Initiative (KJDI), has donated N10 million to victims of market fire, Kamba Town in Dandi Local Government Area of Kebbi State. On January 16, more than 20 shops and stalls were razed by fire at a Central Market in Kamba. While presenting the donation to the District Head of Kamba, Alhaji Mamuda Zarummai in Kamba yesterday, the National Treasurer of the organisation, Alhaji Mohammad Bello-Nasarawa, said the gesture was in fulfilment of the pledge made by the organisation to assist the victims. He said the organisation found it expedient to identify with the victims and also extend support to the state government in its commitment to ameliorate their hardship. Bello-Nasarawa prayed Almighty God to avert the reoccurrence of the unfortunate incident. The National Secretary of the organisation, Alhaji Faruku Maisudan, said Khadimiyya would continue to do everything possible to better the lives of less privileged people whenever the need arises. While commending the foundation for the donation Zarummai described it as the first of its kind from any organisation in the state. Chairman of Kamba Marketers’ Association, Alhaji Jamilu Hussaini, commended the organisation for its humanitarian services to the people of the state.