Union Berlin’s talismanic striker  Taiwo Awoniyi  is looking forward to his  first  Africa Cup of Nations  with optimism  after  a rich collection of medals  at junior levels across the U-17, U-20 and U-23 national teams.  Regarded as one of the lads to  score  the goals for the Super Eagles in Cameroon, the 24-year-old Awoniyi  is confident  of the team’s sterling  performance as the 33rd AFCON gets underway on Sunday, MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN  reports.   With Super Eagles highest goal scorer at the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) and World Cup qualifiers Victor Osimhen ruled out due to Covid-19, Paul Onuachu’s absence due to injury and Watford and Al Shabab’s refusal to release top-scorers Emmanuel Dennis and Odion Ighalo respectively for the AFCON tournament in Cameroon; the door has been opened for Taiwo Awoniyi to climb up the pecking order of Super Eagles center forwards and lead the frontline as the tournament kicks off this weekend. Making his international bow for Nigeria in the Super Eagles 1-0 loss to the Central African Republic (CAR) at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos in October, this would be the former Mouscron of Belgium star’s first appearance in a tournament for the senior national team The striker, who has scored 15 goals in 27 appearances in all competitions for Union Berlin so far this season, assured Nigerian fans of his readiness to help the Super Eagles win the AFCON. - Advertisement - Speaking about how training has been going under interim coach Augustine Eguavoen, the former Liverpool youngster disclosed that preparations for the tournament are going on smoothly and the team is working hard towards achieving their goal, which is to return as African champions. He said: “It has been a great session, two times a day since we resumed camp, different drills getting us to the rhythm and getting us ready for the games. ”For us it is to go there and do everything for the country. We just finished another training session, getting there step by step and when the time comes we will deliver for the country. “Preparation is going well, the team is working hard in getting prepared and working towards our goal, which is to win the tournament. “We are ready for AFCON and we will give our all to make the fans happy back home and abroad.”   What Super  Eagles are saying….     Sudan coach warns  Eagles     Choupo-Moting: Eto’o, Okocha fuelled my  dreams   The Kwara state-born footballer admitted that he feels bad that Napoli hit man Victor Osimhen would not be in Cameroon for the tournament, adding that the 23-year-old’s five goals in five matches were key in Nigeria’s qualification process. The former Wolfsburg player pulled out of the tournament after testing positive for COVID-19 last week. Prior to that, Napoli and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) had been at loggerheads over his AFCON participation. “To be honest for me I feel really bad that Victor is not here with us because he did a lot of work for the country during the World Cup and Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers in scoring the goals,” Awoniyi said. “For him not to be in the tournament proper I think it’s something he will feel bad about himself and not for him to be here is something I feel bad about because I think he deserves to be here for sure.” Awoniyi also revealed that the best tournament for the best AFCON he has had to pleasure to watch was the 2013 edition, where the late Stephen Keshi-led Super Eagles, against all odds lifted the trophy, after a 1-0 win over Burkina Faso at the FNB Stadium, Johannesburg, South Africa. “My best AFCON growing up I would say was the last tournament Nigeria won with the late Stephen Keshi” Awoniyi, who is one of the few players in the current crop of Super Eagles that has represented Nigeria in all age-grade competitions, the U17, U20, U23, believes his success has been down to hard work and God’s Grace. “For me I always see it as a privilege with the kind of talents we have in the country, but also it is also a sign of chasing your dream and hard work. Of Course, the grace of God has been greatly involved which I am grateful about.” Awoniyi is of the opinion that any of the 24 countries represented at the AFCON has a chance of winning it. “I personally believe every country in that tournament is equal to the task of winning it but that depends on how each country approaches their games. “I believe every country’s goal for the tournament is winning it and we (Nigeria) are not exempted,” Awoniyi noted.