Staff of Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) on Wednesday, flooded COVID-19 vaccination point at the secretariat in compliance with the directive of the FCT Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that FCTA had said it would bar workers unable to show proof of vaccination against COVID-19 from accessing offices from Jan. 17. The Senior Special Assistant to FCT Minister on Media and Strategic Communication, Malam Abubakar Sani, made the disclosure in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. Sani stated that the warning is in a circular signed by the FCTA Permanent Secretary, Mr Olusade Adesola. Following the directive, therefore, staff of the FCTA went out as early as 8.30 a.m., seen queuing to take the vaccine in their large numbers. Addressing newsmen at the venue of the vaccination, Mr Ikharo Attah, the Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to the FCT Minister, said there was no going back on enforcement of the directive.   NLC to stop bill prohibiting health workers’ strike     Ovarian cancer: Gynaecologist advises women on early…     Man seeks N9m for kidney transplant   He emphasised that “pictures of vaccination cards on phones would not be accepted. We are very pleased that many people are trooping in to get vaccinated. Although they are telling us that the centre is close to their office but we are also very impressed. “We are also elated because we are seeing large number of persons taking the jab; some are taking their second jab, while some taking booster jab. We are so happy about it. There is no going back, on Monday, Jan. 17, we are doing enforcement. We have two OB Vans, going round and broadcasting in FCTA-owned offices, telling staff to go and vaccinate or go for regular testing.” - Advertisement - Attah said that enforcement team would be deployed at the premises of FCTA and secretariats. “We will be following up seriously on this and we have also warned people not to snap their card on the phone as we want to see the original card, don’t show us vaccination card on phone. We will be asking for identity cards and we would match the cards with your COVID-19 vaccination card so that you don’t bring someone else’s card as your own.”