The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) can only produce an acceptable presidential candidate if members unite and put the party first, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike said yesterday. He warned that if his colleagues and other PDP stakeholders fail to unite, the party will not produce an acceptable flag bearer in 2023. He said the stakeholders must work hard for its candidate to win the presidential election next year. According to Wike, issues around the zoning of the presidential ticket should not be allowed to divide governors. He said they must rather focus their energy on rebuilding and strengthening the party ahead of the polls. - Advertisement - A statement by Wike’s Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the governor spoke yesterday when he paid a courtesy call on his Bayelsa State counterpart, Douye Diri, in Yenagoa. Wike said Nigerians were waiting anxiously for PDP to rescue the country from the alleged poor governance of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: “I’ve come to let him know that everybody as PDP members must put ourselves together to build the party. “Without the party, nobody can be a presidential candidate. There must be a party. “So, there is the need for everybody to work together, make the party to be united before we talk about who will be the presidential candidate. “We cannot afford to miss this opportunity that Nigerians are giving back to PDP to take over the government in 2023. Everybody must work together as a party. “And as governors, we must work together. If we didn’t work together, we won’t have had the best convention we have ever had as a party. “If governors and members of the party are not united, it would be difficult for the party to amicably nominate an acceptable presidential candidate.” Wike said the PDP must capitalise on the brewing crisis in the APC to build a more formidable party to wrest power from the APC-led federal government. He assured that PDP governors would not be distracted by the antics of those he said were fanning the embers of discord.   Troops foil attack, kill five terrorists in Kaduna     New station to curb insecurity, says AIG Odumosu     Gunmen kidnap ex-Imo Assembly Speaker   “We as governors will be united. Nobody can divide the governors because we are determined to work together to make sure PDP produces the next president in 2023,” Wike said. He commended Diri, who was the deputy chairman of the PDP convention committee, for the pivotal role he played in ensuring the success of the convention that produced the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). Wike urged the Bayelsa governor to focus on providing democratic dividends to his people, saying it was the best strategy to silence the opposition. He said: “You must make a difference, silence the opposition. We have silenced them and will continue to silence them because they are looking for where to get Rivers to fight Bayelsa. “They are looking for how they’ll use Bayelsa to fight Rivers. We’ll not allow that.” Diri lauded Wike for the role he and other governors played in the emergence of a new NWC with a national chairman of proven integrity. He said: “The presidency is one sacred office of our country that we must do everything to protect and to ensure that this time around, our party gets a clinch back. “And that can only happen if you and I, not only governors, party structures, elders, leaders and followers alike come together to give Nigerians their expectations. “We all know here that Nigerians are expecting a change in the Villa. Nigerians are expecting a party to rescue them and the only party that has that pedigree is our party, PDP. “There is no other party. So I thank you, have seen you going all over preaching the same thing, preaching the unity of purpose of our party, preaching oneness, that is the right way to go.” The Bayelsa governor praised Wike for his resolve to end illegal crude oil bunkering and artisanal refining in Rivers. He warned those involved in the illicit business against relocating to Bayelsa. Diri said: “Let me use this opportunity to warn that Bayelsa will not condone any of those oil bunkers. Those days are over. “We have moved on and anyone who is planning to leave Rivers to come and start that illicit, illegitimate, illegal business in Bayelsa, please have a change of mind and look elsewhere, because we already have a standing committee on that. “From our state security council meeting, we will come down very hard on anyone that will do that illegal and illegitimate business in Bayelsa.”