Luminous, the leading brand of inverters and batteries, has been awarded the Inverter and Battery Brand of the Year 2021 award at the Nigerian Business Leadership Awards. For over ten years, Luminous, which is distributed in Nigeria by the Simba Group, has driven the growth of the industry through product innovation, including local research and development which has enabled it to deliver solutions for the power challenges. Receiving the award, Simba Power Business Head Ravi Srivastava, said: “We are honoured and humbled. Thanks to the support and trust our customers and partners have in us over the years. Our company has led innovation in the non-polluting power-backup space in Nigeria for over a decade and this award strengthens our desire to continue doing so.”   ‘Improve budget allocation for education’     Challenges of operating business x-rayed     Islamic City petitions Buhari over ejection plans   He added, “Inverter solutions provide our homes and offices with always-on power, and in doing so have become a critical part of our daily lives. Ensuring longevity of the solutions, and enhancing operating efficiencies, is what we focus our efforts on, and what we believe our customers choose us for.” A key factor to the success of Luminous has been the country-wide after-sales support provide by - Advertisement - Group Head of Marketing of Simba Service, an aftersales segment, Karthik Govindarajan, said: “Our success is built on the philosophy of offering the best after-sales support for our customers. Our award-winning service network spans the length and breadth of the country and our customers can conveniently contact us through our 24-hour call centre, our customer service app, or through our website. We also offer SMS-based service tracking systems and mobile service vans so that the customers are serviced at their doorstep if required. We also have our own distilled water plants to ensure that for every battery top-up, you get the best quality distilled water.”