There was a certain degree of hatred I had for the English Language when I was in secondary school. That hatred stemmed from the fact that although the subject appeared very simple, it was just “impossible” to make a hundred percent in the subject no matter how hard one tried. What I hated most in English was essay writing. The teacher usually decorated our essays with red ink each time we submitted our writing assignments, and we were left with a hopeless disposition toward the subject. Even after writing something “very good” with very few corrections from the teacher, the score was nothing to write home about. And whenever we moved to a new class, the new English teacher appeared to be more economical with marks than the previous teacher. It was as if all the English Language teachers in the world held regular meetings where they agreed on certain benchmarks. As far as awarding marks was concerned, teachers of this subject were all crazy: they were the most boring and stingy teachers on the planet. I would realize much later in WAEC co-ordinations that the fault was not theirs. Seeing WAEC examiners dissect English scripts and the arguments that surround the marking process would make one quiver into the nearest rabbit hole for safety. WAEC examiners would penalize you for t’s that were not properly crossed, omitted dots for letter ‘i’, unnecessary inclusion of the definite article or the omission of it: in fact, you must pay for failure to observe all the rules that have very little or no impact on the communication process. Sometimes, one is tempted to ask if a WAEC examiner is capable of writing a flawless essay, or if a professor of English is capable of making a hundred percent in an English examination going by the way WAEC ‘Oracles’ grade their candidates. One can imagine how surprised I was when, barely last week, one of our learners at Chokhmah International Academy, Naomi A. Tonye Alagoa, made hundred percent in English as a Second Language in the 2021 October International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE), an examination organized by the Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE). Last year, it was Israel Curtis-Dike, another learner from Chokhmah International Academy, who emerged as the national best in English in IGCSE. But to make hundred percent in English, a feat deemed “impossible” by English teachers and examiners in the past, is an achievement of a lifetime, one for which Naomi A. Tonye Alagoa has earned my respect, one for which WAEC Oracles ought to drop their red pens at her feet in celebration of this rare feat. I am still wondering if one can make hundred percent in WASSCE or NECO English. How would the WAEC Oracle have graded Alagoa’s script had she been summoned to the WAEC court of law? What verdict would she have received? Probably, she would have made A1 or B2, definitely not hundred percent – that is a food reserve for the gods, not men. But if the owners of the English Language can be magnanimous enough to award hundred percent to a deserving candidate, one who learns English as a second language, and see nothing wrong in that, why should we, borrowers of the language, act like we are more English than the English?   NYSC Trust Fund will provide start-up capital for corps…     Surest pathway to legitimate Canada immigration, by Dewunmi…     Oldest UNILAG PhD graduate hopes to make three-wheelers…   - Advertisement - The problem is that WAEC and NECO English examinations are rules-bound, and their essays are marked such that it is “impossible” for a candidate to score the maximum mark. The lack of clear and well stated assessment objectives for WAEC and NECO English Language examinations turns the marking process into an annual gathering of puritans bent on maintaining archaic standards of perfection. Indeed, our grading system is marred by so much subjectivism, and our curriculum is suffering from want of revision as it fails to cater for modern realities. The point is that it is high time our teachers, examination bodies and educational institutions re-examined the grading system in our educational system. What we regard as A in Nigerian universities is just seventy percent and many lecturers, examiners, professors, etc. act as though seventy percent is a symbol of perfection, an apogee of excellence only few can attain, whereas seventy percent is almost a huge failure in countries like Canada, Norway, USA, etc. It is painful that we underevaluate our best brains, thereby cutting short their opportunities in the international market of scholars. For example, how does one compare a first-class graduate in Nigeria with a preponderance of seventy percent in his academic transcript with a first-class graduate in Canada, Norway or the USA with ninety percent and above all over his transcript? Which of these two promising scholars would a postgraduate school consider first for postgraduate studies? Which of them will a scholarship board consider for funding? Not long ago, in one of the schools where I have taught, I witnessed a case involving a Mathematics teacher who awarded 100% to a student and this caused an uproar among teachers in the school who kept insisting that the score must be changed. In their view, a student cannot score 100%. Some argued that awarding 100% to a student was overestimating the student’s brilliance. But what happens when a student is meticulous enough to correct every supposed error? What happens when, as an examiner, you find no fault in a candidate’s script? Do you give in to the Nigerian examiner in you, or do you allow the script in front of you to decide its fate? Often, my learners have asked me if it is possible to make hundred percent in English, and that question has created some kind of ambivalence from which I am unable to escape. My open-mindedness embraces a possible reality of their utmost desire, yet my background and experience of WAEC co-ordinations will not allow me to make such a “blunder”. Or is the Nigerian examiner in me intent on finding a reason for not awarding 100%? When next my troublesome learners begin to make trouble with this troublesome question, I can boldly say, with undeniable evidence, that it is possible – it is possible to fly high and touch the sky without falling down like Icarus; it is possible to move mountains if one works hard enough for it; all things are possible to those that believe and work out their belief – all thanks to Naomi A. Tonye Alagoa, this year’s pride of Chokhmah International Academy. Jonathan, an English and Literature teacher, wrote from Port Harcourt, Rivers State.