Until his name appeared on the ballot paper for the June 12, 1993 election, not many Nigerians outside the Kano metropolis knew Alhaji Bashir Tofa. It will however be unfair to say he was nobody before that momentous occasion. He had actually been involved in politics since he was 29 in 1976. He got elected as a councillor in the Dawakin Tofa Local Government Area of Kano State when the military regime decided to reform the local governance structure of the country. A year later, when the Obasanjo military administration decided to give impetus to its transition programme by setting up a Constituent Assembly under the legendary Supreme Court Justice Udo Udoma to fine-tune the constitution for the Second Republic, Tofa was one of the young men who found their way into the rank of the elders in the forum. He mingled with the high and mighty and was an active participant in the meetings that gave birth to the National Movement that metamorphosed into the National Party of Nigeria (NPN). At the time, it appeared that he was set to continue the movement to the very last rung of the ladder. It was no surprise when, on return of power to civilians in 1979, Tofa was elected secretary of the Kano branch of the NPN. And, given the place of Kano in the politics of the North, he was able to catch the attention of the party leaders such that within the four short years of the Second Republic, the Kanuri Muslim from Kano was catapulted to the national scene as financial secretary of the ruling political party. One could safely say that, had the military not again intervened in the nation’s political system, Tofa would likely have commanded a key position in the government of Nigeria. However, apart from holding a party office, he only managed to be appointed a member of the committee set up to oversee the Federal Government’s Green Revolution Programme. At the collapse of the republic in December 1983, barely three months after the re-election of the Shehu Shagari NPN administration at the centre, and Alhaji Barkin Zuwo’s take-over of Kano State, Alhaji Tofa had to move into private business. His area of interest was publishing. He started by writing articles for prominent newspapers of the day, such as the Daily Times, New Nigerian, Daily Sketch and Nigerian Tribune. He used that as an opportunity to prepare himself for entry into the publishing space, as well as broaden his knowledge or announce his arrival. He thereafter came up with the Hausa newspaper Alkalami. Then came Pen, published in English. The Hausa paper was popular in Kano and it goaded him into book writing and publishing. In his lifetime, Alhaji Tofa published eight books in Hausa language which he probably saw as a means of communication with, and mobilising the people.   Big stick     Sanitising NDDC     Capsized priority   In 1990, the man who was later to become the presidential candidate of the National Republican Convention (NRC) teamed up with men and women of like minds to found the party. And, he soon emerged a major pillar of the party in his Kano base. This helped him defeat the likes of John Nwodo, Dalhatu Tafida and Pere Ajunwa at the primaries that threw up the presidential candidate. - Advertisement - At his death, one event that stands out in the life and times of Alhaji Bashir Tofa is that he contested the June 12, 1993 presidential election against Chief Moshood Abiola of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). There is no doubt that he was roundly defeated at that poll, as he even lost in his Kano homestead. Abiola won the polls in the North and showed that a Nigerian could actually command the support of Nigerians across the country, despite the country’s diversity. But the test of Tofa’s principles and philosophy came when the military decided to annul that election by halting declaration of its result. Rather than write his name in the nation’s history books in gold by conceding defeat and join in resisting the government’s divide and rule tactics, the NRC candidate missed that opportunity. This might have contributed to the silence from his end since then. Even when he criticised the Buhari administration’s declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day and conferment of the highest national honour, Grand Commander of the Federal Republic on Chief Abiola posthumously, Tofa protested but his efforts were too feeble to be noticed. The man has gone the way of all flesh. All to note is that he played his part the best way he could, but younger politicians should learn to stand for the country at critical moments in history.