Five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar’s death at the hands of the proprietor of her school, Abdulmalik Tanko, who confessed to killing her with rat poison and burying her after kidnapping her and collecting ransom from her parents, reflects how kidnapping for ransom has gone out of control in Nigeria. It shows how moral boundaries have collapsed and Mammon’s expansion across the land. The viral picture of cherubic Hanifa accuses the conscience of the nation. The victim’s tender age and innocence, and her captor-cum-killer’s treachery and brutality, are striking in this tragedy. As a school owner, Tanko seemed an unlikely kidnapper and killer. But the proprietor of Noble Kids Academy in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State has shown that appearances can be deceptive. “I kidnapped her when she was returning from Islamic school and took her to my family house,” he was reported saying after his arrest. The little girl was kidnapped in December 2021. - Advertisement - “She stayed in my family house for about two weeks before I killed her. I killed her after some teachers in my school came to my house. “I became suspicious. I thought they came to investigate me because they said the girl had once mentioned my name. It was after that visit that I gave her rat poison. I then contacted my friend and asked for his help to dig a hole where the girl would be buried. “I demanded the sum of N6m from the parents. I contacted them through the phone number her parents gave the school.” He said he had collected N100, 000 before killing Hanifa, and “used N71, 000 to pay the staff members of the other branch.” His school has two branches. It is unclear if this is the evil method that has sustained the school.  He blamed his action on his “financial crisis.” Public outrage triggered an attack on a branch of the school, which was set on fire by enraged youths.  Also, the First Lady, Aisha Buhari, lent her voice to the demand for justice for Hanifa. Importantly, the Kano State government not only closed Tanko’s school but also revoked the licences of all private schools in the state, saying “the ministry of education will set criteria for their recertification.” Police spokesperson in the state said Tanko and his accomplices would be prosecuted.  This should be done without delay.  It is sad that the police failed to rescue her. It would have been better if she was alive and her captors caught and prosecuted.   The utopian myth of money ritual     Igbo mistaken on 2023 presidency     DISTANCE (1)   Hanifa’s tragic case further highlighted the “rising cases” of missing children in the state, according to the lawmaker representing Nasarawa Federal Constituency of Kano State in the House of Representatives, Nasiru Ahmad. He has petitioned the National Assembly on the “alarming” number of missing children in his constituency, and is campaigning for “a security summit”  that will involve chief imams, pastors, district and village heads to tackle the disturbing situation. Another tragic case of child kidnapping and murder, which happened in Kaduna State, shows that Hanifa’s case is not an isolated incident limited to one state. Eight-year-old Asma’u was kidnapped and killed after her captors had collected more than N3m ransom from her father.  She had disappeared some days after Hanifa was reported missing. Her father, Alhaji Shuaibu Wa’alamu, said she was kidnapped “on the 9th of December.” He had reported her disappearance to the police.  He told journalists in Zaria:  “After some days, the abductors began to call my number and demanded N15m. But we negotiated and I first gave them N2m. “They collected the money in the Rigasa area of Kaduna. Later, they called me again and demanded another N1. 5m. I did not argue. I gave the money to them.” He said he cooperated with the kidnappers “because of the fear of losing my daughter.”  “Now, they have killed her,” he lamented. The police in the state are still investigating the incident, their spokesman said.  Law enforcement also performed below expectation in this instance. It is clear that those who kidnap for ransom are tempted by thoughts of easy money, and emboldened by the failure of the authorities to effectively tackle kidnapping.  The evidence shows that ransom payers do so out of a sense of helplessness, and driven by desperation to save the lives of kidnapees. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that ransom payment will lead to the release of kidnap victims.  The two cases of child kidnapping and murder in Kano and Kaduna states demonstrate that kidnapees can be murdered even after payment of ransom. This is why it is important to emphasise the need for focused effort to rescue kidnapees. Law enforcement agents have their work cut out in this regard. Sadly, Nigeria is ranked among countries with the highest kidnap-for-ransom cases fuelled by poor socio-economic conditions and weak security. About $11m was paid as ransom to kidnappers in the country from 2016 to 2020, according to a study. This is a huge figure in the local currency, and an indication of why kidnapping is attractive.  It is an ugly attraction. The kidnapping for ransom and killing of the two little girls may well be a metaphor for anomie in Nigerian society. It is a disturbing picture of degeneration that needs to be addressed urgently.