In Okpanam town in Oshimili Local Government Area in Delta State came tragedy for which neither man nor God should take credit. But both man and God will factor into the telling of a collapsed church building that lapped up three persons, two female children and a woman. It may not be called a murder in the cathedral – apology to playwright T.S. Eliot – yet because an investigation is afoot on how a church building belonging to a religious body called, ironically, Salvation Ministries came crashing at about 5:55 pm on January 10, when the worshippers were showing their gratitude and reverence to the creator of all things. While the service was on in the town near the state capital Asaba, a construction work was going on, not only disturbing the rhythm of worship but apparently compromising the integrity of the structure. So, there are questions to be asked. From preliminary facts in the open space, this was not an act of God but a temptation. According to news reports, the building was built by an original owner, then sold to a new interest because of the economic pressures during the pandemic lockdown. The new buyer wanted to renovate the building to raise its value in the market. Meanwhile, the Salvation Ministries was a tenant while the transactions were ongoing. Its rent had not expired, so the new owner could not evict the church because that would amount to a breach of contract, and of course a litigation may cost the new owner who would most likely not win his prayer in court against the church. - Advertisement - So, both of them exercised their rights. The church had to continue to use the space because it must enjoy the value of its money. The new owner had a right not to wait till the rent expired before beginning work on remodelling the property. Read Also: Family, landlords parley over court judgment Both rights collided and led to tragedy. The death of the souls showed that their rights were not enough, and humans can be sacrificed for what was apparently the rights of others.   Leah Sharibu as symbol     Fake COVID-19 certificates     Good one from NiDCOM   The video of the tragedy as it was occurring went viral and efforts to rescue worshippers trapped inside generated impotent sympathies across the country, even as frantic efforts were made to save the lives of the worshippers. According to the Delta State Police Command statement, “Rescue operation is over. Eighteen persons were rescued initially, four persons discharged, 11 persons still receiving treatment, three deaths recorded which include two female children and one woman. Their names are unknown for now. Kindly debunk the rumours making rounds that 10 people died.” Obviously, neither the worshippers nor the owners appreciated the fragility of buildings undergoing construction or renovations. We would want to know the competence of the construction engineers. Did they take the renovation work for approval before embarking on it? Did they assess the ability of the building to withstand the structural changes? Here the intervention of the Delta State government comes into play. We have seen quite a few buildings go down in this country. In a nation that often ascribes everything to the Almighty, this is yet again an example where human efforts should not supplant that of their maker. The tragedy of Okpanam was preventable. We must lay the charge to human errors and government neglect as we have seen across the country. Even though the reports say three died, more of them are injured, and we are not able to assess the psychological harm as yet. Desperate to worship and impatient to make profit, the landlord and pastor reaped neither salvation nor profit but the deaths of innocents.