January 2022 dawned with a chill. Police Superintendent Asinim Butswat, spokesperson of the Bayelsa State Command’s confirmation of the arrest of three teenagers for attempted ritual killing knelled a jarring note. Butswat, on Friday, identified the suspects (surnames withheld) as Emomotimi,15 years, Perebi, 15 years, and Eke, 15 years. They are all boys and natives of Sagbama in Bayelsa. The trio allegedly accosted one Comfort, 13, “hypnotized” her, and afterwards led her to Emomotimi’s apartment. There, they reportedly cut her finger and sprinkled her blood on a mirror for ritual purposes. The ritual was supposed to make them rich. But for vigilant village youths, Comfort would have been history, perhaps. The vigilant youths noticed the suspicious movements of the suspects and raised alarm, said Butswat. “The suspects were subsequently arrested and some substances suspected to be charms were recovered from them. The suspects have confessed to the crime,” he said. The pagan dialectic of the teenagers’ ritual misadventure is sweepingly comprehensive and accurate about Nigerian mind and nature. The boys are the products of a culture and value system fostered by materialism, and lacking in compassion and model filial ties. - Advertisement - Their actions aren’t accidental; from plotting to execution, a hideous smattering of bestiality manifests as the teen girl’s misfortune and society’s just deserts. Yet the boys are neither freaks nor social accidents, they are simply karma coming home to roost. Emomotimi,15, Perebi, 15, and Eke, 15, are some of the monsters we made. They are casualties of our toxic materialism, cutthroat gender politics, and treacherous celebrity culture. They are what we get from society’s virulent remoulding of gender, and the precepts of becoming, of the sexes. Hitherto unacknowledged, today, they manifest as society’s dirty secret. Some would call them the shame of the male gender. The misandrist-feminist would label them as sick manifestations of “toxic masculinity” and the “very evil patriarchy.” Now, running loose and untethered, characters like the trio are not much of a secret anymore; like their kindred spirits among child bandits and Boko Haram’s child soldiers, they are wildly miseducated and fair game in a smorgasbord of spurious labelling. In their misadventure, however, we encounter afresh, the grotesque evolution of the Nigerian boychild. Culturally benumbed to maleness, he loiters at ethical crossroads. He is stuck at being a man while juggling moral and amoral precepts of his becoming. Through his dilemma, he is thought to scoff at traditional notions of maleness and embrace modern redefinitions of masculinity. The Nigerian boy’s enthrallment with easy riches is a fallout of the get-rich-quick syndrome afflicting the country’s societal divides. This malady perpetuates a fable, not of hope, but disintegration. It resonates in wildly covetous youths’ frenetic cry: “Mad o!” in admiration of pestilent quests and attainments by fellow youths – their celebrity heroes and Yahoo Boys (internet scammers) inclusive. The situation is aggravated by the frantic fostering and cues from mainstream and new media. For instance, several editions of scripted “reality shows” celebrate the pre-adolescent mind mired in a grave of delusions. Musicians, actors, cross-dressers, and the now ubiquitous “social influencers” Participants in such shows personify a deep cry for help, like Hoyle’s misdirected mortals, they will learn from avoidable mistakes, not from example. But why would 15-year-old boys engage in diabolical money-making rituals? What would they do with stupendous wealth if they had it? It is an open secret that the self-identified “Game Boy” (internet fraudster or Yahoo Boy) – be he a young adult or in his teens – oft acquires “a beast of a car,” pays for expensive sex with often older females, and lodges in the presidential suites of five-star hotels until he exhausts his ill-acquired fortune. When he goes broke, he simply recommits to the hustle, hoping that “Maga will always pay.”   Lagos clears five Dowen students accused of killing…     Okorocha: Uzodimma has a killer squad     Issues to tackle in 2022: School abductions, ASUU and…   The former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, lamented in 2019 that mothers of cyber fraudsters, popularly known as Yahoo boys, are now organising themselves into an association. Several mothers, in truth, claim to give their sons moral and “spiritual” aid with the intent to protect them from getting caught by the EFCC and the police. Where the father disapproves, he gets sidelined. The irony is that such boys are expected to fulfill the role of Nigeria’s future leaders. Woe betides such future. As you read, the Nigerian youth regresses into a fleeting fracture of the hope he ought to represent. Asides from engaging in fraud and “money ritual,” several youths seem to develop mental arteriosclerosis 40 or 50 years before they get the physical kind from chain-smoking, binge drinking, gluttony, and mental indolence. Even teenage boys have learned to perpetuate that sly, sharp instinct for self-preservation that passes as “street smarts” in social parlance. They have no patience for the vagaries of honest industry. Too many live and thrive on a perversion hence amid the clamour for a progressive, youth-friendly nation, they dream of a more permissive and corrupt society that will aid their frantic dash for unearned wealth or what they deem to be their share of the Nigerian dream. This is their Nigerian dream: a lush, breathtaking future that de-emphasizes honest toil and accords their vanities a caressing glance. They dream of strings of bank accounts at home and abroad; they hope to drive the best cars, live in palatial mansions in highbrow areas, and enjoy the most lucrative contracts and job offers even when they do nothing to deserve such. If prosperity gospel, reality television, and motivational literature won’t make them instant celebrities, then crime and “money ritual” will as reflected in the case of the Bayelsa teens. Their vanity cramps the growth of the human spirit: it restricts the resuscitation and positive engagement of their productive faculties. Thus their inability to subscribe to the hard-earned perks of education and honest toil. A societal pandemic has begun to occur: lost souls, mostly boys, wandering the streets of Nigeria’s major cities, day and night, like loose molecules in an unstable social fluid have begun to ignite. Thus our cities have become covens of immense cruelty where teen boys are taking desperate steps to become rich. The interplay of toxic materialism, misandrist-feminism, and the absence of an exemplary father figure has foisted upon us a generation of ill-nurtured boys. Economic forces aggravate the sense of disenchantment and futility among them, changing gender roles and the denouement of maleness afflict them with greater confusion. Masculinity flows from nature as an aspect of the birth mother, no doubt, but it is sculpted by society and a father figure into effective manhood. The boy-child learns by instruction, counselling, and imitation. The father moulds his character by careful nurturing, awarding punishment for vice and reward for virtue. So doing, he teaches him to be a man within acceptable precepts of culture and society. Whatever the bent of the boychild’s evolution, his resultant blooming reflects the quality of guidance he received as a child and his experiences through adolescence. Thus the maxim: The child is the father of the man. Of course, there would be no man without the pivotal nurturing from the womb through lactation by the priceless sacrifice of a birth mother. Hence the boy child is caught in a swirl of historical indebtedness to his mother. Fathers earn such allegiance by the magnitude of their immersion into the role of father, breadwinner, protector, provider, and hero, in ideal circumstances.