Sixty-one-year-old Lagos State retiree, Mrs. Fadekemi Obalanlege, retired as a secondary school principal. She was blind as at retirement due to Glaucoma, even as she had other health challenges. Despite her health condition, Mrs. Obalanlege was visibly happy at the Lagos State Pension Commission at the 90th Batch Retirement Bond Certificate Presentation Ceremony where she received her bond certificate for onward payment of her pension benefit. According to her, she has served the state meritoriously for 30 years. I have worked at many schools like Okota Senior Grammar School, Unity Senior High School Oshodi, Isolo-Junior Grammar School and Okota Junior High School where I retired as a principal in September 2020. “I am very happy and grateful to the God that I am still alive to receive my pension though I cannot see again. One of my colleagues that we work together died before she could retire. If she was alive and were to be blind, she would have received her pension benefits and be happy with her children and grandchildren. - Advertisement - My journey to blindness started in March 2020 with Glaucoma. I also have diabetes. I want government to help me so I can receive proper treatment. Another retiree, Mr. Muftau Adebayo also expressed excitement. He said he was happy to be retiring from Lagos State as against other states of the federation that owe their retirees.   Pension complaints and solutions     PenCom, PenOp refresh micro pension plan for 2022     PenCom, PFAS rise against COVID-19, macroeconomic indices in…   The Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission, Mr. Babalola Obilana said the State is constantly reviewing its business processes to ensure the financial freedom of public service retirees. He stated that the Commission facilitated the review of the Lagos State Pension Reform Law last year to eradicate bottlenecks in the processing of retirement documents and hasten access to pension benefits. He noted that this is in line with their commitment to the provision of first-class services to our retirees who have given their best to the development of the State. He enjoined the retirees to take very good care of themselves, noting that health is wealth. Governor Babajide Sanwoolu had earlier reiterated commitment to the welfare of pensioners in the state. He said retiring officers in the State Public Service now look forward to retirement with more confidence and joy. He further assured you that the State Government through LASPEC will continue to ensure that Public Service retirees not only get what is due to them statutorily, but also continue to receive, through other agencies and programmes, additional support and assistance that will add value to their lives in retirement. He said: “I will continue to run an open Government of inclusion that will ensure no one is left behind. No matter your gender, sex, tribe or special needs as long as you reside in Lagos, we will make Lagos work for you. “Lagos State has continued to be the leading light, not only in the administration of pension benefits but generally in good credible Governance. We must all therefore be determined to contribute to the change that is much expected to bail our country out of her present situation and make life worth living for everyone”, he added.