Nigerians are very religious. Religion can be a force for good but through the years we’ve also seen how it can be deployed for division and destruction. Following from our attraction to all things mystical we are naturally very superstitious – even to the point of hilarity. We look for deeper meanings and explanations where cause and effect would suffice. With an overweening sense of entitlement, we blame the gods whenever unpreparedness costs us. The Super Eagles just got dumped out of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON), triggering an almighty outcry from grieving football fans across the land. There were all kinds of online polls asking who should be held responsible. The players, the coach, referee, VAR? None of the above. By overwhelming majority respondents blamed President Muhammadu Buhari for placing a call to the players prior to the match against Tunisia. I’m still scratching my head establishing a rational link between the man in Aso Rock and the sporting disaster in Cameroon. He was not the trainer, neither was he on the field of play. We even had a helping hand with COVID-19 incapacitating 12 members of the opposing team. Still, people blame a supposedly jinxed call! It wasn’t only the rabble that were pushing this nonsense. Even those you would consider enlightened were indulging – thinking it was a lark. Shehu Sani, former senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, blaming Buhari, tweeted this in response to the Eagles’ defeat: “He toucheth the pigeon, it refused to fly. He talketh to the Eagle, it refused to fly. Oh yea brethren, thy King in Egypt hath no miracles but pyramids.” - Advertisement - One witty Twitter user @Oserume1 replied with a photo of the president raising Sani’s hand, posting: “He raised your hand and you failed to return to the Senate!” Not surprisingly the superstitious are already weighing in on the burgeoning 2023 presidential contest, airing all manner of intriguing postulations. Following the declaration of interest by former Lagos State Governor and All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, one internet user posted a meme with the mocking legend: “The masquerade that comes out first ends up as a spectator.” The inference, without any logical or scientific justification, is that just for coming out first the aspirant would end up not getting the prize. In the last few weeks a similar line of reasoning has been peddled by different writers. They suggest that in recent Nigerian history those who actively sought to be president never realised their goal. Instead, politicians who never targeted the office ended up there. They point to the likes of former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, Umaru Yar’Adua, Goodluck Jonathan – even Ernest Shonekan – to back their position that fortune favours the unprepared and uninterested. On the other side we reminded of how Chief Obafemi Awolowo fought in vain to be elected president. He prepared for high office and was widely acknowledged as a man who was ready to govern. At his death, former Biafran leader, Chief Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, wrote in the condolence register: “He was the best president Nigeria never had.” Was it just ambition that failed Awolowo? Aren’t there legitimate questions as to whether he got his messaging and coalition-building right? Did his platform have the requisite spread to win the presidency?   2023: The president Nigeria needs     2021: When the abnormal became normal     Insecurity as Buhari’s albatross   We are regaled with how it ended badly for Chief M.K.O. Abiola – a man who deployed his immense wealth, contacts and goodwill in pursuit of the presidency. He defied those who argued that because he was already a man of tremendous means he should have disavowed any interest in power. The peddlers of superstition are quick to emphasise that he never got to govern Nigeria. They underplay play the fact that this man who was prepared actually won the election. That undemocratic and reactionary forces frustrated his mandate doesn’t remove the fact that he won. It is important that Nigerians don’t succumb to the illogic that being ambitious or aspiring to great positions is something odious. Some mocked Tinubu because he told Buhari that becoming president was his “lifelong ambition.” Some people dream of becoming doctors, lawyers, governors, pastors, business moguls. What’s wrong with aspiring to be president? To everyone his dream. To some extent there’s always the hand of providence in the emergence of leaders, but we should stop making a virtue out of unpreparedness. We should stop waiting for something to happen or someone to hand us things. Such superstitious mind-set and woolly thinking is the reason Nigeria is the way it is. In the United States from where we lifted the presidential system, serious contenders begin working towards their goal two or three years before election season. They set up exploratory and political action committees years before the primaries’ season. No one condemns them for thorough planning or for aspiring. Rather than celebrating the unprepared we should interrogate the circumstances surrounding the emergence of several of Nigeria’s accidental leaders. Part of reason they were thrown up is we’ve never had a settled democratic culture. Our various attempts at building sustained constitutional rule by civilians were repeatedly interrupted by power-hungry soldiers who governed illegally for 36 out of our 61 years as an independent nation. Rather than trying to draw baseless conclusions we should remember how the likes of Obasanjo became president. The nation was still reeling from the upheavals surrounding the death of Abiola and annulment of the June 12, 1993 election results. The military wanted to make amends for its historical error. There was consensus among the political class to appease the Southwest. But in doing so the ruling junta wanted a figure they could trust and that was how the former Head of State, fresh from prison, wound up as president. The immediate run-up to the 1999 transition was a period of national turmoil. Imagine if the previous 10 years had been calm, with seamless transition between civilian administrations. Is it possible that somebody prepared for office could have emerged? Possibly. Jonathan became president because Yar’Adua died in office. If that unfortunate incident hadn’t occurred he could have gone on to serve two terms. Is it possible that somebody better prepared than the one who inherited his mandate could have emerged? Possibly. Before we can conclude that being unprepared and uninterested is an advantage in running for elective office, Nigeria must sustain the current run of uninterrupted democratic rule – letting the “ambitious” and “unambitious” go toe to toe from time to time. After a while, clear and verifiable patterns would emerge. Until then let’s stop damning people because of their dreams or reviling them for aiming high.