The Tinubu Support Organisation, one of the support groups working for the actualisation of the Tinubu Presidency, has said the former Lagos Governor has a verifiable and workable template for the rebirth of the nation. The group said that Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu stands out as the only man in the country with the credentials to lead Nigeria out of the wood, describing him as a bridge-builder and builder of people. Speaking at a news conference in Abuja, the National Coordinator of the group, Alhaji Aminu Suleiman, said the organisation has mapped out strategies to ensure the former Lagos Governor becomes the next President. Suleiman said the north owes Asiwaju a debt of gratitude for his support for emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 after his failed three attempts. He said it was time for the north to reciprocate the gesture. - Advertisement - He also said the north should use the opportunity of the Tinubu presidency to debunk the insinuation the region will betray the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress(APC). He said Tinubu has a divine mandate to transform Nigeria into a peaceful and prosperous nation. According to him: “The divine mandate of our God-sent leader is the “Rebirth of a New Nigeria”. Tinubu is burdened with the complaints on the lips of an average Nigerian as touching the current state of the economy, education, security threats amongst others.   2023 election not a do or die affair – Buni     Alleged N29b fraud: Appeal Court orders ex-Adamawa Governor…     UPDATED: Court grants Instagram celebrity Mompha N200…   “Just as he did in Lagos State, he is coming with a verified and workable template for the rebirth of the most populous black nation worldwide which his predecessors can continue to build on as practiced in Lagos State – the economic and financial capital of Nigeria. “Asiwaju has the ingenuity of promoting talented people into the position of relevance. Jagaban’s ability to condescend and relate with various sectors and calibers of men is next to none. “He is a grassroots politician who mixes freely with all cadres of people without discrimination, such as the illiterates, the market women, politicians, professionals, artisans, academicians among others. He is a mentor, teacher and life coach to many not only in the school of politics but in life generally. “In his eight-year leadership as the governor of Lagos State, He turned Lagos into the envy for other states and governors who even came down to understudy his dynamic mode of modern-day governance which is all-inclusive and also highly productive. “Asiwaju Bola drew the template that gave birth to a new Lagos- the rebirth modeler is at it again, now to set to make Nigeria go beyond being the giant of Africa numerically but also become the pride of Africa. “He is generosity personified, a kindhearted, accommodating and considerate leader who sincerely listens to others’ views and opinions from which he follows the superior argument. “Asiwaju Bola Tinubu an enigma, a philanthropist and consistent politician. Asiwaju, a detribalized national icon has travelled and influenced all the nooks and crannies of the country Nigeria- he has made himself all things to all Nigerians by identifying with their pains and providing solutions as appropriate.”