The war of words between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC) over the operation of the Ebubeagu Security Outfit in Ebonyi State continued yesterday. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in a statement, accused the state government of unleashing terror on the opposition in the state. He also called for the release of the State Publicity Secretary, Nwoba Chika Nwoba. Nwoba was arrested by Ebubeagu and handed over to the Police. He was subsequently charged with flouting the cybercrimes law of the state. - Advertisement - He was remanded in police custody by the court. The security outfit was last week accused of extra-judicial killings in the state, which led to an outbreak of violence in Akaeze, Ivo Local Government Area. Many houses and other properties were burnt when a protest in the area turned violent. The house of the council Chairman, Onyebuchi Ogbadu and his filling station were among the properties destroyed. About 11 persons involved in both the killings and the resultant violence have been arrested by the police. Members of the House of Representatives from the state under the PDP had raised a motion calling on the Police to investigate the alleged excesses of the security outfit. Ologunagba yesterday accused the state government of unleashing terror on innocent Nigerians, particularly opposition PDP members and other dissenting voices in Ebonyi. He said the party was alarmed by reports that the state government is using a heavily armed killer squad, currently disguising under the “Ebube Agu” security outfit, as a political weapon to arrest, attack and inflict grievous bodily harm on Nigerians and particularly PDP members in Ebonyi. The PDP spokesperson also accused the state government of instigating the illegal arrest of Nwoba and keeping him in detention without justification on the strength of a draconian law that did not pass through the established due process of lawmaking. “Just recently, a prominent member of the PDP and former member the House of Representatives, Linus Okorie was declared wanted by Governor Umahi without any accusation or charges levelled against him. “Our party vehemently rejects such violation of Fundamental Human Rights going on in Ebonyi State and calls on Nigerians to hold the APC responsible for acts of violence and terrorism in Ebony State.   Two kinsmen     29 killed in Niger, Kaduna gunmen attacks     How CBN is battling rise in food prices   Read Also: Umahi, Ebubeagu, the rest of Ebonyians “The PDP also calls for the immediate and unconditional release of our State Publicity Secretary in Ebonyi State as well as other innocent Nigerians reportedly detained in various facilities in the State. “As a party, we urge President Muhammadu Buhari, the National Security Adviser and the Police High Command to immediately step into the situation which is a serious threat to the security of Ebonyi State in particular and that of the nation in general. “This is because any breakdown of law and order in Ebonyi State will have a ripple effect on the fragile security situation in the entire South East region of the country and beyond.” The PDP vowed that no amount of intimidation, harassment, threats and attacks will bend the will of the people in their resolve to vote out the APC in 2023. Reacting, Governor Umahi in a statement by his Media Aide, Francis Nwaze said he had no hands in Nwoba’s predicament. ‘The said Nwoba Chika to the best of our knowledge is in the web of the Police and court for defaulting a valid law. “We are constrained to make further comments on the case of Nwoba Chika hence; his case is now pending in a court of competent jurisdiction. “The embattled Nwoba and his political party have the leeway to prove themselves innocent through the court process instead of tempting the state government to meddle in contempt of the Court,” Nwaze said. The APC state chairman, Stanley Emegha, said the Ebubeagu Security Outfit was not for political witch-hunting. He explained that what is in place as Ebubeagu Security Outfit had been in existence before the Umahi administration as Neighborhood Watch. Emegha urged the PDP to be more constructive in its criticisms of the state, noted that Umahi places a premium on security because he understands that it drives the development and sustainable growth of any economy. Also speaking, the National Treasurer of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Nkechinyere Iyioku, urged the PDP not to play politics with security issues. Iyioku, who is the Chairman of ALGON in the state and Chairman of Ohaozara Local Government Area, noted that Ebubeagu has come to stay as it is backed by law. “Ebubeagu’s contributions to the security of the state cannot be overemphasized. “That these opposition politicians come home and sleep with their two eyes closed is partly because of the security contribution of Ebubeagu working in conjunction with other security agencies,” she said