As part of celebration marking its 60th anniversary recently, Fan Milk Plc, producers of Fan Ice cream brands unveiled its newly completed state-of-the-art frozen dairy product line in Ibadan, Oyo State. Fan Milk Plc is part of the Danone Group, a world leading producer of fresh dairy products. The event attracted a lot of dignitaries including was graced by Engr Seyi Makinde, Governor of Oyo State. The governor who was represented by the Chief of Staff, Hon. Segun Ogunwuyi said, “Ibadan city has been home to Fan Milk Plc since the 1960s, when it was only a recombination plant, a distribution centre and less than 30 employees. It has now developed into an international brand impacting the Nigerian population and other countries on the continent as part of the Danone Company. We remain committed to supporting businesses, creating the right environment, providing adequate infrastructure and security. We assure Fan Milk Danone of our unwavering commitment to its business growth.”   Prima Corporation retains DataPro’s A- rating     The economy: boom or bust in 2022?     Nigerians count losses as flight delays cripple businesses   Also speaking at the event, Madam Laurence Monmayrant, the Consul General of France in Lagos said, “We are proud of the social impact Fan Milk continues to deliver through its business model. The French Government is committed to attracting investors into Nigeria and ensuring French companies like Fan Milk, Danone, can grow in the country.” - Advertisement - Responding, Ferdinand Mouko, MD Fan Milk Danone Nigeria said, “The company was established in 1961 and are happy about the scale of our reach and business – 800 employees, ten distribution centres and over 20,000 agents and vendors combined. With this new infrastructure, we can bolster our manufacturing capacity while contributing to employment opportunities and wealth creation for the people in Oyo State and Nigeria at large. We are committed to growing with Oyo State, as we collaborate with the state’s government.” While reiterating the importance of the Nigerian market to Danone and the company’s commitment to investing in Nigeria, Mr. Domenico Albanese, Danone Vice President of Operations in Africa, Middle East, and Asia, stated that the project cost eight million Euros to accomplish, which accounted for 50 per cent of the company’s capex for Africa in 2021. This investment will be bolstered by the construction of a new yoghurt line expected to open by June 2022 and a recently commissioned water treatment facility to support four neighbouring educational institutions – Eleyele High School, School of Hygiene, School of Nursing, and the School of Health technology. Other special guests that graced the commissioning included Hon. Olawale Abdul-Mojeed Mogbonjubola, Deputy Chief of Staff; Hon. Adeniyi Olabode Adebisi, Commissioner for Agriculture and Rural Development; Hon. Seun Fakorede, Commissioner for Youth and Sports; Barr. Olasunkanmi Olaleye, Commissioner for Trade, Industry, Investment and Cooperatives; Dr Wasiu Olatunbosun, Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism; Chairman of Board of Internal Revenue, Mr. Femi Awakan; Director-General, Oyo State Investment and Public Partnership Agency (OYSIPA), Madam Lola Olutola; Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa; Special Assistant Communications to the Governor, Mr. Oladayo Ogunbowale and Mr. Jide Ajani, Special Adviser Media to the Governor.