Amid probe, Abba Kyari makes first public appearance at IGP…     EFCC detains VON DG over ‘N1.3bn fraud’     Outrage as four teenagers kill girl, burn head for money…   The All Progressives Congress (APC) hierarchy, including governors elected on the platform of the party, remained in the dark last night over who would receive the blessings of President Muhammadu Buhari among those clamouring to be the party’s next national chairman. There had been no word from Buhari at press time on his choice for the exalted position, thus leaving the governors, party leaders and aspirants guessing. That was 24 hours after Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State said the party expected the president to guide the party in formulating its zoning arrangement of which the national chairmanship is crucial. Party sources however hinted that the incoming national chairman may emerge through a consensus being worked out by governors elected on the platform of the party. There were indications that the governors favour the Northcentral for the ticket. Members of the President’s kitchen cabinet, popularly called The Cabal, were said to be considering the right aspirant to recommend to Buhari. There was however fresh anger in the party over an alleged secret push for a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bawa Bwari and the Chairman of the APC National Reconciliation Committee, ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu for the slot. Some forces, including two APC governors, are said to be rooting for Bwari for the office of national chairman while some members of the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) are backing Adamu. It was not immediately clear whether the former governor of Nasarawa State would bow to pressure. - Advertisement - It was however learnt that the state chapter of APC may not back him. If Adamu and Bwari, a strong ally of ex-President Ibrahim Babangida, join the chairmanship race, the list of aspirants will swell to 13. The others are ex-Governor Abdulaziz Yari;  Mallam Saliu Mustapha (Turaki Ilorin); ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura;  Senator Sani Mohammed Musa; and ex-Governor Ali Modu-Sheriff. Also in the race are Sunny Sylvester Monidafe; Mohammed Estu; ex-Governor George Akume; ex- Governor Danjuma Goje; ex-Governor Isa Yuguda and Alhaji Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi. A top source, who spoke in confidence, said: “APC is on the edge on the choice of a new chairman for the party. “The intrigues have left our leaders divided and the situation is becoming complicated because of the forthcoming primaries for the 2023 polls. “All our leaders, especially the governors, are positioning themselves to control the party structure or secure a vantage position in the new National Working Committee (NWC). “Some hawks are desperate to alienate members of the legacy parties who formed APC. “As it is now, the party is fragile and any slip on the new chairman may leave members divided for 2023 general elections. “Already, there are speculations that some party leaders are secretly romancing with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as part of Plan B  in case APC becomes fractious. “This is why most governors are agitating for a consensus candidate to save the already charged situation.” A governor who confided in The Nation said: “To keep our party united, only a consensus candidate should emerge as our next national chairman. “We have been consulting on this alternative. “We need to close ranks beyond the cosmetic shuttles of Abdullahi Adamu’s committee which cannot achieve much. “Most governors believe in consensus, but we are looking in the direction of the President for guidance. “He has not opened up to the governors and our leaders on where APC is headed.” But another party stalwart said of the consensus option: “It’s not true. Things are still in a state of fluidity. “As taciturn as ever, the President is yet to make any pronouncement.” The top source confirmed that “the only weighty voice in The Cabal has been trying to recommend two aspirants from the Northcentral. “Buhari is exiting power but he has a mindset on the type of APC he wants. So, he is still central to the outcome of the National Convention.” Meanwhile, there were indications that some forces, including two governors, have been pushing for a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bawa Bwari, to lead the APC. A few other leaders, including CECPC members, are seeking the APC chairmanship slot for the Chairman of the APC National Reconciliation Committee, ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu. A party source said: “The emergence of Bawa and Adamu in the calculations for APC chairmanship race is part of the complexity we are talking about. “We know Bawa is an ally of ex-President Ibrahim Babangida and a PDP politician in spirit. “Do they want the nPDP component of APC to lead the party to the detriment of the defunct CPC axis? “Is that our best bargain? “Apart from age factor, how can Adamu, who is reconciling aggrieved members, now be the chairman of APC? Do they want him to approbate and reprobate at the same time? “In the case of Adamu, it may lead to a fresh crisis of confidence between him and ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura, who may see it as backstabbing, and there will be division in Nasarawa State chapter of APC. “There is anger in the party over the alleged aspiration of Adamu. Many are also uncomfortable with Bawa.” At a meeting of Nasarawa APC stakeholders during the week to support Al-Makura, Governor Abdullahi Sule said: “You can use what you have. In this state, it is only Umaru Tanko Al-Makura that has indicated interest in the race for the national championship of our great party, the APC.” The ambition of two APC governors to run as vice presidential candidate of the party is also believed to be jeopadising the interest of three national chairmanship aspirants from the Northeast. Investigation revealed that two APC governors and a former governor from the Northeast are keen to be picked as presidential running mate while three aspirants from the region are jostling for the national chairmanship position. The Nation gathered Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, Governor Baba Gana Zulum of Borno State and his immediate past predecessor, Senator Kashim Shettima, are being touted as possible vice presidential candidates. Those jostling for the leadership of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) from the region include former governor of Borno State, Senator Ali Modu-Sheriff, Chief Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe and former Minister of Aviation, Mallam Isa Yuguda. Zulum, according to sources, was originally supporting his political “godfather” , Senator Shettima, for  vice president, but the situation may have now changed as he himself seems to be interested in the position. A source said some highly influential stakeholders from the Northeast in concert with the governors may have ceded the national chairmanship to the Northcentral in expectation that the vice president ticket would come to the zone (Northeast). But Mallam Mamman Mohammed, spokesperson to Governor Mai Mala Buni, denied the rumour. According to him, his principal has no such ambition. He said: “It is a clear rumour. My principal has not discussed vice presidential aspiration with anybody. As far as he is concerned, he is on a mission to conduct a successful national convention that will give the party victory in 2023. “We have heard this rumour for quite a long time. But like I said, he hasn’t discussed such ambition with anybody. It is a rumour and remains a rumour.” Senator Modu-Sheriff had recently alleged a plot by some people from his home state to scuttle his chairmanship aspiration. The former two-term governor of Borno State penultimate weekend told newsmen in Abuja that those pushing the narrative that the position of national chairman had been zoned to the Northcentral were afraid of his political stature, hence their plot to shut him out of the national convention. “Some people are afraid because they know that I am competent to do what I am aspiring to do,” he said. Another aspirant for the chairmanship position, Chief Moniedafe, said he was unperturbed by the interest of anyone from his zone aspiring to be vice president. He said he could not stop anyone from actualising their dream, but for him, his national chairmanship aspiration is meant to ensure “a stronger and united APC for a better Nigeria”.