Former Nigeria international, Bright Omokaro, has urged the Super Eagles’ handlers to ensure victory in their first match at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). Omokaro, a member of the Silver-winning team of 1990, reportedly said that the match against Egypt was a must-win for the three-time African champions. The Super Eagles are drawn in Group D of the 33rd AFCON taking place in Cameroon between Jan. 9 and Feb. 6 and Omokaro said he had confidence in the abilities of interim head coach Austin Eguavoen-led to excel . “For any team to have qualified for the Nations Cup, it means you have what it takes to lift the trophy. Our first match is a must-win and I know we can achieve it,” Omokaro, fondly called ‘Ten-Ten’ in his heyday told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos yesterday. “Egypt or not, all we have to do is study our opponents, watch their previous matches, understand their pattern of play and counter it. “I know it won’t be a walk in the park but I so much believe in the ability of Eguavoen; he understands our football and he will give a good account of himself,” Omokaro noted.   Fans fault Joshua on link with Mayweather     Costa Rica 2022: Danjuma invites Demehin, 25 others for…     NFF yet to clear Rohr’s outstanding wages   - Advertisement - Yet against the seven-time champions Egypt, Omokaro urged the players to play according to the instructions of their coaches: “The coach has a plan I believe, and the best thing the players can do is to listen to their coaches and play as a team. “The goal should be to shine together as a team irrespective of who is perceived as a better player. “Team spirit is key on and off the pitch. The manager of the team should make our team solid, be it in the defence, midfield or the attack.” “We have the talents, no doubt, but knowing where they fit in is also key. “I want to see the Super Eagles’ flying high. We came close in 2019, and I believe we can get better results this time around,” the former full-back said. It would be recalled that Algeria won the last edition of AFCON in 2019 following a 1-0 win against Senegal in the final, while Nigeria finished third.