The Iyalode of Ibadanland, High Chief Theresa Oladuntan Oyekanmi, endorsed the decision of her fellow kingmakers to approve High Chief Sen. Lekan Balogun as the next Olubadan of Ibadan. Iyalode is the only female member of the Olubadan-in-Council. She is the head of women in the large city and heads the Iyalode-in-Council as the women wing of the traditional leadership system in Ibadan. Her endorsement was conveyed in a condolence letter to the Olubadan-in-Council over the demise of the immediate past monarch Oba Saliu Adetunji. She congratulated the kingmakers on their choice of Adetunji’s successor. The letter read in part: “May I seize this opportunity to congratulate my fellow members of the Olubadan-in-Council for the seamless nomination of the next Olubadan, Dr. Sen. Lekan Balogun in accordance with norms and traditions of Ibadanland”. High Chief Oyekanmi said she wholeheartedly aligned with the resolution of her colleagues in the council, pointing out that the decision complied with Ibadan culture and tradition. - Advertisement - Read Also: Ladoja backs Balogun as Olubadan-designate   Security agencies probe ex-NIA boss over alleged leaks,…     Hellfire memes fabricated, says son of Evangelist Adebayo     PROFILE: What you probably didn’t know about ‘Mummy…   According to her, “Dr. Sen. Lekan Balogun is the rightful successor to the throne of Olubadan and the proclamation made by my brothers at the Olubadan-in-Council was well placed and had my support and blessing. “Ibadan women are for observance of culture and tradition of our land and the choice of Dr. Sen. Balogun is our choice and have our blessings. As the head of the women wing, I, on behalf of the women folk both at home and in the diaspora assure the Olubadan designate of our unwavering support and cooperation,” Iyalode wrote. While calling on all to support the Olubadan-elect, High Chief Oyekanmi said: “What Ibadan needs now is for all hands to be on deck for a smooth inauguration of the new Olubadan and more importantly, prayer for a peaceful reign when the new king takes full charge”. This came as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 election Chief Bayo Adelabu hailed Balogun’s choice, saying he will be the most educated and youngest Olubadan. Adelabu stated this when he paid Balogun a condolence visit on Friday. He also said he was wiser now than when he contested in 2019 having learnt some more political lessons.