The Commandant of the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, Maj-General Ibrahim Yusuf has commended the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Maj-Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim for his giant strides at the scheme. He gave the commendation when he received the Director-General, who visited him in his office in Kaduna. Describing Ibrahim as a source of pride to the Nigerian Armed Forces, he remarked that his achievements in NYSC were consistent with the qualities of hard work, dedication, selflessness and dynamism, which he demonstrated in his previous appointments. General Yusuf recalled the Director-General’s contributions to the success of the NDA, especially as Head of History and War Studies Department as well as Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) Desk Officer. He noted Ibrahim’s leading roles in securing accreditation for courses of the History and War Studies Department, adding: “It was to his credit that NDA hosted a conference of the Historical Society of Nigeria for the first time.” - Advertisement - The Commandant said the D-G’s achievements in the NYSC did not come as a surprise given his (Ibrahim’s) known standard of performance. He said the Academy would continue to support the Scheme, especially in the area of Corps Welfare.   Lassa fever claims two lives in Kaduna     Nasarawa to investors: Take advantage of enhanced power…     Benue Assembly confirms eight commissioner-nominees   The Director-General thanked the Commandant for the mentorship he enjoyed from him, describing him as a thoroughbred senior officer. He expressed appreciation of the support NDA had been extending to NYSC, especially as one of the largest Corps employers. Ibrahim particularly thanked the Commandant for prioritising the welfare of Corps members, including provision of accommodation and feeding for them while on transit. He assured that the Corps members would continue to put in their best in the service of the fatherland. The Director-General has hailed Corps members serving at the Nigerian Defence Academy for being good ambassadors of the scheme, urging them to sustain the tempo of dedication and contribution to national development. He advised them to be security-conscious and avoid night travels. The Director-General also enjoined the Corps embers to use the social media only for the promotion of national unity and development as against hatred and ethnic jingoism. He advised them to develop vocational and entrepreneurship skills and to pursue their dreams with passion.