In developed economies, small businesses serve as the engine of growth to the economy. They create jobs and boost the gross domestic product (GDP). LUCAS AJANAKU examines how the tripartite partnership anchored by Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) could boost the digital capacity of the sector and make it more resilient to shocks. The International Data Corporation (IDC) forecasts that global enterprise spending on Artificial Intelligence (AI) frameworks is expected to double in the next four years, reaching approximately $110 billion in 2024. The use cases of AI have been increasing exponentially in the business world. But what caught the eye of the C-suite is the ease with which AI can handle IT operations as they are going through an advanced transformation phase. The C-suite of businesses worldwide is getting ready to tap into both the short-term and long-term advantages of Artificial Intelligence for IT Operations (AIOps). According to Wikipedia, AIOps is a term coined by Gartner in 2016 as an industry category for machine learning analytics technology that enhances IT operations analytics. AIOps is the acronym of “Algorithmic IT Operations”. Such operation tasks include automation, performance monitoring and event correlations among others.   5G revolution, return of tax master     US Multinationals et al, Illicit Financial Outflow and Tax…     Year of regulatory hammer   There are two main aspects of an AIOps platform: machine learning and big data. In order to collect observational data and engagement data that can be found inside a big data platform and requires a shift away from sectionally segregated IT data, a holistic machine learning and analytics strategy is implemented against the combined IT data. - Advertisement - The goal is to enable IT transformation, receive continuous insights which provide continuous fixes and improvements via automation. This is why AIOps can be viewed as CI/CD for core IT functions.[10] Given the inherent nature of IT operations being closely tied to cloud deployment and the management of distributed applications, AIOps has increasingly led to the coalescence of machine learning and cloud research. They are aware that the implementation of AIOps can simplify their administration tasks, DevOps, and information security (InfoSec). Along with that, as AIOps tools evolve for the better, they will be able to process a wider variety of data types. As a result, it can lead to speedy and accurate delivery of business value and enhance the performance of more specific enterprise operations. Today, businesses worldwide rely more on IT operations to smoothly run their business and boost performance. Indeed, despite all the innovations and progress in IT operations, cybersecurity stands as the primary concern among business organizations. Moreover, the need for cutting-edge cybersecurity systems increases when more enterprises begin to transform themselves digitally. “AIOps seems to have more scope in 2022 as it incorporates high-end security features. Utilizing AIOps allows an enterprise to identify security issues and proactively deploy preventative measures immediately. Similarly, it can increase uptime and eliminate the downtime of enterprise IT systems. For instance, AIOps can help an enterprise distinguish between reliable access and unreliable access from users. Once differentiated, it can automatically block the entry of any suspicious user into the system,” IDC said.