No fewer than seven people have been confirmed killed in bandits’ attacks on four villages across Igabi, Chikun and Zangon-Kataf local government areas of Kaduna State, while 18 others have been reportedly kidnapped in Udawa along Birnin-Gwari-Kaduna Road. Though, the state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan who confirmed the killings yesterday, was silent on the abduction of the 18 villagers, a community leader in Udawa, Muhammed Umaru, said one person was killed and 18 kidnapped when bandits attacked Angwar Zalla in Udawa in the early hours of yesterday. Umaru said the bandits stormed the village around 12:30 a.m. yesterday and kidnapped 18 people, including married women, adults and young ladies. He described the situation as pathetic, as he said the abductors were yet to contact families of the kidnapped victims or the community leadership. The Commissioner for Security, in his statement, said the affected communities included Angwar Zalla, Kerawa, Ungwan Rimi-Afana Road and Sabon-Garin Ungwar Dalha have been under security surveillance. - Advertisement - Aruwan said: “Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that four people were killed, and one injured, during an attack by bandits in Kerawa, Igabi Local Government Area.” “According to the report, bandits attacked the village, shooting at irregular intervals, and killed four residents, identified as follows: Lado Shuaibu, Usman Haruna, Ayuba Muntari and Jafar Abdullahi.   Bandits release two more Baptist students     Six Afaraukwu inmates regain freedom     NIMET alerts airline operators to poor visibility in eight…   “One Mallam Mamuda was left injured, as the bandits carted away from some motorcycles and supplies from the community. “In another incident, armed bandits attacked commuters along the Ungwan Rimi-Afana Road in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area. One Joshua Kawu sustained gunshot wounds on the chest, and was rushed to a hospital, where he was confirmed dead.” Aruwan, in another statement, said: “Security agencies have reported to the Kaduna State Government that two people were killed by bandits in two attacks that occurred in Igabi and Chikun local government areas.  “According to the reports, bandits invaded Sabon Garin Ungwar Dalha, a village on the outskirts of the Maraban Jos area, Igabi Local Government Area. “The armed bandits attacked the village and broke into some homes, all the while shooting into the air. One Hadiza Mohammed, a housewife, was caught by their gunfire and died instantly. “In the second incident, bandits attacked Ungwan Zallah in Udawa, Chikun Local Government Area, and one Moses Jaja was shot dead. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai received the reports with deep sadness and conveyed his sincere condolences to the families of the citizens who were killed in the attacks across the two local government areas. He wished the injured person a speedy recovery as he commiserated with the attacked communities,” he said. Aruwan, however, said monitoring of the affected areas was being sustained by security agencies.