Former Auditor-General for Local Governments in Lagos State Alhaji Muhammed Hassan sspeaks on how to improve local government administration in this interview with TAJUDEEN ADEBANJO How can local government administration be effective?  I believe that local governments should be run by experienced people. If it is managed by capable people, councils will grow and they will perform better than they are doing now. For instance, the current crops of council chairmen in Lagos State are young people. Some of them have never come in contact with tangible money before and now, they are in charge of millions of naira. How do you think they will feel when they see such money? They will misbehave. If we put competent people to handle the resources of local governments, it will rise and they would be self-sustaining. The most important thing is capacity building. Capacity in terms of putting experienced people in charge of managing the resources of local governments. Also, autonomy should be given to local governments. If we say local governments are just coming up and we treat them like toddlers, was that the way the Federal Government managed the states? If they are allowed to grow on their own, they would be responsible for their actions. There are too many vested interests in local governments. The state House of Assembly, commissioner for local governments and others often go there. But, if there are too many cooks, the soup would be spoilt. Local governments should be allowed to grow and with time, they will rise to the required standard. The constitution places local governments under the state. Unless that is changed, there is nothing we can do, the state governors will continue to influence activities at the council level. - Advertisement - You worked as a treasurer in some local governments… (Cuts in) When I was in some local governments, my focus was to put the councils in better shape and bring the records up to date. Everywhere I worked, I ensured that records were up to date. However, there was a nasty experience I had. I tried to digitalise the accounting system of a particular local government and I had almost concluded the process when I was posted somewhere else. My successor later reduced that project to nothing; he went back to the manual mode of operation. Tell us your experience as an auditor for local governments in Lagos State? Before my appointment as Auditor General for Local Governments, when we were placed on the oracle, they placed the permanent secretary above me; I did not accept and wrote several letters until Tinubu asked. ‘’Who is this boy writing to me all the time? Give him what he wants.’’ So, I became the first Permanent Secretary Auditor General for Local Government. In that office, I was the first. When I was there, it was just like table-turning, I was in local government and they were auditing me, and now I am in charge of those auditors. The first day I resumed, they were not willing to corporate with me, but with my experience here and there, I called a management meeting immediately I resumed. About two or three of them went out on excuse; I said okay they can go. Suddenly, I saw them running back, maybe somebody phoned them that we are in a meeting. You know, I believe in decentralisation, it will develop others to grow, and they will know what is actually happening in the office, and then the capacity growth of the staff was fantastic. When I got there, I saw that report review was centralised with one person; I asked was this the reason why audit reports are always late? Then, I will resolve it today. I created eight coordinators, they will go to the field, write reports, and then forward all to me. When I saw that the system was still slow, I divided it to 16 again. I never knew the woman that I took the job from did not like it, she was an authority there, and she comes and leaves the office any time she likes. I told her look, I am not a new person in this field, I have learnt a lot, I have read so many books about management leadership. So, one day I sent the woman to represent me on an occasion, she did not go and did not revert back. The organisers called me that they did not see me or my representative. I asked my secretary to call her. Madam, why did you not attend that programme that I sent you to? She responded in a rude manner. I went to report to the Head of Service (HoS) and she was redeployed to another office. That brought sanity to the system. I do go to the office Saturdays and Sundays to read the reports. There was a time they ganged up against me, maybe it was a coincidence anyway, all of them submitted their reports on Friday, when I saw it, I was like this is work, and there is no problem. I went to the office on Saturday and Sunday, and by Sunday evening I cleared all the files. When they saw it, they were like this man is difficult to work with; he wants to kill us with works. If you are tired of the work job, you can resign. I changed the face of the office to the extent that council chairmen now visit the place. Before I got there, no council official used to come (to the Auditor-General’s office). But, after I got there, I changed the face of everything in the office, ranging from the personnel, buildings and equipment. Also, I updated the statutory report. When I got there, they were in arrears for many years, so I updated all the reports. The toughest decision was when I said some people should be sacked because they had overstayed in the service. Some had spent 40 years while some had three different birth certificates in their files. I brought them to the office with their files for physical interviews and they admitted that the three different birth certificates were theirs. That was what got them immediate retirement. Some refused but I blocked their salaries. Let’s have insight into your activities at the MD of Lekki Concession Company?   Odili and agitation for power shift in Rivers     Abaribe’s governorship ambition a huge joke- PDP chieftain     2023: Jonathan’s son-in-law joins Cross River guber race   LCC is a multinational company and a multi-billion naira establishment. I have never managed a billion naira establishment before, so when I got there, I have to adjust. It was another experience entirely. I was accustomed to working in the civil service but when I got to LCC, I started to study the way they operate. Since LCC was established, there had been no promotion for all the staff, and there were no organisational structures. I wanted to establish structures and carry out promotion exercises. But, I couldn’t achieve those. However, I know I made a positive impact while there. I realised that when LCC was established, they didn’t really consider the residents, and that is why they (residents) were aggrieved. When I got there, I started dialoguing with them (residents) one-on-one and they talked to me from the depth of their hearts. They said they would not have anything to do with LCC. But eventually, they agreed with me. I also had quarterly meetings with the bales (kings) in that area. The residents had different associations and I used to join them for their quarterly meetings and they told me the things they needed. It was at one of those meetings they told me that at the head office of LCC, there was a ‘small god’ there, while there was another ‘god’ at the roundabout in the Idado area. No matter the way they repaired that place, it would collapse after a short period. I asked them what was needed to appease those gods, so they would allow us to grow. They discussed with me freely because I told them I am a ‘son of the soil’. I was the first Lagosian to manage that place; others were ‘imported’ and called technocrats. That’s why 90 per cent of the workers there were not Lagosians. I wanted to change so many things but there were so many saboteurs within. It was annoying that after we agreed on a particular issue, they would go back to tell some people what we were planning to do. I would then be called ‘from above’ and asked to shelve whatever I wanted to do. Since you left service, what have you been doing sir? Busy doing nothing, I am just collecting my pension. What did you miss in leaving civil service? That respect, I missed that. Because I later realise that it is when you are in office that you are respected, when you leave that office, they will not even say good morning, talk less of asking where you are going boss. We have some permanent secretaries that are retired and cannot go back to their former office today. What lesson has that taught you, sir? Be humble, honest and be focused, because when another opportunity comes, the people that are not talking to you will turn again and start greeting you. The excuse you gave while preparing to retire was that you wanted to go into politics, so far, are you still interested in becoming a politician? I am already a politician, as long as I can contest an election, I am a politician already. I attend their meetings, we discuss issues, and I am part of the leaders of the political party in my area. Do you still intend to run for an elective office? I don’t intend to run for any office for now. I am stepping aside for the reason best known to me. Maybe you are not interested because you think it’s a dirty game? It’s not dirty; politics is not dirty, because if you say it’s dirty and you leave it for the dirty players, they will continue to rule us, and they will continue to make it dirty.