Nigerian Labour Congress NLC is poised to challenge the federal government’s plan to remove whatever remains of the fuel subsidy regime by the first quarter of this year. The government had late last year, announced plans to eliminate the subsidy regime. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Zainab Ahmed said while announcing the plan that the government in conjunction with its development partners was working on measures to cushion the effects of the subsidy removal on the most vulnerable population. “One of such measures would be to institute a monthly transport stipend in the form of cash transfer of N5,000 to between 30 to 40 million deserving Nigerians”. Then, the Managing Director of the NNPC Mele Kyari had indicated that fuel would sell for between N320 to N340 per litre when the subsidy is fully removed. That represents more than 100 per cent increase from the current selling price of between N162 and N65 per litre. But the NLC and many Nigerians are vehemently opposed to the idea. As a demonstration of its opposition to the proposal, the NLC announced plans to embark on rallies in 26 states of the country on January 27 to be followed up by a nationwide protest on February 1. It rejected and resolved to resist the increase in the pump price of petrol as “it is extremely insensitive to the acute hardship being experienced by workers and Nigerians”. Organized labour has gone further to mobilize its affiliate unions and civil society partners for the proposed action against fuel subsidy removal. The way things stand, the NLC appears poised to confront the federal government if it goes ahead with the proposal without concrete assurances on how to cushion the effects of the removal on workers and the Nigerian people. - Advertisement - Government’s promise of N5, 000 cash transfer to about 40 million Nigerians to cushion the effects of the removal does not seem to have gone down well with the people including organized labour. So also are the promises for the revitalization of four public refineries and others to cushion the effects of the subsidy removal viewed with utmost suspicion. There are issues as to the criterion to arrive at the 40 million beneficiaries of the programme. And in a clime public funds are rarely properly managed, the cash transfer programme could be another avenue for public officials to line their pockets to the detriment of intended beneficiaries. The efficacy of the cash transfer programme in substantially addressing the fallouts of the subsidy removal on the most vulnerable population is another moot issue. What of the general increase in the prices of goods and services that are bound to be triggered off by fuel price increase given the centrality of fuel in all economic activities? It is also not certain how long the cash transfers would last and the fate of a sudden stoppage on beneficiaries. But the governments believes with developments in the oil sector such as the Petroleum Industry Act 2021, the envisaged reactivation of four public refineries as well as the coming on stream of private refineries under construction, the negative effects of the subsidy removal on the people would have been mitigated. Read Also: NLC to stop bill prohibiting health workers’ strike Experts have argued that Nigeria faces a critical choice on this singular issue. It either continues to pursue a business-as-usual policy approach while its economy and job market deteriorates or it undertakes bold measures that will put Nigerian on a robust and sustainable long term growth path. The Jonathan regime had during the controversy trailing the deregulation debate argued along the same line when it contended that it would open up vast opportunities for school leavers and population of unemployed graduates in the new refineries and petrochemical industries that will emerge after deregulation. President Jonathan had then also said “even if we deregulate and I am shamed, posterity will be there to judge me that I did the right thing and I will be vindicated when Nigerians start enjoying the benefits of my decision”.   A bill denied assent twice     An arrest gone awry     Endangered Imo royal fathers   Implicit in this statement was the recognition that deregulation could come with serious backlash with severe consequences for the country if its fallouts are not well managed. We shall return to this. The other argument in favour of petrol subsidy removal is that it is costly and benefits the richer households more. There are also issues relating to smuggling especially across neighbouring countries that are associated with the subsidy regime.  But perhaps, the strongest argument in support of subsidy removal is that it will free substantial funds to the government to pursue its development objectives. The federal government is targeting N600 billion annually from the subsidy elimination which it hopes to deploy to catalyse monumental infrastructural development. This amount represents the difference between the promised annual cash transfers of N5, 000 monthly to 40 million vulnerable Nigerians and the current annual subsidy on fuel that is put at N3 trillion. The logic is that by eliminating fuel subsidy while protecting poor and vulnerable households from any inflationary impact, reducing inflation through a mix of exchange rate, trade, monetary and fiscal policies, the Nigerian economy would be substantially stabilized. That is the projection. But in our circumstance, all things are never equal as the so-called Nigerian factor is most often, known to have distorted very perfect policies and projections. That appears to be the point of disagreement between ordinary Nigerians and organized labour on the one hand and the government on the other. Why fuel subsidy is still mired in serious controversy even with the persuasive appeal of the arguments of the federal government and its development partners is the matter to contend with. But one thing that remains certain is that there exists a high level of mistrust regarding the capacity of the government to effectively manage funds from the subsidy regime. The government is also not trusted by the people to keep faith with the social intervention measures. Under the current government, the price of fuel was increased to its current rate with similar promises to ameliorate its adverse effects through social intervention measures. Under the same government, the prices of goods and social services went on top of the roofs. More Nigerians have been sent below the poverty line with our country taking up the unenviable record of the poverty capital of the world. The situation promises to further degenerate when fuel subsidy is finally eliminated. So, what purpose will the intervention of the NLC serve even when fuel subsidy has been effectively eliminated from the 2022 national budget? And can the NLC be trusted to offer stiff resistance to the proposal such as was mounted by the Occupy Nigeria group which compelled Jonathan to back down from such a proposal? If our experiences when this same government jerked up the selling price of fuel from N87 to N165 per litre are anything to go by, one may comfortably conclude that not much will be gained from NLC posturing. The current NLC leadership is weak and cannot be trusted to sustain a prolonged fight against the government on this issue. It may be grandstanding just to fulfil all righteousness only to chicken out sooner or later. So we are left with the reality of the elimination of the subsidy regime and its adverse repercussions on the Nigerian people already living below the poverty line in the face of worsening unemployment. This is not the time to play pranks. Neither does it provide another chance to the government for vague and unfulfilled promises. The country is at a very critical trajectory on this matter. What its leadership makes of the social intervention policies to cushion the harsh effects of the subsidy removal is bound to chart the future in the days ahead. But the matter could be very explosive with wider consequences capable of rubbishing whatever gains that would accrue from the subsidy removal. It is a time bomb.