The planned national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is still dicey. The party’s Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) has said it is currently addressing the contestations and other issues that emanated from the recently-conducted congresses and how to reposition the party ahead of the national convention. The committee also refuted suspending the planned national convention and shifting it till June. But, it did not announce whether or not the convention will still hold in February as approved by President Muhammadu Buhari. CECPC Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, in a rebuttal statement in Abuja yesterday, described the rumoured suspension of the convention as fake. - Advertisement - He urged party members and the general public to disregard the story.   Afenifere: we have no presidential candidate for now     Tinubu: Lawan has harmonised Executive, Legislative…     Encomiums for Senate President Lawan at 63   The statement reads: “The general public is advised to completely disregard fake news on the reported suspension of the planned National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) till June, as reported by some media outlets. “Dates for party activities, such as meetings, primaries, congresses, national conventions, are communicated through well-known official channels and not through ‘sources’. “The faceless authors and sponsors of fake news on APC activities, in this case, the planned national convention, are simply bent on causing confusion and fomenting crisis through misinformation. We should not enable them. “As a focus-driven, process-oriented political party, the APC Caretaker Committee under the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni will not be distracted by self-serving antics of these sponsors of fake news.” It added: “The APC Caretaker Committee is already embarking on nationwide consultations with party stakeholders to prepare the ground for a rancour-free national convention. To this end, the Sub-Committee on Budgeting and other substructures will be set up in due course. “Finally, the party notes and appreciates the continued support of well-meaning members and leaders as the APC Caretaker Committee undertakes the immediate task of addressing contestations within the party, litigations, fallouts of recently-conducted congresses and generally reposition the party ahead of the National Convention.”