Ardova Plc at the weekend said it would conclude the construction of its 20,000 metric tonnes Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) storage facility by this December. The groundbreaking for the LPG storage facility at the company’s Ijora-Lagos office was held recently. The facility sits on 8.8 hectares and has a combined storage capacity of 20,000 metric tonnes, regarded as the largest in West Africa. Chief Executive Officer, Ardova Plc, Olumide Adeosun said the LPG facility underscored Ardova’s commitment to grow revenues from cleaner fuels. According to him, the project marks an important step in the company’s evolution to an integrated energy company, as it draws closer to its projection of a future where renewables and cleaner fuels represent a considerable segment of its product offering and balance sheet. “This facility, when completed, will be West Africa’s largest LPG storage complex, placing Ardova at the top of the industry in receiving, blending, storing, and distributing the product to both commercial and retail customers.   BluePeak okays $200m private capital fund to Grit     Fintech firm gets data security certification     ‘Majority of Africans lack collateral to take loans’   - Advertisement - “It also indicates the direction of travel for our company, as it spotlights our confidence in LPG as the fuel of the future in Nigeria, in congruence with both the Nigerian government’s gas expansion plan which seeks to make LPG mainstream at the end of the decade and the present growing rate of in-country consumer adoption of the product,” Adeosun said. He noted that Ardova’s investment in the facility supersedes the expected commercial returns, as the company is equally focused on the positive environmental and human impact that increased According to him, Ardova is also particularly interested in the improved socio-economic prospects the project portends for citizens of Nigeria, especially rural consumers whose reliance on biomass such as firewood makes them vulnerable to attendant health risks and reduces much needed ground cover provided by trees at alarming speed. “By December 2022, when construction is completed, we will have a facility that will be both best in class and future ready. The firms involved in the construction, fabrication, and sourcing of every single component to be used in this project have been benchmarked against the highest standards of Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) management, as well as Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) specifications. I am confident that we will deliver a world class facility that will continue to yield results for the company in decades to come,” Adeosun said. Ardova, a leading integrated energy company involved in the marketing of petroleum products in Nigeria, operates a network of over 450 retail outlets spread across Nigeria with major petroleum storage installations in Lagos and Rivers state. The company’s business segments include fuels, lubricants and greases; liquified petroleum gas; cylinder sales; and renewable energy solutions.