House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila on Sunday offered to play a friendly game with a teenage chess champion, Oladejo Murewa. Murewa, 12, won the gold medal and was the Under-14 overall winner of the Gbajabiamila Grassroots Chess Competition 2021, which was held last week. The Speaker made the offer at Iponri, Lagos when he met Murewa, Efetobore Omoefe who won gold in the Under 8 category of the tournament and other winners and participants of the tourney in Surulere, Lagos. The visit was a part of Gbajabiamila’s tour and inauguration of projects he facilitated in his Surulere 1 Federal Constituency. - Advertisement - The projects are part of the 137 projects he facilitated since he assumed office as Speaker in 2019, which he has been inaugurating since last Thursday.   PSG’s Messi, three others test positive for COVID-19     Dennis claims Watford threatened him over AFCON     Klopp to miss Chelsea clash with ‘suspected’…   He inaugurated 12 roads in the Surulere-Mushin boundary areas. They are the Mabo – Fashoro – Bishop link roads, Shodipe – Akobi – Owokoniran- Laniyan link roads, Odejayi Crescent, Olodeokuta Street, Ramos Street, Rosamond Street, Iponri Zone A, B and D roads, Mayday Road, Bishop Kaale Road, Bishop Howell Road, Royal Estate Road and Eric Moore Towers Road. “I will change you one of these days. When there is time, you and I will sit down and play chess together,” he said to Murewa, after receiving the winners and their trophies. Last Friday, Gbajabiamila added eight more roads to the two mini stadiums and five roads he inaugurated a day earlier, making it a total of two stadiums and 25 roads in four days. On Saturday, he visited the Randle General Hospital where he inaugurated a solar mini-grid at the Randle General Hospital, comprising a 40 KVA solar panel inverter and 40 KVA generator. He ended the tour with an inspection of the construction work on the 1.7km Babs Animashaun Road, the 50-bed Femi Gbajabiamila Hospital at Iyun Road and the upgrading of the Abalti Barrack Football Pitch to a mini-stadium.