Investors at the Nigerian stock market earned N7.76 trillion in net capital gains in the past 24 months as Nigerian equities defied COVID-19 disruptions to sustain a two-year positive trend. Nigerian equities closed at the weekend with two-year average return of 56.1 per cent, equivalent to net capital gains of N7.76 trillion over two years. Amidst the restrictions and global uncertainties created by the pandemic, the stock market built up a two-year successive rally, driven largely by domestic investments and recent renewal in foreign portfolio investments (FPIs). The benchmark index for the market, the All Share Index (ASI) of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), closed at weekend with average return of 6.07 per cent for 2021, equivalent to net capital gains of N N1.278 trillion. - Advertisement - The market had in the throes of the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020 recorded average return of 50.03 per cent, representing net capital gains of N6.483 trillion. Market analysts predicted continued rally at the market, despite emerging political risks. The President of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, said two years of positive returns show that the market is reflecting its function as the barometer for the economy. Amolegbe said: “We also expect the positive movement for the first half of 2022 on the back of good corporate performance, implementation of some part of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) and intense focus on infrastructural development and resultant increased capital by government and corporate entities.” According to him, the implementation of the PIA has potential to raise government revenue, which may elicit a positive response from the market while infrastructural development would likely boost market activity.   2023: Jonathan meets with coordinators     Buhari: states fighting lost battle on $418m Paris Club cash     Suspension dollar sales: 15,000 BDC jobs at risk   “These however depend on stable macroeconomic policy, increased security and stable polity,” Amolegbe, who doubles as Managing Director of Arthur Steven Asset Management Limited said. Managing Director, APT Securities and Funds, Mallam Kasimu Garba Kurfi also said the market would remain positive in 2022, although the second half would be determined by the politics of succession by the largest political parties. Kurfi said: “We expect the bullish rally to continue in first and second quarters but the continuity to the third and fourth quarters depends on the outcome of the primary election of the APC and PDP if they are able to succeed in electing the right candidates for the presidency. Acceptability will lead to bullish rally throughout the year, otherwise, the market may suffer a reversal. Group Head, Research, GTI Capital Group, Mr. Emmanuel Onoja, said there was strong possibility of the market running through a third positive year. “It’s most likely we see a third year of positive return given the potential liquidity buildup next year as a result of increased borrowing, election spending and falling yields,” Onoja said. The ASI closed 2021 at 42,716.44 points, 6.07 per cent above its 2021’s opening index of 40,270.72 points. The ASI – a value-based common index that tracks all share prices at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), is generally accepted as Nigeria’s sovereign equity index, a barometer for measuring pricing trend and investors’ mood at the stock market. All major sectoral indices also closed positive, with the exception of the benchmark for the industrial goods sector. The NGX Oil & Gas Index led the rally with average return of 52.52 per cent. The NGX Insurance Index posted a full-year return of 4.54 per cent. The NGX Banking Index recorded average gain of 3.32 per cent. The NGX Consumer Goods Index rallied net gain of 2.78 per cent. The NGX Pension Index, which tracks stocks specially screened in line with pension fund investment guidelines, rose by 16.96 per cent. The NGX Lotus Islamic Index, which tracks stocks that comply with Shari’ah rules, returned 5.74 per cent while the NGX 30 Index, which measures performance of Nigeria’s 30 largest quoted companies, closed with average return of 5.01 per cent. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the NGX closed 2021 at N22.297 trillion as against N21.057 trillion recorded as opening value for 2021, representing an increase of N1.24 trillion or 5.89 per cent.