Cameroon begin their campaign on home soil against Burkina Faso in a Group A which also includes fallen giants Ethiopia making a rare appearance on the big stage, and surprise package Cape Verde who have shown they are capable of hanging with the best teams on the continent. Home advantage sees Cameroon not just as favourites to emerge from their group in top spot but also among the frontrunners to take the big prize come February. Although perhaps not the powerhouse of years gone by, the likes of Ajax goalkeeper Andre Onana, Napoli’s on-loan Fulham midfielder Andre-Frank Zambo Anguissa and Bayern Munich striker Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting are the standout names in an indomitable Lions team determined to impress in front of their own supporters. The Indomitable Lions were kings of Africa as recently as 2017 and are under pressure to make it six – though they will need to build momentum right from the start. The hosts will look to their experienced players to carry the burden of expectation, with the likes of Vincent Aboubakar, Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting, Karl Toko Ekambi and Michael Ngadeu-Ngadjui all seasoned at international level. - Advertisement - “We will have to put a tactical strategy with the creativity of our players to make the difference. Nowadays there are no easy matches. A lot of difficulties are expected but we are prepared and ready to go into battle,” said Cameroon coach Toni Conceicao. Burkina Faso, meanwhile, are returning to the AFCON after missing out on the 2019 edition in Egypt. They finished an impressive third in 2017 and were runners-up in 2013 – their two best showings in the history of the tournament. The Stallions also boast some experienced campaigners – headlined by Aston Villa striker Bertrand Traore, as well as defenders Steeve Yago and Issoufou Dayo – and they will revel in being the underdogs in this opening game. Coach Kamou Malo says he would prefer “a team that goes into the competition with a lot of fears”, adding: “If at the beginning of a competition you get a good result it’s always flattering but it’s not always indicative.” In head-to-head stats, Cameroon and Burkina Faso have met in nine matches across all competitions since 1998, with the Indomitable Lions claiming four wins compared to one for the Stallions, while four games have been drawn. The teams last met in an African Nations Championship (CHAN) group stage match in Yaounde in January 2021, with the clash ending all square at 0-0.   SALAH UNCENSORED     AMUNEKE: Super Eagles will bravely defend their chances in…     Troost-Ekong confident Eagles can stop Salah   Meanwhile, Cameroon coach Toni Conceicao  has admitted  the weight of public pressure is on him as his side hosts the Africa Cup of Nations, adding that the local fans “don’t forgive failure”. The Portuguese is looking to lead the Indomitable Lions, who last lifted the trophy in 2017, to their sixth continental crown .. “We know that Cameroonians have high hopes because the competition is taking place here,” he told BBC Sport Africa. “Since the moment it was decided that AFCON would be hosted in Cameroon, every Cameroonian has felt that this will give them the advantage to win the trophy. But for us football professionals we know it doesn’t work that way. “We feel that people are more demanding of the Indomitable Lions because of their history and what they’ve accomplished in the past: five African titles and the seven times they’ve been present in the World Cup. “I hope to win because if we don’t reach the objective of at least reaching the final, it’s going to be a difficult journey. We have to be mentally strong so we can at least reach the final. “If we don’t, it will be difficult for us, the technical staff, to deal with the criticism, because people here don’t forgive failure.” Cameroon face Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, and Cape Verde in Group A and take on the Burkinabe in the tournament’s opening game in Yaounde today. Conceicao described  the group as “well-balanced”, but is understandably wary of the challenges his side will face as they look to reach the knock-out stage. “We’ve been watching a few of Burkina Faso’s games and they have a good team,” the 60-year-old added. “Cape Verde have improved greatly and are ever-growing in experience and maturity. “The opening game, whether it be at the World Cup, a championship in Cameroon, or a European Championship, is always difficult. “From a historic point of view, people think Burkina Faso and Cameroon will get through, but I don’t think like that. I will put my players on alert.” The 33rd  edition of the Africa Cup of Nations is set to end on Sunday 6 February, when Yaounde hosts a final which many Cameroonians are hoping their team will be part of.