Against the backdrop of the contentious issue of zoning in the race for the Delta governorship ticket, Okungbowa Aiwerie, examines the issues surrounding the quest for power by the Urhobos and Ijaws. With 2023 Delta State governorship elections looming, there is growing disquiet amongst the Urhobos over the clamour by the Ijaws in Delta South to produce the next governor. The angst against the Ijaw governorship ambition is hinged on the idea that the power rotation principle favours a return of power to Delta Central having rotated between Delta South and Delta North since 2007. But with renewed urgency among a slew of PDP aspirants in their push for Delta PDP governorship ticket, the stage is set for an epic battle for the top job in the state. Despite, the tacit endorsement of power rotation by Delta PDP stakeholders, the contentious issue of zoning continues to rear its ugly head at every election cycle; threatening party cohesion and unity. Although, the power rotation principle appears entrenched in the affairs of the ruling Delta PDP, yet some politicians including the Urhobos , regardless of party’s position on zoning, have often contested past elections. But while its obdurate members had often had their say, the party always had its way by electing its preferred candidates. Clarifying the issue of zoning at a press briefing in Asaba, recently, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa said, “There was no formal meeting where an agreement was reached on zoning and that is the truth as at today. It means that whatever we are doing or talking about today is about fairness, equity, and how to define fair and what is equitable and hinged on justice.” - Advertisement - The fact the power rotation issue was not formalised may have emboldened aspirants who vie for elective positions, even when it means going against party decision. As the battle for Governor Okowa’s successor rages, several lobby groups promoting narrow ethnic interest, have emerged. The formation of Ijaw 2023 Governorship group led by ex- Minister of Police Affairs, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo and DC-23 headed by Chief Ighoyota Amori, are clear examples. While DC-23 is championing the cause of an Urhobo candidate, the Ijaw 2023 Governorship group is promoting the interest of an Ijaw governorship candidate. Both pressure groups, in the past few months, have criss-crossed the state holding consultative meetings with political leaders and other ethnic groups. The battle line appears drawn between the Ijaws in Delta South and the Urhobos in Delta Central over who will produce the next governor. But which group’s candidate will emerge successful at the end of the day? Will the ruling party insist on zoning by backing an Urhobo candidate from Delta Central or go against its policy by throwing its weight behind an Ijaw aspirant? The Ijaws argue that with rotation having gone full cycle, the race for the 2023 governorship position should be on the basis of ethnicity rather than senatorial districts. While justifying Ijaws’ quest to become the next governor, former Police Affairs Minister, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo, argued that since the Ijaws had supported other ethnic groups in the past, it is the turn of the Ijaws to lead come 2023. His words, ” We have  been on the move consulting on behalf of the Ijaw nation to produce a governor in Delta State come 2023, we started since May 2021 and we have covered  huge grounds, the responses has been good, we are  all excited as Ijaw people. We have discovered that the governorship office of Delta State is just there for us to take. Deltans, this is the era for the Ijaws to rule this state. Delta Ijaws have supported others in becoming Governors of the state hence it is now our time to also enjoy the support of others to produce the next Governor of the state. We have consulted and I can assure you that the coast is now clear.” For the Ijaws, the three aspirants that have indicated interest in the top job are Senator James Manager, Delta Deputy Governor, Kingsley Otuaro, and Dr. Braduce Angozi. The push for the governorship position by some Ijaws appears not to have the support of all Ijaws, unlike the Urhobos that have shown a degree of unanimity in their quest. But for the Ijaws, some stakeholders including the traditional institution have voiced concerns over the Ijaw governorship ambition. A group, Ijaw Mandate Group led by Andaye Dagidi in statement recently, maintained that the Ijaws’ should support the Urhobo governorship bid in 2023 and wait for 2031. The group fulminated against the quest of some Ijaw leaders describing it “ as self seeking adventure that should not be confused as Ijaw agenda”   Uzodimma: Two years of firm hands on the plough     Enugu: PDP and Ekweremadu’s rescue mission     Benue 2023: I’m the most suitable for this time…   He said, “An Ijaw had aspired and contested to be governor of Delta State previously in 2015 without Ijaw support because it was not yet the turn for Delta South Senatorial District, where Ijaws belong, which still subsists and valid till 2031, a salient and incontrovertible rule of PDP. It is therefore erroneous to consider the self seeking adventure of some individuals in their quest for the governorship seat in 2023 as Ijaw Agenda. It is inappropriate and a fallacy of the highest order; they are merely exercising their rights to freedom of expression, which is sacrosanct to all. Continuing, “The IMG will continue to canvass, propagate and articulate our position across the nooks and crannies of Ijaw land, which is considered by the group as a proper and perfect Ijaw Governorship Agenda in Delta State in 2031, which actually begins in earnest from 2023 by our support for Delta Central Senatorial District, thereafter for power to rotate to Delta South Senatorial District in 2031, where our own agenda shall be properly situated and easily realised.” For the Urhobos in Delta Central, over fifteen aspirants have thrown their hats in the ring. A situation which forced DC-23 to prune down the numbers to five aspirants.  According to DC-23, the five successful aspirants are Senator Emmanuel Aguariavwodo, Olorogun Kenneth Gbagi, David Edebvie, Chief James Augoye and Delta Speaker, Sheriff Oborevwori. Expectedly, the move by DC-23 to prune aspirants of Urhobo extraction has attracted criticism from several quarters. National President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights ( CDHR), Dr Kehinde Taiga lampooned DC-23 for violating the rights of aspirants by screening the aspirants. His words, “DC-23 screening has no constitutional backing. No group has right except the party. It is the party under which they are contesting that can do that and not DC-23. What Amori is doing will cause serious division and disharmony in Urhoboland and the consequence will be catastrophic. Some aspirants have already started saying that if they mistakenly talk of screening them out, there will be trouble in Urhoboland. DC-23 is a selfish group. It has a selfish, self-orchestrated agenda. “Why is the DC-23 not screening candidates from other parties. Will APC not field candidates for the governorship election? The name is DC-23 which is Delta Central not DC-PDP 2023. Why is it inviting only PDP aspirants? With this we know it has no good objective.” Rationalising DC-23’s decision to prune the number of Urhobo aspirants, its national chairman, Chief Ighoyota Amori said, “We set up the screening committee because of the multiplicity of our aspirants from Delta central, we believe that it will be a miscalculation for us to go into the primaries with over 15 of our people who have already indicated interest to contest the governorship election to go and contest with people probably a senatorial district that has one or two aspirants. “We need to put our house in order, we don’t need to go into the election with 15 or more aspirants. If we do that then definitely we are going to fail. So is an internal arrangement of people of Delta central to reduce their number. Not everybody actually who have indicated interest for the governorship election are really capable from the general assessment”. Reacting to the argument that ethnicity should be the basis of power rotation, Chief Amori countered, “Those who want to contest against aspirants of Delta Central Senatorial District have their argument for the governorship seat likewise us but we can’t talk of zoning on ethnic lines because the state is made up of various ethnic groups like Urhobo, Ijaw, Itsekiri, Isoko, Ika, Ndokwa, Oshimili, Aniocha and few others, hence the appeal for us to maintain the zoning arrangement on senatorial districts line. “We want to establish a sustainable system where when it gets to the turn of your senatorial district, no one from other senatorial districts will contest against the benefitting district. So the argument that Urhobo or other ethnic groups contested during the turn of other senatorial districts will no longer be there”. To win the Delta governorship election requires the support of other ethnic groups as no ethnic group has the population to win. Therefore, the ethnic groups in Delta North Senatorial District will play a huge role in determining who succeeds Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. The answer to this question will become clearer in the months ahead.