Ahead of the 2023 general election, more pressure groups have stepped up lobbying for former President Goodluck Jonathan to join the presidential race. A coalition of pressure groups, under the aegis of the National Coalition for Goodluck Jonathan (NACOJO), has concluded plans to embark on aggressive grassroots mobilisation for Jonathan across the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Addressing reporters yesterday after an enlarged executive council meeting of the body in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital, NACOJO National Convener Munene Wilson said the body would release a comprehensive timetable next week for the inauguration of its state chapters. Wilson said the body realised that Nigeria needs a leader that is abreast with the current political and economic challenges of the country, saying Jonathan is such a leader. He added: “The Nigerian nation must not be handed over at this critical moment to a leader that will run experiment with her political and economic challenges. - Advertisement -   Why many power elite can’t wait for Buhari to leave…     Bandits killed 300, abducted 200 in Niger State within two…     ‘President to get reworked Electoral Bill this week’   “We plead with the former President to consider Nigeria above his personal interest and yield to the popular call for him to run for the 2023 presidential election on the platform of a preferred political party.” Wilson was accompanied by the group’s National Secretary, Dr. Iteimowei Major, the Director of Organisation/Legal, Ovieyi Theophilus and the Director of Media and Publicity, Mr. Ayebaitari Easterday. Also, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Moses Ayom, has written a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari about his aspiration to contest the 2023 presidential poll. His letter, titled: “Indication of Interest to run for the Office of President in 2023,” was dated, January 13, 2022. It reads: “With great humility and deference to your good self, I, Moses Chiahemba Ayom, member of the APC, wish to formally notify you of my interest in seeking for the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in the 2023 election under the platform of our great party the APC.” Ayom said he joined the race to impact the nation more positively and “build a vibrant economy that helps Nigerians and businesses to realise their potentials,” among others.