Traders at the Akure spare parts market, Ondo State capital have protested alleged imposition of one Kayode Olorunfemi as leader of the market. The traders accused the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, of imposing Olorunfemi as their leader. They urged the local authorities to intervene before the matter assumes a dangerous dimension. The protesters said Olorunfemi had been at leader of the market since 2021. Leader of the protesters, Kole Amueyinoge, said they were tired of the continued imposition of Olorunfemi as leader of the market even after they extended his tenure by 12 months. - Advertisement - According to him: “We also visited the local government authorities who organized a peace meeting with the traders and we all signed a peace accord with Olorunfemi who promised to vacate the seat last December, while an interim Committee will be put in place. “We are surprised to learn that the Committee has been halted not to conduct an election until further notice and Kayode should continue as our Chairman.   Buhari okays establishment of Diaspora Investment Trust Fund     Shonekan’s Abeokuta residence calm after his demise     Why use of toothpick is harmful to oral health — dentist   “We will resist Kayode to lead the traders in Mojere market, he has caused more atrocities in the market. The Deji of Akure had installed him as the Asoju Oba in the market and should step aside from contesting for the Chairmanship position. “The Deji of Akure should not meddle into the leadership of the market as we pay directly to the local government. The local government is in charge of the market and we have informed them.” But Olorunfemi described the protesting traders as ‘lazy bones’ and insisted he remained chairman of the spare parts market. “I am not bothered by their noise. Those making noise are not traders in the market. I decided to stay off the market in order not to disrupt the peace in the market,” he responded. Chief Press Secretary to Deji of Akure, Mr. Micheal Adeyeye, said the Monarch has no special interest in any of the candidates jostling for leadership of the market even though the market is traditional market. He said the Deji of Akure only installed a traditional leader in the market and not a chairman.