A pressure group, South-south Emerging Leaders’ Forum (SELF), has thrown its weight behind the aspiration of Senator Ibrahim Musa to serve as national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It urged the party leaders to shun individuals indicted by anti-corruption agencies for election as executives on February 26. The group also warned the party should not allow any bloc to take over the reins of the party. In a statement in Abuja on Wednesday, the national coordinator of the group, Barrister Preye Wilson, warned the ruling party does not need a national chairman that will be going in and out of the anti-corruption agencies’ offices to explain dealings in the past. SELF warned: “If any of these allegedly indicted chairmanship aspirants is elected as a national chairman the party will be easily blackmailed by the opposition parties and other critics.” - Advertisement - The group noted: “President Buhari, who claims the fight against corruption is the cornerstone of his administration, has constantly frowned against corrupt persons taking up positions of leadership.   Garba Shehu follows Tinubu media support group on twitter     Delta APC publicity secretary resigns, leaves party     Time has come to choose wisely   “With some of the aspirants still battling cases at the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, will the President as the leader of the party, and the APC hierarchy be willing to look the other way or will they insist that anyone is free to contest? Providing an answer to this question would require looking into the profiles of the 11 aspirants.” The South-south forum asked the party delegates and leaders at all levels to consider brilliant Senator Mohammed Sani Musa’s integrity, track records, firmness and simplicity for election. “For us in the South-south Emerging Leaders’ Forum, we believe that the best way the ruling party can continue to discourage corruption as clearly stated in the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari is to elect a new national chairman that’s free of EFCC or ICPC cases. “We also note that since the successful merger process the produced the ruling APC former Governors have had enough time. From our father, former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande, who was succeeded by another former governor of Edo state Chief John Odigie Oyegun and later to another former governor of Edo state Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, we feel it is time to try a Senator and a competent hand at that. “We, therefore, appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President and Speaker, former and serving Governors and all the APC leaders at all levels to support the aspiration of Senator Mohammed Sani Musa from Niger state to emerge the next national chairman of APC. “This we believe that governing APC will not regret. We have taken our time to investigate all the aspirants, we have listened to them on various platforms and also read about their plans for the party and therefore come to a conclusion that Senator representing Niger East is currently the best to lead an anti-corruption political party among other indices.”