Rapper Eedris Abdulkareem has lambasted ex-president of Performing Musician Association of Nigeria(PMAN) Charles Oputa aka Charly Boy. The Jaga Jaga singer called out Charly Boy for allegedly selling him out to Nigerian Breweries when he had an altercation with American rapper, 50cent, in 2003 during an edition of the Star Trek. Reflecting on the whole fracas, Charly Boy had shared a video where one of 50 Cent’s signee, Young Buck narrated the incident. Young Buck narrated what transpired between the G-Unit crew and Eedris Abdulkareem, whom he referred to as a Nigerian artiste during their visit to Nigeria. However, Charly boy claimed to have chased Young Buck and 50 Cent back to America for disrespecting a Nigerian artiste. Charly Boy wrote: “Yes, modafkr, dat dude was CharlyBoy (2003) PMAN president, who sent ur black ass back to America for disrespecting and beating up a Nigerian artiste. Na today?”   Lagos state announces plans to immortalise Sound Sultan     My parents aren’t forcing me to do music, Burna Boy’s sister…     Shaffy Bello: I am a one man woman   - Advertisement - This, however, didn’t go well with Abdulkareem who said the social activist only wanted to steal his shine with the post. Eedris swiftly took to the comment section to react saying, “shut up, you collected N70 million from Nigerian breweries to blackmail me, you also collected the evidence of the attack by 50 Cent and G-Unit from DJ Tee, who recorded everything that happened in the plane on that fateful day. DJ T was arrested by the Nigerian police to shut him up and then he relocated to the US. Nigerian artist the likes of P-Square, KC Presh, E-money were chased out of the backstage with koboko by the same organisers that you conspired with so shut the fuck up. You are a betrayal and a fake activist. You are all about money, not leadership. Anyways the full story is projected into a full album. I want to use this opportunity to thank Young Buck for exposing the real truth of what happened inside that plane Jah bless.” Continuing, Eedris said, “You claimed Odimegwu put you in the cell for about a month for standing up? Well, the truth is that indeed Odimegwu got you locked up in a cell at Abuja during Ehindero’s IGP tenure for 13 days, based on your personal business dealings with his company that went bad. The Legend Charly Boy Show, when that brand-sponsored your television program. Ultimately, you used the opportunity of the Eedris/50Cent face off as a bargaining chip to make money from NB Plc (who sponsored the 4city concert)! “If you have confessions to make, please do so while the sun shines, and stop looking for relevance and undue adulations in every and any issue that crops up! Abeg, grow up! Isn’t it shameful that this particular Obi is still going to school till now? Na waooo ooo.”