The Dozy Mmobuosi Foundation has pledged to offer less privileged students a loan to enable them to complete their education. It is designed to provide financial support to Africans that cannot afford to attend a tertiary institution. “The aim is to provide fair and affordable student loans to Nigerian students in tertiary institutions across Nigeria,” said the founder, Dozy Mmobuosi. According to him, the beneficiaries will not start repaying the loan until after five years. The three per cent interest rate does not start until the repayment window starts, he added. - Advertisement - The foundation said it would support the government in the production and delivery of the COVID-19 vaccine in Nigeria. A statement on Tuesday by Mmobuosi, who is the Founder and Chief Executive Office of Tingo Inc. and Tingo International Holdings, said: “With less than five per cent of the population fully vaccinated, Nigeria needs a coordinated plan and all the help it could get in order to have as many people vaccinated as possible.” Speaking at the foundation’s launch, Mmobuosi said it was exploring how it could work towards supporting vaccine production and distribution in the country.   We don’t meddle in Ooni’s marital affairs, say…     Assess my performance, Amaechi tells Nigerians     Navy alerts public on fraudulent recruitment websites   He believes contributing his quota to increase vaccination in the country would be of great importance to Nigeria’s health system. The Dozy Mmobuosi Foundation was established on January 1, 2022. It marked the festive season with children in some low-income communities in Lagos. Mmobuosi said the foundation plans to extend scholarships to deprived children across the country. Widows and smallholder farmers throughout the country would also be getting grants from the foundation as time goes. The foundation will also be providing support for women across the country and supporting and promoting initiatives targeted at gender equality. According to Mmobuosi, the foundation will also be partnering with the government at all levels, including non-governmental organisations and educational institutions, towards engaging Nigerians, Africans, and the leaders in better critical thinking practices. Mmobuosi believes that providing courses around critical thinking and entrepreneurship will be the framework for a highly-skilled, high performing, next-generation workforce and leadership which will pave the way for Africa to meet its true potential.