With leaders Bayern Munich in their sights, Borussia Dortmund may have an ace up their sleeve in the pursuit of the defending champions thanks to USA international Gio Reyna soon returning to action for the Black-and-Yellows. Following a super start to the 2021/22 campaign – in which the American scored twice in three Bundesliga appearances – Reyna picked up a hamstring injury while on USMNT duty last September and has been sidelined ever since. “The injury turned out to be a bit more serious than we expected,” Dortmund coach Marco Rose later noted, with Reyna forced to sit out his club’s subsequent 16 top-flight games. However, now ready for a return to selection, the talented teen is eager to aid BVB’s challenge of gaining ground on champions Bayern.   Makinde mourns 3SC’s General     Troost-Ekong sets sights on AFCON title     Eguavoen: Super Eagles will practice penalties   “We’re on a pretty good track (with Gio); he’s training well,” Rose explained when offering an update on the 19-year-old attacker’s fitness. “Now we need to improve his performance parameters and get him match fit.” A return to the pitch is imminent, with Dortmund next in Bundesliga action against Hoffenheim before the international break gives the teenager even more time to get back up to speed. Going into the current season, Reyna played a starring role as the USA won the CONCACAF Nations League. The son of former USA internationals Claudio Reyna and Danielle Egan, Reyna scored to equalise against Mexico in the rescheduled showpiece and then set up ex-Schalke man, Weston McKennie, for 2-2. On hand to score the winner in extra time in Denver was former Dortmund favourite Christian Pulisic. - Advertisement - Given the Dortmund No.7 jersey by the departing Jadon Sancho last summer, the one-time New York City FC man was fully focused on taking his game to the next level as he headed into his third term at Signal Iduna Park. “I think everybody saw the bits of what I can do last season but I guess to put it through 40-plus games this season and try to consistently put more good performances in,” he said in pre-season. “Really just try to be a little more consistent, try to take my game to the next level and improve in any way possible.”