Nollywood actor and filmmaker Jim Iyke have revealed that his “fight” with his colleague, Uche Maduagwu, was orchestrated to promote his new movie, ‘Bad Comments’. He made this revelation in a recent interview with Chude Jideonwo. Last August, a video went viral where Iyke was seen confronting his controversial colleague Maduagwu. The former angrily stormed the premises where the latter was. A surprised Maduagwu asked how his senior colleague was able to trace his location while threatening that EFCC will get him for the act. - Advertisement - Jim Iyke charged at the Instagram celebrity, kicking and throwing punches at him with the staff around restraining him. Maduagwu continued to say his colleague would be picked up by EFCC while also threatening him with a lawsuit. This further provoked Jim Iyke as he rushed into the room and continued hitting Uche Maduagwu. After the incident, the star actor in an interview with BBC Igbo debunked claims that his attack on Maduagwu was a stunt for his new film. Validating the incident, Iyke said he was angry with the way Maduagwu was going about painting people black. He said: “I have spent almost two decades in this business for somebody to rubbish my efforts. “I went there to talk to him more like a brother but unfortunately what happened, happened.” Continuing, Iyke said he did not behave like a mature and elderly colleague despite Madagwu’s libellous claims about him. Iyke reiterated that the incident was not a stunt for his film. “It wasn’t a stunt for my forthcoming movie. Those people he is busy disparaging can turn around to assist him tomorrow. “I am somebody’s father, husband, brother, uncle, and so on. I have so many people who are dependent on me. I have four companies with over 50 people working, directly and indirectly, it is not nice to bring down people for no reason,” he said.   Singer Crayon: Wizkid inspired me to do music     Bobrisky begs billionaires to patronise his ‘market’     Fans rejoice as MC Oluomo reconciles Iyabo Ojo, Faithia…   Uche Maduagwu said: “How did you know that I am here? EFCC will carry you for this thing we you come here. You know they are looking for you.” Jim Iyke replied: “You think I won’t find you? Mehn! I troll in real life. How did I think you’re here? Are you mad?” In a new development, the brain behind the movie “Bad Comments” has said the whole drama with Maduagwu was a stunt that was orchestrated to achieve wider publicity for his movie. He confessed to having chosen this ‘strategic’ path because upon the release of the movie despite having spent over N20million in its promotion, people still showed a great degree of cynicism. Jim Iyke said: “The fight with Uche Maduagwu was orchestrated. I’ll give you two scopes. “Do I look like the person that just in the introduction of one the most important works in my entire career to go and jeopardise it by myself? No, I’m too strategic. “Orchestrated! I wanted to tell them to paint the picture of what’s like in the social media ecosystem. I can orchestrate anything and you will perceive it. “It’s about perception! That will show you that the world is surreal. There is nothing that exists in that world. “I called the men, we had an understanding, I paid very well for it, wrote the script, called Moses and we shot it. I’m about to release the ending it. “I’m not stupid. I will never make that kind of mistake. I even called my sister the day before and she said that it will backfire. “I said ‘No’. I understand people’s mindsets. Social media has a propensity for gossip and bad news, there’s no how it won’t catch fire. “We buried over N20milion in the promotion of that film and people were still viewing it with a certain degree of cynicism. Immediately there was a scandal, it caught fire. “I spent money, billboards everywhere, things everywhere. “Everybody was just like; “Hmmm this film! I mean, what’s it going to be? This oyibo film he’s trying to bring out. “He might just be looking for a way to come back after a failed career. Blah! Blah!! Blah!!!” I heard it all. “I then said; ‘I’ll now teach you people who is the master of this thing.’”