An aspirant to the Presidency of the country in 2023, Prof Christopher Imumolen, says Nigeria needs a new crop of leaders to turn the fortunes of the country around for the better. Imumolen said this while officially declaring his intention to vie for the top job in the country in Abuja on Saturday. He urged the youths to get more involved in determining the leadership of the country in 2023. He however said he would not disclose the political platform he intends to run on yet as he wants the focus to be on personality instead of party. Imumolen, who is the founder of the Joint Professional Training and Support (JPTS) an Institute of Science Management and Technology, said he has over the years been involved in private business that have supported millions of Nigerians and there was a need to reach more people by gunning for president. He expressed confidence that the country has what it takes to become better if properly harnessed by the right leadership.   Buhari inherited too many setbacks – APC youth leader     Advertising: Henley Business School, AAAN award $28, 000…     I received 19 written threats for undertaking banking…   “My call on the youths is that we have over 60 percent active youths in Nigeria. I have made myself available because I believe I have what it takes. I have built empires that have supported millions of Nigerians and this is the right time. So the youths should get their PVCs. They should not just convene on social media. This is the high time for us to know that we have what it takes for it to be done,” he said. He stated investors are the drivers of the economy and if he is successful, one of his plans would be to to rejig the investment politics in Nigeria to encourage investors. “We now live in a country where even Nigerians are afraid to invest in Nigeria because of a very bad business environment and investment. That is why other West African countries are catching on to some of our poor policies. We are going to be looking at that and in our time we are going to ensure that these policies are re-framed to attract incentives and motives for those who truly want to come to Nigeria,” he said. He said the insecurity situation in the country needs a sincere analysis that will ensure that those who are involved are identified and made to face the law. “We don’t need to play around that. If we continue to do that we continue to lose souls in this country and it also would further hamper the development we want to have in Nigeria,” he said.