Interswitch, payment solutions and digital commerce company, has announced its support for the ongoing National Privacy Week  organised by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA),  which ends tomorrow. While focus on its goal of building a prosperous Africa through the provision of digital payment solutions, Interswitch is also deliberate about prioritising data protection standards, and as such, has aligned itself with this programme to promote awareness on the importance of data security among Nigerians, taking into cognizance the dangers present in today’s digital world. The theme for the week-long  is ‘Data economics in a digital economy: Charting Nigeria’s data strategy’. This year’s event is the second major campaign following the issuance of the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation (NDPR) in 2019, created to ensure Nigerian businesses are consistent with global standards on data protection and privacy.   Fitch affirms Ecobank’s stable outlook     FirstBank CEO advocates investment in knowledge     Ardova targets December 2022 for West Africa’s largest LPG…   Driven by the need to embed data protection standards that keep customers’ data safe, Interswitch’s operations are underpinned by world-class standards and certifications such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), Management System (ISO 27001), Management System (ISO 9001), among others. - Advertisement - Speaking on the company’s support of the National Privacy Week, Group Chief Risk Officer, Interswitch Group, Griffith Ehebha, said the firm remains committed to applying stringent measures that preserve the safety of customers’personal information. He said: “There is no doubt about the existential threat of cyber-attacks across the world. Indeed, it is reported as one of the top five highest rated risks, as the attacks become more frequent, targeted, and complex. At Interswitch, data protection and regulatory compliance are critical to customer confidence and sustainable business growth. “Our support of NITDA’s National Privacy Week stems from our commitment to raise awareness and promote privacy and data protection best practices,” he added. The National Privacy Week also features activities including a health privacy workshop titled ‘COVID-19 and Privacy: Navigating data privacy rights in a pandemic’ and data privacy advocacy sessions at secondary schools. There will also be a quiz session to stimulate the minds of students on the importance of keeping information safe while surfing digital platforms.”