On the day President Muhammadu Buhari made a personal phone call to the national team’s Garoua camp, the Super Eagles crashed out of the 2021 Africa Cup of nations(AFCON) after losing 1-0 to a much tactically disciplined Tunisia at the Stade Roumdé Adjia. Following the Super Eagles shocking defeat to the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia at the knock out stage of the ongoing African Cup of Nations in Cameroon, Nigerian legend Augustine Okocha admitted that the North Africans were the much better side. The Super Eagles were clear favourites heading into this game against a Carthage Eagles team which had lost two of their group stage matches and were hit by several Covid-19 absences, but a surprise long-range strike early in the second half from Youssef Msakni, as well as a red card for Alex Iwobi, Okocha’s nephew, tipped the tie in favour of the North Africans. Speaking after the match at the SuperSports Studios, the former Paris St Germain and Bolton Wanderers creative midfielder said that the Tunisian came into the game with a superior game plan than the Nigerians, which was executed to perfection. “Tunisia outsmarted us; they came with a better game plan and executed it well.” Okocha said. “I have always said you are only as good as your last game.”   Many injured as train crashes into Dangote truck, tricycle…     Police probe death of man in Ebonyi     Court orders takeover of building over public safety   - Advertisement - “The team made things difficult for them. They should have tried to keep things simple.” “We just have to pick ourselves up moving forward.” He added: “The problem of the Super Eagles against Tunisia was that the team lacked the needed leadership because no player was ready to take responsibility in the match. “I did not see anyone taking charge of the team among the players as everybody was just playing his own style. This really lacked in the team. “The result was disappointing for a team aiming to win the title. We were not just clinical enough and we did not even hit the target in the match,” he added.