The Court of Appeal in Abuja has scheduled hearing for Friday in the three appeals filed in relation to the dispute over the last congresses conducted by the Kano chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). On Tuesday, a three-man panel of the court adjourned hearing till January 21 after lawyers in the cases including Nureni Jimoh (SAN), Mamman Lawan (SAN), Steve Agbehi (SAN) agreed to an adjournment to enable parties file all the necessary processes. The appeals are: Hon. Olayide Adewale Akinremi and another vs. Murtaka Bala Salaiman and 17915 others (CA/ABJ/CV/1020/2021) ; APC vs. Muttaka Bala Sulaiman and 17914 others (CA/ABJ/CV/1034); Dr. Tony Macfoy and 3 others vs. Musa Muhammad Chola and 1325 others (CA/ABJ/CV/03/2022). They are against the November 30, 2021 judgment by Justice Hamza Muazu of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), upholding the congresses held by the Ibrahim Shekarau faction of the party. On January 13, Justice Muazu withheld his scheduled ruling on an application filed by the faction of the Kano APC loyal to Governor, Abdullahi Gabduje, seeking to set aside the court’s earlier judgment. - Advertisement - Justice Muazu, upon being informed that the court’s November 30, 2021 judgment has been appealed and records transmitted, also declined to hear the Ganduje faction’s pending application for stay of execution of the judgment. Owing to the crisis in the APC in Kano state, the two factions of the Kano APC conducted parallel congresses on October 18, 2021.   BREAKING: APC National Convention holds Feburary 26 –…     Alleged N6bn fraud: Mompha opts for remand at Ikoyi…     NLNG suspends export of cooking gas for 100% domestic supply   While the Ganduje faction returned Abdullahi Abbas as the state Chairman, the Shekarau faction produced Ahmadu Haruna Danzago. The party’s national headquarters later endorsed the one conducted by the Ganduje faction, a decision that was challenged before the FCT High Court. In its judgment on November 30, 2021, the court held in favour of the Shekarau faction, following which the Ganduje faction filed appeals at the Court of Appeal, Abuja. The faction also filed two applications at the FCT High Court; one asking the court to set aside the November 30 judgment, and the other praying the court to stay the execution of the judgment. At the last adjourned date, the court heard the first application and scheduled ruling for January 13, 2022 when it also planned to hear the second application. But when the case came up on January 13, lawyers to parties drew the attention of the judge to the fact that an appeal was pending against the November 30 judgment and that the appellant has compiled and transmitted records of appeal to the appellate court. Ruling, Justice Muazu noted that in view of the fact that the records of appeal has been transmitted to the Court of Appeal he no longer has jurisdiction to take further steps in the case. The judge said he could no longer deliver the scheduled ruling and also lacked the jurisdiction to hear the second pending application for stay of execution. Justice Muazu proceeded to strike out both applications.