Rising fertiliser prizes in Nigeria and the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa could threaten food production this year, analysts have said.  They warned that high prices and tight supplies of fertiliser will contribute to rising food price inflation. Recall that cost of fertilisers soared last year amid rising demand and lower supply in the country. An Abuja-based farmer, Innocent Mokidi, urged the government to take steps to mitigate the steep rise of fertiliser prices which have doubled in the last year, making the commodity to soar out of the reach of farmers. Last month, a bag of fertiliser which previously sold for between N5, 000 and N5, 500, sold for between N12, 500 and N15, 000. As at today, a bag of urea sells for between N16, 000 and N17, 000. Despite this, fertiliser are scarce in the market. According to Mokidi, it is quite a struggle for farmers to access fertiliser at the going price. Apart from fertiliser, he further explained, the rising costs of other essential inputs such as seeds and pesticides are also on the rise, weighing heavily on farmers as they prepare for the planting season.   Fed Govt spent $1.68b on food imports in 9 months     N10/litre excise duty’ll hurt output, revenues, says MAN     FCMB partners Ogun on home loans   - Advertisement - To put the rise in fertiliser prices into perspective, Vice President, West African Fertiliser Association (WAFA), Dr. Innocent Okuku told The Nation, that the global increase in the price of essential ingredients in fertiliser production was one of the factors responsible for the current situation. Non-profit organisation, International Fertiliser Development Center (IFDC), estimates that total fertiliser demand in the region is around 3.3mn t of all products. Okuku noted that soaring freight costs and logistics were responsible for the rising fertiliser prices. Globally, fertiliser price increases are being driven by nitrogen production challenges, tight global supplies, rising natural gas costs and steady demand. IFDC estimates that should prices remain higher the consequence will be devastating: a reduction of 30 per cent, or two million metric tonnes (MT), translates to 30 million metric tonnes (MT) less food produced, equivalent to the food requirement of 100 million people. This comes with significant repercussions and will further increase smuggling, while food prices continue to rise.