The Nasarawa State government  and  top construction  company Reform Sports West Africa have signed an agreement that will  ensure that  the  Lafia City Stadium soon  wears a new look.  The Nasarawa State Government signed the  agreement with the Abuja- based Reform Sports West Africa Limited to transform the facility in line  with  best practices and  with the mandate to commence work immediately.  Speaking during the  brief ceremony at the facility in Lafia,  Nasarawa State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Ambassador Lucky Isaac Yargwa stated that the contract include laying  of  a new Astro Turf on the football field,  construction of Athletics Tartan Tracks and Hockey Pitch which is  in compliance with earlier directive by the State  Governor Engineer Abdullahi Sule. In his words: “Sports and youth development are some of the mainstays of the Governor Sule administration who   has made it categorically clear that he would revamp the sector to meet  the best practices. “We are a state blessed with so much sports talents and enthusiasts, so  we can’t afford to fail them. We have the mandate  to make facilities readily available to them in order  to harness their potentials. - Advertisement - “Today, you can see one of those evidences. “We are fixing a new astro turf on the soccer field; we will construct  a world class tartan tracks and   a befitting hockey pitch.”   AfCON 2021: Keep winning, Buhari tells Super Eagles     BREAKING: Nigeria beat Guinea Bissau 2-0     AFCON 2021: Ghanaian coach vows not to resign in spite early…   He disclosed that five companies bided for the job, but Reform Sports West Africa Limited was picked because it has the pedigree and  credibility to deliver to the  job specification and also meet the  time frame. “We are glad that this is happening today. The bidding process was rigorous, but at the end, we have a company that can deliver on the job specification,” Yargwa stated. “Due to the  exigency of the job, we  agreed with the contractor to conclude  the job within a short time frame. “We have sorted out all the grey areas, and I can assure you that our Stadium will be ready for any kind of sporting events in the next couple of weeks. “This is to enable our sports men and women return to the facilities upon completion.” Meanwhile, the CEO of Reform Sports West Africa and  the contractor handling the project, said his company will deliver the job  at the specified time. He promised to deliver a quality job, adding that  when completed, the facilities will enjoy  a long life span.Reform Sports West Africa Limited is reputed to have handled similar projects in Enugu and other parts of the country.