After months of speculations about his next political move, former Lagos State Governor and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Monday, formally declared his intention to run for the country’s presidency in 2023. He disclosed this after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. In his interview with State House correspondents, Tinubu said it has been his life-long ambition to serve the country as president. Expectedly, he made news all through the week. He is still trending in the aftermath of his public declaration of his presidential ambition. Already, his declaration has triggered a race amongst chieftains of his party to similarly announce their interest in the race. In the words of Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, “Asiwaju Tinubu is a man of many firsts. And he has as usual scored another first by causing others to remember they have presidential ambitions.” - Advertisement - After his encounter with Buhari, journalists wanted to know why the acclaimed kingmaker now wanted the main prize.  Not one to be caught unawares, Tinubu had an answer waiting. “There’s nowhere in the world where a kingmaker cannot himself be king. “I’ve never seen the cap of a kingmaker before. That is the truth. And I have never seen where it is written in the rulebook anywhere in any country that a kingmaker cannot be a king unless he has committed murder. ” He equally shrugged off the question about him and his age-long political protégé, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, possibly battling for the APC presidential ticket, by saying “I don’t want to discuss individuals now. I must discuss myself.” Tinubu wasted no time in assuring his listeners of his qualification for the top job. “I have the confidence, vision and capacity to rule, build on the foundation of Mr. President, and turn Nigeria better. I’ve done that before in Lagos State. You’ve seen that experience and the capacity to turn things around and that is what we are doing,” he said.   2023: Southern, Middle Belt leaders insist on zoning     Don’t present unqualified candidates for Ekiti, Osun polls,…     Police arrest eight for eating, selling human parts in…   Reactions have continued to greet his disclosure. While his aspiration is garnering widespread support from supporters nationwide, critics of his politics, like the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said he was on a “journey bound to nowhere.” On various social media platforms, Tinubu’s declaration was almost the only item being discussed since Monday. While his critics are strongly opposing his aspiration, his supporters are all out to convince doubters that the former Lagos governor is the man for the job. Interestingly, both his critics and supporters seem to agree on his eligibility and preparedness for the job. “Tinubu is qualified for the job. He has the network to be a good president but we want a new face in Aso Rock,” Douglas Ofulue, a Facebook user said. In a ready counter, a social media group under the auspices of the Tinubu Defenders, says the only way to repay Tinubu for his sacrifices for the country is to hand him the APC ticket. The convener of the group, Bola Bada, explained that members of the platform were ready to give their support for Tinubu’s presidential ambition. Former member of House of Representatives and Director General of the Tinubu Support Group Management Council, Abdulmumin Jibrin, said the APC leader was in the race to compete with others and was way ahead of the competition in terms of popularity. He said: “There are other candidates. We are not campaigning that they should not contest; they should come out. After all, we are one and after the primaries, we are coming together as one. So, we are fine with everyone. We are ready to face everyone vote for vote”. “Everywhere you go, especially, in the northern part of the country, it is Asiwaju and I am able to see that. I am not a politician, who sits in Abuja. I am a proper grassroots politician, so I go to the grassroots, not only in my own state but all over the northern part of the country. I hold gatherings with over 5,000 persons in attendance. I have also been in this game for a while, so, I have contact of the people who are going to vote.” Allaying fears of an implosion in APC should Tinubu square up with other prominent chieftains for the presidential ticket, Jibrin said, “Tinubu is an experienced politician. He will look at everybody and see how everybody is going to be involved. I have no doubt that he will carry everybody along.” No doubt, this deft political move by Tinubu towards the realisation of his life-long dream to govern the country, will be discussed for a long time to come.