The police in Ebonyi State said they are investigating the torturing to death of one Nnaogo Akpoke Anyim in Ivo Local Government Area of the state. A video of the said torture has since gone viral on social media with members of the state chapter of the Southeast security of outfit, Ebubeagu being accused of being responsible for the victim’s fate. Police spokesperson, Loveth Odah confirmed to The Nation the arrest of some of those involved in the torture and death of Mr Anyim. She said those involved were members of the outfit managed by Ivo Local Government Area. In the video circulating online, Anyim was tied hands back and tortured with axe by his captors said to be some operatives of the security outfit in the area. - Advertisement - He was said to have later died from the injuries he sustained during the torture. He was accused of serially robbing and molesting women sexually and other alleged crimes in the area. Odah said some victims of the Anyim’s attacks are at the state police clinic receiving treatment and condemned the torture of the suspect which led to his death. “Nobody has a right to take a life no matter the offence the person has committed. The police in totality condemn jungle justice, self-help, brutality of any kind,” she said.   Court orders takeover of building over public safety     Fire razes markets in Delta, Anambra, Abia     300 die in accidents in Ogun, says FRSC   Also, gunmen have reportedly killed and beheaded an Ebubeagu security operative in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Sunday Nwafor. The incident occurred in Ekpelu, in the local government area. It was gathered that over five gunmen stormed the house of the victim, Sunday Nwafor while he was asleep in the night and shot him dead. The gunmen dragged his body out of his room and cut of his head which they took away. While confirming the incident, police spokesperson Loveth Odah said two suspects have been arrested by the police. She said: “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ikwo Police Division said some gunmen went to one Sunday Nwafor’s house. “Sunday Nwafor is about 30 years old and a member of Ebubeagu security outfit in Ikwo Local Government Area. “So, the gunmen broke into his room while asleep and shot him dead. The dragged the body to outside the room and beheaded him. “According to the wife who spoke to policemen, she said that before she heard a gunshot, she over-heard one of the hoodlums telling her husband that he left them in the bush and came back home to enjoy himself by collecting N30, 000 from the government. “Two of the suspects have been arrested. Investigation is ongoing. This act is barbaric and an act of inhumanity.”