Chairman Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, Opeyemi Bamidele, has maintained his bid to contest the governorship poll slated for June 18 is not a joke. Bamidele said that only God can stop his ambition to occupy the Government House. He spoke in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday when the former federal lawmaker representing Ekiti North constituency I, Hon. Bimbo Daramola, collapsed his structures to support the Senator for the January 27 APC primary. He assured that many heavyweights would still join his structures like Daramola, adding that many Ekiti eminent sons and daughters were desirous of joining his campaign train to bail the State out of the doldrums. “My ambition is a movement of Ekiti sons and daughters, who believe that it shouldn’t be the same old story in 2018. I am not contesting or joining others to rock the boat in APC, this is a family affair, internal party democracy and primary election.   Ondo pupil hits head on school window, dies     UPDATED: Ebonyi PDP spokesman slumps in court     VIDEO: Pandemonium as Ebonyi PDP Publicity Secretary slumps…   - Advertisement - “Governor Kayode Fayemi has done well but there is need for a well focused and experienced person, who has a scientific understanding of how to move Ekiti forward to take over from him. Someone who loves democracy and Ekiti development. We are not going to fight because the philosophy is the same, our visions are similar and our focus is one. “We will run a campaign that is issue- based and violence -free. We know that the state government wouldn’t do anything that can cause crisis in the party. “We are also assured that our brother and Governor, Kayode Fayemi won’t impose any candidate, we are convinced about that. He added: “”Bimbo and I respect Governor Fayemi. Both of us were once the Directors -General of his campaign organisations in 2014 and 2018 respectively. We are telling you with assurance that the Governor would not impose anyone in the primary, so that we can all work together. “At a time, my blood was spilled on the soil of Ekiti for the sake of APC and it is this blood that I used to assure all of you that Fayemi will do everything possible to show that we have a smooth sail at the primary and by the grace of God, I will emerge the APC candidate. I have no doubt that after Governor Fayemi, I am going to be the next governor of this State”.