Cameroonian fans and their Egyptian counterparts on Saturday joined the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) in celebrating the Super Eagles’ victory over Sudan in Garoua, Cameroon. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigeria’s Super Eagles beat their Sudanese counterparts 3-1 in a Group D clash at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) to advance to the knockout phase of the competition. Some Cameroonians who spoke with NAN after the team’s victory expressed their love for Nigeria, adding that they see the Super Eagles going far in the competition. Mohamed Sadat, a Cameroonian and ex-footballer, said he came all the way from Marwa (a suburb about 3,000 km away from Garoua) to watch the Super Eagles because of the love he has for Nigeria. He noted that he had been a staunch supporter of the Super Eagles for a long time and knew players like Jayjay Okocha, Celestine Babayaro, Finidi George, Kanu Nwankwo, Mikel Obi, to mention a few. - Advertisement - Charifa Mohamadu-Diamare, another Cameroonian based in Garoua, expressed her love for Nigeria saying: “I love Nigeria and have been solidly behind the Super Eagles from day one since this AFCON tournament started. “They are the best and definitely the team to beat in Cameroon.” Munira Garba, a student in Cameroon said,”We are backing the Super Eagles to make it all the way it to the final. “I will love to see a Cameroon vs Nigeria final because both teams are the strongest in the AFCON so far.” NAN also reports that the Egyptians were not left out of the party as they were seen dancing and celebrating with other Nigerian supporters for the victory of the Super Eagles over Sudan. A cross-section of Nigerian fans and supporters who spoke to NAN said the victory was the answer to their prayers and one well deserved by the Super Eagles.   Lagos to partially close Marine Bridge for emergency repairs     Dikio backs Wike’s war against illegal refineries     Masari reopens Katsina filling stations, cattle markets   Samuel Ikpea, the National Chairman of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC), thanked God for the victory, adding that it was a dream come true. “Well, it was a wonderful game and I thank God we won 3-1. We said we were going to beat Sudan and God has done it for us. “So I want to say congratulations to the Supporters’ Club and to all Nigerians across the country,” he said. Abdullahi Alhaji-Zakari, the Vice-Chairman, NFSC, expressed confidence in the ability of the Eagles to go all the way and win the cup, having come this far. “We were expecting it because having seen the game between the Super Eagles vs Egypt and now we have seen what they have done to Sudan. “Insha Allah we are going to carry the trophy,” he said. Another fan, Ahmed Salaudeen, from Lagos said: “The Super Eagles team have been delivering so well. We are going there. We are bringing the cup back home. We are hungry for it. We are the best in the world.” Another fan, Chioma Onoka said, “I want to thank God for His grace, mercy and favour. All our prayers were not in vain. We won the Sudanese and we deserve it! This is very beautiful, it is a thing of joy. “We thank God for everything and we are very grateful as a supporters club and a nation. We give God all the glory.” Sanmi Shodimu, another supporter from Lagos said: “Super Eagles today surprised the world, we won the game. Thank God! We are going to carry the cup by God’s grace. They will win the group and go forward.” The Super Eagles will next take on Guinea Bissau in their final group game on Wednesday at the Stade Roumdé Adjia in Garoua, Cameroon. (NAN)