There are heated reactions following the N200m bail granted to Dubai-based internet celebrity, Ismailia Mustapha aka Mompha. Justice Mojisola Dada of an Ikeja Special Offences Court on Tuesday granted Mompha bail of N200 million with two sureties in the like sum. The court granted his application for bail filed through his lawyer Gboyega Oyewole (SAN). The EFCC had arraigned Mompha and his firm, Ismalob Global Investment Limited for alleged money laundering to the tune of over an N6billion. He is facing an eight-count charge bordering on the offences of money laundering. - Advertisement - Following the judge’s pronouncement, social media users expressed shock at Mompha’s bail conditions. Many wondered where the N200m bail will be going to. Some termed the act by the court ‘extortion’. While others simply made a couple of jokes about it. maazjnr quizzed: “Hmmmm, 200 million bail?? So where’s the 200 million going to??”   Davido attacks cousin over Osun governorship ambition     Dey Your Dey not directed at anybody – Baba Fryo     Uche Maduagwu advises Tiwa Savage to dump music for…   keishaluxury_ asked: “200m where the bail money go enter?? amaka_obodo said: “EXTORTION. Ole ni everybody.” dorchy8 wrote: “After this…… next year again, dem go arrest am . Yearly tithe and offering.” itzlinda_bae stated: “Lol they are just using this guy to make money, anytime he touch down Lagos they will just nab him without a good reason, please you people should change the manner of approach.” surebreed stated: “Na EFCC bible appoint to collet tithe and offering from people now. Baba don go pay one tenth of 2021 income and na poco lee rate dem use for am.” official_ann_dretta queried: “Where the bail money de go?” kingmeggie_ said: “Cashout Season 200M Is Chicken Change To Mompha.” ella_raphael1 wrote: “EFCC should do giveaway please. Who knows how much they collected from the cubana man.” ksolo_hitz quizzed: “Are they sending the 200M back to the people affected Abi dem wan add the money to our 2022 budget?” tagang.sani stated: “Can you guys just make him your CEO since he’s your majority shareholder.” ___maqolaoluwa asked: “Where all the money dey go?” igbalodebanker said: “Unlawful laundry of 6Billion and he was granted bail of 200m .. 6billion minus 200M if u don’t get it forget about it.”