There are growing concerns by students in University of Benin (UNIBEN), who live off-campus, over the arbitrary increase in hostel fee by landlords in these austere times. They want authorities in the institution to call them (landlords) to order. IFUNANYA OSAKWE (UNIBEN) reports. Shelter  is one of the basic needs of man. Hence, any move to render man homeless should be resisted by well-meaning members of the public. However, students in the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Benin City, Edo State, are at daggers drawn with landlords, caretakers and agents, who have connived with one another to increase hostel fee without due consultation in areas like Ekosodin, Osasogie etc. Findings by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that hike in private hostels fee in Ekosodin  has rendered a large number of UNIBEN students homeless. Over  60 per cent of UNIBEN students reside in Ekosodin due to lack of adequate hostel space on campus. - Advertisement - Students who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE said one of the advantages they enjoy living in Ekosodin  is the closeness of the community to the school as they share a common wall. However, the recent construction of the Ekosodin Road by Edo State government has caused a drastic change in the prices of almost everything in the community. This has affected students who are mostly from poor homes  because the standard of living in the area has shot high. Students find life unbearable following the 100 per cent hike by landlords and caretakers last December.   Reaction from students Therefore, students are calling on school authorities  and student bodies in the institution to come to their aid. Some of them lamented what they called ‘extortion’  by landlords and caretakers in Ekosodin. “We have been experiencing untold hardship in Ekosodin community ever since the link road was constructed. “The good condition of the road  should have made things easier, but the reverse is the case. “The transport fare increased. Prices of food stuffs and other accessories increased. Then all of a sudden house rents also went up,” said Ololade Philip, a student at the Biochemistry Department. Okonsin Mefia, another student, said she was asked to move out of her hostel even when she has a month left: “The caretaker called me and told me I should be ready to move out of the hostel once I  resume this month. “The landlord increased the rent from N60,000 to N150,000. “It was so shocking. I had no idea how to go about looking for a new place since we are resuming soon. “The caretaker said they do not want us to continue living in the hostels as they are expecting new tenants to take over the apartment on a new price. “I was angry at this point. Where is it done that way? No quit notice or any pre- information and he is saying that the rent has been increased and not only that, I was not given an option to pay the new rent. “This is why with the help of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Benin Zone, our plight was communicated to the Vice Chancellor of UNIBEN. I only hope something is done urgently,” she said. Another student of the institution, Chisom Nwoko, lamented the increase of house rents in Ekosodin. Chisom, however, alleged that the agents also played major role in the hike. “The agents are not to be left out in this situation. They are as wicked as the landlords and caretakers who increased rents without a just cause. “My hostel owner increased the fee from N90,000 to N200,000. This is an increase of  over 100 per cent. “The world should look at this issue and tell us if it  is done like this in other places. In Lagos where I live, landlords increase their rents only when a renovation is done. “But this is not the case here. If you see  some dilapidated buildings that were pegged at N100,000 and above you will shed tears. “The student bodies have taken charge of the situation. But, the Student Union Government, UNIBEN, should do more. “It will be nice if the fight is successful and hostels rents are reversed because if it is not done, we will all be in trouble,” he said.   A student who craved anonymity said: “I learnt dialogue between the school management and community leaders in Ekosodin is going well. But one thing that I don’t like  is the complaint by the SUG executives that other student bodies are trying to interfere in their work. “I  wonder why they are complaining that other student bodies are usurping their powers at this critical stage when unity is needed to succeed. “It shows we do not have a strong leadership. How can they be fighting over who to be glorified in a fight that has not be conquered? “We do not care who is at the forefront. What we want is the success of our fight. Reversal of the rent is our aim.” Beauty Osamor, a Language and Linguistics student at UNIBEN, alleged that the drastic hike in hostelrents is a conspiracy among the landlords, caretakers and agents. She said: “We do not know why students are being harassed by caretakers. “Most times the students are given just a week to pack out of a house when he or she paid for one year.   Of love and lust     Still on ASUU strike     FUOYE: Coping with power outage   “Now we know that the tenancy law stipulates that for a one-year rent, six months quit notice should be given. But here in Ekosodin that is not put into consideration. “The hike in house rent is not an issue for me. The major issue is the controversy between some of the student bodies. “I learnt that because other student bodies are fighting tirelessly to resolve the issue, the Student Union Government had come out to say that some people are usurping their right. “What right are they talking about? Nobody is going to stop SUG from working except themselves. So, I am using this medium to call on the SUG to desist from turning a blind eye to the plight of students whom they swore to uphold and fight for without fear or favour.” Another student, who pleaded anonymity, told CAMPUSLIFE that she was asked to renew her rent which would expire in March, this year or move out of the room. “I was still at home when I received a call from my landlord. He told me that if I do not renew my house rent, I would forfeit the room. “He went further to say that the rent has been increased from N70,000 to N100,000. I was dumbfounded. “I tried to explain to him that it was too much and that my rent would expire  in March, but he cut off the call. “What they are doing is not fair. We all are going through hardship and I do not believe in extorting others. The school management should please come to our aid,” she said. Another student,Nonso Michelle said: “It is inhuman of those house owners. In most states, one can only increase house rent if a renovation  was done. “Communities like Ekosodin and Osasogie are the major areas where the house rent hike is done. “The school management should not take it lightly because it is affecting the students of the institution negatively.” For Jude Osagie, the massive influx of internet fraudsters, popularly known as yahoo boys, was the reason behind the hike. “The movement of yahoo boys into this area is one of the reasons the house rents were increased in various hostels. “We are not yahoo boys. That is what this landlords feel. They believe everyone is into yahoo,” he said.   Student Union bodies wade in The Director of Action and Mobilisation, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Zone B, Iyayi Erhahon, said the plight of students living in Ekosodin community have been heard and action would commence immediately in the fight against the hike in hostel fee. “We had a successful meeting with the Ekosodin community head, led by Prof. Owie, Dean of  Student Affairs UNIBEN,  SUG executives, NANS Zone B,  SUG speaker and some SUG senators, though some important points were raised by the community heads. “According to the community heads, the hostel fee increment was done by caretakers and   landlords of the hostels. “They added that they were not in any way in connivance with landlords and caretakers to chase students out of the off-campus hostels and that all issues would be resolved amicably,” he said. An SUG senator, UNIBEN, Obinna Ezechukwu said: “Despite the inflation in the country from 12 to 15 per cent landlords, caretakers and agents are increasing rents by 100 per cent. “We need the local government and the state government to intervene in this matter through diplomatic or regulatory measures. We want the state and federal lawmakers to intervene in whatever way they can too. “The struggle is against landlords and caretakers who evict students without due process. Many of them do this for increment. Then there is the continuous payment of  caution fee, legal fee, maintenance fee, caretaker fee and the likes. It should not be like that. “The struggle is against agents who create all sorts of conditions or lies to hike the fees of hostel. Some even tell you there is no vacancy, so they can increase the fee. “I will also advise the Student Union leadership to create a structured measure where students can have access to cheaper and affordable hostels. “Let it also be known that what we are fighting against extortionists in Ekosodin, BDPA, Osasogie and the various hostels. Enough is enough. We have not asked  for too much,; all we are asking is an end to hostel fee hike,” he said.   Management vows to resolve issue UNIBEN Vice Chancellor, Prof. Lilian Salami has assured the students living in Ekosodin and other communities of her commitment to resolve the matter amicably. According to her,  hike in hostel fee was being looked into. She said: “I have set up a committee involving members of the Student Union Government to look into the issue of hostel hike and find a solution to the problem. “A meeting was also scheduled and the Dean of Students Affairs  who went with the students bodies to meet with the community leaders. We will find a lasting solution to the issue.”   Parties agree to further dialogue A member of UNIBEN SUG who wanted to be anonymous said: “After the first meeting, the parties agreed that the best time to call for a community meeting was after resumption. “Hence they are proposing next  Saturday,  January 22, 2022  for the  meeting among landlords, caretakers, house agents, the university management and students to discuss how to make hostels affordable for students. “Let us stay hopeful as we collectively forge ahead in this struggle.” He, however, urged aggrieved students to  exercise patience and maintain the status quo pending the outcome of the general meeting.