The National Development Plan (NDP) 2021-2025 will require an investment size of N348.1 trillion, the Federal Government has said. In preparing the 2022 budget, the government said, the allocations to the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) were guided by the core objectives of the NDP 2021-2025. Finance, Budget and National Planning Minister Zainab Ahmed announced this yesterday in Abuja at the public presentation and breakdown of highlights of the 2022 Appropriation Act. She said: “The NDP, with an investment size of N348.1 trillion, will be funded by the Federal, state governments and the private sector. For the investment size, the expected financing contribution is the Public sector: N49.7 trillion (subnational will contribute N20.1 trillion, Federal Government N29.6 trillion) Private sector: N298.3 trillion.” The 2022 budget, the minister stressed, “is the first key public sector contribution to implementing the NDP”.   Kumuyi defends choice of speakers at youth programme     Senate probes BPE’s alleged non-remittance of $679.4m yearly…     Extort recruits and face sanction, IG warns police officers   - Advertisement - According to her, the key objectives of the NDP are: to accelerate growth, deepen the initiatives for diversified growth and foster sustainable development. In 2022, the revenue required to fund this NDP will come from: improving the tax administration framework including tax filing and payment compliance improvements; evaluation of the process and policy effectiveness of fiscal incentives, including: review of sectors eligible for Pioneer Tax Holiday Incentives under the Industrial Development Income Tax Relief Act (‘IDITRA’). Other sources are: dimensioning the cost of tax waivers/concessions, and evaluating their policy effectiveness, setting annual ceilings on tax expenditures to better manage their impact on already constrained government revenues. Government will also ensure that MDAs appropriately account for and remit their internally generated revenue, identify and plug existing revenue leakages to enhance tax compliance and reduce tax evasion; leverage technology and automation; and plug fiscal drainers like subsidies. Mrs. Ahmed stressed that to further enhance Independent Revenue collection, “government aims to optimise the operational efficiencies and revenue generation focus of GOEs, introduce new and further increases in existing pro-health taxes, like the imposition of excise on carbonated drinks. The reason for imposing excise on carbonated and sweetened drinks, the minister explained, is to help address the worrying health issues of obesity and diabetes.