Singer D’banj the Kokomaster has confessed that although he is happily married, he sometimes misses bachelorhood. The “Oliver Twist” singer in an interview after his unveiling as one of the judges for the music reality TV show, Nigerian Idol explained he got to a stage where he needed expansion and for that to happen he needed to achieve stability by getting married. “It is very important for me when I say that I am so happy I got married for the right reason,” he said. “There are reasons people do certain things and if one does it for the wrong reason, it would affect one. “I got to a stage in my life when I needed to grow an empire and in order for one to do that, one has to be stable and have a best friend as a partner. One also has to be true to oneself. - Advertisement - “I pray to God a lot and the Bible says, ‘He who finds a wife, finds a good thing’.   Nine Yoruba actors/actresses who remarried     Nollywood star Stella Damasus loses mother     African deities not demons, says Bob-Manuel Udokwu   “I got married to my best friend, who knows and understands everything about me. Because of that, we could grow together. “Yes, once in a while, one misses those days (of being a bachelor). But, I am happy because that is the difference between Dapo Oyebanjo and Dbanj, the Koko Master. Whenever I get on stage anywhere, I become the Koko Master. Bangalee also said ladies still flock around him, noting marriage has not inhibited that in any way.” Explaining further, D’banj said he is a first timer as a music reality show judge and he accepted the offer in order to contribute his quota to the growth of the industry. He added: “It (marriage) has not reduced the amount of kokolets (ladies) that flock around me and rush to the stage. However, one has to be committed to one person and that is what life is. “This is the first time I would be a judge (on a music reality show). I have done several things through the years but this is the first time I would be doing something like this. “I accepted the offer because first, I am a Nigerian. Secondly, I think there is no better time than now because of the growth of the industry. “The growth of the industry is such that it is important for us to embrace what God has given us. This is a journey we have been on for over a decade and we have been accepted globally. That is why it is important to ‘grow’ what is on the ground.”