‘There are cows and there are cows…it took the ban on certain breed of cows by IPOB for me to know this…What is in the name or breed of a cow?’ N a movie, viewers will take it with a pinch of salt. They will marvel at what the director is trying to portray. But, this is not a film. It is for real. Until now, I never knew the difference among the cows I often see on the road. To me a cow is a cow. To distinguish between one cow and another does not need special skill, so I thought, until the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) removed the scale from my eyes. The colour of cows varies. It could be black, white, brown or spotted. I now know better that there is more to a cow than its colour. There are cows and there are cows. Due to my benign ignorance, it took the ban on certain breed of cows by IPOB for me to know this. IPOB is the group led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, which is campaigning for the return of Biafra. In so doing, it is not bothered by the accident of history: the botched attempt by the late Chief Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu at such a republic between 1967 and 1970. Kanu believes strongly that his people are marginalised and that the only way to go is to pull out of Nigeria. It remains debatable whether our unity is settled. Kanu belongs to the school of thought that it is not. But, how does the ban on ‘Fulani cow’, as IPOB put it, helps its cause? Will that hasten the birth (or is it rebirth) of Biafra? The ban, contained in its New Year message, is laughable, but in matters concerning IPOB,  one must tread gingerly to avoid trouble. The group has directed custodians of Igbo culture, the clergy and town unions to enforce the ban, which takes effect from April. - Advertisement - Why April? Is it meant to be an April  Fool’s prank? IPOB advocates that “our native cows be used instead for any social or ceremonial events and festivals in Biafraland”. So, the Igbo have “native cows”? Why have they not been rearing them in commercial quantity long before now? Explaining the rationale for the ban, IPOB claims that “the zone cannot continue to bring curse and damnation upon its land by consuming cows used for bestiality”. Really? What is in the name or breed of a cow? Will it not become beef when cooked and taste as such when eaten?     Yuletide tensions     Tougher sanctions     Buhari appoints Okadigbo’s widow NNPC chair   MAGODO, the posh community across the road from the Lagos State Secretariat at Alausa, Ikeja, has known no peace of late. First, was the issue of the Shangisha landlords led by Pa Adebayo Adeyiga, who sought to enforce a 2012 Supreme Court verdict vesting them with the right to the disputed 549 plots in Magodo Estate Phase 2. Then came last Saturday’s incident between the state’s  outgoing Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, and Magodo Brooks Residents Association (MABRA). What really transpired between Odumosu, who has just been promoted to Assistant Inspector-General (AIG), and MABRA’s security operatives remains hazy. Both sides are relating different versions of what occurred. Of course, each party is claiming to be right. Who then is wrong? The public cannot say. But, the public is disposed to believing the residents, who accused Odumosu of using his high office to subdue the guards and a female resident, who tried to intervene in the matter. That is not true, says Odumosu, who accused the guards and the woman of disrespecting him. It is unfortunate that he finds himself in this bind. This is not the way to end his tenure in Lagos and his career in the police.  No matter what he says people will find it hard to believe him. That, unfortunately, is the image public officers have cut for themselves. It will cost him nothing to get this matter resolved amicably so that he can quit office in peace. Discretion is the better part of valour.   It was the last thing I expected from DStv after my December 25 experience with the Pay TV station. It is something they do once in a while though. On January 1, they sent me this message: Congrats! Your DStv has been upgraded from Compact Plus to Premium. You can now stream the best shows online with Showmax at no extra cost on DStv Premium. A week or so later, they will, as they usually do, send a follow-up message, asking the subscriber to switch to Premium by paying the price for the boutique. If they keep records, they should know that I started out on Premium before I changed to Compact Plus. I took that decision since all I wanted on Premium, which is football, I could easily get on Compact Plus. I do not need their patronage. All I demand is value for the bouquet that I regularly pay for. The records are there.