The Osun State All Progressives Congress (APC) has alleged that the loyalists of Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola are romancing the main opposition party, the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). The party while meeting with the National Reconciliation Committee at Government House, Osogbo, Osun State recently said are loyalists of Aregbesola, The Osun Progressives (TOP) are becoming more vicious than the opposition. The APC party through former commissioner, Sunday Akere said, “The committee should take note that, the so-called TOP members have constituted themselves into a team more vicious than the opposition. They don’t have respect for the governor or the leadership of the party headed by Prince Gboyega Famodun. “The manner in which they deride the programmes and achievements of the governor shows clearly that some of them have made up their minds on leaving the party if they cannot get what they want. They are already holding meetings with the opposition and a faction of the said opposition now takes the responsibility of protecting and defending them as a matter of life and death. “The TOP members have no right whatsoever to dwell on issues that do not concern them as their demand for resignation of Mr Governor from the APC National Caretaker Committee connotes. The governor as the leader and father to all is always ready to embrace and welcome back those willing to retrace their steps.   2023: Jonathan keeps everyone guessing     2023: Intrigues in Abia as stakeholders insists on Charter…     Osun 2022: Ogunbiyi denies alliance with Adeleke   - Advertisement - “This committee in the spirit of the minority having their say while the majority having their way should appeal to TOP members to join hands with Mr Governor in sustaining the progressive legacy in Osun State. And finally, this committee should implore the immediate past governor and current Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, to rein in TOP members because he publicly declared that he is their patron and that he supports whatever they do.” Earlier, the chairman of the committee, Senator Abdulahi Adamu, noted that their presence at the Government House was part of efforts to ensure a fair hearing, equity and justice as it would serve as a forum for the party leadership to respond to and defend some of the allegations raised and petitions filed before it. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, in his remark, commended the committee for taking the bull by the horns, just as he expressed confidence in its ability to carry out the task with fairness and equity. Meanwhile, the Chairman of TOP, Elder Adelowo Adebiyi, berated the claim that the caucus is romancing the PDP. He said: “They must present fact and evidence to the fact that we are holding meetings with the opposition. Our demands are simple; the committee should be fair to us.”