Ahead of the February 26 national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Minister of Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, has assured he will respect the party’s organs and constitution if elected National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress(APC). Its campaign team, George Akume Campaign Organisation (GACO) said the former Benue Governor stands tall among other contestants in the race based on his experience, capability, integrity and support among all interests. Led by former National Publicity Secretary of the defunct National Party of Nigeria(NPN) Chief Simone Shango; former Minister of State for Niger Delta Barr. Sam Ode; publisher of Summit Newspapers Chief Ray Murphy; a governorship aspirant Chief Terlumun Akputu; Prof. Terhemba Shija and Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, the team told newsmen that if elected Akume will work towards ensuring that APC becomes a model in political party administration in Nigeria and beyond. Shango said: “If elected APC National Chairman, Senator George Akume will be committed to upholding the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Constitution of our great Party the All Progressives Congress. To this end, he will respect the powers and responsibilities of all organs and officers of the Party, which is necessary to entrench internal democracy and party discipline. - Advertisement - “All the party organs, officers and stakeholders need to work in harmony to consolidate our position as the dominant and ruling party in Nigeria. Senator George Akume’s vision is an APC which will be a model in political party administration in Nigeria and beyond.” Shannon maintained that the chairmanship hopeful has done a lot for APC right from the time of the merger of the legacy party.   Uniting PDP members my priority in 2023 – Owokoniran     APC: Towards a successful convention     Oyebanji: competence not zoning should determine next Ekiti…   According to him: “He is not a businessman as he consistently sets his mind towards service to the good people of Nigeria. Thus we call on our teeming supporters across the country to remain calm, as nothing good conies easy. “In relative terms and by all accounts including the views of many APC stakeholders and generality of Nigerians, Senator George Akume is clearly the best aspirant for the job. Consequently, such press attacks are not surprising but would not dampen but augment the support of key stakeholders and Nigerians in general.” The media team assured that Akume will encourage women, in general, to strive to occupy significant portions of the political and governance spaces. Other six points agenda of GACO, the media team, said include; “To bolster confidence in APC, Senator George Akume will hold periodic Town Hall Interactive Sessions around the country and convey feedback to the APC Governments at all levels. Also, he will promote and participate in a robust social media communication scheme to feel the pulse of Nigerians, especially the youths and encourage the respective APC Governments to appropriately act on key issues raised. Senator George Akume will passionately see to the faithful implementation of APC’s Manifesto. “The calm, focused and foresighted, Distinguished Senator George Akume will bring his extensive experience and competencies to bear on the job, by thinking and acting outside the box in prioritizing the tackling and solving of APC’s myriad problems. “Senator George Akume is well placed to achieve these goals, having been two-term elected Governor of Benue State, three-term (12 years) Senator including as Chairman Senate Committee on Army, Senate Minority Leader, and currently, Minister of the Federal Republic, among others. “Senator George Akume will deploy his PR skills to effectively engage and collaborate with all shades of stakeholders to achieve sustainable reconciliation and peace by being firm but fair to all. “Senator George Akume will devise credible ways and means to create space for youths and encourage them to participate meaningfully in the political arena both in terms of elective and appointive offices at the Federal, State and Local Government levels.”