The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) Publicity Secretary in Ebonyi State Nwoba Chika Nwoba slumped in court on Wednesday. Nwoba slumped around 3 pm when he was brought to the Magistrate Court 2 inside the Ebonyi Judiciary Headquarters Abakaliki by Police operatives. He had been in police detention since Sunday when members of Ebubeagu Security outfit in the State arrested and handed him over to the Police. He is being accused of spreading fake news on social media, a crime punishable under the controversial cybercrimes law signed into law last year. Ebonyi PDP had claimed that he was beaten by Ebubeagu officials who arrested him before the Police rescued and placed him on arrest. - Advertisement - The Police had failed to arraign him on Tuesday despite bringing him to the court premises. His lawyer complained on Tuesday that the Police refused him medical treatment despite the injuries he sustained from the alleged beating. On Wednesday, he slumped as he was about entering the court. Efforts to resuscitate him failed, forcing the Police to rush him out of the court premises possibly to a hospital. However as journalists prepared to leave to file their reports, he was brought back by the Police.   I’ll succeed Fayemi as Governor, Bamidele boasts     Ondo pupil hits head on school window, dies     VIDEO: Pandemonium as Ebonyi PDP Publicity Secretary slumps…   His lawyer, Luke Nkwegu told reporters the Police said they were ordered to bring him back for arraignment dead or alive. The Magistrate Court 2 sitting in Abakaliki presided by Blessing Chukwu adjoined the matter till 14th of January 2022. The court also ordered Nwoba be sent to the Police Clinic in Abakaliki for treatment. The Court gave the order following an application by the PDP spokesperson’s lawyer, Luke Nkwegu. Nkwegu had prayed the court not to entertain the matter since his client was not in a capacity to stand trial due to ill health. Nwoba was carried into the court by over five men and placed on a seat in the dock. Two policemen held him throughput the period of the court session to avoid his falling to the ground. He did not respond to his name being called when the matter was called. Despite the objection by the Police prosecutor, Mathis Eze, the judge ordered that he be taken to the Police clinic for treatment.