The following is the first bullet point on APC’s Manifesto in 2015: “Initiate action to amend our Constitution with a view to devolving powers, duties and responsibilities to states and local governments in order to entrench true Federalism and the Federal spirit.” After two years in office, and no proposals were forthcoming on constitutional amendment to devolve powers, duties and responsibilities to states, pressure was mounted on the party and the administration, reminding them of their promise restated above. Perhaps feeling the pressure, the then party Chairman, Chief John Oyegun, set up a Committee on Devolution with Governor Nasir El-Rufai as Chairman. The committee did its work and submitted its report. And since then nothing has been heard about that report. What happened to the report? Now, we are getting some answers. Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, a former National Publicity Secretary of APC, and a former Minister of the Federal Republic, who was also a member of the El-Rufai Committee is talking. Here was him responding to an interview question on what happened to his committee’s report: “I think what happened is that the manifesto of the APC had long been disowned by the government itself. The government felt it was the South-West wing of the party that inserted this into the manifesto of the party and the other wings didn’t believe in it; that was where the breakdown happened. So it was seen more or less as ACN South-West agenda, rather than the Buhari government agenda.……. - Advertisement - “I remembered that one of the first things the government spokespeople did after the inauguration was to say some of the promises were made by overzealous members of the party. Some of those agendas were disowned by the government. I think it was the nature by which the party was put together.”—- Punch Newspaper interview with Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi. So, let’s get this straight. “The party’s manifesto insists on the amendment of the Nigerian Constitution with the view of devolving powers, duties and responsibilities to states and local governments in order to entrench federalism and the federal spirit. Merged into: All Progressives Congress” (Credit: Wikipedia. Accessed January 25 2022)   Mummy G.O. in Dubai     Omeruo offers troubled keeper Okoye comfort     Sanwo-Olu: Tinubu has right qualities to succeed Buhari   In other words, the only manifesto attributed to CPC and President Buhari is the APC manifesto since CPC has merged into APC and it was on the strength of this manifesto that the party’s presidential candidate was elected in 2015. Now, in view of the rejection of the “progressive agendas” by the “spokespeople” of the administration as alleged by Abdullahi, it occurred to me that either of two things might have occurred. First, the Southwest, through ACN, may have unilaterally inserted power devolution into the APC manifesto without the concurrence of the other wings of the party. But with the strong men and women from the other wings of the party, including its Presidential candidate himself, would this have been allowed? What magic would ACN have performed to make that fly? This allegation makes no sense. Second, the Southwest ACN may have suggested devolution of power as an important manifesto agenda, and the other wings may have concurred because they felt that they needed the votes of the Southwest and could not afford to alienate them at that point. But in their heart of hearts, they knew that they were not going to implement it if they succeeded at the polls. I believe that this is a more likely scenario. Now, of course, not a few commentaries have averred that what APC did amounted to false promise and deceptive advertising. Some have even unfairly, in my view, alleged that ACN was a party to the deception. I think this is unfair for two reasons. First, the ACN wing of APC lost out once a President from the CPC wing took the reins of power. The latter has been calling the shots since 2015 and that is visible to the blind. But second, John Oyegun, the first permanent Chairman of the APC, is from the ACN wing of the party. And he was credited with setting up the El-Rufai Committee on Devolution of Power, which did a good job and submitted its report. But the Chairman had no power of implementation. What does this all tell us about the future of restructuring or devolution? I am beginning to feel that we cannot rely on APC as it is currently structured. It appears that the dominant and domineering wing of the party is vehemently against any form of restructuring. President Buhari once described the advocates of restructuring, including the ACN wing of his party, as “naïve and mischievously dangerous.” Really, Mr. President! But I also don’t think that we can trust any political party with a promise to implement a restructuring agenda. PDP has no history of fulfilling campaign promises anyway, and restructuring was never on its agenda through its first, second, and third presidential leaderships. We have been fooled once. To be fooled twice will seal our fate as fools indeed. Here’s the way forward that I proposed on this page on July 13, 2018: “As a way out of this depressing record of unfulfilled promises, the electorate should demand to be in the driver’s seat of the issue. We need a ballot initiative in 2019 with three options. If a majority answer yes on the first question, whichever party wins the election has an obligation to execute the will of the electorate. Majority answers on either question 2 or 3 will determine the form the new structure will take. What about the logistic of a ballot initiative with a population that is largely illiterate? Where there is a will there is a way. If we get them to vote their preferences on candidates, we can get them to vote their preferences on the ballot initiative.” I still believe this is the way to go.