There are many reasons people leave city centres to the flanks. In Abuja, for instance, the city centre is so expensive that people live in neighbouring state of Nassarawa and commute to Abuja to work or transact their businesses. It is also the same thing in Lagos where Ogun State has come to the rescue, with millions finding abode while working in the Centre of Excellence. OKWY IROEGBU-CHIKEZIE, in this report, gives reasons for the development. The migration of people from cities centres to the suburbs has continued for years. As rentals increase beyond what they can pay, they continue moving until they anchor in a certain place  that they are comfortable with usually on the outskirts of the city. Little wonder you hear of towns such as Nyanya, Dei Dei, Mararaba, and Gwagwalada in Abuja while in Lagos State, for instance, millions live in the outskirts of the city in Ogun and Oyo states but work in Lagos. A visit to major motor parks or bus stops at the close of work each day will almost convince every sceptic that nobody actually live in Lagos but commute from Mowe/Ibafo, Magboro, Abeokuta, Sagamu, Ibadan, Sango, Abule U-turn, Ota etc. Chairman, Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers, (NIESV), Lagos State chapter, Olabisi Demola-Alade  said  in the last 15 years, a trend developed in Lagos and, of course, in some other cities such as Port Harcourt and Abuja in which people began to welcome home ownership possibilities. - Advertisement - This pushed housing for city workers to the suburbs. “Along with this development  were low-cost estate developers who literally go to the suburbs to negotiate land with the locals popularly known as ‘omonile’ and make these estates open to low income-earning and middle class Nigerians in these cities with instalmental payment  arrangements. ‘’This made it much easier for the average people to own their homes in the suburbs,”Demola-Alade said. She also explained that the suburbs are actually the place where one could get cheap land. According to her, once the appetite for home ownership hits the middle class market, there is a drift towards the suburbs where land could be easily accessed.   The rampage of cyber crooks     Four key judicial moments of 2021     State police: looming battle over jurisdiction   “However, in all these, what appeared to be the background fact is the unusual demand for home ownership. “In the last two decades, we began to see people wanting to own their homes, rather than keep paying rents. This is due to the killing increase in rents by the city landlords. They began to make more permanent investments in the cities where they live rather than pushing their incomes back home to invest in their villages or home states. Much of this investment landed on housing. With this kind of development, lands are readily available in the suburbs and so the suburbs readily grab the market. “As I talk, neighbouring Ogun towns on the Mowe-Ofada-Ibafo axis and Sango Otta areas are already full with more villages being in the provision of social infrastructure such as roads, electricity, schools, hospitals and markets in these areas. Many of these places are already full blown cities, but they lack government attention with their roads and streets not tarred and only private schools are available for children,” she added. Former National Secretary of the Nigeria Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers, (NIESV), Offiong Samuel Ukpong, giving reasons for the migration, which seem to be high from city centres, said they are congested, highly polluted while land values are higher and affordability is a big issue for middle income earners. He said: “The suburbs are greener and more livable. City centres have concentration of businesses and residential properties are giving way for commercial developments thus are gradual displacement of land uses. Spaces afforded in city centres could be smaller than the suburbs where land sizes could be more and cheaper. Immediate past NIESV Lagos chairman Dotun Bamigbola put the reasons on  cheaper land and rent, direct transportation route on the city centre and the psychological satisfaction of  an owner living in their property. Others, according to him,  are lower cost of living, improved communal neigbourhood and  improved infrastructure development. For the Vice Chairman of NIESV, Lagos chapter Gbenga Ismail, the reason for the development is simply that those migrating could not afford to live in the city centre as a result of cost. A developer Tunde Bakere said owing a house is a life goal and desire of many people. It is seen as a major achievement even the person built under high tension wire or in a bush that will take 20 years to develop. Another reason is derived from the experience of tenants with their landlords. According to him, if  you interview 50 per cent of these new landlords, especially those tha are built in the middle of nowhere, you will discover that it was the  last choice  left to them to survive not only incessant increments by their landlords but also achieve a social status of owning a house. He said: ‘To these people, there is no half-landlord. It really does not matter to them  if there is nil availability of infrastructure such as good roads, water, electricity, education and health facilities.The driving force is to be called a landlord. It is also expected that the rentals in future will serve as a retirement benefit to many.”