Rivers Commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim has said that Governor Nyesom Wike desires a safe and healthy state for all residents. Nsirim spoke at a meeting with managers of state-owned government media organisations in his office in Port Harcourt on Tuesday. The commissioner urged the media in the state to drive a conversation that would enlist the support of those living and doing business in Rivers to achieve the desired objectives of the government. He said: “We must use our media houses to make our people not to politicise what the Governor is doing in this direction. “Governor Wike means well for Rivers people. It is only a man who has the interest of the people he is governing at heart that will come up with that kind of New Year agenda. - Advertisement -   What next after autopsy reports on Sylvester Oromoni Jnr?     Ijaw Congress, MOSOP insist on resource ownership     Ijaw Congress to Fed Govt: address environmental injustices…   “Of course, we are all aware that illegal bunkering and artisanal refineries contribute highly to the environmental challenges we are facing with soot in the State. “And from the Governor’s new year broadcast, you find that there is a strategic move to end illegal bunkering and artisanal refineries in the State. “This meeting is to draw our attention to the fact that we need to play a very prominent role in advocacy, enlightenment and sensitisation of the citizenry to buy into this positive agenda of the government. “We owe our State that obligation to ensure that the State is safe and healthy so that people whose stock in trade is to always see no good in policies of government are shunned. “The people must shun all these naysayers. The people must shun those who are playing to the gallery, those who are looking for cheap popularity and publicity”. Nsirim charged the media to drive a conversation through their different programmes to help people understand that Wike had the best interest of the people at heart. “It should be aggressive. Let it permeate the minds of all those living and doing business in Rivers State that this is what we should all join hands with the government to do,” he said.