All roads led to Epe town recently, as Olatunde Thani, MD of Explicit Communications, and son of the soil, commissioned the Thani-Oladunjoye Old People Care Centre. The centre, a state-of-the-art structure, was conceived and literally erected by Tunde Thani in memory and honour of his late parents, Pa Mohammed Nurudeen Alao Thani-Oladunjoye alias Baba Popo and Madam Sidikat Thani-Oladunjoye alias Iya Popo. The Centre, located at 65, Owode Street, Epe, boasts of modern facilities such as consulting rooms, pharmacy and relaxation sections all meant to cater for the well being of elderly people in the community. Speaking at the occasion which attracted royalties, politicians, the elite and commoners alike, Thani, who was recently re-elected President of Ivory League of Progress Club of Nigeria, said the centre was a fulfilment of a vow he made at the demise of both his parents, whom he said lived healthy and hearty life even till their last moments. “Fourteen years ago, when I lost my very loving mother, Madam Sidikatu Thani Oladunjoye, I reckoned that at over age 90, my mother was extremely healthy till the last day, last moment. She was so alert that even at the point of death; she knew who to give the key to her wardrobe; and even took time to pray for us all. - Advertisement - “So I asked myself that apart from the grace of God, what could have kept these people to be this old and this healthy up to the moment they died. I reckoned that it must have been the Medicare we gave them and the fact that every month, one of us in the family must come and play with them. We would bring our children and for a whole day, we would play with them. And through this, they were rejuvenated. I therefore reckoned that these two situations that helped them have long life, if Almighty God blesses me, I will do something for my community in these two areas: majorly, medical for the aged and in recreation facility for them.” He said he kept the dream in view, wrote it down and kept looking at it until three years ago when God made a way. He therefore congratulated the old people who were present in their hundreds, saying: “Today is a special day in the life of the senior citizens of Epe. That there are so many people sitting down here today is a testimony of their yearning for a facility like this.” He explained that a research conducted before embarking on the project revealed that the common diseases afflicting elderly include: high blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, urinary tract infection, eye infection; nutritional deficiencies and pains. He therefore said the centre will pay attention to these ailments. He said the centre will care for people of 65 years of age and above and would not attend to emergency cases, surgeries of any kind, serious accidents, gunshot wounds, burns, mental illness and severe cancer cases. Also speaking on the occasion, Lagos State governor, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu, represented by his Special Adviser of Civic Engagement and a daughter of Epe, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, expressed delight at the project, saying that it is a historic moment, going by the fact that the project is the first of its kind in the whole of the historic town.   PHOTO: Tinubu visits Makinde over death of Akala, Olubadan,…     Tinubu stands for politics without bitterness- Makinde     Govs meet Wednesday on pressing national issues   He described it as “a bold step in rewriting our history as a people and changing the undesirable narrative of our lack of presence in adequately taking care of our aged population.” He urged other citizens to emulate the laudable gesture of Tunde Thani and his family. The member representing Epe Constituency 1, Abiodun Tobun, commended Thani, stating that he is a detribalised Nigerian and Epe son, adding that he was one of those who nurtured him. He said Thani’s gesture is a challenge to all, especially those in government.   Chairman, Epe Local Government, Princess Surah Olayemi Animashaun, congratulated the elderly for the centre, saying it is a gift to them and urged them to make use of it. She said the centre will also serve as an avenue for the elderly to socialise, adding that they can also use the opportunity to strike new friendships and relationships. To Thani, she said, “This project is not about your mum and dad; it is about your heart and the love you have for your people.” Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, commended Mr. Thani for the noble initiative. He prayed that the project will bring peace and unity to the people of Epe. Also commending Mr. Thani for the project, the Managing Director of Greenlife Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Peter Nwosu, represented by Mr. Derick Osondu, said his company has donated an ambulance to assist the Centre in its daily activities. He also promised to supply the Centre with various drugs from the stable of Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Limited. Royal fathers at the event include: the Oloja of Epe, HRM Oba Kamorudeen  Ishola Animashaun, the Olu of Epe Kingdom, HRM Oba Shefiu Olatunji Adewale, and the Alara of Ilara, HRM Oba Olufolarin Ogunsanwa. Representative of the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Hon. Princess Aderemi Adebowale, former senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, representative of the Managing Director of Greenlife Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Mr. Derrick Osondu and the Executive Chairman of Epe Local Government, Hon. Princess Surah Olayemi Animashaun.