President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of former Head of the Interim National Government (ING) Chief Ernest Shonekan, saying the deceased displayed real sense of patriotism. The President, who also conveyed his commiseration to the widow of the former Head of States, Mrs. Margaret Shonekan, the Shonekan family, the people and Government of Ogun State, said his memory would continue to remain with Nigerians. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President recalled the sacrifices of Shonekan in his lifetime, including leaving his personal business career to take up the role of Head of the ING in the interest of Nigeria. “President Muhammadu Buhari has received with profound sadness the news of the death of a great statesman and former Head of the Interim National Government, Chief Ernest Shonekan.   Herdsmen kill five vigilance members in Ondo     Traders protest alleged imposition of market leader in Ondo     Buhari okays establishment of Diaspora Investment Trust Fund   “On behalf of the Federal Government, the President extends deepest condolences to Chief Shonekan’s wife, Margaret, loved ones, as well as the government and people of Ogun State. - Advertisement - “As an internationally-respected statesman, President Buhari affirms that, with courageous wisdom, Chief Shonekan left his flourishing business career to become the Head of Government, at a delicate time when the country needed someone of his calm mien and pedigree to save the ship of state from sinking. “The President notes that Chief Shonekan demonstrated to all that the love for country and commitment to her development, peace and unity transcend the trappings of office and the transient nature of political power. “President Buhari believes that Nigeria owes a great debt to Chief Shonekan, the peacemaker, who even at the twilight of his life time never stopped believing and working for a prosperous and democratic country. “The President prays that the memory of the departed Head of Government will remain a blessing to Nigeria even as he finds perfect peace with Almighty God,” the statement reads.