The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) says every state of the federation has potential to generate adequate revenue that would make them self-sufficient in running the affairs of the state. Speaking yesterday at CITN 40th anniversary media break held yesterday in Lagos, Chairman, CITN 40th Anniversary Planning Committee, Foluso Fasoto, said the institute recognises the challenge faced by states in earning tax income. He said: “ The current way of generating revenue is still a challenge. It is part of our responsibility to bring everyone into the tax net, get them to pay adequate taxes at the right time, and right purses to ensure that  government  will have enough money to fund infrastructure and other social amenities”. The 15th President/Chairman in Council, Adesina Adedayo, said CITN face-off with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (CITN) has been resolved, with the role of every professional body defined.   ABCON to CBN: allow BDCs to access forex from autonomous…     Foundation gives N5m items to the less- privileged     Interswitch grants developers access to APIs   In his opening remarks, the 15th President/Chairman in Council, Adesina Adedayo said the institute which started on February 4, 1982 as Association of Tax Administrators and Practitioners, thereafter metamorphosed to Nigeria Institute of Taxation and became chartered by Decree No. 76 of 1992 (now Act. No. 76,CAP C10, LFN 2004) as the foremost institute recognised by law to regulate the taxation profession in Nigeria. - Advertisement - From that period till date, the institute has grown in leaps and bounds, hence the reason for this celebration of our great institute. “Noteworthy is the continuous effort of our founding fathers in conceptualising the birth of the institute, the sustenance of its vision and mission and most importantly the governance structure that has been able to manage the challenges, success and succession in leadership,” he said. Adedayo said the institute has kept faith with the ideals of the vision on which the institute was founded. “CITN has continued to keep its focus on the training, development and certification of members of the profession to evidence their competency and character,” he stated. “CITN has also ensured that it is living up to its duty to continually enlighten and educate the public and stakeholders alike both through members of the profession, district societies and the Institute. We do this through advisory, involvement and participation in activities geared towards improving the legislative, administrative and policy frameworks of tax education, administration and practice. We make informed input to government fiscal and tax policy direction and also update our members on emerging tax policy and related issues. These achievements and more would be highlighted in the course of the celebration events,” he added. Some of the activities to mark the institute’s anniversary as 40th Anniversary Jumaat Service at Alausa Central Mosque and all other designated mosques in all the District Societies nationwide on Friday, January 28; Tax walk in all the District Societies nationwide and also at the National Headquarters on Monday, January 31; visit to Internally Displaced Persons camps, orphanages/less privileged homes on Thursday, February 3,  among others.