Pursuant to the promotion of United Nations (UN) Safety Standards in Nigeria, e-commerce platform, Jumia, said it will share more than 7,000 UN certified motorcycle helmets to delivery associates (riders) in and outside the country. The initiative, Jumia explained, was designed to provide high-quality helmets that meet UN Regulation ECE 22.05 in territories where accessibility and affordability can be difficult. The programme will first be rolled out in Nigeria, Egypt, Ivory Coast, Kenya, and Morocco with additional countries to follow in the upcoming months. 2000 pieces of the helmets, which are UN ECE 22.05 certified, have been assigned for distribution to Jumia delivery agents across Nigeria. Commenting on the initiative, co-CEOs of Jumia, Sacha Poignonnec and Jeremy Hodara, said: “Our Delivery Associates are significant stakeholders in our ecosystem. Wearing UN Certified safe helmets is essential in protecting these important heroes from the hazards that are associated with their jobs.   Enterprise spending on AI to hit $110b     5G revolution, return of tax master     US Multinationals et al, Illicit Financial Outflow and Tax…   “We are delighted, therefore, to work with the FIA to provide compliant, high-quality and safe helmets to our riders. It is our hope that this measure will also have a positive impact on the peace of mind both for the riders and their families.” - Advertisement - Also speaking on the programme, the President, Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), Jean Todt, said:  “Wearing a helmet is a key issue in road safety. I am happy to welcome Jumia as a new partner of our Safe and Affordable Helmet Programme. Jumia is passionate about the safety of its delivery agents and this aligns with our constant fight for safer roads across the globe. I hope that this partnership with Jumia will contribute to the mass adoption of safe helmets that meet UN Safety Standards in Africa.” The design concept for the helmets, the company explained, was conceived by helmet manufacturers with the goal of creating the lowest-priced helmets on the market while also meeting the UN safety standards, as certified by independent experts. The helmets will be suitable for hot and humid climates and will be distributed to drivers free of charge in support of Jumia’s mission to enhance the well-being of its workers and partners and to continually seek innovative ways to improve the workplace ecosystem. Jumia’s safe helmet programme is part of the United Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety 2021-2030 and is intended to help reduce the number of global motorcycle-related fatalities. Indeed, research shows that safe helmet wearing is one of the most effective road safety interventions, reducing the number of head injuries among moped riders and motorcyclists by around 44 per cent.