When Senator Ademola Nurudeen Adeleke, gubernatorial candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the 2018 Osun State governorship election, decided to run for the same position again in 2022, he probably didn’t imagine his nephew and prominent supporter, Bamidele David Adeleke, could be nursing the same ambition. Barely a week after he threw his hat into the ring for the 2022 gubernatorial contest on December 11, 2021, Dele Adeleke, son of his elder brother and cousin to singer David Adeleke, better known as Davido, joined other PDP aspirants in the state to express interest in the party’s governorship ticket. By his declaration, he challenged his uncle to a political duel. Expectedly, tongues are wagging over the governorship aspiration of the 50-year-old man, who was the PDP’s returning officer during the 2018 election. While he insists his desire to govern the state is motivated by his convictions that he has what it takes to turn things around, there are talk about him being used by some forces to truncate his uncle’s renewed governorship bid. Confidently, Dele says he is more competent than his uncle, Senator Adeleke and wonders why being his nephew should hamper his aspiration to serve the people of Osun. - Advertisement - “These calls to serve didn’t just start. These calls have been going for long and I have been saying no. The truth is that prosperity is there to judge us. What happens if peradventure I do not throw my hat in the race, PDP doesn’t get the opportunity of producing a formidable candidate and gets to lose this election and Osun State gets worse?” he asked rhetorically. He vows not to step down even if he is pressured to do so. According to him, “my uncle should rather step down for me, considering his old age. It is time for a generational shift. It is time for those who are fit and able to deliver. The role of leadership or governance, especially in Osun, is a very serious thing.” But it is now obvious that Dele does not enjoy the support of all youths of the state in his quest for the PDP ticket. This is because his cousin Davido, a prominent youth from the state, sees his ambition as a betrayal of their uncle, Senator Adeleke.   Haruna Samuel: The Airman and the Greek gift     EFCC arraigns ex-bank director over alleged N26.6bn fraud     ISWAP kills two, abducts 17 in fresh Chibok attack   The singer has been calling out the PDP aspirant since Dele declared his aspiration, leading to verbal exchanges between the duo. In a tweet, Davido warned the people of Osun to be wary of his cousin, saying, “Intellectual that has not succeeded in building one single thing in his life on his own. This life ehn!! Osun beware of FAKES! Dele.” In another social media comment, Davido said: “Because of your ambition you have your people write about me (which I don’t care) but to include the death of my mother in an article … same woman that raised you … @deleadeleke001. Ok na .. Dele God will reward you. The truth hurt you that much you had to go that low to mention YOUR AUNTY VERO that cared for you. Well. I don open my crase for the year @deleadeleke001.  stay tuned. NEW MUSIC 2MORO! Volcano. He soon followed up with another; “Worst of all this Nigga really doing all this from the house my father gave you. Audacity! Disrespect me! (I don’t care) But my FATHER my MOTHER? Never! DELE I WILL STRESS YOU! We go meet for field ….” During the week, amidst interventions by family members and friends, calling on the cousins to stop the verbal war and seek peace, Dele replied his superstar cousin thus; “Dear David, for whatever this is worth to you, please note that I lost my mother at a tender age like you and would never allow anyone to denigrate her nor her memory. I will NEVER write nor say anything against my Auntie Vero, who I cherish dearly. You are the king of social media and you definitely know people take it upon themselves to write whatever they believe will give them clout.  So many of your fans came to my SM handles to threaten me and some even asked me to go and die. Did you send them to threaten my life? “I seriously doubt it and I do not believe you will do such thing. So, irrespective of politics, please note that I am not that kind of person; I have maintained decorum in the face of provocation and I will continue to do so. I respect your decision and choice to support Uncle Demola and that is the beauty of democracy. It is possible we can all make our individual choices without rancour and bitterness. We can all follow different paths and still live as one big, happy family. The people of Osun, greatly deserving the best, will give the job to who they so deem fit and may the #Best man win #OSUN2022. You will always remain dear to me. N.B: I earlier sent U this privately via Whatsapp but it remains undelivered hence my resort to Twitter.” Dele holds a B.SC in Management/Accounting and an MBA in General Management, both from Obafemi Awolowo University. He started his career as a banker in Liberty Merchant Bank Limited in 1991. He was part of the turnaround team of STB between 1998 and 2002 before he joined Pacific Merchant Bank limited. He later became the project manager for the integration of the Unity Bank Group’s operational procedures and information Technology platform. He was later appointed Divisional Head/Executive in charge of Strategy and Corporate Development. As at the time of filing this report, the cousins were yet to end the face-off as more and more of their supporters are joining in the verbal war on various social media platforms. But Dele, the man in the eye of the storm appears unwilling to sacrifice his ambition on the altar of family sentiment. The younger Adeleke said “the demographics favour a younger, competent, passionate and credible candidate, and that is what Dele Adeleke represents in this race.” Will he really defy the alleged threats and pleas and go all the way and confront his uncle at the PDP primaries? This indeed is the question begging for an answer.