A virtual deal summit organised by Lagos-based Impact Investors Foundation (IIF) brought together investors and startups to showcase solutions that generate social and economic benefits. DANIEL ESSIET reports. A virtual deal summit has been held by Lagos–based Impact Investors Foundation (IIF). It brought together investors and startups which showcased solutions that can generate social and economic benefits. Participants were privy to the solutions developed by the startups’ founders to address social problems. The event featured speakers such as the Executive Director, Inclusive Business Action Network, Dr. Christian Jahn, and the Chairman, Impact Investors Foundation (IIF), Afolabi Oladele. Oladele said the foundation was in support of startups that promote their innovations and consequently impactful at a societal and economic level. - Advertisement - He said the forum was designed to enable interaction between investors and founders with an opportunity to take their businesses to the next level. The Executive Director, Inclusive Business Action Network, Dr Christian Jahn said his organisation supports startups and believes in businesses with innovations to maximise impact. Projects Lead, IIF, Etemore Glover, said the objectives of the initiative was  to expose participants to impact investors and match them during the deal summit. She explained that IIF in collaboration with Impact Amplifier, held the Deal Summit to show case investment-ready enterprises. She said startups involved were committed to achieving social good as well as business success. The startups which pitched for investors included Ashdam Solar Company Limited, JAM, Detail Africa (Group), Mavis Computel, SkillNG, Primed ehealth, Smiley’z Mobile, Kitchen Limited and Boxes and Baskets. Others were Global Resource Limited, Kernelic Resources Limited, So Fresh Neighbourhood Market Limited,   USAIFA International Limited and Galaxy Integrated Aqua Poultry Republic   31 get Rotary’s N1.5m grant     Taking disabled off the streets through skills acquisition     Promoting artisans’ work-life balance   The Chief Executive, Galaxy Integrated Aqua-Poultry Republic, Efe Anthony Omudu, said the startup was looking for investors to expand its pig farm, procure equipment for the smooth operation of the pork processing plant, employ more staff and empower over 150 rural cassava farmers who supply them cassava peels. The Chief Executive, Boxes and Baskets, Sheffy Kolade, said the startups was seeking investments to build astandard manufacturing facility to expand local production capacity. He said the company desired to hire more talented artisans and train them to enhance quality control and innovation. The Chief Executive, USAIFA International Limited, Usman Ali Lawan, said the company was a sustainable farming venture that practised and promoted zero waste agriculture. To date, he said the company had sold 32,000 birds and fish and provided training, input credit and market links to 7,200 smallholder farmers across four states in the North. He said the company was seeking investment to expand its market access in Northern Nigeria, increase production to 38,000 birds, 100,000 fish and 250,000 fingerlings per month. The company intends to increase its network of smallholder farmers to 20,000 by 2023. The Chief Executive, So Fresh Neighbourhood Market, Olagoke Balogun said the company promotes a healthy lifestyle in the fast-growing urban market by providing clean, safe and healthy food choices. He said the company was seeking investment to drive its expansion across the country from 15 outlets in Lagos and Abuja to 30 outlets and establish new locations in Rivers, Oyo and Ogun states. The Chief Executive, JAM, Ebun Feludu said the company produces and distributes a wide range of premium, edible and topical coconut products. She said the company was seeking investments to purchase equipment to increase its production capacity, increase sales force by investing in acquiring highly skilled employees and Artificial Intelligence (AI) to help locate its customers. The company is investing in backward integration and training women smallholder coconut farmers. The Chief Executive, Primed eHealth, Dr Are Abdulhafiz said the startup was a platform that promotes improved access to healthcare. According to him, the company has a patient based mobile health companion which allows ordering of ambulances during emergencies, online and hospital based payments, tele-eHealth, and hospital results notifications, among others. He continued that the company was seeking investments to scale its support staff, marketing and onboarding team to target 40 new hospitals directly by the end of next year.