In a recent interview on Channels Television, President Muhammadu Buhari stated emphatically that “state police is not an option” as solution to the myriad of security challenges facing the country. As far as Mr President is concerned, Nigerians should be more worried over the management of the relationship between the state and local governments, than the incompetence of the federal police. The president urged Nigerians to: “Find out the relationship between local government and the governors. Are the third tier of government getting what they are supposed to get constitutionally? Are they getting it? Let the people in local government tell you the truth, the fight is between local governments and the governor.” While truly the local governments are subdued in their relationship with the state governments, the situation is no better between the federal government and the states. So, instead of trying to deflect the glaring challenge posed by our nation’s reliance on a centralised police structure, the president should own up that he hasn’t got the nerve to change the status quo. After all, he is not the only one afraid of federalising the police; as his predecessors, including the bombastic former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, was also afraid of tinkering with that anomaly, not to talk of the lily-livered former president, Goodluck Jonathan. But as I have argued on this page on many occasions, the dragon of insecurity plaguing our country may consume it, because we are afraid of the lesser evil associated with possible abuse of state police by indulgent state governors. Unfortunately, President Buhari, perhaps because of his military background, appears to see the contest of alternative positions on state police as a fight, instead of a contest of ideologies. Since he sees the relationship between the state governors and local government authorities as “a fight”, he would also believe that pushing for state police, amounts to fighting his authority, as president. And being a military General, he should crush the idea, instead of examining what is best for the nation. With that mind-set, the president is unable to critically examine the argument of his state governor, Aminu Bello Masari, who has asked Nigerians to arm and defend themselves. - Advertisement - Of course, the Kastina State governor is voicing his frustration over the inability of the central police to effectively engage in police duties in the home state of Mr President. By asking for individuals to arm and defend themselves, the governor is asking for even a greater decentralisation of policing in the country. And considering that the governor is a loyal party man, the president should appreciate the signal to him that the centralised police structure has failed woefully. In AG Lagos State vs AG Federation & 35 Ors, (MJSC) 2003, 7 July. P.18; the Supreme Court held: “By section 2(2) of the 1999 Constitution, Nigeria shall be a federation and by the doctrine of the federalism, which Nigeria has adopted, the autonomy of each government, which pre-supposes its separate existence and its independence from the control of the other governments essential to federal arrangement. Therefore, each government exists not as appendage entity in the sense of being able to exercise its own will in the conduct of its affairs free from direction by another government.”   New year wishes     KSM as exemplar     Prince of peace   If the above erudite judgment is a true interpretation of the federal system of government which we are supposed to practice, how can a state executive governor exercise the powers vested in him by the constitution, when he has no control over the police, which is the most basic enforcer of constitutional authority? For many, the recent spat between the governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and a middle ranking police officer sent to Lagos State from Abuja underpins the state of anomaly. While some commentators like the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, who authorised what Lagos State government regarded as invasion of the state by police from Abuja, have contended that the governor has no powers to interfere in the execution of a judgment, the fact remains that other state governors have been victims of the recalcitrance of the federal control of a centralized police, which is not submissive to state government’s authority. The point that there should be delineation of powers between the federal and state governments, was amply stated in the AG Lagos State vs AG Federation & 35 Ors, mentioned above. The Supreme Court in that case further held: “Neither the National Assembly nor the president has the constitutional powers to regulate or interfere with the exercise, by a state governor, of his executive functions. It would also not be competent for a state assembly or a governor to regulate or interfere with the exercise by the president of his executive functions.” Without gainsaying, the exclusive control of the centralised police structure by the president is a direct interference with the exercise of the executive functions of the state governors. It is therefore legitimate to question how the governor can exercise the executive functions vested in him by section 5(2) of the 1999 constitution, particularly “the execution and maintenance of this constitution, all laws made by the House of Assembly of the state and to all matters with respect to which the House of Assembly has for the time being power to make laws.” To the chagrin of any fair-minded person, the same constitution in section 214(1) shackled the powers enumerated above, by providing that: “There shall be a police force for Nigeria, which shall be known as the Nigeria Police Force, and subject to the provisions of this section no other police force shall be established for the federation or any part thereof.” To fully emasculate the state governor, the proviso to Section 215(4), derogated the power earlier granted him to give lawful directives to the state Commissioner of Police, with a leeway that the commissioner can opt to seek the further directive of the president or the IGP. Of note, Section 4 of the Nigeria Police Act 2020, particularly sub-sections a, b, c & d, provides for the primary responsibilities of the police, and a reading of it, exposes the constraint of an executive governor, who has no control of a Police Force, which is necessary to enforce the constitutionally guaranteed executive functions. The sub-sections provides that the Police Force shall prevent and detect crimes, and protect the rights and freedom of every person in Nigeria; maintain public safety, law and order; protect the lives and property of all persons in Nigeria; and enforce all laws and regulations. If President Buhari appreciates the enormous national security challenges, attenuated by a centralised police structure foisted on the country by the military, he would not say that state police is not an option.