The epoch 2022 Port Harcourt Golden Jubilee polo tournament that climaxed last weekend with a bang was memorable on all fronts. From the loaded entries, to the celebration of the rich cultural heritage of the Niger Delta region, to the showers of rain, the grand event was truly spectacular. The grandiose polo festival which offers a whole week of passionate and fast-paced display of skills and horsemanship showcased by the ambitious, high, medium and low-goal teams left in its roaring trail many memorable legacies that would continue to captivate polo buffs across the world for a long time. One of such highlights was undoubtedly the Heroes Cup tournament that was played in honour of the fallen soldiers as part of the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration that was marked as a polo event for the first time in the Rivers State capital city. The well-attended exhibition game which was played simultaneously with the writ laying ceremony by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja was organized by the Nigerian Army Polo Association (NAPA) with sponsorship by the Captain of Nigerian Army team, Brigadier General Kapeh Kazir. - Advertisement - Pitching Team Warriors against Team Gallants, the fiercely four chukka match produced six goals, with Colonel Y. Bello pivoted Warriors parading Major Mazado, Lt. Bature and Lt. Akatu emerging winners. Brigadier General A G Laka powered Gallant side boasting Major Mairuwa, Lt. Loko and Lt. Com. Ogunshola that had started with a spark finished runners-up; no thanks to their numerous misses at close range.   Monfils & Svitolina: tennis happy couple     Nadal relishes exciting tennis career     Qatar 2022: 1.2 million tickets sold in 24 hours   NAPA Chairman Major General MSA Aliyu who cheered every minute of the Heroes Cup encounter, gave out prizes to the winners and the Runners-up at an impressive closing ceremony of the Remembrance Day celebration. As the biggest sporting festival in the oil rich Niger Delta region of the country, the Golden Jubilee polo fiesta lived up to its cutting edge thrills and excitements with Kaduna, Yola, Lagos and host Port Harcourt carting home top honours. Kaduna Trappco gave their teeming fans plenty to celebrate after defeating Abuja Cassiva / Dokaji and Strata Base/ Solotone teams to win the event’s biggest laurel, the King Diette Spiff Crown, while the Nigerian Navy team carted home the glittering TY Danjuma Cup. Other proud winners of the prestigious festival include Haske & William team from Yola earned their first Port Harcourt polo title with a sensational victory in the O. Bulu Briggs Cup series. Funsho George led Lagos GDF team also wrote their names in gold, beating their Port Harcourt Bob Tract to cart home the King T.J.T Princewill Cup. Elated Port Harcourt Polo President, Dr. Chukwudi Dimpa who congratulated the winners and the runners-up, thanked all the players, officials and invited guests for making the Golden Jubilee celebration such a huge success. ”We in Port Harcourt are proud to have all the top polo teams from all over the country respond to our invitation by attending our tournament every year. This club is a Grade A club and we are looking forward to maintaining our high standard as the country’s season’s starter,” Dimpa declared in his closing remarks. He added: “The fact that tourists from abroad and polo enthusiasts from other parts of the country attend this festival annually; attest to the immense tourism and social values of the exciting game of kings in the oil rich region and Nigeria.” he noted with pride.