Nollywood actress, Kemi Afolabi-Adesipe, has recounted how she was diagnosed with an incurable disease which led her to sell her properties and secure a space for her burial. The 43-year-old actress recalled that she paraded different hospitals because she was short of breath but was eventually diagnosed with the unnamed ailment. The thespian, who studied Law at University of Lagos, made the revelation via her verified Instagram page. She said: “I wrote my will and booked a space with ebony vault this year 2021, but God showed me how faithful He is despite my unfaithfulness. Who am I that God is so mindful of my existence? “Me ordinary sand that was toss around from my private hospital to LASUTH to Army Barracks Hospital WAEC and finally LUTH where I spent over three months! - Advertisement - “I did Covid (COVID-19) test every 48hrs at LASUTH emergency because I was short of breath, was on oxygen for about a month, still no diagnosis after several tests conducted.   Siblings drown in Kwara river on New Year’s eve     Kwara group writes Saraki to run for president     Uzodimma blames opposition, criminals for Imo crisis   “Only a mad man says there is no God-ooo. (I) sold my properties after spending all my savings because I knew the thoughts of bringing my condition to the public eye or beg for funds at the time would kill me faster! “Finally. I was diagnosed of a condition that has no cure but can be managed by medications and takes me in and out of the hospital at will (SLE). “Fluid blocked my lungs, affected my heart from functioning well, which was the reason for my breathlessness and that is caused by the condition diagnosed! “Surgery was the only option to drain out the fluid fast. “My life has changed forever but I am thankful I am still breathing. “Being in an industry that places high value on appearance, it’s been a struggle taking medications that helps ease the pains but affect my weight and people will constantly remind you of how FAT you’ve become without hesitations. “The year 2021 has been tough! But with God showing up for me and some special people by my side, I made it through.”