Unlike the practice in most Yoruba towns, Ibadan kingmakers do not need to consult an oracle before picking the next Olubadan after the incumbent joined his ancestors. The Olubadan throne is open to all Ibadan indigenes able to climb the chieftaincy ladder. The Olubadan-in-Council, which is the group of kingmakers, comprise the monarch and the high chiefs. As checks by The Nation show, ascension is rotated between two lines — Olubadan, Egbe Agba (civil) and Balogun (military). When an Olubadan dies, one of the topmost chiefs from both lines ascends the throne based on the principle of rotation. - Advertisement - From Jagun, candidates climb 21 steps before emerging as the Olubadan on the Otun Olubadan line, while candidates climb 22 other steps on the Balogun line. If one dies on the Otun side, the Balogun produces the next Olubadan. For instance, the late Olubadan, Oba Odulana Odugade, was in line of the Otun, while Oba Saliu Adetunji, emerged from the Balogun line. Adetunji, who was crowned the 41st Olubadan on March 4, 2016, was born on August 26, 1928 to the family of Raji Olayiwola and Suwebat Amope Adetunji in the Alusekere compound, Popoyemoja, Ibadan.   New Olubadan likely this week     Customs generate N188.6bn at Onne Port in 2021 — Official     Why Buhari signed 2022 budget, by Presidency   Oba Adetunji became Mogaji (the head of his family) in 1976. He became Jagun Balogun in 1978 and eventually, after almost 38 years on the ladder, he became Olubadan in 2016. But the chieftaincy style sparked a row in 2017 when the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi did set up a committee to review the processes and protocols in ascending the Olubadan throne. A judicial commission of enquiry on the matter was inaugurated. Ajimobi promoted and installed some High Chiefs and Bales into crown wearing kings. But Olubadan went to court to challenge Ajimobi and the government’s involvement in Olubadan traditional system. The promotion in the line of Otun Olubadan follows this pattern: From Jagun – Ajia – Bada – Aare Onibon – Gbonnka – Aare-Egbe Omo – Oota – Lagunna – Are-Ago – Ayingun – Asaju – Ikolaba – Aare-Alasa – Agba-Akin – Ekefa – Maye – Abese – Ekaarun Olubadan – Ekerin Olubadan – Ashipa Olubadan – Osi Olubadan – Otun Olubadan, before emerging as Olubadan. For the Balogun line, similar steps follow this pattern: Jagun – Ajia – Bada – Aare Onibon – Gbonnka – Aare-Egbe Omo – Oota – Lagunna – Are-Ago – Ayingun – Asaju – Ikolaba – Aare-Alasa – Agba-Akin – Ekefa – Maye – Abese – Ekaarun Balogun – Ekerin Balogun – Ashipa Balogun – Osi Balogun – Otun Balogun – Balogun, before eventual emergence as Olubadan. There are indications that the Otun Olubadan of Ibadan land, Senator Lekan Balogun, may be next in line as the Olubadan of Ibadan. This is according to the laid down hierarchy of ascension to the Ibadan throne.