Gunmen have abducted a retired Deputy Comptroller of Customs Mohammed Zarma in Kwara State. The gunmen allegedly invaded the farmland of the retired customs officer in Egbejila, around Obate village, Ilorin, outskirts and took him away. The incident happened on the night of Thursday. A source said that the gunmen “invaded the farm with AK-47 and took the man away by trekking through the bush. “The villages around the areas include Ogele, Pampo, Arowosaye linking Afon village, and all Asa Local Government Area of the state.” - Advertisement - Confirming the incident, spokesperson of the state police command, Ajayi Okasanmi, said that the command had deployed relevant assets, both human and material, for the rescue of the abductee. He said that Mr. Zarma was “kidnapped on his farm located at Oke Jia, Egbejila by some unknown gunmen speaking a particular Nigerian language.” Okasanmi added that “on the visit to the scene after the incident by the Command’s operatives, four empty shells of expended ammunition were recovered.   Make divine guidance your compass in 2022, bishop enjoins…     Declare for the presidency in 2023, group tells Tinubu     Sanwo-Olu intervenes in Magodo estate crisis   Read Also: BREAKING: Gunmen bomb police division, free detainees in Imo “The command wishes to assure the family of the victim and indeed the general public that no effort would be spared in getting the victim rescued unhurt and possibly arrest the perpetrators of the crime.” Another kidnap incident involving four persons reportedly happened along Obo Ayegunle/Osi road in Ekiti Local Government area of the state. It was learnt that the victims were Sunday Balogun, a mechanic, his pregnant wife, Mary, his apprentice Taiye and his twin brother, Kehinde. But the police did not confirm the incident. A close member of the family, Mrs Laoye Seyifunmi said that the kidnappers abandoned Sunday’s vehicle at the roadside after the incident. Another close family source who does not want his name in print told our reporter that the kidnappers have contacted the family demanding for N10m ransom. “They have contacted the family demanding for N10m ransom. We have been able to negotiate it to N4 million. “Although the family and community have been able to gather N2 million, they rejected it and directed a Toyota Sienna in his workshop should be sold to pay the ransom.”