Errant pupils in Ogun State face a heavy hand from the state government, which has vowed to not only expel them from public schools but also keep them from re-accessing education in the state. To that end, private schools are forbidden from taking in such students. Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Abayomi Arigbagbu, read the riot act last week when he addressed the press on strategies mapped out by the state government to tackle juvenile delinquency in schools. He spoke against the backdrop of social vices by some public school pupils that last year led to abrupt closure of some schools. In serving notice of its firm resolve, the government said it would not stand by and allow pupils to perpetuate ills that it linked to bad parenting, social media, peer group, wrong role models and economic conditions. Arigbagbu also blamed the trend on other factors like shortage of teachers and, where available, unqualified and unwilling teachers who do not use the right approach, congestion of classes, and ineffective communication between teachers and learners. And there are, according to him, societal predispositions like general moral laxity, craze for easy wealth, habit flaws such as procrastination and low self-esteem, among other factors that negatively condition young ones.   Sanitising NDDC     Eagles outclass Pharaohs to claim key AFCON win     Uzodimma’s broken promise   The commissioner outlined measures aimed at stamping social vices out of schools to include naming and shaming pupils involved, and keeping expelled ones out of school. There is, however, a motivational dimension namely rewarding well-behaved pupils who distinguish themselves in academics and character and promoting extra-curricular activities to discourage pupils from juvenile delinquency. He added: “Students expelled should not be admitted into any public or private school in Ogun State, that is something that will be very difficult and that is why we put in place what we call the learner identification number. The e-platform we are using now will make it difficult for dual registration. Once you are in a school and you misbehave and you are sent away, it will be very difficult to get into another school in Ogun, but some of them would want to get into schools and that is why we are meeting private school owners. For them, we are going to apply sanctions because we are the one that gave them operating licence; if they flout these regulations we can withdraw their licence. All of us have to be on the same page because if we expel a student from a school, it would have been the last resort and we don’t want a situation where the expulsion won’t be effective.” By talking tough, the Ogun State government apparently aimed at dissuading prospective pupil-offenders, which is understandable. But it was nonetheless worrying that the grand plan as outlined by the education commissioner was long on sanctions and empty on measures to rehabilitate offending pupils, whose misbehaviour is only a function of deeper societal problem and the result of institutional failure. Arigbagbu rightly identified some causative factors in his presentation, but he didn’t seem to think those were extenuating enough to warrant consideration of how to help offending pupils track back from the path of ruin. This is a defect in the strategy unveiled by the Ogun State government. We live in a society where pupils learn much of what they do from parents and other role models, meaning the mould is corrupted both within the home and larger society. And the current school system isn’t exactly primed to make up for defect. When pupils misbehave and incur expulsion from school, they need to be reformed by social infrastructure like borstal homes, not dumped on society in their depraved state whereupon they become nuisance to society. Besides, what happens to the future of such pupils and the prospects of their reforming to become useful citizens? The Ogun State government will need to think beyond just sanitising its school space to how to rehabilitate affected pupils.