Actor Uche Maduagwu has blasted Nollywood actress, Anita Joseph and her husband, Michael Olagunju for their raunchy display on social media. The display, which Maduagwu described as “shameful and repulsively preposterous” was seen in a video shared by the actress on her Instagram page. The video shows Anita on the bed showing off her boobs with her husband fondling them while she asked the question: “Who needs breast, hubby or baby?” While captioning the video, she warned fans to enter into a pit if it seems offensive to them “In case you’re angry about this post enter pit na oburo so’yi na apu Ala. Abeg na baby need breast just saying respectfully,” she wrote. - Advertisement - Many found the video offensive with Uche Maduagwu slamming the couple. Maduagwu warned them to desist from acting like little kids adding such affectionate displays aren’t meant for public consumption.   Tinubu: Waiting game is over     Presidency: I will consider contesting if APC zones ticket…     Army appoints new GOCs, Field Commanders   He also told them to apply a sense of maturity in their social media post. Maduwagwu shared a photo that captured the duo in their “small pikins” state with an inscription that reads: “Stop acting like small pikins. It is called marriage because no be all affection you display for the public. “Make we dey try apply small maturity for this beautiful union called marriage. There is a very thin line between content and palapala on social media.” While the post’s caption reads: “Please what MORAL lesson is this unnecessary display of affection in public teaching our kids? “Jesus wept Na understatement, this is alien to our culture in Nigeria, is this also for clout? “Marriage is honorable in God’s sight, squeezing the sleeping Olympus as if you no pay a bride price. It is shameful and repulsively preposterous. “How do you want your father-in-law to feel after seeing this video on social media, even if you paid 30 billion for her bride price, this is just so unacceptable, a man is the head of the home, Oga where is that in this?”