Reality TV star Nina has wondered why married men guilty of infidelity are usually the ones fond of displaying their spouses on social media. She asked: “Why is it that all these men that cheat so much are the ones that show off their wives on social media the most?” Though the reason for Nina’s disposition is unclear, social media users have reacted to her ‘curiosity.’ Many referred to the act as reverse psychology employed by guilty men in a bid to achieve damage control. Some simply said her assertion is a fact adding such men are usually scared of being cheated on too. - Advertisement - While others noted it’s to always remind side chicks of their boundaries as they will always love the home-front despite their cheating ways. symplychi_oma said: “Because they stay trying so hard to prove what doesn’t exist … sometimes guilty conscience.” fashiondoctor19 wrote: “Thats cuz they respect the home team more than the away team.” lagos_abuja_best_massage_ stated: “Damage control things. If you know you know. Our women are really trying. Women live your lives too o with sense.”   Having s3x on first date doesn’t make you cheap – Blessing…     Social media reacts as Davido reveals 2022 motto     Wife celebrates Seun Kuti at 39   sandy_kayc said: “To cover up.” pretty_gloria16 wrote: “They are stylishly telling other men it is a no trespass zone. They are scared they too won’t be cheated on.” iteegoigbo stated: “Na make sidechicks still know say them get boundaries.” nutritionusoyinade said: “It’s guilty conscience.” prince_ezechukwuedohbackup wrote: “Because they love their wife more than the side chicken but they can’t stop cheating…” mimiwalterz stated: “True though. The fakest marriages make the loudest noise especially on these yeye Instagram streets.” l_p___z said: “Simple! Because we don’t want to give people a hint that we cheat.” iamyudy_ wrote: “Most of them do that to distract their wives from thinking they might be cheating…sad!” elegushibeachlagos stated: “Some use that reverse psychology to keep their wives busy wowing on how their husbands love them. It’s a mind game to keep the wife’s mind busy while he is busy doing what he wants.” nigeriamemes_ said: “Nah skill to comot the woman mind from anything cheating.”