Lagos State Government has gone shopping for trains to run the Red Light rail under the Lagos Urban Rail System (LURS). Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is said to have led a powerful team which includes Transportation Commissioner Dr Frederic Oladeinde; LAMATA’s Managing Director Abimbola Akinajo and representatives of the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), the contractors handling the two projects, to the United States to buy the Diesel engines with which it intends to commence commercial activity on the corridor in December. The Redline rolling stock would be complimenting coaches already procured by the State Government. Former Governor Babatunde Fashola had in 2014, procured a set of diesel engine coaches for the Blue Line ahead of its operations which were stalled due to lack of funds. But there are indications that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is determined to commence commercial operations on the two flagship projects in December as work has reached an advanced stage on the two corridors.   It takes a strong man to love fat women- Lepacious Bose     I stand with Mompha, says Bobrisky     Nigerian artistes with prominent parents   - Advertisement - Confirming this on this Facebook Timeline on Wednesday, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Drainage Services Mr Joe Igbokwe said the Governor has gone to the United States to buy the trains for the red line. He had said: Have you heard the good news? Lagos State Government buys new trains from the USA to be used for the Lagos metro line in December. “The Lagos rail project started by Fashola was given expedited attention by Sanwo-Olu, thanks partly to the N45bn assistance from Federal Government under Muhammadu Buhari.” The move to commence the procurement process signifies the state government’s commitment to delivering the two projects ahead of the deadline. During his routine inspection on January 4, Governor Sanwo-Olu has restated his commitment to commissioning the two projects by the fourth quarter of the year. No official source could however confirm why the state government headed to the United States, rather than to China for the procurement of the Diesel engines and coaches for the red line light rail.