The Fatima Charity Foundation (FCF) has built and donated a borehole to Aroloya Community in Lagos Island Local Government Area. President of FCF Alhaja Bintu-Fatima Tinubu said she was excited the project was completed on time. Alhaja Tinubu, who is the Iyalode of Lagos, said: “I am so happy today and I want to thank God for this idea. This project makes everyone happy and I’m happy that the project marks the end of 2021.” She hailed Deputy Speaker of the House of Assembly Wasiu Eshilokun Sanni for helping out with the place where the project was sited. “I  called deputy Speaker to let him know I want this project on Lagos Island and in 30 minutes, he called back and gave me all the details needed. Everyone made the job so easy that the project was completed in two weeks. I’m so grateful to God and the people of the community as well for cooperating with officials on the field.” - Advertisement - Eshilokun thanked Alhaja Tinubu for paying attention to the needs of the people of Lagos Island.   Red, Blue rail line projects still on course, says Sanwo-Olu     Akeredolu dares PDP: report me to EFCC     ‘How Yoruba Nation agitators plan to stop Osun, Ekiti polls’   He said: “I was surprised when mama called me that she wants to do a project in our community. At her age, we ought to be given her but she still wants to help without making noise about it. We are so encouraged by her actions. She never gets tired of giving and we are grateful for this project. “The beauty of this project is that it will serve three wards connected to Oritafaaji. It is a strategic project which will make water more easily accessible for the people.” Council Chairman Adetoyese  Olusi also thanked Fatima Tinubu for making access to water easier for the people. He promised to help with necessary expenses for the running of the project. Olusi urged the community to own the project by protecting it. All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Moshood Mayegun said Alhaja Tinubu had restored the days where water provided by the government was made easily available. He said: “I can vividly recall that this area had a government water facility when we were growing up and this has now been restored by Alhaja Tinubu. What she has done today is just the tip of the iceberg, I have seen her do more and she will also do more in this area.”