Nobody wants to fail in life. So, we clamour for success right from the moment when we are able to know our right from left. But many of us still do not know what to do, many are not motivated, they live anyhow and allow the wind to toss us without sincere planning. However, if we must succeed in life, we must follow certain principles to make our dreams come through like some of the world leaders and business gurus have done. Here are successful tips from past world leaders among others to help us guide ours: - Advertisement -  1. Move the ball forward He was a community organiser in Chicago before earning his law degree. 2. Have hope He worked as a civil rights attorney and taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School between 1992 and 2004. 3. Don’t get complacent He served three terms representing the 13th District in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004. 4. Stay focused He received national attention during his campaign to represent Illinois in the United States Senate with his victory in the March Democratic Party primary 5. You can’t do it alone After a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton in 2008, he won sufficient delegates in the Democratic Party primaries to receive the presidential nomination. 6. Commit to something bigger He then defeated Republican nominee John McCain in the general election and was inaugurated as president on January 20, 2009. 7. Stop making excuses Nine months after his inauguration, Obama was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate. 8. Don’t take yourself too seriously He was re-elected President in November 2012, defeating Republican nominee Mitt Romney. 9. Stick to your plan He normalised U.S. relations with Cuba. 10. Follow your passion He spearheaded discussions that led to the 2015 Paris Agreement on global climate change.  1. Create your own luck 2. Don’t do it for the money 3. Go against the tide 4. Just keep going 5. Change your mindset 6. Protect against the downside 7. Be able to handle pressure Never settle 9. Live healthily 10. Help others BONUS Go out and do it Have mentors Add value  1. Focus on service 2. Use every experience 3. Be a great reader 4. Fill your cup 5. Build trust 6. Get in sync with life 7. Set boundaries 8. Be open & vulnerable 9. Relax 10. Surprise your fans 11. BONUS – Aim for excellence    1. Don’t stop Perry is known for both creating and performing as the Madea character, a tough elderly woman. 2. Challenge the thinking He also creates films, some produced as live recordings of stage plays, and others professionally filmed using full sets and locations with full editing. 3. Own the show He’s estimated to have earned around $75 million by 2008.   Six ways to avoid ‘sudden’ slump     Nigerian artistes with prominent parents     Five celebrities-turned-lawmakers in Nigeria   4. Love working Many of Perry’s stage-play films have been subsequently adapted as professional films. 5. Become your best self He has also created several television shows, his most successful of which is Tyler Perry’s House of Payne. 6. Never despise small beginnings In 2012, he struck an exclusive multi-year partnership with Oprah Winfrey and her Oprah Winfrey Network. 7. Have fun He has created multiple scripted series for the Oprah Winfrey Network, the most successful being The Haves and the Have Nots. 8. Be a student of life As of 2014, The Haves and the Have Nots have given OWN its highest ratings to date. 9. Have faith As of 2015, Perry’s net worth was estimated to be $400 million. 10. Be a point of light In his Huffington Post editorial, sociologist Shayne Lee lists Perry among the pantheon of today’s most innovative filmmakers.  1. Keep moving forward She’s a graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School. 2. Be authentic She spent her early legal career working at the law firm Sidley Austin, where she met her husband. 3. Work hard She worked as the Associate Dean of Student Services at the University of Chicago. 4. Don’t be afraid to fail She held positions in the Chicago city government as an Assistant to the Mayor, and as Assistant Commissioner of Planning and Development. 5. Choose your own path She served as a salaried board member of TreeHouse Foods, Inc., a major Wal-Mart supplier. 6. Earn success In May 2006, Essence listed her among “25 of the World’s Most Inspiring Women”. 7. Take your role seriously During the 2013 Academy Awards, she became the first First Lady to announce the winner of an Oscar. 8. Enjoy the balance As First Lady, she has become a fashion icon, a role model for women, and an advocate for poverty awareness. 9. Do what is hard In 2009 she was named Barbara Walters’ Most Fascinating Person of the year. 10. Have fun She also served on the board of directors of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. Bonus: Ignore the noise. Love what you do. Know who you are.  1. Just do right! She became a poet and writer after a series of occupations as a young adult, including fry cook, sex worker, and nightclub dancer. 2. Be courageous She was an actor, writer, director, and producer of plays, movies, and public television programs. 3. Love In 1982, she earned the first lifetime Reynolds Professorship of American Studies at Wake Forest University. 4. Laugh She was active in the Civil Rights movement and worked with Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X. 5. Be a blessing to somebody Beginning in the 1990s, she made around 80 appearances a year on the lecture circuit, something she continued into her eighties. 6. Turn struggles into triumphs With the publication of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, Angelou publicly discussed aspects of her personal life. 7. You are talented Attempts have been made to ban her books from some U.S. libraries, but her works are widely used in schools and universities worldwide. 8. Learn to say no She made a deliberate attempt to challenge the common structure of the autobiography by critiquing, changing, and expanding the genre. 9. Always do your best Her books center on themes such as racism, identity, family, and travel. 10. Keep rising She received dozens of awards and more than 50 honorary degrees. Bonus: Be complaint free