The Export Expansion Facility Programme (EEFP) and Export and Sell have partnered to provide non-oil exporters with skills needed to expand their operations and explore the over $400 billion monthly sales market in Amazon. The EEFP, which is being implemented by the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC). Part of the partnership will enable both institutions to train the non-oil exporters on how to label their products to meet US regulators requirements, warehousing of the product, listing and sales, among others. The EEFP programme was geared towards disbursing N50 billion export development fund that was part of the Federal Government’s N2.3 trillion Economic Sustainability Plan. The scheme has supported over 1,100 businesses export-facing affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The NEPC has equally facilitated a business focused on capacity building – training Nigerian businesses on the rudiments of improving their export. The Export and Sell – has also been tasked with training and on-boarding over 10,000 Nigerian businesses on Amazon (US).   Abia community deserted following killing of two soldiers     Angry mob set Kogi police barrack ablaze over killing of…     Alumona, AAAN Vice President, becomes APCON Fellow   - Advertisement - Chief Executive Officer, Export and Sell, Nduka Udeh, said all the partners have seen the need for training to get Nigerians to improve their report earnings by embracing online training to improve their knowledge of the export business. “There is a difference between just putting your goods on a plane and having someone ship it and doing the right thing.” According to him, doing the right thing, in this sense, entails products meeting the quality for export which ensures that products from Nigeria are not rejected in the ports of other countries. Udeh  said helping businesses to export has a huge ripple effect across the economy by increasing the volume of export earnings. EEFP’s Programme Coordinator, Maureen Ideozu explained “To capitalise on Amazon’s $400 billion market, it was important to have Nigerian businesses listed on big e-tailers like Amazon US. She further explained, “when Made-in-Nigeria listed businesses can bolster their revenue and earn in dollars, it improves their ability to scale, create employment and broaden their tax remittance to the Nigerian government.” So far, the Export Expansion Facility Programme has, through the EDF, increased Export and Sell’s training capacity from 1,000 businesses to over 10,000. With funds from the grant, the company has launched an online training platform and has also secured a training facility in Lagos, Nigeria.