Eze Emmanuel Okeke is the Chairman Traditional Institutions in Imo State as well as the chairman on community policing. He is also the traditional ruler of Amaifeke Ancient Kingdom, Orlu LGA. In this interview with CHRIS NJOKU, he bares his mind on a number of burning issues including the war against insecurity in the state as well as his opinion on the recent calls by northern elders that Nnamdi Kanu should not be released from detention. Excerpts What do you think should be done to totally curb insecurity in Imo State? Yes, we thank God for our governor. He is God-sent. What he has done, no other governor before him had done it. What remains is for the political opponents to realise that whatever they are doing now to heighten insecurity in the state is more of suffering the people of the state and not the government. Of course, it is clearly known that what is happening in Imo State is politically motivated. Otherwise, tell me why this thing is happening only in the governor’s federal constituency: Oru, Orlu and Orsu local government areas. This thing is not happening at Ideato. Even at Mbaise there is no tension there. Or Ohaji/Egbema; there is no crisis. That is a proof that the whole thing is all about politics. The governor has ensured that everywhere is calm. We thank him. But we are begging these politicians instigating crises to stop forthwith. They should sheath their sword. In some of these troubled areas, some people are claiming that the governor is not doing anything. They have forgotten how he did his very best and almost singlehandedly calmed the insecurity challenges. One thing they should also know is that the governor is not the military commander. They control themselves. If there is any problem, they get their instructions from above, and that is from their headquarters. That is the tradition of the military the world over. So, I am appealing to our youths to stop creating violence. We can’t deny the fact that we are all Igbo. What the agitators are doing is their inalienable right. But they should not go about it with violence. Those who are being killed here are fellow Igbo and not people from the moon. So let’s reason and know what to do. They should not heap all the blame on the governor; he has no such power to instruct the Armed Forces. The governor can only control the vigilante in his state. There is no state police or army. I want people to understand this clearly. Whenever the military introduces any operation, it can only be stopped by powers from above; not order from the governor. - Advertisement - So these problems emanating from the politicians can only be solved when they look inwards and know that they are doing the residents of the state no good by causing crisis. They should realise that the people being killed here are their relations, the houses being burnt are their houses. What do they stand to gain? They killed some Ezes the other day. Before the incident, the Ndieze Southeast had written as stakeholders to the government to curb insecurity in the country. So I don’t see why they should kill traditional rulers. We’re only royal fathers and custodian of culture. It is difficult now for a traditional ruler to control his subjects. Why are they coming after us? Recently some Igbo elders went to President Muhammadu Buhari, begging him to release Nnamdi Kanu unconditionally. But soon after their visit, some northern elders came up with a statement that he should not be released. The traditional rulers, after our meeting in Enugu, resolved that we write to President Muhammadu Buhari to release Kanu. We should also realise that most of these agitations are caused by marginalization. We from the Southeast have been deprived of so many things, especially major positions in government. If things are done with equity, I don’t think most of what is happening now would have happened. We are also begging the President to please do what we requested from him. He has promised us that he is going to do it. Anybody now coming to do the contrary should not be regarded as a Nigerian. Such people want Nigeria to be gutted by crisis. All we are hoping for is peace and prosperity, if it is properly handled. If the level of marginalisation is 30 or 40 per cent, it would have been better. But its far beyond that. So we are begging those at the helm of affairs to look at the causes of the crisis and settle it. Whoever is advising the President not to tow the path of peace does not love him and is not a Nigerian. A true Nigerian would seek peace. What have you and your colleagues done so far to make sure Igbo youth are released from various custodies? This is part of what we presented before the President after our meeting in Enugu. Although we are not supposed to be in position to do that, situation demanded that we do it as elders of the land and royal fathers. Otherwise, it is the work of the National Assembly lawmakers. We have made our pleas for the youth to be released. We have equally appealed to the youth to stay away from crisis. They should not spoil this peace talk we have with the President, especially now that he has assured us that he will consider our pleas.   EPL stars headline Africa Cup of Nations     I want to be a professor – Faith Ihediwa, Miss Blind…     2021: And all that we cannot leave behind (1)   I know you have seen some great Igbo leaders living or dead. Which of them is the greatest? We have individual differences. They all have their good and bad sides. We know that our great leader, Nnamdi Azikiwe, played his own role in conformity with the situations at that time. He was a father. He showed love, diplomacy and unity to what was on ground then. But when the situation became rough because of military takeover, I can’t blame Ojukwu who tried to get his people secured. He demanded for his people’s rights, and I can’t blame him for doing so. He used his father’s money to fight for the Igbo without anybody helping him. It was unfortunate. Later, no victor, no vanquished was declared. Without this, we would have been like slaves now. They all tried. That is all I can tell you. They played their different roles at their own times, so all of them are great Igbo leaders. We learnt the governor has concluded to launch a new vigilante outfit in the state. Can you tell us more about it? What he wants to do is not new. If you go to Rivers, Abia, Enugu, Ebonyi and even in the north and other places, they have vigilantes. It is just a way of checkmating crime in the society. Vigilantes are security apparatus of the grassroots. We are supposed to have it. Recently the state government did the unthinkable by returning huge properties recovered from the past administration of Rochas Okorocha to their original owners. What is your take on this? family that looks like a polygamous family. We have different types of individuals, so you will also have different characters. If there is a complaint by any of the family members about cheating, it is left for the father to look into their problems and apportion blame to whoever is wrong. They are all our subjects. What we are saying is that the government recently recovered some properties from that administration gave it back to their original owners. How do you see this move? Like I said before, in any family, there are bound to be different characters. Some might be thieves or kidnappers. If anyone goes wrong, others will call him to order and collect whatever he took from others and keep it well so that the family would be at peace. This is what I feel. I am a father. How do you see the government’s recent move asking the President Generals of communities to take charge of the activities in their domains? I want to commend the governor for that because his idea is to allow dividends of democracy get to the rural communities. What’s your opinion about the recent Egbu declaration in which the people from Owerri zone are insisting that the state’s mantle of leadership should return to Owerri zone? Egbu declaration is a new idea and not a law. It should have been kept pending when the person in the saddle finishes. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. They should allow Hope Uzodimma to go for his second term. To me, that is equity. He has laid so many foundations; the best thing is to allow him consolidate on them in his second term. Insisting on the declaration to start now is injustice. And like I said before, it is not a law; it is just the thought of a few people from a particular place.