President Muhammadu Buhari will not compound the harsh economic realities for Nigerians by approving the removal of the petroleum products subsidy. Senate President Ahmad Lawan disclosed this to State House Correspondents on Tuesday after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. Lawan, who said he visited the President to acquaint him with the pulse of Nigerians from their various constituencies, said Buhari also expressed concerns over the harsh economic realities facing Nigerians, adding he would not do anything to make their situation worse. He noted that it is the duty of government at all levels and across party lines to set differences aside and work together to find solutions to the conditions of the people. President Muhammadu Buhari has not directed anyone in his administration to implement the removal of petroleum subsidy, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan has said. - Advertisement - The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, had announced last October that the Federal Government made provision for petrol subsidy only for the first six months of 2022 as the government looked towards complete deregulation of the sector. “In our 2022 budget, we only factored in subsidy for the first half of the year; the second half of the year, we are looking at complete deregulation of the sector, saving foreign exchange and potentially earning more from the oil and gas industry,” Ahmed had said. But speaking to correspondents after the meeting with the President, Lawan said the lawmakers are worried about the different agitation and protests around the country, necessitating the discussion with the President.   High Chiefs agree to withdraw suit for new Olubadan’s…     Four feared killed in renewed Ebonyi inter-communal dispute     UPDATED: Kanu for arraignment Wednesday on amended terrorism…   The Senate President said he was glad to inform Nigerians that Buhari has not told anyone to remove petroleum subsidy. “It will be of interest to Nigerians to hear what I’ve come to discuss with Mr. President, among several other things. “Many of us are very concerned with the recent agitations for protests and many constituents across the country are very concerned that the Federal Government will remove the petroleum subsidy and for us, as parliamentarians, as legislators representing the people of Nigeria, this must be of interest to us. “I’m happy to inform Nigerians that Mr President never told anyone that the petroleum subsidy should be removed. I know and I agree that the subsidy is very heavy but I think we must never transfer the burden to the citizens. “I believe that we need to look at the quoted figure of maybe 100 million litres that people claim we’re consuming. Is it real that I’m paying either under-recoveries or subsidy? Is it really 100 million litres per day? How on earth are we consuming that? “We need to look at this critically and see how we can find the truth because I am not convinced that within the boundaries of Nigeria, we are consuming 100 million litres. Probably our neighbouring countries may be benefiting from this. “Can’t we do something about it? It’s a failure on us if we are not able to control it, this particular aspect of smuggling of the petrol and then in return, push the burden to the ordinary citizen. “So, I want to commend Mr. President for still keeping this philosophy of ensuring that the most ordinary Nigerian does not suffer in any way. Government is meant to serve people and the essence of government, like we all know, is to protect the lives and property and welfare of the people and that petrol aspect is part of the welfare. “It may not be exactly the way we want it, the implementation of subsidy, but that is our challenge as an administration, as a government.”