Satellite infrastructure will play very crucial roles in the deployment of the fifth generation (5G) technology in the country this year, according to a Federal Government policy document obtained at the weekend. According to the document, current publications and research have shown that communication satellite has a great role to play in 5G deployment and this can be realized through leveraging the advantage of the Satellite Infrastructure by mobile and fibre operators to expand their coverage areas and offload their networks through important functionalities like multicasting, backhauling and mobility access where satellite is a better technology. The document entitled: “National Policy on 5G Networks for Nigeria’s Digital Economy”, said while the contributions and achievements of the 3G and 4G technologies have been remarkable, the current and continuous increase in development of new technologies and devices with accompanying new services requirements creates a need for the development of technologies that meet these requirements. According to the ITU Satellite Communications Symposium in 2019, trunking and head-end feed; backhauling and tower feed; communications on the move; and hybrid multiply are areas that leverage the advantages of satellite’s high bandwidth and ubiquitous coverage to enable and extend terrestrial 5G networks. It said therefore said the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC)  is expected to ensure that relevant stakeholders collaborate with the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited (NigComSat) and other satellite provision companies to leverage the existing and future communications satellite infrastructure in the deployment plan of 5G in coverage and integration; resilience and over slip; internet of things ( IoT) over the Satellite networks; content multicast and cashing; backhauling; spectrum sharing and any other role that the communications satellites infrastructure can play in the 5G ecosystem. - Advertisement - It noted that the current and continuous increase in development of new technologies and devices with accompanying new services requirements creates a need for the development of technologies that meet these requirements.   ‘Why most SMEs fail in three years’     NETCO empowers youths     NALDA farm estate to empower 400 in Abia   “These requirements include faster connectivity, enhanced mobile broadband, higher data capacity, reduced latency and the infrastructure required to realize revolutionary innovations such as driverless cars, remote classrooms, cutting edge processes etc. “The global mobile data traffic generally and in Nigeria particularly is on an upward trajectory, increasing exponentially year on year. Thus, there’s need for an effective and cost-efficient network expansion to ensure optimal support for this traffic growth. It is estimated by the end of year 2021, global mobile data traffic would reach a monthly rate of 56.8 exabytes as compared to 3.7exabytes in 2015. “The assertion is based on the higher flow rate of data, the advent of new systems and technologies such as IoT and smart cities,” the document noted. According to the National Policy on 5G Networks for Nigeria’s Digital Economy, a recent World Economic Forum (WEF) Report concluded that 5G networks would make an estimated contribution of $13.2trillion in economic value globally and generate 22.3million jobs from direct network investments and residual services. Accenture in a 2017 study concluded that 5G could create $500billion in additional gross domestic product (GDP) and an estimated 3million jobs in the United States through a $275billion investment by telecom operators. A similar study by the European Commission estimated that the benefit of 5G in Europe would reach EUR 113billion per annum in four key sectors namely automotive, health care, transport and energy while creating approximately 2.3million jobs. In addition, a global study commissioned by Qualcomm also concluded that 5G would enable USSD 12.3billion of economic output by 2035 with the 5G value chain supporting approximately 22million jobs. “This outlook of 5G technology has led to different governments, operators, vendors and other players in the value chain racing to reap the benefits by being the first to deploy and commercialise the technology,” the document noted.