The Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) has deactivated passports of about 200 COVID-19 test defaulters after discovering fake PCR tests and vaccination cards. Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi made the announcement in Alausa yesterday, according to a report by Channels Television. He said the names of the defaulters who failed to appear before a mobile court have been submitted and their passports will be deactivated for a period of one year. “We have submitted the first 200 names of individuals who have failed to present themselves at the mobile courts to the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) and their passports have been deactivated for a period of one year”. According to the report, Abayomi confirmed that defaulters would be subject to fines or community service as the acts are criminal in nature. - Advertisement - “These will be published in the dailies in the coming week and the next set of names will follow in the coming month. “We encourage all those who have received a text message to present themselves at the mobile court to avoid these sanctions the Commissioner stated. He noted that the committee frowned at the dubious actions of some inbound passengers who presented fake PCR tests and COVID vaccination cards and fill in false travel information in an attempt to bypass the national COVID guidelines.   UAE reopens entry to passengers from Nigeria, 11 other…     Lassa kills 26 in three weeks, says NCDC     Court stops deduction of police funds from Federation…   “It has come to the notice of the state government that certain returning passengers present themselves at the airport either with fake COVID-9 PCR tests or fake vaccination cards or registering as children under 10 years to bypass the National guidelines or providing false COVID related information. “These acts will not be tolerated as they represent the main catalyst of all the four waves which have had a major impact on the State public health systems and the economy.” The commissioner has announced that while the fourth wave of COVID-19 has tapered out, it will continue to ensure heightened public surveillance for COVID and ensure access to free PCR testing at all its public health facilities. He also reiterated that testing at the designated public health facilities remains free of charge. He further announced a reduction in the cost of the COVID-19 PCR test at its accredited private laboratories from N50,400 to N45,250 per PCR test commencing on the 28th of January 2022. The commissioner stated the COVID-19 PCR test cost was reviewed by Lagos State COVID-19 Incident Command Structure and approved by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. According to him, the reduction in cost was to cut the expenses to be incurred by citizens who needed the PCR tests for travel, work, or other purposes other than COVID symptoms or contact tracing. “In line with the directive of Mr. Governor, the Lagos State Biobank has reviewed the processes involved in conducting a COVID-19 PCR test at the accredited private laboratories consortium and based on this, made a recommendation to the Governor for a reduction,” he said.