Groups of youth leaders in the Niger Delta region have extolled the leadership and professional qualities of the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Mele Kyari. The coalition, under the auspices of the Niger Delta Youths Coalition for Peace and Progress (NDYCPP), in a statement on Saturday by its Coordinator, Mr Kennedy Tonjo-West, described Kyari as a detribalised, principled professional and visionary leader. Tonjo-West said the NNPC boss would always be remembered by the people of the region for the noble roles he played in the passage of the age-long Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) into law and the eventual assent by President Muhammadu Buhari last year. He said though there were some misgivings in the past Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), Kyari’s efforts must not go unnoticed, rationalising that he deserved some accolades from the people of the region, particularly the youths.   FG committed to supporting volunteerism for national…     Black soot: Wike orders police, others to arrest, prosecute…     APC: Aregbesola’s loyalists meet reconciliation committee in…   Tonjo-West said: “We are very happy to be associated with Kyari. His coming on board as the GMD of NNPC has brought major transformational changes to the NNPC, most especially his cardinal agenda of Transparency, Accountability, Performance and Excellence (TAPE) which has meteorically shot the NNPC to global recognition. - Advertisement - “You are an industry technocrat par excellence, a very seasoned  public administrator, team player that works seamlessly both with his superiors like President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, as well as his numerous subordinates.” He said the Niger Delta youth leaders had also concluded arrangements to confer on Kyari, an Award of Excellence on Probity and Public Administration come February 2022 during the occasion of the Niger Delta Youth Entrepreneur Summit on Oil and Gas. Tonjo-West also felicitated with the NNPC boss on his birthday on January 8, noting that Kyari had always been so inspiring to them and it was their pleasure and pride to be able to work with an enigma like him.