The Adimula of Ifewara, and perhaps one of the oldest serving monarchs in Yorubaland, HRM Oba Hezekiah Adeniyi Owolola, in collaboration with the Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation, recently concluded the first phase of a skills acquisition programme developed by the Foundation. All over the world, governments and leaders concert efforts to address the issue of unemployment and its attendant vices. There is no gainsaying that even prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, economic growth has been at the heart of the aspirations of actors of national development. According to a 15 th March 2021 Bloomberg article, unemployment in Africa’s largest economy surged to the second-highest globally. In its most updated report, the National Bureau of Statistics pegged the unemployment rate in Nigeria at 33.3%, a leap from its previous 27.1% record. Even worse hit are peri-urban and rural communities. One of such communities is Ifewara, in the Osun State of Nigeria. Ifewara, a peri-urban community located 20km from Ile-Ife in the Atakumosa West Local Government Area of Osun State, is characterised by a low literacy level and lack of basic infrastructure and medical facilities. Although there are tertiary institutions in the neighbouring Ife town, there are few schools in Ifewara, hence the predominance of semi-skilled and unskilled labour. The people of Ifewara however, prove themselves to be hardworking people as the majority of them are involved in one economic activity or the other, albeit subsistent. The , the philanthropic vehicle of Chief (Dr.) Oladele Fajemirokun, the Baba Oba of Ifewara, sought to bridge the economic gap by equipping Ifewara youths with the required skills and machines through the Skills Acquisition Programme (SAP)- tailoring. The Executive Director of the Foundation, Mrs. Lawumi Fajemirokun, revealed that due to Ifewara’s centrality as well as its literacy profile, it had the potential of local economic growth through low-end services such as tailoring. This consideration gave birth to the 3-month OFF-SAP tailoring course which inducted 50 participants. Mrs. Fajemirokun reiterated her passion for gender inclusion and empowerment in consideration of the over 90% representation of females in the programme. Following the success of the programme, she further pledged to impact more households through this initiative and charged the participants to make the best of their skills and machines.   THE DIABETES DRUG THAT SAVED ME FROM CUTTING MY LEG     How Mr Kingsley who got scammed by a Travel Agent eventually…     Tiv monarch blesses Ayom’s presidential ambition   - Advertisement - The Adimula of Ifewara, HRM Oba Hezekiah Adeniyi Owolola, went on to thank the Oladele Fajemirokun Foundation for creating such opportunities for the Ifewara community and ultimately reducing the economic dependency on the local authorities. He stated that with the training as well as the provision of sewing machines and cash to all 50 participants, he was convinced that the economic profile of Ifewara will gather momentum in no distant time. The long-serving monarch who had ruled for over 4 decades expressed appreciation to the Foundation and its primary benefactor, Chief Fajemirokun for the many interventions on Ifewara over the years.