Successive governments in Kwara State have been unfair to people of northern extraction, Coalition of Kwara North Groups (KNG) has said. KNG said over the years, there has been a systematic marginalisation of the area in terms of infrastructure and human capacity building. Its chairman, Musa Buko urged other regions to concede the governorship slot to the Kwara North during the next general elections. Buko said: “It is not about hating or antagonising the governor; it is about what is right, just and equitable. Kwara of yesterday and today has not been fair to the people of Kwara North. It will amaze you that from January 2003 to December 2019, that the federal allocation that accrued to the 16 local government areas was over N300 billion. Out of this, the five local government areas that make up the region had the highest number of 38.57 per cent amounting to over N127 billion.   How I will take APC beyond 2023, by Al-Makura     Presidency, historian disagree over security situation     Factors, forces that will determine Ekiti, Osun…   “The state internally generated revenue (IGR) in 2015, 2016 and 2020, according to the local government auditor-general’s report, showed that the five local governments in Kwara North are still very significant in generating IGR. Yet, the area has the worst road networks and other infrastructural deficits. As we speak, there are some communities that have stayed more than 10 years without electricity.” As a way out, Comrade Buko urged the state government to “establish Kwara State character and equal opportunities commission to look into the distribution of resources and opportunities in a fair, equitable and just manner; Kwara State House of Assembly along with the state executive council should abolish the joint account allocation committee law. - Advertisement - He added:  ”This will ensure that local government allocations count. We want to have an equal stake in the affairs of the state by being given the opportunity to govern the state. We have all it takes to take the state to the next level.”