As the 2003 general elections draw nearer, some prominent politicians, stakeholders, leaders and elders of the northern senatorial district of Kwara State are not leaving anything to chances in their quest for power shift. But it appears the zone is not united in their agitation to produce the next governor of the state. Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, reports. AHEAD of the 2023 general elections in Kwara State, several pressure groups have emerged across the state in agitation for the governorship seat to go to Kwara North senatorial district in 2023. Elders of the zone across political divides have been unrelenting in their quest for the leading political parties to zone their governorship tickets to the district. “We are very clear in our demand and plan. Our position is simple and we have reached out to all the leading political parties. 2023 will be quite different. If you don’t pick your governorship candidate from Kwara north, don’t expect our people to vote for your candidates,” Hon. Ahman Ibrahim, former state scribe of the Alliance for Democracy (AD), said. Daily, groups and individuals continue to advance the agitation for the senatorial district to produce the next governor of the state. The number of forums and groups championing the struggle continues to grow as the general elections draw closer. Some of them are Kwara North Elders Consultative Forum, Kwara North 2023, Kwara North Next Forum, Efunra Group (with a weekly radio program), Kwara North Agenda, Coalition of Kwara North, among others. Many observers opined that the people of the zone have never been this determined in their quest for the governorship seat of the state. During the week, members of the Kwara North 2023 (KN23) held a sensitization programme in Ilorin, the state capital where they urged all politicians from the senatorial district to be prepared to leave any political party that fails to give its gubernatorial ticket to the zone in 2023. Speaking at the well attended programme, Hon. Ibrahim, who is the convener of the group, said the people of the zone are no longer willing to play second fiddle in the state. According to him, the current agitation is not just by politicians but by the entire people of Kwara north in expression of their frustrations over the years. “It is important to say this. Our people across the senatorial district are not about to be deceived again. The truth is that we see this as our best chance to get the seat. This is why this agitation is not just by politicians alone. Our traditional rulers, our elder statesmen, our young one and the women groups are all involved ad ready. You can see here for yourselves the various groups as represented. The struggle is that of the entire people of Kwara north in expression of our many years of unending frustrations. So, those expecting us to give up soon as ususal should have rethinks,” he said. - Advertisement - The last time a Kwara North indigene ruled the state was 30 years ago during the era of Sha’aba Lafiagi. The short-lived 3rd Republic was however truncated by the military in 1993.   PDP Last month, the agitation of the people of Kwara North received a boost when the State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after months of speculations, announced that it will be zoning its gubernatorial ticket to the Northern District of the state. It’s Publicity Secretary, Tunde Asholu, who confirmed the development to Daily Trust on Monday, listed justice, fairness and equity, as the determinant factors responsible for the party’s decision. Ashaolu said the development followed a series of “exhaustive sessions with stakeholders of the party from the three senatorial districts” at the weekend. The party said: “All the organs of the party played a crucial role in arriving at its decisions after making series of consultations around the state under the guidance of its leader, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki. The decision process involved the Local Government Working Committees of the party across the 16 local government areas and 193 wards in the state. Each local government area presented 17 stakeholders which comprise of women, youths and elders of the party in the decision-making process. The decision has been made and has been agreed as a consensus by all the three senatorial districts that Kwara North should produce the next governor come 2023.” Many analysts are of the opinion that the party’s decision may not be unconnected with Saraki’s promise to the people of the zone in the run up to the 2019 governorship election. In February 2019, while urging them to vote for his party, the then Senate President had assured the people of Kwara North that their zone would produce the governor of the state come 2023, saying the next four years is not far again. ‘We have commitment to Kwara North and In sha Allah in 2023 governorship of the state will come to Kwara north. Ilorin and Kwara north have always been together and we shall continue to be together,” Saraki said back then. Though the PDP lost the elections across the state, it appears the former governor has his mind made up to honour his promise to the people of the northern senatorial district in 2023. “Our party is creating a realm where everyone will feel they belong to and has their roles to play irrespective of where they come from or their tongues,” Ashaolu said while trying to explain the party’s decision on the zoning issue. “This development as expected, have elicited many positive reactions from many members of the public, most especially those with concern for the future of our great state at heart,” he added. Expectedly, stakeholders from the district applauded PDP’s move. Kwara North Stakeholders Consultative Forum (KNSCF) praised Saraki for conceding the ticket for 2023 to the zone. The Chairman of the KNSCF, Comrade Abdullahi Lade, said “The development is a confirmation that our unity as a people is non-negotiable and our brothers from Kwara Central and South are truly men of honour. I want to categorically state here that, this development shall further strengthen our brotherhood bond and thereby work collectively to reclaim Kwara for prosperity. As the unity and love grow among us, so shall our socio-political and economic development grows.” Several other groups and individuals from the zone had also lauded Saraki and the PDP over the move. But there are those within the party who feels the PDP should look for a candidate that can win election, irrespective of where he or she comes from. “The reality today is that if the PDP must have a fighting chance in the next election, it must be willing to eschew emotion and take its decision based on cold calculations. Anything short of this, we should be prepared to face another defeat. The truth is that majority of voters do not belong to any political party. In 2023, they will vote only for a candidate (not party) that best appeal to them. Let Kwara North focus on giving us that candidate. It is as simple as that. “No part of the state is an island or can do without the other. For this very reason, what we need is a governor for all of us, for all of Kwara state. Not a governor for North or Central or South. And after four wasted years of the Otoge misadventure, even APC members are looking to our party to bail them out by bringing forward an obviously better alternative to the current governor. If we fail to do that, my bet is they would rather stick with the devil they know and wait it out for another four years,” Mas’ud Adebimpe, former Chief Press Secretary to the party’s leader, Senator Bukola Saraki, argued.     Girls, manifest your dreams in 2022 and shine like a star!     AHMED MUSA: Retirement can wait till after World Cup…     AFCON blues   Cracks in the wall But it appears the people of the senatorial zone are disunited in their quest. Last week, a large crowd of All Progressives Congress (APC) members from Kwara north called on Governor AbdulRaman Abdulrazaq to contest the 2023 governorship elections in the state. The politicians made the call at Bode-Saadu, in Moro local government area of the state. In clear terms, the party faithful made it clear they were not part of the agitation for power shift just yet. Many of them urged their relatives in the north to wait until the governors second term for the senatorial district to take power. The APC members were led by Kwara House of Assembly Speaker Yakubu Danladi Salihu, Senator representing the district Sadiq Umar and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Prof Maman Shaaba Jubril. Other dignitaries at the event were the lawmakers representing all the local governments at the National Assembly, Commissioners, Transition Implementation Committee (TIC) Chairmen, party leaders. All the speakers at the event declared their support for the second term agenda of Governor AbdulRazaq. Lauding the giant strides of the Governor in the last three years, they noted that the zone has never had it good under any previous administration. In his remarks, the Speaker said “There are agitations going on by some association of politicians who have failed Kwara North in the past to take us back more and more. Our people are saying no, we want to move forward and by his grace we will continue to move forward,” he said. He urged the people to reject the opposition’s agenda of zoning their governorship ticket to the Kwara North. He assured the people that the Senatorial District will continue to witness more developments in all sectors as embedded in the 2022 Budget presented to the State Assembly. Also speaking Senator Umar, said the masses are satisfied with the performance of the Governor and would leave no stone unturned in the bid to return him back to office. Other Speakers also denounced the agitation for power shift and urged the people of the zone to reject the call for zoning. “The governor’s people oriented programmes have changed the narratives of how our district was neglected during the 16 years ruling of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. This is therefore not the time to whip up sentiments by mouthing zoning and power shift. Now that we are enjoying good governance, zoning must wait,” they said. Last month, in a move that jolted agitators of power shift in his senatorial distirct, Salihu-Danladi had dismissed reports on his 2023 governorship ambition. Few days earlier, a group has endorsed the Speaker for the state’s governorship election in 2023 because he hails from Kwara North Senatorial zone. However, in a statement, the speaker said he no plan to vie for the Kwara State governorship seat in 2023. He also declared his support for the second-term ambition of Governor AbdulRazaq. “The position of the Rt. Hon. Speaker concerning the agitation of the 2023 Kwara North Agenda is clear and simple, so any attempt to drag his name into it unnecessarily to heat the polity or create artificial tension in the political space should be outrightly disregarded. “For a very long time, Rt. Hon. Engr. Danladi-Salihu has elected to throw his weight behind the second term ambition of His Excellency, Mallam AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, as his constitutional right, more importantly, as the governor is performing wonderfully well to the admiration of all – unprecedented developments and achievements of the AbdulRazaq-led administration could be seen across the three Senatorial Districts especially the Kwara North. The synergy and friendly relationship of the Executive-Legislative under Governor AbdulRazaq and Speaker Danladi is in the interest of the public especially Kwara masses and this is producing significant improvement in the lives of the citizenry,” he said.   Beyond agitations However, the pro-zoning groups within the senatorial district appear unrelenting as more and more voices are daily added to the call for power shift in Kwara state. Recently, leaders of thought from the senatorial district reaffirmed that there is no going back on the agitation of the area to produce the next governor in 2023. Speaking with journalists in Ilorin after meeting with political leaders in the Kwara Central senatorial district, led by Alhaji Oba Ajara, Comrade Lade said “already, the journey has started and we have begun consultations to politicians across all divides in the state to achieve the goal. The people of Kwara North senatorial district have paid their dues to the people of other two senatorial districts and this is the time they should be allowed to lead the state.” “We don’t want to be left behind in power equation. It has to do with grabbing political power. By calculation, Kwara Central got the first four years through late Mohammed Lawal, then eight years from Dr. Bukola Saraki. So, the Central had 12 years and Kwara South had eight years through Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed. The Yorubas say three stones do not throw away pot soup. We are three in number. They should allow us in Kwara North. We realised that we need to cry out that they should think about equity, justice and fairness and allow Kwara North to produce the next governor irrespective of party affiliation. “If we want to talk about the party we will still have the same problem so we are bringing everyone on board. Going by the nature of Kwara politics we need to cry before others follow us and before people listen to us because it’s not about population or any other considerable factor. They are stronger than us. That’s why we are harping on equity, justice and fairness. In Kwara North, we have been loyal to a fault to various governments across the political parties. They should give us what we also deserve. The next step after this gathering is an individual approach and we have started already. Shortly after that, governorship aspirants in Kwara North senatorial district, cutting across the APC and the PDP, jointly called on the royal fathers and other stakeholders in the district to join hands with them to ensure that power shifts to the area in the next general election. Aspirants including Prof. Mohammed Gana Yisa, Alhaji Yarmah Abdullahi, Alhaji Tajudeen Audu, Rt. Hon. Ibrahim Issa Bio, Alhaji Zakari Mohammed, Hon. Ahman Aliyu Patigi , Hon Bawa Isa, and Abu Shamaki, according to reports, reiterated their commitment to the zone’s agitation for power shift and agreed to work together to actualize the aspiration of the zone. The aspirants also embarked on sensitisation programme across the five local government councils that make up the Kwara North senatorial district. The affected local government areas are Edu, Patigi, Moro, Kaima and Baruten. Prof. Mohammed Gana Yisa, who spoke at the sensitisation programme during the tour of Moro LGA, said: “We are committed to ensuring that the Kwara North senatorial district is not shortchanged in the next elections in Kwara State. We will make sure that the senatorial district is given the governorship slot so as to bring the much desired development to the zone.” Ahead of the 2023 governorship election in the state and in pursuit of its power shift agitation, the Kwara North Stakeholders Forum had also screened governorship aspirants from the zone, hoping to pick a consensus acceptable candidate from the zone. Governorship aspirants from the zone that reportedly appeared for screening include Hon. Zakari Muhammad, Alhaji Abdulkadir Audu Makama, Hon. Ahman Aliyu Patigi, Alhaji Shuaib Yaman, Hon. Isa Bawa Adamu, Prof Yisa Gana, Abdullah Alikinla, and Alhaji Abubakar Musa Samaki. The aspirants, according to sources, signed undertakings to accept whoever emerges as the candidate. The outcome of the screening, which took place late last year, is still being awaited as at the time of filing this report. Many analysts are of the opinion that unless the Northern Senatorial district can rein in some of its prominent politicians currently supporting the second term ambition of incumbent Governor Abdulrazaq, it may be very difficult for the zone to achieve its desire of ruling the state in 2023. “There agitation is more serious this time around but the cracks in the wall of their house are too numerous to be ignored too. They will have to do something serious about those opposed to power shift among them,” a source said.