Six months inflows are enough to liquidate Nigeria’s foreign debts, according to an Economic Outlook report by Agusto & Co. The debts stood at $44b at the end of last year. In its 2022 outlook, the rating firm projected $90 billion forex earnings for Nigeria. The report titled: “Nigeria in 2022” it stated that a production rate of 1.8 million barrels per day and an average price of $75 per barrel would enable government achieve these revenue target. “The country will earn $50 billion from oil and gas export this year, $7 billion higher than $43 billion earned last year. - Advertisement - According to Debt Management Office (DMO) data, Nigeria’s total external debts stood at $37.95 billion as at September 30, 2021. ”This, Agusto & Co. explained, “meant that Nigeria needs only six months of dollar inflows to liquidate its foreign currency debts. “Kenya needs three years’ forex inflows to liquidate its foreign currency debts. We therefore believe thatNigeria will continue to meet her dollar obligations comfortably, at least in the near term.” Aside oil and gas export earnings, other sources of forex to the economy include foreign currency receipts from exports of goods and services, monetary gifts and inflows of capital from abroad such as loans and investments. Forex earnings from these sources support the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in meeting forex demand for import  of goods and services (including foreign travel, education medical treatment abroad), monetary gifts to foreigners, and loans and investments abroad. Agusto & Co. predicted that it was unlikely that the CBN will change its exchange rate management strategy this year. Therefore, a parallel market premium of around 40 per cent on the official exchange rate will continue to exist.   CBN to retain rates in crucial pre-election cycle     Nigeria 0-1 Tunisia: Super Eagles crash out of AFCON     Ex-NERC boss: DisCos under AMCON management won’t benefit…   “This means that foreign investors will be wary of bringing in new money at the official rate therefore net foreign investment will not be a size-able source of dollar inflow into Nigeria in 2022,” it predicted. Agusto & Co said the CBN is unlikely to allow significant currency depreciation in an election year and one in which oil and gas export revenue is likely to rise by about 15 per cent. The agency predicted that the officialnaira/dollar exchange rate will be about N430/$1 at the end of 2022. It said that about 10 per cent point difference between the naira inflation and the dollar inflation will continue to put pressure on the parallel market exchange rate. The firm added that average inflation for 2022 will be higher than the long-term (10-year) average of 12 per cent but will be lower than last year’s average of 17 per cent. According to the report, the gap between demand and supply of goods and services will continue to put an upward pressure on inflation while improved supply of dollar will moderate currency depreciation and imported inflation. The Report said: “The CBN will continue to manage naira interest rates. We therefore believe that the yield on one-year Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) treasury bills will remain below inflation in 2022. “This negative real return will increase speculative demand for forex. In 2021, savers earned, on average, a seven per cent return on one-year FGNsecurities but those who went into dollar earned a 20 per cent return as exchange rates moved from N470/$1 toN564/$1 in the parallel market.” According to the rating agency, dollar interest rates measured by the yield on FGN’s 10-year dollar bonds averaged 7.1 per cent in 2021 compared to 1.4 per cent on those issued by the U.S. Government. “This translated to a country risk premium of 5.7 per cent on the FGN bonds. The premium that the FGN pays in thistenor bucket relative to the US government is usually 400 to 600 basis points. The premium will hit 500 basis points in2022,” it projected. It said uncertainties about the 2023 elections will put pressure on this premium but this should be moderated by improved oil and gas export revenues. “In 2022, businesses and households in Nigeria will fare slightly better than they did in 2021 as the world recovers from the Covid-19 pandemic. ‘However, returns delivered by key businesses will still be below the expected return (cost of equity) which we estimate at about 27 per cent for Nigeria.”