The three days between December 17 and 19, 2021 will remain indelible in the minds of the inhabitants of many Tiv communities in Nasarawa State. Suspected killer herdsmen invaded Chabo, Daar, Tse-Udugh, Ayaakeke, Kyor Chiha, Hagher, Joor, Tyungu, Ugba, Angwan, Ayaba and several other villages in Obi, Awe and Lafia local government areas, dispatching scores of farmers to their early graves. The herdsmen, who had allegedly declared an ‘operation one man one bullet’ on Tiv farmers in the area, also forced many survivors in the affected communities to take refuge elsewhere after their homes were left in ruins. Lifeless bodies scattered around the affected communities as our correspondent accompanied the President of Tiv Development Association (TIDA) in Nasarawa State, Comrade Peter Ahemba with some security agencies to assess the level of damage done in the communities and trace some missing corpses penultimate Sunday. Although the police confirmed 13 bodies from some villages in Awe, Obi and Lafia local government areas, about 18 more bodies in various stages of decomposition were later found. Residents of the affected villages had deserted their homes and their houses had become desolate as only domestic animals were seeing moving round the deserted homes. It was gathered that the December attacks was a reprisal meant to avenge the killing of a herdsman, Idris Umaru, whose body was found along Assakyo/Obi Road, with the attackers concluding that the Tiv villagers were responsible for it. - Advertisement - Our correspondent further gathered that the attackers who had a field day from 17th to 19th December had declared operation one man, one bullet on any Tiv villager found, culminating in the dispatching of more than 30 Tiv villagers to their early graves. Besides those that were killed, many of the villagers escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds and are currently receiving treatments in various hospitals across the state. Recounting their ordeal at the hands of the people they described as Fulani militia, more than 1,000 displaced Tiv farmers who are currently taking refuge at the Central Primary School, Imon, Obi Local Government Area, describe the situation as “terrible” and “shocking”. Speaking to our correspondent, the two widows of Nyantya Soja, one of the prominent farmers who were killed in the attacks, said their lives would never be the same again since their husband was the only breadwinner for the family. Laurencia and Christiana recalled how their husband was killed by about seven well armed herdsmen who stormed their residence in Imon community, Obi LGA on December 18 and killed the late Soja in cold blood. Laurencia said: “Since our husband married both of us, we have been living peacefully. He was not a troublemaker. He was always happy with the people in our villages. We don’t know why the herdsmen came and killed him. “I have nine children for our late husband while my co-wife has four. He was into buying and selling of fish in addition to farming which is our only source of livelihood. Now that our husband is dead, I don’t know how we would be able to survive. The two of us have 13 children for him, and since his death, life has not been easy for us. We ran with the children away from the area to avoid being killed too.” TIDA President, Mr Peter Ahemba, corroborating the conditions of the two widows, said: “It has been difficult for the family to feed since the death of their father as they ran away from their clan in the community to the IDP camp for fear of being killed by the herders. Ahemba told our correspondent: “I never knew a day like this will come again in our communities when over 30 innocent villagers in Nasarawa south will be sent to their early grave for just no reason “As you can see, our people were massacred by herdsmen. We have corpses littering the fields like a war fought in the Roman Empire by Emperor Nero. When the attackers came, some people who tried to run across the river banks in Awe LGA were killed and their corpses were thrown into the river. Together with the police, we picked their decomposing corpses by the river banks “In most villages that we cannot access now, there are dead bodies decomposing and survivors deserted such areas for fear of been killed too. “It is a worrisome situation. All the people you see in this Imon IDP camp ran away from their houses because they don’t want to die.” TIDA president, who expressed disappointment over the actions of the Fulani herdsmen, called on government to provide relief materials to the IDPs and ensure the early return of the displaced persons back to their homes. The TIDA president said more than 20 Tiv People were injured and were receiving treatment in various hospitals while about 36 people were still missing. Ahemba wondered why the herdsmen felt that Tiv People were behind the death of their man and opened fire on over 25 Tiv settlements.   PROFILE: What you probably didn’t know about ‘Mummy…     Bobrisky apologises for asking Oba of Benin to marry him/her     Marwa loses wife Zainab   He described the killings as unfortunate, barbaric and uncalled for. Speaking during a security council meeting of all the stakeholders in the affected communities in Obi LG where herdsmen were also represented, Governor Abdullahi Sule warned the herdsmen in the state to either embrace peace or leave Nasarawa communities.  Sule told the herdsmen that his administration would not fold its arms and watch them destroy the peace he has worked hard to bring to Nasarawa State. He told them that they had no single reason to attack Tiv farmers on the excuse that a dead body was found on the road and the Tiv People were responsible for it. Governor Sule, who ordered security agencies to take over the affected areas and promised to give relief materials to the displaced Tiv farmers, warned troublemakers to stay clear of the state. He promised to take prompt and decisive action in apprehending and prosecuting anyone caught breaching the peace being enjoyed in the state. Governor Sule said: “What is more troubling is that in spite of our untiring effort that has kept us on our toes before and through the weekend, there was needless loss of lives of our citizens. “Such act of violence is most unfortunate, condemnable, unacceptable and will not be condoned by this administration.” The governor admonished the people to live in peace with one another and to shun mischief makers looking for opportunities to cause mayhem. He warned that leaders and the people must exercise restraint at all times and not take the laws into their own hands. “Let me at this point condole with the families who lost their members and properties. As an administration, we will do everything possible to get to the bottom of this and forestall any future security breach,” he said. He reiterated that Nigerians have a right to live wherever they choose without let or hindrance, adding that Nasarawa is home to all. Also condemning the killings, the immediate past governor of the state and senator representing Nasarawa South, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, condemned the recent killings in some parts of his constituency. Senator Al-Makura, described the attack and killings as another sad incident which is clearly the handiwork of criminals that are bent on destabilising the state. Senator Al-Makura, who appealed for calm, totally condemns the attack, saying there is no explanation that can justify it. He commended his predecessor, Governor Abdullahi Sule, for the prompt steps taken in reaching out to the victims and also curtailing the spread of the crisis to other parts of the state. He urged the citizens of the state to be at peace with one another irrespective of their beliefs, saying without peace, no meaningful development can take place. The police public relations officer of the Nasarawa State command, ASP Ramhan Nansel, who confirmed about 13 dead bodies gave their names as Sani Dauda, Danjuma Liambee, Uloho Jerry, Shedrack Kente, Boniface John, Tersoo Clement, Gwanje Soja and Ayuba Ali. He urged the people to suspend further hostilities and live in peace. He assured that a comprehensive investigation was ongoing and the perpetrators of the act would not go unpunished. Furthermore, a joint team of the Nigeria Police Force and the Military has been mobilised to the affected areas with a view to restoring peace and possibly arrest the perpetrators of the dastardly act.