Everton have confirmed Frank Lampard as the club’s new manager. The former Derby and Chelsea boss has signed a two-and-a-half-year contract – until June 2024 – having impressed the club over a series of interviews. The 43-year-old will take charge of training this week and his first game will be a meeting with Brentford in the fourth round of the FA Cup on February 5. The ex-England midfielder, who was relieved of his duties in charge of the Blues after a season-and-a-half in January 2021, arrives on Merseyside to succeed Rafael Benitez with the club mired in a relegation battle. Lampard emerged as the preferred candidate at the Toffees ahead of interim boss Duncan Ferguson and former Porto coach Vítor Pereira, and now faces the challenge of ensuring the club’s unbroken 68-year stay in the top flight does not come to an end. - Advertisement - Lampard told the club’s official website: “It is a huge honour for me to represent and manage a club the size and tradition of Everton football club. “I’m very hungry to get started. After speaking to the owner, chairman and the board, I very much felt their passion and ambition. I hope they felt my ambition and how hard I want to work to bring it together. “You can feel the passion Everton fans have for their club. That will be hugely important. As a team – the competitive level that the Premier League brings and the position we are in the table – we certainly need that. “It’s a two-way thing. I think Everton is a unique club in that you can really understand what the fans want to see. The first thing they want is fight and desire and that must always be our baseline. “My first message to the players will be that we have to do this together. We’ll try to do our job and I know the fans will be there backing us.”   Olubadan succession row: High Chiefs withdraw suit     Niger Governor blames communities for terrorist attacks     Newcastle complete club-record signing of Bruno Guimaraes   The managerial vacancy became available after the Toffees dispensed with the services of Rafael Benitez following a disappointing spell at the helm for the Spaniard. Benitez took charge in June last year, replacing Carlo Ancelotti, but things did not work out and he was axed on January 16 following a 2-1 defeat to struggling Norwich the previous day. Everton majority shareholder Farhad Moshiri said: “I am really delighted that Frank has joined us. “He is an impressive young man on and off the pitch. He has played at the very highest level of the game and has football in his blood. “He impressed us all greatly during the thorough interview process and we’re all ready to give him all of our support as he looks to give the team an immediate boost.” Everton targeted Roberto Martinez, but were forced to look elsewhere after the Belgian FA vetoed any prospect of him combining a club job with his duties as Belgium coach. Wayne Rooney was in the running but ruled himself out, saying he had unfinished business at Derby, and Lampard beat off competition from Duncan Ferguson and former Porto boss Vitor Pereira. Lampard takes over with Everton in 16th in the Premier League, five points above the drop zone, and they face fellow strugglers Newcastle on February 8.   Eurosport