This week, the detained leader of the proscribed separatist group, Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, will continue the fight for his freedom in the face of terrorism-related charges at the Federal High Court in Abuja. Ironically, IPOB continues to speak and act in a manner that reinforces the accusations against Kanu. It rejects categorisation as a terrorist organisation but continues to speak and act terroristically. The group’s terroristic methods are not new and were promoted by Kanu himself before he got into trouble with the authorities. The controversial IPOB leader was facing trial for alleged “offences of conspiracy to commit acts of treasonable felony and other related offences” before he was granted bail on health grounds by the court in April 2017. He was arrested in 2017 for leading a campaign for secession of the South East from Nigeria. He jumped bail in June 2018, and fled to the UK where he continued his anti-Nigeria activities. Before he disappeared from Nigeria, for instance, Kanu was characteristically rebellious when he addressed a crowd in August 2017 at the Boys Technical College (BTC) on Faulks Road in Aba North Local Government Area of Abia State. He was on bail at the time. Among the conditions for his bail, which he flouted, was that he should not be seen in a crowd exceeding 10 people and he should not grant any interviews, hold or attend any rallies. - Advertisement - He was quoted as saying at the event: “I’m a Biafran and we are going to crumble the zoo. Some idiots who are not educated said that they’ll arrest me, and I ask them to come. I’m in Biafra land. If any of them leaves Biafra land alive, know that this is not IPOB.” Kanu, 54, was rearrested in Kenya and brought back to Nigeria in controversial circumstances in June 2021.  His case has continued to generate intense public interest. There have been moves to get a “political solution,” with prominent individuals and groups from his Igbo ethnic group calling for his unconditional release. It was uncertain whether the Federal Government would rethink his trial until President Muhammadu Buhari firmly rejected the idea. He said in a television interview on January 5: “There is one institution that I wouldn’t interfere with, that is the judiciary. Kanu’s case is with the judiciary…So, we are giving him an opportunity to defend himself in our system…But those who are saying that he should be released, no, we cannot release him.” IPOB has continued with activities that don’t help Kanu’s case.  The group started the New Year combatively. Ahead of Kanu’s next court appearances scheduled for January 18, 19 and 20, the group demanded that the Federal Government should release him unconditionally. ”We want to declare that the Nigerian government and its security agencies will have no peace of mind unless they release our leader,” IPOB said in a statement issued by its media and publicity secretary, Emma Powerful, on January 5. The group also unveiled a plan that is likely to cause trouble for people in the South East geopolitical zone, which it prefers to call “Biafra land.” The zone is made up of five states: Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo states. Read Also: Kanu begs supporters to be peaceful in court Tuesday   DSS and habitual lawlessness     Bola Ige: Perfect murder or cover-up?     Inside Kanu’s cage   ”Fulani cows are banned in Biafra land starting from April 2022,” the statement said.  ”Those in the animal husbandry business must switch over to our native cow without delay.” Also, the group said: “Concerning stopping the Nigerian national anthem in our schools, we want every school to start reading the Biafra national anthem. Soon every school is going to receive a copy of the Biafra national anthem.” In October 2021, IPOB had attracted attention with a statement that indicated its plan to regulate cattle business and cow meat consumption in the South East. Its head of Directorate of State (DOS), Mazi Chika Edoziem, had announced a ban on the rearing and consumption of “Fulani cows” in the SouthEast states, saying the ban would take full effect six months after the announcement. According to him, “from that date no more Fulani cows shall be allowed into Biafra land for any reason, not for burials, title taking, weddings, etc.” He added that only cows bred in the territory would from that time on “be consumed and used for all ceremonies in Biafra land.” Now the group has shown that it meant what it said by saying the cow ban will take effect from April, which is about six months after the initial announcement. It is unclear how the group intends to enforce the cow ban and the anthem ban in the five states. It already has a bad record when it comes to enforcing its bad ideas. Perhaps IPOB’s ban would be enforced by the enforcers that disrupted the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) in many parts of the South East in September 2021, based on the group’s unlawful sit-at-home order. The disruption was condemnable. Another condemnable disruption based on another unlawful sit-at-home order will happen this week.   IPOB has declared sit-at-home in the South East on January 18 when Kanu is expected to appear in court again. It said in a statement:  ”In keeping with our avowed solidarity with our leader, the entire South East will be on lockdown only on January 18 for obvious reasons.” The group has no business issuing any sit-at-home order. The group seems to forget it has been proscribed. It is operating unlawfully. Its activities are unlawful. It is noteworthy that the group had disowned those who disrupted the WASSCE last year, saying they enforced a sit-at-home order that had been cancelled. It remains to be seen whether the same enthusiastic enforcers will obey the group’s leadership this time, and not extend the unlawful enforcement beyond January 18. It is ironic that Kanu was reported saying his supporters should be peaceful when they come to witness his trial. The group is known for hostility. He wants such supporters “to conduct themselves with decorum, be civil in their conduct and comportment, shun violence and deviant behaviour in any manner or form, and exercise restraint in speech,” his lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, said in a statement after visiting him at the headquarters of the Department of State Services (DSS) in Abuja to discuss “final preparations” for the legal battle. It is impossible to divorce Kanu’s trial from IPOB’s activities and image. He is the group’s leader and their terroristic campaign for secession should have consequences.