The Federal and Lagos State governments hope to continue on the trajectory of delivering legacy projects that would deepen inter-modal systems in the transportation sub-sector, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Year 2021 ended on a high note for the transportation sector at the national level with the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, assuring Nigerians that the projections for the sector in 2022 were not mere promises, aimed at cornering cheap votes ahead of the 2023 general elections. Speaking in Abuja on the eve of the New Year, Amaechi said more projects, especially the controversial Kano-Maradi standard gauge, with a spur to Kaduna State, would be delivered by December. Last week, Amaechi met with the project’s contractor – Mota Engil, a Portuguese concern, and its financial advisors in Germany, where the finer details of the project aimed at making Nigeria’s ports attractive and a destination of choice for landlocked nations in North and Central Africa were discussed. He told Nigerians that more ambitious and legacy infrastructure were being embarked upon not to curry political favours from Nigerians but to ensure that the nation continued to move in the right direction in terms of capital projects. - Advertisement - But the success of the Kano-Maradi line itself is contingent on the successful completion of another, for which funds are being sought by the government. This is the Ibadan-Kano standard gauge, which is the third and final; LOT III, in what is the modernisation agenda of the Western Line, a major plank of the 25 years Strategic Masterplan of the Nigerian Railway Corporation, which runs its full term in 2027. Amaechi’s optimism is against the threats which the 2022 budget, signed by President Muhammadu Buhari last Friday, constituted to the transportation subsector. The National Assembly in the budget slashed the allocation to the Ministry of Transportation by N12.6 billion. This flies against the logic of providing more for the ministry to enable it to deliver on all ongoing rail modernisation projects. Amaechi who had appeared before the joint committee of Senate and House of Representatives on Land and Marine Transport had said the N147.9 billion allocated to the Ministry this year is not enough to address the challenge before it. Defending the allocation, Amaechi had told the joint committee that the objectives of the proposal is to consolidate on the government’s achievements on land transport, where the delivery of modern standard gauge rail lines, have continued to elicit positive reactions from Nigerians. He said the budget would help the Ministry consolidate on all ongoing projects, complete and deliver modern railway services that will become an effective alternative transport system for economic growth for the citizenry. It is not the first time Amaechi would be faced with the grim reality of paucity of funds. Even despite appropriating N156.6 billion to the Ministry in 2021, the Minister said only N138, 967,747,631 representing (88.73 per cent) was released out of which N113,324,587,384 has been utilised as of October 25, 2021. “In addition, the sum of N358,799.999 was appropriated for Overhead expenditure out of which N269, 099,999 26 was released. “The sum of N185, 690,572.33 of the released amount was expended as of October 25, 2021,” he stated. Amaechi said: “The Ministry is proposing a total capital budget of N147,931,691,294. And the overhead of 5358, 799,998 in the 2022 budget. It is however cheery that while expressing reservation on the unilateral cuts and additions to the executive projections, by the National Assembly, to the assented bill, President Buhari, had clearly stated that he would soon send an amendment to the lawmakers indicating that he needs more money especially to deliver on railways which he described as critical to the success of his administration. Besides the Kano-Maradi line, prioritized by the administration, the Amaechi led Ministry also hoped to deliver on the rehabilitation of the rotted Port-Harcourt-Maiduguri narrow gauge (Eastern Line), funded directly from the Ministry’s budget. Other projects on which work is expected to commence based on the availability of funds are the Ibadan-Kano standard gauge, from which the Kano-Maradi line would be oxygenated, and the Lagos-Calabar Coastal line, for which funds are being sought. Also included on the list are the modernisation of the Eastern line, as the government is seeking funds for the standard gauge for the Eastern line, while various spur lines, aimed at achieving the administration’s dream of linking all state capitals by rail, are being aggressively pursued.   2021: When transportation took centre-stage     ‘We’ll enforce ‘no-test, no…     Let’s try the waterways   While the government continues to concentrate on the railway element of the land transport this year, the government had said it would continue to push all agencies and departments under it, both in the land and maritime sub-sector to achieve the aim of refocusing the transportation sector to take its pride of place as the (critical) nerve centre of the nation’s economy. At the last Chartered Institute of Transportation of Nigeria CIoTA conference held in Abuja in November, conferees said the transportation sector, if adequately exploited, could contribute a whopping N7.5 trillion yearly to the economy. They had argued that despite its huge population put at about 220 million, Nigeria is almost completely dependent on land mode of transportation that is in itself not properly administered and, or, maximally managed or exploited. Stakeholders at the summit with the theme, “Regulating the Transport Sector in Nigeria: The State of the Art and the Years Ahead”, charged relevant authorities to take the enforcement of transport sector regulations seriously. They argued that critical regulatory obligations such as transportation safety, quality control, documentation and licensing, information sharing and data mining, professional education and public enlightenment; enforcement of the rules and standardisation of procedures for collaboration among statutory agencies with complimentary mandates were imperatives for the making of a sustainable and economically viable transport sector. The Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, represented by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, had explained that the administration’s commitment to the sector is an admittance of its critical role to the economy, even as he charged CIoTA to continue to generate ideas aimed at strengthening the sector. He said: “As the Institute carries out its statutory mandate of training and certifying transport professionals, as you exercise your statutory powers to regulate and control the practice of professional transport management and administration, your training curriculum and the quality of your graduates are very significant, as the global supply chain goes digital and the world of transport and transportation management thrives on ever-evolving technology and innovations.” He said that the investment the Federal Government is making in the transportation system especially in the areas of rail, road, air and maritime is aimed at achieving the potential of transforming Nigeria as a major transport hub within the African continent. CIoTA President, Dr. Bashir Jamoh, said transportation is the livewire of any economy, adding that the nation’s economic and social wellbeing depended on transportation. But beside the Federal Government, many of the state governments also have introduced initiatives aimed at boosting the sector. Lagos State Government for instance, would be taking delivery of the Blue and Red Light Rail, two legacy projects that would redefine transportation narratives in Africa’s megacity. The two flagship projects would be completed with 10 train stations apiece, with the Blue Line having two interchanges at Mile 2 and Marina. The two light rails are part of the six into which the entire Lagos metropolis had been calibrated. The other lines for which the government would soon open bids for are the Yellow, Green, Orange and Purple Lines. The rail projects would complement other land elements such as the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). Under the scheme, coordinated by LAMATA, a total of 14 BRT routes besides 485 individual bus routes have been established. There is also the new bus reform, under which LAMATA has injected medium and small buses known as the First and Last Mile (FLM) buses to commuters’ movements and reduce the risk of commuting via rickety buses or unsafe commercial motorcycles which remained banned as a means of transportation in the state. This is besides the administration’s massive investments in road rehabilitation and, or reconstruction, which continues to see the delivery of new road infrastructure expanded to accommodate Non-Motorised Transportation NMT, the new initiative being promoted under the FLM transportation initiative. LAMATA also established 20 new water routes which are being developed by the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), all in the bod to open the state’s inter-modal transportation capacity and maximize the state’s over 22 million population who daily needs these elements to move from place to place daily. Addressing these initiatives recently LAMATA’s Managing Director Engr  Mrs Abimbola Akinajo likened Lagos State to an expectant mother. “Lagos,” she says, “is heavily pregnant with several projects aimed at relieving the people of their transportation and traffic nightmare. When these projects are eventually delivered it would bring much relief to the people and change the transportation ecosystem in the state forever. Our desire is to bring relief to Lagosians and we would deliver many of these projects that would promote intermodal transport in 2022.”