In spite of the Super Eagles Round-16 elimination at the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations Cup (AFCON) in Cameroon, Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa has informed of his readiness to retire in the national team.  But, not before helping to qualify Nigeria for the World Cup.      The Carthage Eagles of Tunisia defeated Nigeria 1-0 to book their place in the last eight last Sunday. Speaking to The Nation before departing Cameroon, Musa said the team had high hopes of leaving the West African country with the trophy. “We had high hopes of going on to the final. We were sure of our quality and we were good together even in camp. On the pitch we played for ourselves, but the way it ended showed that football is unpredictable. I plan to retire in the national team with my head high up. I have served my country meritoriously.” Most of the Nigerian players are already at their various club sides after the painful loss and Musa, who was a late substitute during the match against Tunisia game, said the team gave their 100 percent but it was not enough for the day. “In life, things wouldn’t always go the way we want them to and that’s something we have to accept however hard it is,” Musa tweeted on Tuesday afternoon. - Advertisement - “We gave our 100% and unfortunately that wasn’t good enough to take us through. “We won’t give up, we will do better next time. Thanks for all your support and prayers.” Hinting further on his re tirement plan, he said the team really wanted to send him off with the AFCON trophy. “The whole idea was for me to leave on a high note after the AFCON. We planned to play to the final but football the game had other ideas for us, we played our part, though it may be said that it wasn’t good enough but we put in all we got.” His retirement, though, will be gradual, as he planned to see the team through the final phase of the World Cup qualifying contest.   AFCON blues     Onayemi: Adieu Baba Iroyin     R.I.P., subsidy withdrawal   Musa has reiterated the need to end lamentations on the country’s early exit from the AFCON and direct energies at the bigger challenges ahead. Musa told thenff.com that though the Super Eagles’ exit from the AFCON was a hard one for the players, it has toughened them for the upcoming challenge; especially the fast-approaching World Cup playoffs. He said: “You know it is still a shock but I can assure you that things like these make a team stronger. We did our best in the circumstances. When you lose at a tournament, it hurts really bad. However, we don’t have time to keep reflecting over what went wrong. “We have very important challenges in front of us, and all we can do is stay stronger and have firm belief in ourselves that we can do it. The focus is now on the World Cup play-off,” Musa added. Despite showing great promise with their 100 per cent record in the group stage, Nigeria exited the 33rd AFCON after losing by the odd goal to Tunisia. Musa, who is the Nigeria national team’s most-capped player had indicated interest to end his AFCON appearance in Cameroon. “I think this is my last AFCON in Shaa Allah,” Musa said. “We had a heart to heart discussion before AFCON kickoff and the boys told me that they are ready to win the trophy for me. “My first AFCON was in South Africa in 2013 and we ended up winning it. And my second appearance was in Egypt and we won the bronze.” He played for 12 years for the Super Eagles with 16 goals to his name.