The continued free fall of the naira against the US dollar may scuttle the timely roll-out of the fifth generation (5G) technology across the country. The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Prof Isa Pantami, had promised that operators will roll-out the technology in the first quarter of this year to boost surveillance against criminal elements vandalising public infrastructure across the country. He had added that there were over 50,000 base transceiver stations (BTS) across the country which made it difficult to man manually except through the deployment of modern technology. But stakeholders in the industry said the deployment of the technology cannot be decreed by fiat; it is purely a business decision of the operators that won the spectrum bid. They say the decision is also a function of factors such as availability of the requisite equipment, business operating environment and many others. MTN Nigeria and Mafab Communications Ltd, at the twilight of last year, won a bid for the 3.5gigahertz (GHz) spectrum scheduled for early deployment of 5G in the country. The winning bid price for the auction was $273,600,000 for each lot of 100 megahertz (MHz) TDD which the provisional winners are expected to pay the Winning Bid price, less the Intention-to-Bid Deposit, by February 24, 2022. While the stakeholders say the spectrum price is too high, they add that the major challenge is getting the offshore funding or accessing US dollar in-country at favourable exchange rate to import the needed equipment for 5G deployment. - Advertisement - Former President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola, said the major challenge the spectrum bid winners have to contend with is not the payment of the $273 million spectrum price because the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has given the winners opportunity to pay in local currency at current exchange rate parity, but the forex to import the equipment. will delay their capex planning because it is access to forex that will give you access to the market to buy equipment, give you access to buy software.” Teniola who is the Nigeria National Coordinator for the Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI.org), said access to forex is fundamental to the industry. “So it (forex) is fundamental because we are still 100 per cent dependent on importation for the survival of our industry, that’s the reality. So when we say oh, 5G is going to be tomorrow, please, let’s be reasonable. How are you going to get the equipment? You need equipment which may take you 12 months because of COVID-19 disruption in the supply chain and without dollars, are the equipment vendors going to release the equipment? They will be very cautious to release the equipment to you. So this poses extra delays in achieving our goals. So that’s why we pleaded with CBN to please give favourable access to all our members so we can transform our economy to a digital economy so that the country will be better,” he added. The President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Ikechukwu Nnamani, however said the operators are not expected to raise the cash for the roll out within the country but outside by way of foreign direct investment (FID). “I want to assume the investors involved in the 5G rollout will go for foreign direct investment towards the implementation of the network rollout and not depend on local financing sources,” he said. But the Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, said there was no need to fret. “We haven’t had any concerns from anyone. That is the issues that will be resolved at the level of individual beneficiary operator but it is not a matter of concern at this time; when it becomes a matter of concern, I am sure they will raise it with us and we will see what kind of request we can make to the appropriate authorities but I think so far, that’s not an area of concern by any of the members.   Nigerian equities upbeat with N602b gains amid global lull     SEC woos Dangote Refineries, NNPC for listing     Soaring fertiliser prices threaten food production   “On the information memorandum (IM) on the sale of the frequency, there’s provision that deals with rollout obligation and I think that the timeline for the obligation has taken into consideration the challenges that we have globally. So I really don’t see any problem at this time. I think we are all within the time-frame. I think parties are working within the timeframe and the provisions made in the IM. So let’s just wait and see how it works out. We are just on the 7th of January, it’s too early to start expressing concern. “I am very optimistic that parties will meet with the rollout timeline; I am very optimistic that the industry will deliver on 5G as we have promised, I am very optimistic that all the stakeholders who are required to support the industry deliver on the 5G will be up and doing. We are looking forward to the timely rollout of 5G,” Adebayo said. The 5G technology requires more BTS, which the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), says “provides the connection between mobile phones and the wider telephone network”. The BTS are expected to be contiguous for effective coverage. According to statistics released by the regulator of the telecoms industry, the NCC, BTS deployment in the country has risen from 30,000 to 54,460. This figure still showed a deficit of 26,540 from the 80,000 BTS required for effective coverage of the country’s huge land mass. The BTS consist of third generation (3G) and fourth generation (4G) while Fibre Optic Transmission cables expanded from 47,000km to 54,725km in the last five years, resulting in improved broadband/telecoms service delivery in the country. According to Teniola, depending on whether it is 2G or 3G being offered by the BTS, the usual prices for an installed one is between $7,000 and $95,000. Therefore, at about $95,000 per BTS, this will amount to $2.52billion (N1.04trillion). The Chief Executive Officer of IHS, one of the leading tower services firms in the country, Issam Darwish, in 2012 had said more than $12.5 billion was required to build more BTS across the country while Adebayo in 2019 said it costs about N24, 750,000 to install a single BTS together with its tower, special antennas and two generators to power the station. He equated BTS with the artery in the human body system, responsible for pumping blood into the system as it allows subscribers to make and receive calls seamlessly. The Chief Executive Officer, NCC, Prof Garba Dambatta, said infrastructure would be needed to support emerging technologies such as the internet of things (IoT) as the country forges ahead with its digital economy drive. He had said: “3G, 4G going to 5G networks are going to usher this country into smart applications, the IoTs or the smart world and cities we are talking about. And of course, because of the additional burden on infrastructure, the present capacity of telecom infrastructure is grossly inadequate to cater for these additional platforms or services we talk about’ “Therefore we will need between 70,000 and 80,000 base transceiver masts to be able to provide the effective capacity that is needed to deploy 4G going to 5G.” He urged other approving agencies at all levels of government in the country to partner with NCC to bridge the digital divide. The United Kingdom (UK), with a population of 60 million people and about 250 land square meters already has close to 60,000 BTS. IHS Towers, arguably the largest mobile telecoms infrastructure provider in Africa, which controls over 16,000 BTS belonging to carriers in the country including the 9,151 BTS it acquired from MTN and another 2,136 towers acquired from 9mobile. While MTN Nigeria and Mafab Communications Ltd will pay $273 million each for 5G spectrum in the country, US telecoms giants, Verizon spent $45.5 billion, AT&T by $23.4 billion and $9.3 billion by T-Mobile to acquire their 5G spectrum licences.