Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu said he has forgiven all those who ganged up against him. Bagudu stated this during the launch of the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign for the party’s chairmanship and councillorship candidates in the forthcoming local government election scheduled for February 5. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Chika Malami, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah, the former governor of the state, Alhaji Saidu Nasamu Dakingari, Major-General Muhammad Magoro (retd) and other stakeholders attended the ceremony at Kamba Town in Dandi Local Government Area. Addressing members, Governor Bagudu recalled how Malami stepped down for him during the party’s primary which enabled him to clinch the governorship ticket of the party without any rancour. Bagudu described ascension to leadership as an act of God, advising all the candidates to be magnanimous, and mandated them to strive to pacify aggrieved members of the APC to return to the fold. - Advertisement - He, however, told the crowd at the event that he has “forgiven those who have been throwing tantrums at him for whatever reason.” “Our government is one that is engaging our youths for the development of the state. Our state is blessed with many rice processing companies which is the outcome of President Muhammad Buhari administration commitment to the agriculture revolution,” the governor said. “Once again, I have forgiven those who ganged up against me,” he added.   Lawan seeks probe of driver’s death in Yobe     Niger PDP challenges Sani Bello on projects     NYSC D-G launches printing press in Kaduna   The governor urged members of the party to continue to live peacefully with others in the state and charged them to work hard for the success of the APC in the local government election. The Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), who cited a Qur’an verse during his remarks, noted that, no matter how long falsehood flies, the truth will overcome it one day. He described Bagudu as a man with good character, stressing that his leadership quality made his colleagues at the Progressive Governors’ Forum to elect him as their chairman. Malami urged all members of the party to team up for the total victory of their candidates in the forthcoming local government election. The former governor of the state, Alhaji Dakingari described the successful hosting of the flag off of the party local government election campaign in Kamba as a testimony that Kebbi is an APC state. Dakingari, who appealed to party members to continue to embrace dialogue, peace, said the doors of the APC are still open for dialogue from aggrieved members of the party. The state Chairman of the party, Alhaji Muhammad Kana urged members of the party to come out en mass to vote for all APC candidates in the forthcoming local government election. Other speakers at the occasion were the Deputy Governor, the Speaker Kebbi State House of Assembly, Chief of Staff, commissioners, special Advisers and the National President of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), among other dignitaries.