Kwara Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has sworn in five new commissioners. He charged the new cabinet members to key into the rebuilding efforts of the administration. The newly inaugurated cabinet members are Abdulmaliq Bashir Mopelola Risikatullah (Women Affairs); George Olabode Towoju (Communications); Ibrahim Akaje (Housing and Urban Development) and Adamu Jamila Bake (Youth). Barrister Sambo Murtala, recently announced the Special Adviser on Legal Matters, was also sworn in. The Governor also moved three existing cabinet members to other Ministries — a step he said is meant to improve service delivery to the people of the state. - Advertisement - The rejig saw Olaitan Abosede Buraimoh moving from Communications to Environment, while Remilekun Banigbe now heads the newly created Budget and Planning. Formerly of Youth Development, Adenike Harriet Oshatimehin goes to the newly created Solid Minerals which evolved from the defunct bulky Ministry of Enterprise. Deborah Aremu stays in the now stand-alone Ministry of Social Development.   FG, US collaborate on cyber-crime     The kind of president Nigerians want in 2023, by API     Four students of FULafia kidnapped – Says VC   The development means the state now has 20 ministries, with the old Ministry of Finance and Planning evolving into the Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Budget and Planning respectively. The old Works have now been divided into Ministry of Work and Ministry of Housing and Urban Development respectively. Enterprise is now Ministry of Business, Innovation and Technology and Ministry of Solid Minerals apiece. The old Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development is now the Ministry of Women Affairs and Ministry of Social Development respectively. “I congratulate you on your joining the Kwara State Executive Council. It is an opportunity for you to contribute your quota to the development of our state,” the Governor said at the brief event. “Your nomination underscores our efforts to deepen inclusion. Our decision to expand the ministries serves to break new grounds in terms of human capital and infrastructural development. “While four new commissioners and a special adviser are coming on board today, we are at the same time moving some existing cabinet members to new areas. This is all tailored towards improved service delivery to the people of Kwara State. “Notwithstanding the rising tempo of political activities in the new year, we cannot waste a second in this four-year mandate. We should therefore remain focused on serving the Kwara public. “Let me repeat that Kwara State is undergoing a rebuilding process. Prudence, discipline, teamwork, and sacrifice should remain our watchwords.”