You were just five; just five years of age and life had not begun in the real sense of it, but ended because of yet another mad man. Our streets are filled with crazy men, men who should be in psychiatric wards but, because like every other thing, we do not take mental illness seriously, they have free reign and help to further mess up our society. We allow people with serious psychiatric issues to roam freely without getting medical care, we allow them to do many other things, including founding churches and being General Overseers and dishing out visions and prophecy only a sick soul should be capable of. The one who caught your life short said he used poison. Your offence I understand not. He said he needed money to pay the rent of the land on which his school was situated. You were a pupil of this school. Hanifa, you were killed by a teacher, the proprietor of the school your parents entrusted you on. You were beautiful and we can only imagine how you would have aged gracefully. The fool has denied us the opportunity of seeing you bloom, of seeing you become a cynosure of all eyes, of seeing you walk and never stumbling, of seeing you do exploits, and of seeing you break boundaries and barriers. Your father, Abdulsalam Abubakar, the one who shares a name with our last military Head of State, said 30-year-old Abdulmalik Tanko—the madman who killed you— kept deceiving the family about your safety, took ransom and still proceeded to kill you. Your father was happy when you were discovered but he was sad you were not found alive. The madman did not act alone. He had an accomplice named Hashim Isyaku, a 37-year-old man. According to your father, you were in the third term of your attendance in the school whose head took your head figuratively speaking. He called his school Noble Kids School, but he was the most not noble of men. If only you had been left at the Islamic school you were attending, maybe you will still be with us. - Advertisement - After he kidnapped you on December 4, 2021, he didn’t contact your parents for over a week and later sent a text message. He followed it up by dropping a nylon bag at the entrance of your home. The nylon contained your sweatshirt, the badge on your hijab and a photo of you. About an hour after the nylon was discovered, he sent another SMS to inquire if your parents had seen the evidence that he was holding you ransom. He turned down your parents’ plea to speak with you. Instead, he chose to show them another proof of your living by directing them to Kwankwasiya Estate on Zaria Road, where he dropped another nylon containing your hijab without a badge. It was at this moment he demanded N6 million ransom, threatening to kill you if they did not comply. Some money, according to your father, was raised and dropped at the same spot in Kwankwasiya Estate. The police had been tipped off and were supposed to intercept him and take him away, but he was fast and had gone before the law enforcers could act. “That night, not more than 20 minutes after, he called, furiously ranting that the ransom money was incomplete; that we must complete it otherwise he would kill her. When I reported to the security agents again, they instructed us to comply, pleading that they would nab him this time. “Unfortunately for him, he didn’t change the location for collecting the ransom, so we went and dropped it. When he came out of hiding and was about picking it up, the security agents swooped on him,” your father said in an interview.   How to be a bootlicker in Nigerian politics     The Nigerian President of my dream     Spewing nonsense in the name of our Father   Dear Hanifa, your death has led to an uproar. From President Muhammadu Buhari to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and many other Nigerians, outrage has been expressed. Ganduje has closed the not noble school that the mad man was running. The madman has also been speaking. He said he did not kidnap you for ritual purposes. He said he killed you to raise money to pay the rent of the school he was running. He was just saying nonsense upon nonsense and all I could mutter was “may God punish you” for killing and burying you in a shallow grave. The police spokesman in the state, Superintendent of Police Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, said: “In Dec. 4, 2021, at about 20:30 hours, a report was received from a resident of Dakata Quarters, Nassarawa, Kano State, that one Hanifa Abubakar, 5, was kidnapped and a ransom of N6 million was demanded,” he said. “Sustained efforts and prolonged follow up led to the arrest of Abdulmalik Mohammed-Tanko, 30, and Hashim Isyaku, 37, all of Tudun Murtala quarters, by a detective team of the Department of State Service (DSS). “During investigation, Mohammed-Tanko confessed that the victim, Hanifa, was his student at a private school in Kwanar Dakata, Nassarawa, Kano State. “He kidnapped her and took her to his house where he contacted her relatives and demanded a ransom of N6 million. “On Dec. 18, 2021, having realized that the victim recognized him, he claimed to have poisoned her to death. He conspired with Hashim Isyaku, and buried her in a grave located at the private school premises at Kwanar ‘Yan Gana, Tudun Murtala.” The accomplice’s version shows that one Fatima Musa, 27, was also involved. Fatima was also arrested in connection with the offence. Hanifa, the PPRO said your “body was exhumed and taken to Mohammed Abdullahi Wase Specialists Hospital, Kano, where it was examined and later released to the relatives for burial according to Islamic rites”. It is painful that your parents were put through agony for about two months; you were already cold and decaying in the shallow grave where the fool who took a ransom on you chose to bury you instead of returning you home, to your parents. My final take: People like Abdulmalik Tanko do not deserve to live; they should leave this world. In fact, they should never have been born. They are so evil-minded and make this world difficult to navigate. They are the sharks that other smaller fishes have to avoid to stay alive. The sad thing about this whole scenario is that Tanko’s arrest will not serve as a deterrent to his type. They are just sick and controlled by forces beyond them. We should shut them behind tightly-closed doors, give them food and drugs for the rest of their lives. Sleep well, dear Hanifa, sleep tight and have sweet dreams.