The lawmaker representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Sen. Adetokunbo Abiru, has reiterated his commitment to quality representation. He urged his constituents not to despair, but should keep hope alive despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other trying conditions. The senator, who listed his accomplishments since he was inaugurated a year ago, promised to continue to fulfil his campaign promises. He said in fulfilment of his legislative agenda, he had sponsored many Bills and motions, which covered sectors, including banking and financial services, the economy, copyright, health, infrastructure and the provision of the legal framework for the reduction of the cost of governance. - Advertisement - Abiru said he had prioritised education, health, youth development, critical infrastructure, technology and innovation and human capital development in his legislative intervention.   Kumuyi holds programme for youths     Fatima Foundation donates borehole to community     Red, Blue rail line projects still on course, says Sanwo-Olu   He added: “In January 2021, I kicked off the COVID-19 Relief Scheme for the vulnerable people in the Lagos East Senatorial District and it has been running since then. This covers about 2,500 constituents. “I also facilitated four blocks of 24 classrooms with complements of furniture and 16 toilets for Aga Primary School in Ikorodu, 200 solar-powered street lights on the Ikorodu campus of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH). The building of a 40-bed health facility and dental centre is under construction. “In September 2021, 600 brilliant but indigent students benefited from the bursaries by the endowment under my foundation, the TACT Foundation. This will continue. In November 2021, in up-skilling and enhancing the capacity of MSMEs in the district, I also organised a one-day Business Workshop for 1,000 MSMEs across the senatorial district. Major take-aways from the seminar were the gift to the participants of the well-researched knowledge packs, “The entrepreneurial kit”, comprising seven valuable business topics on: tax management, strategy; financial management; digital technology; marketing and communications; human capital management and legal. “These are topics authored by reputable business consulting firms such as: KPMG, Deloitte, ACCA, Banwo and Ighodalo, Verraki Business Solutions etc. I initiated a N100,000,000 (One Hundred Million Naira) Constituency Intervention Revolving Loan at 6 per cent interest rate, which will be enhanced by additional 100 Million Naira from the Bank of Industry (BOI). “In Ibeju-Lekki, two blocks of six classrooms are under construction at RCM Primary School, Iwerekun, Ibeju-Lekki, while in Kosofe Local Government, one block of three classrooms are also underway at Ajelogo Primary School. An ICT centre is coming up at the Igbobi College “I moved a motion calling on the Federal Government to intervene in the Ikorodu/Sagamu Road and Ikorodu/Itoikin/Epe Road. Our intervention with necessary follow-up and leveraging on our network has yielded positive outcomes, as the Federal Government has included the funding of Ikorodu-Shagamu, in the SUKUK Financing programme and the capital raising for the Sukuk was concluded on December 2, 2021 for about N250 billion. The Ikorodu-Shagamu road is a priority with about N8.8 earmarked for its construction. “Also, the Ikorodu-Itoikin road has been included in the 2022 budget and the procurement for its rehabilitation is ongoing.”