Former Nigeria international  Emmanuel Amuneke has admitted the Super Eagles defence must be at their best when they come face-to-face with Egypt star Mohamed Salah in their opening AFCON Group D clash next Tuesday. Salah, 29, is the leading scorer in the Premier League with 16 goals for Liverpool thus far. He has maintained the form he displayed last season. “It’s a big challenge playing against Egypt and a player like Mohamed Salah in the first game,” said Amuneke, who is on the CAF technical study group for the AFCON in Cameroon. “It’s also a big challenge for our defence. “We have to defend collectively against him, of course. - Advertisement - “We’ve been growing together since a few years now and I believe our defence will be efficient against such a fantastic player.”   Senegal, Egypt are threats to Eagles , Olayinka admits     Eagles caretaker coach hopeful on Ighalo     Ekong eyes  quality replacement  for  Balogun   Yet goalkeeper Maduka Okoye has dismissed threats from the likes of Egypt’s talisman Mohammed Salah, adding the Super Eagles fear  no foes heading to the 2021 AFCON. Okoye, who was the number one choice goalkeeper under former Eagles coach Gernot Rohr however, welcomed the competition in the team, saying: “I am ready for the new competition in the team as the most important thing is to give our best to the team on the field.” Ahead of the opening group game against Pharaohs of Egypt, Okoye believes with the mixture of experience and youthfulness in Eagles, the team has the wherewithal to match any team in the competition. “I think against Egypt, we have to be fully focused for 90 minutes and be confident going into every match. I know we have the quality to cage players like Salah in Cameroon,” Okoye said. “In the team, we have mixed of experience of youthful players and this is a perfect mix for the team. Also, there is a new competition and one of thing is for sure is that we will all give our best. “I think it is important how you enter the tournament, the first match is very important and after that, I will just do my best and keep doing well for the team. “ It is a team achievement and we want to get the gold and the fewer goals I concede the best for the team,” the newly signed Watford stopper added.