Rector of Igbajo Polytechnic, Dr. Mrs. ‘Funmilayo Odejide, a renowned educationist and former public servant speaks with Gboyega Alaka of the evolvement of the sixteen-year-old institution and the determination and resilience of the Igbajo people in setting up a higher institution of competitive standard. THERE is a little story that Igbajo Polytechnic came to be mainly through community effort Igbajo people; how true? Yes, it was all communal efforts. The people were contacting themselves. They taxed themselves up to the extent that contributions were made in the Igbajo Community street by street and family quarters by family quarters. So, if a family had not yet been involved in the contribution, they would not feel well. Every member, irrespective of their level of education was proud to contributor to the vision of Igbajo Polytechnic. And the resources were judiciously spent on the project. Most of the buildings on the Polytechnic campus today were sponsored by the people and their friends. They brought in the well-to-do people who are their friends in the community to assist. One of such is the Library Complex, which was built by a Northerner, who is a friend to the community. The 500-seater auditorium was also built by a Lagosian who is an in-law to an Igbajo indigene. The people had the vision and they drove it to conclusion. So I can tell you that whatever the people of Igbajo set their mind to do, they are always determined. Tell us a bit of the journey since its establishment in 2005. Igbajo Polytechnic was established in May 2005 but the idea of the Polytechnic was first conceived in the year 2004. Even though I came into the institution four years ago as Rector, I can tell you that the journey has been very rough, but with our determination, God has been helping us to ensure the school keeps growing. We have had about three rectors before me, and the forerunners of the institution, the committees that were formed by the town were all determined to make sure that the school stands. And all the necessary backings were given and their professionals in Education, Engineering and Law and every other fields were all incorporated to ensure the Institution took off on a smooth thread. - Advertisement - How many departments and faculties do you have at the moment? We have nine departments of four faculties, namely: Faculty of Communication and Information Technology, Faculty of Management Studies, Faculty of Engineering Technology and Faculty of Applied Science. We are also making very strong efforts to have more faculties and courses. During the COVID-19 challenges last year, the community rose up to take care of the indigenes need, and the leftover was used to cater for the needs of the Polytechnic. That was when we were thinking of having Mass Communication as a course in the Institution. We thank God who sent help through the community again. We are now awaiting the accreditation from the NBTE. We also have the Office Technology Management (OTM). Still, there is need to float more courses. So, we brought in Biochemistry, Health Information Management and Library Information Science. We are at advanced stage of getting these courses accredited by the NBTE. And the student population? The management is managing marginally; we are yet to get the type of population that we deserve, judging by the available resources. If I were to be the singular owner of this institution, I will say that the population is still small. So we are open to more students and we know that, the more courses we have, the more students that will come in. at the moment hostel system is off campus.   A day in America’s Sin City     Hunger looms in Benue valley as herdsmen force farmers out…     Kamala Harris is my role model – Mojisola Alli…   What improvement or contribution have you been able to put in place since becoming Rector? To the glory of God and cooperation of my team, we have been able to put a few things in place. As at the time I came, our boundary was where we have the library now, and we started with what was my dream for the institution, which was to have a 500-seater hall. As God would have it, we have indigenes from USA, who gathered and said they wanted to build for us a Cafeteria. When you go out now, you will find the Cafeteria there on the hill. Another person was thanking God for His favours in the USA; he contacted us and built us a Health Centre. Another person came and said he wanted to build us an Administrative Block and here we are inside the Administrative Block. The journey started when some of the Polytechnic Council Members asked what project they can put up again with the leftover from the funds meant for the COVID-19 pandemic. As Rector, I responded to them and showed them the present location where the Administrative Block now sits. My former Assistant, Engineer Bello and I picked the site, and both the representatives of the BOT and the Council agreed with me that we should have the buildings on the top of the hill. When we were to start with the Mass Communication Building Complex,  a foundation of Igbajo people in Ibadan, who are plank sellers in Ibadan started with the foundation but they couldn’t complete the structure. I advised the Committee to seek permission from the Plank Seller to modify the design and build the complex on the existing foundation. The funny thing is that each time I suggested a location, the people always show readiness to co operate. You have spoken loftily about the Board of Trustees; tell us a bit about them.  The Board of Trustees (BOT) represents entire the entire Igbajo Community as owner of the Polytechnic. They are responsible for policy formulation and direction. They are responsible for raising funds to complement the need of the polytechnic. Presently it is headed by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Chief Adegboyega Awomolo.  We also have the Governing Council headed by Professor Olayiwola Oshunlade. The Governing Council is made up of professionals, seasoned administrators, academic and captains of industries. Most people in the BOT have one building or the other built in their name or in the name of those who brought in their friends to donate one project or the other for the use of the Institution. The duty of the BOT is to see to the financial expenses of the Institution while that of the Governing Council is to work with the Polytechnic Management to make sure that the rules and regulations of the Institution are kept by both the staff and students and also make inputs in all issues involving the school environment, employment among other things. How affordable is the Institution’s school fees? The school fees are very affordable comparatively. When you look at what others are charging, it is cheap enough. Without any corrupt tendencies, it is very cheap and affordable for a private institution. It ranges between N75,000 and N90,000 per Semester and that includes all the charges. What’s your parting remark? My remark is that I am encouraged by the spirit of unison of the Igbajo people; most especially, the way they come together to make sure they affect the lives of the youths in Nigeria positively. You know this Institution is not for Igbajo alone. We have students from different places. Even Easterners and Northerners are students of the Institution. So, they are able to touch lives of many future leaders. And it encourages me. Not only that, the School has been able to reduce the challenges of employment in our society. We have many qualified lecturers employed here; we also have non-teaching staff. I have also observed that they improving themselves academically and educationally. I do tell my people here that Igbajo is a small Nigeria. Igbajo people are determined people and are doing what they should do. If other communities can emulate the people of Igbajo, the government will suffer less in the hands of the people.