“Despite my involvements in politics, I was still a novice of the peculiar ways of politicians – their love of intrigues and conspiracies, and their capacity for blackmail”. -Chief Bisi Akande, in his book, My Participations, An Autobiography, page 141. If politics are the strategies, intrigues, and maneuvers employed in obtaining a position of power or control, then perhaps no better political theatre is provided than Nigeria. In Nigeria, it is politics to leave one party on the eve of an election, hoping to maximize political gains in another. It is politics to deceive other politicians in order to get them out of office so you can consolidate your own power. It is politics to snatch ballot boxes or otherwise destroy votes or relevant records of an election, if it is not going your way. It is politics to get an Attorney General of the Federation killed in cold blood, without ever finding the killers, let alone bringing them to book. Yes, it is also politics to sidetrack the constitution of your party and the rule of law. True, these intrigues are not peculiar to Nigeria. What is peculiar is the conjunctive employment of the various intrigues during every election cycle. Equally peculiar is the crudity of the forms they take, including conspiracies; blackmail; deception; falsehoods; cheating; thuggery; and all kinds of malpractices, even including assassinations. No book since the advent of the present democratic dispensation since 1999 provides an inside look into these intrigues as much as Akande’s My Participations. In the present contribution, I focus on major political intrigues Akande experienced in his political participations. - Advertisement - The Constituent Assembly on which Akande served in 1977 provided the first major insight into political intrigues as various groups and coalitions began to form in preparation for the 1979 general elections (Chapter 8). From then on, intrigues and maneuvers came to overshadow desirable political processes. Akande had a firsthand taste of such intrigues in his hometown after his appointment as the Secretary to the State Government in 1979, following Chief Bola Ige’s victory as Governor of old Oyo State. Chief J K Fadeyi had led a petition to the Governor against Akande over the location of the College of Education, without letting him (Akande) know about it (Chapter 10), accusing Akande of subversive activities. Since it was the same Fadeyi who had suggested to Akande to stay away after the election, an advice the latter took in good faith (page 129), it is unclear whether the advice was motivated by Fadeyi’s plan to nominate another candidate for the position of SSG (page 133), which the Governor offered to Akande without seeking it.   JUST IN: Gunmen invade Enugu APC meeting, kill two…     The Nigerian President of my dream     Pension complaints and solutions   After responding to the Governor’s query on the petition, Akande quickly tendered his resignation and left. But the governor sent his Deputy after him. He stood his ground that he did not want to meet with “that Fadeyi crowd” (page 141). At the end of the day, Governor Ige cajoled Akande back to office and referred the petition to a larger group of Ila stakeholders, which finally affirmed the original decision. Such intrigues blossomed, leading to the rigging of the Ige administration out of office in 1983. Before the election, some members of Ige’s cabinet had conspired against him in pursuit of their own political ambition, with many of them eventually defecting to the opposition party. Akande named the leading characters in this intrigue and described their activities in captivating detail (Chapters 11-13). The military took over again in December 1983 with their own intrigues. A kangaroo Tribunal was set up, which accused the Alliance for Democracy Governors and their Deputies of corruption. Their specific charge was that they enriched their political party. They were imprisoned for 21 years, only to be released by General Ibrahim Babangida after yet another military coup in 1985. It was painfully surprising to read some reviewers of the book accusing Akande of corruption simply because he was so accused by the military government, without reading the details of the story and without acknowledging that top politicians of the period were detained or imprisoned, all on trumped up charges of corruption, a tactic employed by the military at the time to justify their intervention and perpetuate themselves in power. Also overlooked was Akande’s refusal, despite combined police and military threats, to sign a paper implicating his Governor so he could be set free (Chapters 14-16). Akande was unhappy with the intrigues following the death of Chief Obafemi Awolowo in 1987 by the sage’s close associates as they jostled for power and leadership (Chapter 17). Those intrigues would later affect the running of Afenifere, the Yoruba sociocultural group, and the Alliance for Democracy, the political party it birthed. The intrigues would lead to the rejection of Chief Lateef Jakande and Chief Bola Ige in favour of Chief Olu Falae as the presidential candidate of the AD for the 1999 presidential election, which was lost to Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. However, the mother of all intrigues in the book was perpetuated by former President Obasanjo as part of his scheme for reelection in 2003. Working through the leadership of Afenifere, with the connivance of some of the leaders, Obasanjo successfully derailed Southwest Governors from their planned local government elections for fear that they could erode local support for him. Once the governors agreed, Obasanjo put up PDP candidates against them and rigged them out of office, except Governor Bola Tinubu of Lagos State. Obasanjo’s maneuvres were supplemented with huge sums of money, at least N1.4 billion for the Southwest contests alone (Chapters 26 and 27). These manouvres should be distinguished from the coalitions of whole political parties and factions, which gave rise to the formation of the All Progressives Congress in 2013. However, even as the mega party was being formed, intrigues took over as different interests began to manifest, some along the lines of the legacy parties and others along ethnic and religious lines. Nevertheless, superior planning and strategies led to the registration of the party in 2013 and  its success in the next two presidential elections (Chapters 32-33). What is significant about Akande is the way he carried himself with integrity through these intrigues as the Chairman of four different progressive political parties, namely, AD, AC, ACN, and APC, without any complaint or bid to remove him. How he did it and the lessons to be learned from his experiences are the subject of another contribution.