Democracy at sea in Cameroon Can I say Nigerians are lucky or I should say that Democracy is at play in Nigeria? What we do for free in Nigeria, if you try it here in Cameroon, you will be a guest at the police station. Shortly, after the Super Eagles exit from the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon following their 1-0 loss to Tunisia in the Round of 16, Nigerians took to the social media to lambast President Muhammadu Buhari – his offence, was the video call he had with the team before their round of 16 TIE against the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia. To them, the President’s call brought bad luck to the team. A Nigerian woman who had spent more than a decade in Cameroon told me that, if you insult the president here in Cameroon, police will arrest you and you will go to jail. Although, she didn’t say the exact number of days, weeks, months, or years the person will spend in jail for the offence. “You don’t talk about the President anyhow here. If you insult the President, you will be reported at the police station and they will come and arrest you,” she said. Ever since, I have been mindful of my utterances and extra careful of what I say, where, and when. I want to go home in peace.   - Advertisement - COVID-19 : the unpalatable  Nigerian factor Before leaving Nigeria to any country, a Covid-19 test is required and a must for every traveller. I did mine before leaving Cameroon at N50,400 but on getting to Cameroon, it was a different story entirely as the test was conducted free.   Kalu: my mission at Watford     NFF may dump Peseiro for Eguavoen     Buhari to visit Nasarawa February 17   In fact, it is available in all government hospitals, airports, stadiums, etc. It is stress-free and within 15 minutes, your result is ready. You don’t need to know anybody before you can do it. You just need to walk into any Covid-19 test centre. A negative PCR test is mandatory to attend the matches of the TotalEnergies Africa Cup of Nations, Cameroon 2021.And ever since I came to the town, I have taken the Covid-19 test more than four times and one could imagine spending N50,400 on every test.  The question on the lips of every Nigerian here is “why are we paying so much for the same thing we are doing for free here?   SUPPORTERS’ CLUB EXPERIENCE For any football team, their joy knows no bounds whenever their fans cheer them with sonorous songs whenever they are on the field of play. Nigeria fans are known for their rich cultural display during major competitions and the supporters’ clubs were here in their numbers to support Super Eagles but they did not bargain for what they met in terms of the huge expenses being spent in Cameroon. The President Football Fans Club of Nigeria, Kemi Ogunfunwa, shared her experience. “My experience in Cameroon is a memorable one because the people here are very friendly and they love Nigeria. But the other side of our experience is that things are extremely expensive here in Cameroon. “Some of them told us it is because of the AFCON and they see Nigerians as very rich people but they don’t know that we came here from our purse as an NGO without assistance from the government . “At the end of the day, the Super Eagles were  out of the game but they still remain our heroes,” she said.