The noble game of kings, polo, is making its way back to where it all started over a century ago as preparations are now  in top gears for the 2022 edition of the revered Lagos International Polo Tournament. Polo made a splashing landfall in Lagos way back in 1904 from where it spread to other parts of the country. Today, the country boasts of over thirty polo clubs (both public and private), making Nigeria one of  the biggest polo playing nations in the world. Billed for the foremost Ribadu Road Polo Ground in Ikoyi between February 8 and 27, the prestigious polo extravaganza promises to be a real treat with the organizers, traditional sponsors and partners working round the clock to deliver a most memorable fiesta. Tournament Manager Seyi Oyinlola disclosed that for the first time in its rich history, the international festival would be decided over three weekends of high class polo and entertainment. Oyinlola, who confirmed that all is set for the glamorous event,  promised that this year would get better as it has always been over the past years adding : “it’s going to be three weekends of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.” - Advertisement - He further stated that having gained a reputation as the biggest polo tournament in West Africa, the Lagos Polo Club looks forward to delivering great values for the sponsors and participants during the glamorous fiesta. Polo Club president, Ayo Olasoju confirmed that the club is rejuvenated with the continuous infrastructural upgrade stressing that the entire club has been primed for safety of players and horses to go with international standard under strict COVID-19 safety protocols. Lagos Polo Captain, Rotimi Makanjuola disclosed that professional players from Argentina, United Kingdom, South Africa and professional umpires will also feature in the tournament.   Nadal closes in on tennis history     Eyes on Mane, Salah as AFCON enters Q-Finals     CAMEROON 2021 TIT-BITS   Ambitious Teams that are fully armed with professionals and fortified with thoroughbred Argentine horses would be competing for honours in the four major cups categories, The Dansa Cup, The Lagos Low Cup, The Open Cup and the event’s biggest prize, the Majekodunmi Cup respectively. The NationSports Special also gathered that more female players would join Natalie Allen this year to jostle for major laurels at stake. Allen has for the past five years been the lioness of the glamorous polo grand slam. Further checks also revealed that most Lagos teams have started their pre-tournament preparations, with exclusive build-up events like the Captain Cup, Santa Gold Cup, and the President Cup tournaments, to adequately prime their players and horses for the galloping challenge. Most of the Lagos based players spoken to, declared that they are fully prepared to vie for all the major honours and the handful of subsidiary prizes on offer during the international fiesta. In 2019 when it was last held before COVID-19 Pandemic broke out, over thirty four ambitious teams participated in the box office event. Already the 2022 lineup has surpassed that figure, and may add more entries before the draws ceremony. For 118 years and still counting, the vintage Lagos polo festival has continually attracted the biggest crowd annually as more teams around the country brace for the firestorm. With polo enthusiasts arriving from around the world in their droves, the popularity of this annual festival is far from waning. Photo Caption: Fierce battle during one of the qualifiers for the 2022 Lagos International Polo Tournament at Ribadu Road Polo Ground in Ikoyi last weekend.