The National Examination Council (NECO) was an attempt to break the monopoly of the West African Examination Council (WAEC) among other mandates. How far has it gone in meeting the mandates for setting it up? FRANK IKPEFAN reports. The National Examination Council (NECO) has begun moves to make all of its examinations compulsory for secondary school pupils in the country. Already, two states, Ebonyi and Cross River governments, have bought into the idea by making pronouncements to that effect. Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi announced that examinations conducted by NECO are now compulsory for all secondary schools in Ebonyi. The governor gave the directive following a request made to that effect by the Registrar/Chief Executive of NECO, Prof Dantani Wushishi during a courtesy visit to the governor in Abakaliki, the state capital. - Advertisement - A statement by Head, Information and Public Relations Division of NECO, Azeez Sani, listed the examinations involved as National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE), Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) and the Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE). The governor, who commended NECO for playing an important role in the educational development of the country, assured that the Ebonyi State government will continue to support NECO to enable the agency deliver on its mandate. His counterpart from Cross River, Benedict Ayade, also towed the same line by making the same pronouncement that all public examinations conducted by the Council are now compulsory for all public schools in the state. The governor, who expressed satisfaction with the performance of Cross River Indigenes in NECO SSCE in the last five years, said there was need for the state to cue into all NECO conducted examinations. He commended NECO for improving the quality of education in the country. The governor assured the Council that the Cross River State government will continue to support NECO to enable her to deliver on its mandate.   Wushishi on a mission to reposition NECO    This move is part of the efforts of the Registrar to reposition the examination body and give it a national look. Before this move, NECO exams were only optional for students in the country, with many taking it to make up for deficiencies in their West Africa Examination Council results. The registrar explained that NECO, being the only national indigenous examination body in the country, deserved the support of all Nigerians. Education stakeholders believe that the new development will give teeth to the examinations conducted by the examination body. “Yes, this will give NECO more teeth and finally break the dominance of over reliance on waec results. Remember the need to have a home grown examination body to cater to the needs of Nigerians was one of the reasons for establishing NECO in 200,” one of the stakeholders said. Council moves to recover N2.3bn from northern states Aside from trying to make its examination compulsory, the examination body has also moved to recover billions of naira owed by some state governments, especially those from the northern region. In October 2021, Wushishi had lamented the indebtedness of many states to the council, lamenting that the debt was impacting on the operations of the council. His position was corroborated by a former Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, who lamented how such debt was affecting the operations of the examination body. Echono had said the huge debt some states are owing the Council was responsible for the drop in the number of candidates who register for the exams conducted by the Council. He stated that many states, who offer to pay NECO fees for candidates from their state, had reneged on the actual payment, leaving the Council cash trapped. The former permanent secretary stated that the huge debt by some states, which he described as “notorious”, had given rise to the strict measures currently being deployed by the Council which, according to him, may have had little impact on the numbers eventually registered to sit for its examination. He said: “Clearly NECO has gotten full grip and hand on the process, we are impressed by the progress recorded across the country, we are also pleased with the measures taken to curtail incidences of examination malpractices. “On our side, we ensure that we put the people in the right places. The credibility of our exams are ensured, we have improved on the process; integrity and credibility of our exams are upheld across the country.” To force the states to pay, the examination body withheld the results of pupils from states owing it.   Police decry low interest of southerners in recruitment…     BREAKING: PDP nullifies Ekiti delegate congress     BREAKING: Abducted Bayelsa Commissioner regains freedom   The Programme Officer for BudgIT, a civic technology organisation, Damen Ilevbaoje, explained that the move would strengthen the operations of the examination body to carry out its mandates. “The era of using the payment of NECO examination fees for candidates in their states by politicians is over. State governments who make pronouncements to help their citizens should back it up by paying the fees not to use it as a tool for political gains. “That’s why we in the civil societies always call for transparency and accountability in governance because our political office holders are notorious for using one scheme or the other to gain or score cheap political points. “The registrar has shown within a short time in office that he has what it takes to do the job and by withholding results of debtor state governments, he has shown that he is not afraid to step on toes in his quest to reposition the examination body.”   Putting workers first As with every organisation, human beings are known to be the ones that drive reforms, this no doubt explains why Prof Wushishi has rolled out a robust welfare package for staff members. To the admiration of staff of the council, Prof Wushishi recently approved retirement benefits for some retiring staff, including provision of health support and assistance for burial expenses for staff, among others. The NECO Registrar had through the Governing Board led by Dr. Abubakar Siddique as the Chairman accorded staff welfare a top priority by facilitating comprehensive life assurance packages for all staff, especially those involved in an accident during the course of the official assignment and for those who die in active service. Besides, staff of the council that are due for promotion after passing the prescribed examination have been promoted for the year 2021. Also, under the new NECO management which saw to the development of ICT software, fairness and equity have returned in the posting of staff for assignments. According to a staff of the Federal Government agency, this has also engendered relative calm and peace in the Council because the staff now knows that there is nothing like favouritism in posting for assignment any longer. Wushishi superintends conducts of NECO exams in face of COVID-19 pandemic  Despite the challenges posed by COVID-19, in 2021, NECO successfully conducted and released results timely for the National Common Entrance Examination NCEE, including that of Senior School Certificate Examination SSCE for school-based candidates. The agency also ensured that it successfully conducted and released in record time the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) for JSS 3 candidates, in the course of the same year conducted a trial test of items in some selected secondary schools across the six geo-political zones in the country. Also worthy of note was the conduct of accreditation and re-accreditation of secondary schools across the country as well as overseeing the conduct of the 2021 Senior School Certificate Examination SSCE for external candidates. The Council also ensured that it paid all ad-hoc staff involved in the conduct of the 2021 Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE) for school based candidates. The ad-hoc staff included 18,243 Supervisors, 887 Assistant Supervisors and 65,159 Examiners. “The Management appreciates the invaluable contributions of the Supervisors and Examiners in the success story of the Council over the years, and reiterates its determination to strengthening the existing cordial relationship between them. “The Council however appeals to state governments yet to pay the examination fees of their candidates who sat for the SSCE (Internal), to do so in order to facilitate the release of the result of such candidates. “It would be recalled that the Registrar/Chief Executive, Prof. Dantani Ibrahim Wushishi had on 29th October, 2021 announced the release of the results of the 2021 SSCE for School based candidates,” the council had said in a statement. With six months into his tenure of five years, education stakeholders are watching with keen interest, how Prof Wushishi will consolidate on the positive steps he has taken so far.   Who Is Dantani Ibrahim Wushishi?   Wushishi was born on April 5, 1965 in Wushishi Local Government Area of Niger State and attended the Central Primary School Wushishi from 1973 to 1979 before proceeding to Government Science College, Izom, for his secondary education from 1979 to 1984. His quest for higher education took him to Niger State College of Education where he obtained the Nigerian Certificate in Education (NCE) in 1987. He also attended the Nigeria Navy Ship, Akaso, BaroKiri, Port-Harcourt in 1988 for the Naval Training Certificate. He obtained his first and Masters Degrees as well as a PhD in Science Education with bias in Chemistry from the Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto, in 1998, 2001 and 2005 respectively. He lectured at the Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto, from 2004 to 2007 before he transferred his service to the Federal University of Technology, Minna, in 2008. He was appointed an Associate Professor in 2004; Head of Department, Department of Science Education (2014 to 2017) and Head of Department, Department of Science Education, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University, Lapai (IBBUL 2015 and 2016) while on sabbatical. Until his appointment as Registrar/ Chief Executive of NECO on 12th July, 2021, he was a Professor of Science Education (Chemistry) at the Federal University of Technology, Minna, and has so many scholarly publications to his credit.