Grammy Award winner, Burna Boy has demanded the unity of African countries. The ‘African Giant’ singer made this call in a recent interview with CNN. Burna said he believes that the only way African countries can get the respect they seek is if the countries join together. “It cannot be achieved by the way it’s been going, we’ve been falling for a long time so why not try something new?” he said Burna continues saying, “It’s just a wish, maybe a farfetched wish. I wish we had one passport which would make it easier for Africans to travel outside the continent.   How I handle social media trolls, says Waje     Wande Coal says fame intoxicates     Toyin Abraham: I won’t allow people talk down on my…   - Advertisement - “I wish we could be considered as the United States, like the way America is … (Let’s say) me and you want to go to Spain or wherever on a commercial flight — let’s see who gets in first.” When asked about who should be on the currency of this “United Africa,” Burna Boy gives a deep answer. “On the currency should be people who have had these ideas for generations, who have died with these ideas and have been killed for these ideas. People like Moammar Gadhafi [former leader of Libya who was overthrown and assassinated in 2011] whose everything was about uniting Africa and having one currency, backed by gold.” He also named Burkina Faso’s first president Thomas Sankara and the first prime minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Patrice Lumumba, two leaders who were also eventually overthrown and assassinated. On the accusation of Gadhafi over crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court, Burna Boy remains steadfast in his reverence for leaders like him. “Where do we get this information that these people are tyrants or whatever?” he asks. “They very well maybe. I don’t know. I wasn’t there. But what I do know is these people had these ideas, these people tried to do something at least, that would benefit the whole of Africa, unlike all the leaders we have today.”