The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) just released an advisory and update on the umpteenth breakout of Lassa fever.  That development should worry everyone. Since 1969 when the illness was named for Lassa, a town in Borno State where it first broke out and claimed the lives of two foreign missionary nurses, it is sad that our local epidemiologists have done little to curtail the disease.  It’s time for all of that to stop. Since that initial outbreak, Lassa fever had spread to Liberia, Benin Republic, Mali, Guinea, Ghana and Sierra Leone, thus becoming a sub-regional health pest.  The viral illness is spread by infested rats that contaminate food items, in dirty homes, with their urine and faeces. This latest nationwide breakout, according to the NCDC, involves 4, 632 cases — and still counting; and 102 deaths so far.  The states worse hit by deaths include Ondo (47), Edo (15), Bauchi (12), Taraba (12), Ebonyi (9), Kaduna (4), Nasarawa (2) and Enugu (1). As the Lassa fever fatal count cut across states North or South, East or West, so have the number of cases, starting with the most affected states: Edo (2, 725), Ondo (1, 006), Bauchi (164), Ebonyi (143), Nasarawa (79), Taraba (72), FCT (59), Kaduna (53), Delta (50), Plateau (42), Benue (34), Kano (24), Gombe (22), Kogi (17), Lagos (16), Borno (15) and Enugu (14). - Advertisement - That almost every state is hit by this latest outbreak again stresses the imperative to strengthen Nigeria’s primary health care (PHC) system.  Since the bulk of Lassa fever crisis appears rural, it makes sense that PHC facilities, the nearest to the populace, are strengthened nationwide.  Even in urban areas, these health centres are the nearest to the many communities and poor folks, who may be in distress. But beyond revamping these facilities, the government needs a renewed beam on them and services they can provide, at little or no costs, compared to struggling private hospitals that charge the world.   Ernest Shonekan (1936 – 2022)     Chief diplomat     Bashir Othman Tofa (1947-2022)   Many of these PHCs, often tucked away in quiet neighbourhoods, are under-utilised; simply because the folks they are built to serve have near-zero knowledge of their use.  Better utilised, PHCs could offer effective treatment for Lassa fever, especially when reported early enough.  They could also offer the vigorous base of a sound referral system, from which serious Lassa fever cases are pushed up to secondary, and maybe tertiary hospitals in rare cases. Still on massive enlightenment — but this time in prevention.  Prevention, goes the age-old aphorism, is better than cure.  The primary driver of Lassa fever, in rural areas at least, appears ignorance: starting with the very basics of clean and potable water.  A sustained public education blitz on this basic fount of hygiene and sanitation is imperative. Such a blitz should also integrate how to shut out Lassa fever and other viral and water-borne diseases by rigorous basic hygiene and sanitation. A neater and tidier environment would breed less rats, for instance.  Rats are the vector for Lassa fever.  With less rats, the spread is logically curtailed. Local and municipal authorities, in urban centres and the suburbs, should also do much more on refuse clearing and waste management.  Piles of refuse breed rats.  That Lagos State has so far recorded 16 Lassa fever cases, despite its comparatively better health care facilities than many Nigerian states’, could be a signal that it should work harder on its refuse disposal system. The urban and suburban local governments nationwide should also do more serious work on routine health inspections of homes, markets, motor parks and even work places.  Not long ago, the concept of the “wole-wole” (Yoruba for government health inspectors and sanitation enforcers) was pervasive.  Now, it has all but vanished! But only routine, yet systematic health checks can keep epidemics like Lassa fever and other illnesses at bay.  So, there is an urgent need for a strong and vibrant health and environmental police. Meanwhile, citizens should follow the NCDC Lassa fever advisory: if you develop malaria symptoms and it persists after routine treatment, dash to the nearest PHC or hospital.  That “malaria” could well be Lassa fever; and it needs to be de-fanged before it develops needless complications.