FOR a lot of young people  getting the proverbial white collar job has become a nightmare. After acquiring degrees and attending a series of interviews there is nothing to show for their efforts.  To survive, many decided to look inwards  acquiring skills and  exploring  new trends and opportunities. Today, a number of organisations, locally and internationally have indeed come to the rescue. One of such youth focused  organisations is the adire  textile hub founded by  Princess Ronke Ademiluyi. She informed that the initiative will help to create opportunities for our youths, reduce the reliance on imported  textiles as well as preserve our culture. The Adire on Wheels, a  project of the Adire Oodua textile hub was recently  launched at the Muson Center, Lagos by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. Known for mentoring and empowering youths in different  sectors, his Imperial majesty also  believes that the hub would help to build a critical mass of youths who would impact their communities in different ways. - Advertisement - “We need to continue to be very creative and come up with innovations. This is a beautiful innovation, adire wheel hub being powered and being driven by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi and we are very  proud of the things that she is doing”.   ‘My mobile bookshop targets grassroots in Benue’     ‘Market research, analysis the future of brand…     Famous sculptors feast at Igue Festival   The Ooni added that this would  help to empower young people and direct their energy for positive use. ” This would  take off a lot of  our youths  off the streets. You can imagine the  impact.  For instance, ten of them can have a wheel like this and we would give them a catchment area to sell to people  around after work. We will then spread it across the entire country.  By virtue  of that, our youths won’t need to be looking for employment, they can be self employed.  This will boost local production and create  employment for our youths”. The hub was founded  in ile ife in March this year by Princess Ronke Ademiluyi and it is under the chairmanship of his imperial majesty , the Ooni of ife. Ademiluyi who is also the founder of Africa Fashion weeks London and Nigeria informed that the hub since its inception in March 2021 has trained over 100 women and youths. ” I am grateful for having the opportunity to relaunch.and be more innovative and more creative.  We all know what happened in 2019, year of COVID and last year when a lot of businesses shut down.  We couldn’t have African fashion week London and Nigeria. So, ending the  year with the  launch of the adire on wheels which is a project of the adire textile hub in Ife is every reason to be  grateful”, Ademiluyi informed. Happily she goes on to talk about the  two major  aspects of the events which took place in Ife recently.  ” We did the Queen Moremi Ajasoro pageant in Ife for the first time and we decided to use some of our the African fashion week Nigeria designers to kit the participants. We just thought it would be a good combination to have  the African Fashion week in Ife and also promote fashion Tourism because a lot of creative who had never been to Ife before, this was an opportunity for us to showcase Ife to them”. The colourful ceremony witnessed a combination of an adire beginners workshop,exhibition as well as musicals depicting  creativity in all its ramifications.Stakeholders and dignitaries turned out in great number to witness the event which was memorable. Mr and Miss Blind Nigeria attended and were the cynosure of eyes looking happy, gorgeous and full of energy like the other participants in attendance.