Digital entrepreneur and Chairman, Zinox Group, Leo Stan Ekeh has donated N50million to the Innovation and Development Fund set up by the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS). Ekeh announced the donation on behalf of Zinox during the National Information Technology Merit Awards (NITMA) at the Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos with the cheque presentation ceremony held at the corporate headquarters of Zinox,  Gbagada, Lagos. Ekeh was honoured in 2011 with the pioneer IT Personality award of the association for his entrepreneurship and positive disruption in the tech sector. The Innovation and Development Fund of the NCS, the umbrella organisation of all Information Technology (IT) professionals, interest groups and stakeholders in Nigeria, is desgned at creating the much-needed resources and backing to support research and innovation in IT.   215Mw Kudenda power project for completion this year     Group get new secretary general     Oil price fluctuates as cartel meets today   Furthermore, the fund, which was officially launched at the NITMA awards, is to aid start-ups in transforming their ideas into working systems for national development. - Advertisement - Announcing his donation, Ekeh, Chief Launcher at the event, commended the Executive Council of NCS for birthing the idea of an innovation hub that would incubate start-ups and foster the spirit of creative genius which abounds in Nigeria’s increasingly tech-focused youths. He said his grant would see the immediate release of N20 million for the fund and subsequent annual donations of N10 million respectively in the next three years. He also appealed to other stakeholders to support the initiative to ‘‘train our brothers and sisters who shall lead globally certified multinational companies in the second quarter of this century which is almost here with us.’’ The Zinox founder said technology remained the only profession in the world that can transform the child of poor parents into the richest person in the world. He noted that the global economy is today dominated by tech giants, a fitting demonstration of the relevance and predominance of technology as a determinant of true wealth and the prosperity of nations. The entrepreneur further expressed confidence that through the Fund would be in a better position to unearth raw tech talents who could emerge as certified global dollar billionaires in a few years’ time.