Olabode Lucas, a retired Professor of Crop Physiology and Nutrition, regularly contributes opinion pieces to newspapers in Nigeria. He has done so for sixty years. He has a new offering and it is not an opinion piece. It is a novel, the kind that Chinua Achebe would have described as ‘not innocent and guilty of an agenda’. The novel, ‘Dividends of Greed’, tells the story of Aremu Olotu and his wife Joyce. It also tells the story of Jude Okagbue and a couple of other characters. The novel kicks off with Aremu Olotu and Jude Okagbue being posted to a rural community school for their one-year compulsory youth service. Olotu is the son of the late Gbajero Olotu, who died when he was about to enter the University. He studied Sociology while Jude Okagbue studied Mathematics at the New Town University, Busa. At the school, they give their best and are retained after the service year. Soon Okagbue leaves for the United Kingdom to study law. At this point, the focus shifts to Olotu as Okagbue fizzles out until a ‘cameo appearance’ towards the end of the novel. Olotu’s path crosses with that of a soldier, Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo, who works in the accounts department of the Army. The duo become close and hang out regularly. Along the line, Joyce becomes pregnant for Olotu and a wedding is quickly organised. With the help of the soldier, Olotu and Joyce start a business, which Joyce runs successfully despite her low level of education. The agreement is that the soldier gets a cut of the business as a partner. - Advertisement - One day Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo appears in the home of the Olotus bearing a trunk he claims contains the regalia and staff of office of his traditional ruler father which, according to him, his brother is planning to sell to foreigners. Olotu accepts it for safe-keeping. Not long after this, Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo is arrested and tried for corruptly enriching himself. Olotu becomes afraid thinking that his closeness to Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo, whom he calls ‘future General’, may implicate him. In the end, no one interrogates him. Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo is jailed for 20 years. During his travail, he finds a way to send his passbook to Olotu with the instruction that his share of the business should be deposited there, a request Joyce convinces her husband against. She claims Lt. Uyi Osaigbovo will rot in jail and that obliging him is also capable of implicating them.   Sanwo-Olu and this joke called federalism     Between Muhammadu Indimi and John D. Rockefeller     Letter to the land of the happiest people on earth   The years roll by, the once faithful Olotu starts an extra-marital affair and bears a son outside of wedlock. A military coup ushers in a new military regime and the new government uses granting of amnesty to prisoners as a way of celebrating the anniversary of its takeover of government. Five years into its life in power, it releases future General and he traces the Olotus, expecting not to only get his share of their business, but also retrieve his trunk, which the Olotus have since discovered contained ten million Naira— which at that time can buy 2,000 brand new Peugeot 504. The climax begins after this and greed sets, in and death follows. The truth in the saying that earth knows no fury like a woman scorned also comes into play. Olabode’s novel is set in fictional Zonga, a country where appointments are done on ethnic considerations, where deforestation is on the rise, where military incursion into politics is the norm and where revolution is seen, by many, as the only way out of its quagmire. Though the setting is Zonga, the similarities between this fictional nation and Nigeria are glaring. Like Nigeria, Zonga is a highly fragmented country with political competitions among ethnic nationalities. Like Nigeria, the country almost disintegrated under the military and it took a bloody civil war to stop the disintegration. Like the Nigerian military did for a long time, the Zonga military abandoned its traditional role of giving security to the people and added the role of giving political leadership and direction to the people. Its Generals competed with themselves to carry out coup d’etat to rule the country. Like Nigeria, Zonga has had more military rulers than civilian rulers. And, like Nigeria, Zonga’s military rulers were trained at the Sandhurst Military Academy in the United Kingdom, where they were taught to be apolitical. Like it usually happened in Nigeria, the night before a coup in Zonga was characterised by military members of an elite club staying away. That this work is a clever blend of a few real-life events in Nigeria with fiction is confirmed by the fact that we see military administrations that share everything with those of Generals Ibrahim Babangida and Muhammadu Buhari. We also see Enitsha, whose sounds and sights are the same as Onitsha’s. We see Zenin City, whose vibes are the same as Benin City. We see Zonga Youth Service Corps, which is not different from the National Youth Service Corps. We see Zonga, whose soul, spirit and body is Nigerian. My final take: It is not good to be greedy. Its dividends are never juicy, neither are they tasty. When someone helps you, make it a point of duty never to defraud the person of its entitlements. It is not for fun that they say to whom much is given much is expected.