The father of Hanifa Abubakar, the five-year-old Kano pupil killed by her school proprietor, says the bereaved family went through more than one month of severe psychological torture trying to locate and save her life. Abdulsalam Abubakar, speaking in an interview on TTV Hausa, said the principal suspect, Abdulmalik Tanko, kept deceiving the family about Hanifa’s safety, took ransom and still proceeded to kill her. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday deplored the killing of the pupil and the recent death of 12-year-old Sylvester Oromoni of Dowen College, Lagos, following his alleged bullying by fellow students. The organisation said the trend was not good for the country and asked the federal and state governments to reverse the situation immediately. Abubakar said in the TTV Hausa interview: “We found her. Alhamdulillah! Unfortunately, we didn’t find her alive the way we would have wanted, but dead. Allah knows best. - Advertisement - “This is her third term in the school. She was initially going to an Islamic school when we decided to enroll her in Noble Kids School because it was in the neighbourhood, close by and accessible. We never envisaged this terrible outcome. “After he kidnapped her on 4th of December, 2021, we didn’t get any contact from him until about eight or nine days later when he sent an SMS. I came back from dawn prayers at about 7am and found a nylon bag at the entrance. “Upon opening it, I found her sweatshirt, the badge on her hijab and a photo of her. “About an hour later, he sent another SMS to inquire if we had seen proof of the fact that she was in his custody. We affirmed but pleaded that he should allow us speak to her to confirm she was alive. “The suspect declined and chose to show us another evidence. He directed us to Kwankwasiya Estate on Zaria Road. “He asked us to count 21 lampposts by the left and look into the drainage and we would find proof. After a frantic search, I found the nylon, and when I opened it, it was her hijab without a badge that was in it. “We confirmed to him but still pleaded with him to allow us hear our daughter’s voice. He hung up and demanded a N6 million ransom, threatening to kill her if we did not comply.” Abubakar said after the family rallied to raise some money to pay as ransom, the suspect asked  them to drop it at the same spot in Kwankwasiya Estate. He said the family played along with the suspect after tipping off the security agencies, who “instructed that we should comply so that they would be able to trail him.”   APC: How congress intrigues aborted defection of three govs     ERNEST SHONEKAN’S WIDOW: My husband died of acute…     Alabi replaces Odumosu as Lagos CP   But he said the suspect was some steps ahead of security agents as he had taken the money before they could get to the spot. Continuing, Abubakar said: “That night, not more than 20 minutes after, he called, furiously ranting that the ransom money was incomplete; that we must complete it otherwise he would kill her. “When I reported to the security agents again, they instructed us to comply, pleading that they would nab him this time. “Unfortunately for him, he didn’t change the location for collecting the ransom, so we went and dropped it. When he came out of hiding and was about picking it up, the security agents swooped on him.” Reacting yesterday to Hanifa’s murder and last month’s death of 12-year-old student of Dowen College, Lagos, Sylvester Oromoni, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said government at state and federal levels should step in immediately to halt the trend. Oromoni was allegedly tortured to death by some of his seniors in the school, although the police said forensic reports did not support the claim. The ACF in a statement issued in Kaduna by its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, expressed shock and revulsion over what it called “the anti-social and criminal acts going on in Nigerian schools” such as bullying, murder, kidnappings, homosexuality and cultism, among others. It urged the authorities to address “this new epidemic of drugs, brutality, cults and death which is taking over all schools across the country and endangering the lives of our daughters on sons and the future of our country.” Government, it stressed, should “step in forcefully and nip this trend in the bud”. Tanko, proprietor of Hanifa’s Noble Kids Academy, Kwanar Dakata in Nassarawa Local Government Area of Kano State, said on Friday that he used a N100 rat poison to kill her after collecting a ransom of N100,000 from the victim’s parents. He said he was under pressure to pay rents on the buildings housing the school. The Kano State Government has shut down the school and withdrawn its operational licence. Hanifa went missing on December 4. Her remains were exhumed from a shallow grave where they had been buried by Tanko and his accomplice, Hashim Isyaku, aged 37.