Manufacturers will deepen their advocacy for a friendlier business environment in 2022. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports About a week before the New Year, real sector operators, particularly manufacturers, renewed their advocacy machinery for a business-friendly operating environment. Specially, they called on the Federal Government to spare them any imminent increase in taxes this year. They argued that it was the only way the manufacturing sector can improve on it’s about 10 per cent contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also support the current administration’s poverty reduction/alleviation and job creation aspirations. Their call was a reaction to a statement by the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, that there may be modest increases in taxes and tariffs on certain businesses and individuals this year. The Minister, who was addressing stakeholders at a recent public hearing on the 2021 finance bill in Abuja, said the government was considering new taxes as the “economy was now on a recovery path.” - Advertisement - But the Federal Government’s hint of possible additional taxes this year did not go down well with real sector operators, particularly manufacturers, who expressed concern over what they termed “a skewed taxation regime,” one that tends to disproportionately burden the productive sector and thereby stifle its expansion and growth. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Director General Segun Ajayi-Kadir said rather than any possible additional taxes this year, what could be within reasonable contemplation should be widening the tax net to capture the largely untaxed endeavours that ought to have been within the tax bracket. ”As Minister, Ahmed is aware of the possible grave consequences of over taxation and excessive taxation in an economy that is just recovering from major setbacks. It goes without saying that manufacturing would be worse hit if such an ominous proposition becomes manifest in the sector. “The sector is already groaning under multiple taxation from the three tiers of government and is quite anxious about the imminent ill-advised re-introduction of excise, as well as steep increase in rate of excise on some products, including carbonated and non-alcoholic drinks and tobacco products,” Ajayi-Kadir kicked.  Fuel subsidy removal  However, a likely increase in taxes and tariffs this year is not the only indication that manufacturers may deepen their advocacy and engagements with government for a better deal this year. For instance, the Federal Government’s plan to replace fuel subsidy with transport subsidy in order to reduce the burden of a potential subsidy removal by July 2022 on the masses may not go unchallenged. Specifically, the Federal Government, towards the end of last year, announced that it planned to distribute N5,000 monthly for six to nine months to about 40 million vulnerable Nigerians, i.e. those below the poverty line. While the removal of subsidy, admittedly, will increase the amount of revenue available for government’s projects or infrastructure, there are fears that this may put pressure on consumers. Besides, the modality for the payment of the N5,000 and how the 40 million potential beneficiaries will be determined have not been worked out. Maximising AfCFTA’s opportunities will take centre stage   Manufacturing: Struggling despite economy’s rebound     Wanted: Pro-manufacturing policies to encourage scale, lower…     Industry: Struggling with gradual rebound   It’s been a year since the commencement of trading under the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). Expectedly, manufacturers will intensify their engagements with relevant agencies on how to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the trade liberalisation deal. Series of sensitisation workshops and capacity building programmes will be organised to ensure that manufacturers take their rightful place as members of the largest market in West Africa.The focus of such workshops and capacity building programmes will be on how to uphold the highest quality standards for manufacturers and other real sector operators to benefit from the AfCFTA, which seeks to create a continental trade bloc of 1.2 billion people, with a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about $3.5 trillion. Its main objective was to create a single continental market for goods and services, with free movement of business persons and investments. And manufacturers will, this year, intensify their advocacy in favour of business-friendly policies and regulations that will assist them and other businesses to grow and ultimately, enhance their competitiveness and boost the local economy. Push for improved infrastructure  With the economy evidently lacking in key infrastructure such as poor road and rail network, inadequate electricity supply, gridlock at the nation’s ports the manufacturing sector is currently too fragile to become competitive under the AfCFTA or even withstand competition from other countries. According to the President of MAN, Ahmed Mansur, there is also the aspect of provision of soft infrastructure – like visa, tariffs, and foreign exchange – that will help ease the process of carrying out business transactions between countries. “We must address all these issues since the AfCFTA is not just about trade in goods, but also trade in services,” he said, noting that modern industry competitiveness depends! to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure. His words: “From the availability of power and energy to transport and logistics, the role of infrastructure cannot be overemphasized in trade and economic development,” he said, pointing out for instance, that transportation is vital to enhancing competitiveness in trade. The MAN president also said electricity is a vital input for manufacturing process to the extent that it constitutes up to 40 per cent of the cost of production. He, has therefore, never hidden his disapproval of any plans to increase electricity tariffs in Nigeria, as this, according to him, will have drastic negative effects on the manufacturing sector. Without any significant improvement in electricity supply particularly to the industrial sector despite the privatisation of the power sector, even as government has never stopped hinting on plans to increase tariffs for this core input, manufacturers and other concerned stakeholders are, this year, likely to intensify their campaign against arbitrary electricity tariff increase with a commensurate increase in supply. They seem to have an ally in the World Bank, which last week, warned Nigeria and other emerging economies to think twice before raising electricity tariffs as such steps will push inflation in 2022. The bank, in its latest Commodity Markets Outlook forecast, indicated that prices of electricity, which peaked at 80 per cent higher in 2021 compared to 2020, will remain high this year. Apart from deteriorating infrastructure particularly electricity, other issues that will engage the attention of real sector operators this year include the negative impact of the depreciation in the value of the local currency, the Naira; acute shortage of Foreign Exchange (forex); unavailability of raw materials; and pervasive insecurity. The country’s inclement macro-economic environment, which also seriously constrained the manufacturing sector’s performance last year, will also take the front burner in manufacturers’ agitation for a better deal this year. Discussions and engagements on how to address issues around high and rising inflation rate, double digit lending rate and unfavourable exchange rate parity will also be on the table. Similarly, the regulatory environment, which has been perceived by not a few manufacturers as harsh will be up for discussion with the relevant agencies. Specifically, alleged over regulation and multiple taxes and levies, which have continued to induce high business operating cost in the economy, are also up for discussion this year. Also, Nigeria’s alarming trade deficit has become a torn in the flesh of some real sector operators. For instance, the Director-General of the National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Amb Ayo Olukanni, said from the beginning,  NACCIMA at every opportunity raised alarm about the growing trade deficit, as it observed the growing gap between import and export, which was also reflected in the pressure on the Naira and loss of its value in the Forex Market. He said it is, therefore, not surprising that Nigeria ended up recording a N3 trillion trade deficit in the third quarter of year 2021. “It’s a reflection of the fact that we have not rigorously implemented our policies to truly consume and produce what we consume,” Olukanni said, noting that for year 2022, “we must rigorously pursue our policies especially as envisioned in the Budget for 2022 to reduce importation and improve on our non-oil export. ”We, therefore, call on State Governments to work with City and State Chambers in their jurisdiction to ensure that the private sector, at the sub national level, truly serves as platform to increase local production. “The objective should be to reduce importation of goods as we concertedly work to reduce and even end our trade deficit. Year 2022 is an opportunity for us to truly walk the talk as a less import dependent country,” the NACCIMA boss said.