The two major parties are gearing up to test strength and capacity during the Ngor Okpala state constituency by-election in Imo State. It would be an opportunity for former Governor Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) to show his dominance in his home ground and equally a chance for the Governor Hope Uzodimma-led All Progressives Congress (APC) to challenge the dominance of the opposition party in the senatorial district known as the Owerri zone. Correspondent CHRIS NJOKU reports The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) are getting ready to test their political strength during the Ngor Okpala state constituency bye-election scheduled to take place next month. The seat became vacant following the continued absence of Tochi Okereke, the elected member that had represented the constituency at the Imo State House of Assembly. He was reported to have “abandoned” his post since the beginning of the year and the development compelled Speaker, Kennedy Ibe to declare the seat vacant. Ibe said the former Ngor Okpala representative has failed to attend the sittings of the lawmaking chamber for a long period. The Speaker declared the seat vacant, following a motion moved by Johnson Duru (APC, Ideato South) and seconded by Chigozie Nwaneri (APC, Oru East). Duru said that the Ngor Okpala lawmaker had been absent from the house proceedings for more than one-third of the total number of days the state assembly sat since its inauguration in 2019. Upon examination, the record showed that Okereke only attended sittings 43 times since the Ninth Imo State House of Assembly was inaugurated. - Advertisement - A breakdown of the record showed that he attended proceedings 29 times in 2019, 14 times in 2020, and had zero attendance this year. Ruling on the motion, the speaker declared the seat vacant, saying that the lawmaker had failed to meet the requirements of his office. He also directed that a bye-election be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) within 90 days to elect a new representative for the constituency. For this reason, INEC announced recently that the Ngor Okpala State Constituency by-election will hold on February 26, alongside other bye-elections in four states in the country. To date, the whereabouts of the former Ngor Okpala representative is still unknown to his colleagues. But, some sources say his absence is not unconnected with his sojourn abroad.   PDP bigwigs formally receive Jandor, others in Lagos     APC convention: My chairmanship will end internal crisis…     Why state police is inevitable, by Abiru   Observers say the two political parties would use the forthcoming by-election to test their capacity to win the next governorship election in the state in 2024. The two major parties, the APC and the PDP have been embroiled in some political altercations after the Supreme Court judgment that removed Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP as governor on January 20, 2020, and replaced him with the incumbent Governor Hope Uzodimma of the APC. Two years after that judgment, both parties have never failed to capitalise on any opportunity to fire salvos at each other. The fireworks between them have been intense, thus charging the political landscape of the Southeast state. The former Ngor Okpala representative that absconded from the job (Okereke) was elected on the platform of the PDP. Thus, retaining the assembly seat will be the opposition party’s major objective, in order to send signals to the ruling party. In the 2019 general elections, the PDP won nine House of Assembly seats in the zone, including the four House of Representatives and Senate seats. This had formed the bedrock for the PDP to win the governorship election. Though some of the House of Assembly seats won by the opposition party have been lost to the APC, after some members opted to defect to the ruling party, the opposition party is expected to put up some fight against the governing party, the APC. Similarly, the APC, led by Governor Uzodimma would want to challenge the dominance of the PDP in the Owerri zone. The ruling party last year won the Okigwe Senate by-election election, when its candidate, Frank Ibezim defeated that of the PDP, Emmanuel Okewulonu. To assert its supremacy, the APC would want to overrun the PDP during the Ngor Okpala state constituency by-election, to send signals to the PDP that it should forget about the idea of returning to Government House, Owerri, in 2023. Speaking on the election, an analyst, Basil Ugbe told the Nation that the Ngor Okpala by-election is a litmus test for both parties ahead of next year’s general election. He said: “Ngor Okpala state constituency by-election is a test for the PDP and the APC in Imo State. It is the home ground of former Governor Emeka Ihedioha and he must demonstrate the capacity to keep the APC at bay and retain the assembly seat for the PDP.” Ugbe said, “anything short of this will send wrong signals that the journey to the governorship seat may not be what his supporters think after all, even though we expect the APC to be a stumbling block”. He added: “The result of the Ngor Okpala state constituency by-election would reveal which of the two political parties is on the ground and capable of getting victory during the 2024 governorship election.”