Super Eagles defender Ola Aina said  that he was not aware that he stepped on Sudan’s Mustafa Karshoum to give the Falcons a consolatory  penalty in Nigeria’s 3-1 win on Saturday. An early goal from Samuel Chukwueze in the 3rd  minute provided a positive start and Taiwo Awoniyi netted the Super Eagles’ second on the stroke of half-time. It took Moses Simon just 30 seconds of the second half to add a third, but Sudan pulled a goal back with a fortuitous penalty, after Ola Aina stepped on the foot of defender Mustafa Karshoum. The incident was initially ignored by both teams and the referee, but spotted by the VAR, who then asked referee Victor Gomes to look at the incident on the pitch side screen. He awarded a penalty that Walieldin Khedr converted with 20 minutes left.   NOC holds course for sports administrators     New-look TBS Cricket Oval commissioned        Omeruo, Ndidi  sure of  Eagles’ title bid     - Advertisement - “It was sad for the team, especially Maduka Okoye that we gave out the clean sheet,” the former Fulham defender told NFF TV. “I wasn’t looking at the player, obviously I held his shirt a little bit but there is always a little bit of shirt holding in the box, I was just watching the ball and I didn’t see when I stepped on his foot.” “These things happen in football and luckily we were already three goals up. Even after they put the penalty away I still felt we were in control of the game.” Meanwhile, the head of Nigeria’s delegation to AFCON, Alhaji Ibrahim Gusau has expressed his satisfaction with the team’s performance so far at the continental football showpiece. “You can see not only from us here but all over social media that Nigerians are happy with our performances in Cameroon because they are seeing the real Nigerian team they wanted to see,” he said. “For time now we know Nigerians were disappointed with the team’s performances and pattern of play but we are happy now that the new technical crew have given the players the opportunity to communicate and express themselves on the pitch.”