It is  no longer farming as usual. Not in any part of the North. It is a measure of how bandits have not only laid waste the general routine of life in the North. It tells a graphically sad tale of the tragedy of bread and butter in the country. Bandits now stop farmers from going to their places of work. If they do not stop them they decide on what terms they can perform their workaday obligations. They either seek ransom or force them to pay taxes. The farms in the North take quite long journeys for the rustic folks. They walk long hours because of vast, often dry and scraggy landscapes. It takes long hours of sweat and exhaustion. The journey basically on foot. On their way, they meet the bad men, defiant without hoods and barking orders. They detain and order to pay taxes. Some analysts say it is even a happy experience that the encounters do not result in deaths. Rather they live to be taxed another day. In Borno State, earlier in 2021, some farmers dropped to saga of slaughter on their way to their farms. The President’s special adviser on Media, Garba Shehu, said rather glibly that they did not take permission before going out to the farm that day. It was one of the major absurdities of the year. They were, according to him, supposed to inform the military who should have escorted them to their place of work. That, in itself, typifies the precarious life of the farmer. It also explains the official helplessness to save the farm, not only for the farmer but also for the nation and its food. - Advertisement - With the hoodlums in control of the farms, they have become the Lords of agriculture. But they are not Lords to bring food on the table but to suffocate it. The average farmer is a poor man. They do not run large estates, but big enough for their average needs, that is subsistence; and, afterwards, for trade. It is a combination of the farms that make up the large trucks of produce and crops that feed vast populations in the North and south of the country. The hefty cargoes of tomatoes, onions, millets, yams, pepper as well as livestock are at stake. They have been at stake since the bandits saw the farmers as cash cow rather than celebrate them as suppliers of cash crops as well produce that feed the average citizen. They have been doing so since they gained dreary traction in our land.   Odunare’s suicide     Better late than never     Long overdue   It is also an irony that the Federal Government’s cornerstone economic programme of the Buhari administration is agriculture with great emphasis on the local farmer. The Central Bank of Nigeria, in its activist role, has been rolling out packages of assistance to farmers across the country for loans and other forms of support. The bandits stand not only in the way of the farmer’s ability to make good their promise to translate support into productivity  but it frustrates the government’s drive to engender prosperity through policy. The North has had a culture of contented farming. They produced and fed the people. But we have not developed our system to support the farmer in a secure way. In the west, especially in the United States, the agricultural sector is coddled so much so that the farmer is subsidised heavily. They want it that way because the system prizes food on the table as the first step to prosperity. That is why even the farmer is pampered to the extent that they are paid not to farm. Their silos are full and to produce more will be a waste. That waste contrasts to Nigeria where we have had farms that produced more than we store. The food went often to waste and even still do. That shows how we have not organised our agriculture to withstand cultural perversions. We did not have enough silos. We still don’t for our potential. Now we cannot even make enough because bandits want to take from the little they allow to grow and harvest. This has had implications for food security. In various parts of the country complaints over rise in food prices complicate the narrative of agriculture in the country. Livestock,including live hens and cocks as well as turkeys, were not readily available during the end-of-year festivities. They were too expensive. Indeed they made the allure of imported ones stronger, such that Nigerians made their bodies susceptible to the chemicalised poisons of the imported stock with their auguries for malignancies. This makes the question  of security essential. It is the dinner table consequence of banditry. People cannot feed well because criminals are hungry for slaughter. In this environment, it takes courage to be a farmer. It takes courage to feed the Nigerian today. It is because of cowards who must rely on  hardworking people to make a living. Hoodlums cannot be allowed to continue to hold sway. In this new year, we need to tackle the bandits. It shows that peace cannot be divorced from our ability to feed ourselves. In an age where agriculture is following different chains, we are not going beyond the basic level of feeding our families.