The Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has described the $3.1billion proposed customs modernisation deal as a debt trap that should be avoided. National President of ANLCA, Iju Tony Nwabunike, who stated this in Lagos at the weekend, called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed not to sign the deal. Speaking on the sidelines after a National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of ANLCA, Nwabunike warned that the country is already indebted and should, therefore, avoid going into a deal that will make her obligated to paying back for 20 years for a service of lesser value. The ANLCA chief also called on the National Assembly to take a closer look at every detail of the deal. “We want to also advise the Federal Government to be careful before signing into the $3.1billion Customs modernisation project which, we heard,  will run for 20 years. We urge President Muhammadu Buhari and the Finance Minister to avoid assenting to the deal - Advertisement - “Nigeria is already in serious debts and customs being a strategic non oil revenue earner for government shouldn’t be tied to another long term repayments for two decades.’’ “On this, we call on the National Assembly to take very closer look at the details and ensure the Federal Ministry of Finance, Nigeria Customs Service and all parties involved observe due diligence that won’t entrap the country into another long debt repayment for 20 years and maybe for lesser value.” He decried the non deployment of recently imported scanners for use at the ports under the modernisation project months after thy arrived the country.   ‘Ecobank’s PAPSS to support intra-African trade’     Airbus paves way for greener freighters     Ministry to spend N207b on identical projects   Nwabunike who also faulted the N4.1 trillion 2022 target of the NCS, said the sum is outrageous and will lead to poor functioning of the economy through undue double taxation that is capable of frustrating businesses In the place of such high revenue target, he suggested that the NCS should vigorously pursue trade facilitation as suggested by the Permanent Secretary of the finance ministry at a recent public hearing on the amendment of Customs and Excise Management Act (CEMA) He added that the high target will place the NCS under pressure of high revenue collection and undermine the trade facilitation role the service should render. According to him, pursuing bigger revenue and failing to strengthen trade will result in greater losses to the country as investments are either threatened, reduced or made non existent due to harsh taxation regime Speaking on the allegation of tenure elongation levelled against him, he said  ANLCA at a duly constituted Annual General Meeting in Owerri in December 2020 amended the constitution where a single tenure of five years was adopted. He said the  single tenure of five years starts with his administration going by the amended constitution which disenfranchised him from having a second term as he had earlier desired. He described the AGM decision as a  bitter pill and a personal sacrifice on his part  to separate leadership from selfish ambition. While reminding ANLCA members and other stakeholders that his tenure will elapse in April 2023, he described the alleged misinformation about tenure elongation as handiwork of suspended and expelled mischief makers interpreting an outdated constitution to cause confusion. He said for those expelled and suspended persons, ANLCA is open to reconsidering it’s earlier decision on them if it sees genuine remorse and repentance by granting them a amnesty and readmitting them into the association.