IVARA: My name is Ivara. I retired from the Nigeria Police in 2015 under PenCom. Recently, payment was made to pensioners in other federal establishment under consequential adjustment to pensions benefits arising from the implementation of new minimum wage on April 30, 2021. The arrears took effect from April 2019 and payment commence from May 2021. I will like to know the position of police retires/pensioners, are we not pensioners in Nigeria? PENCOM: Since you retired in 2015, you are not eligible to any pension benefits arising from any new minimum wage implementation after your retirement, as your complaint was bothering on minimum wage increase in 2019 which took effect in 2021. Thank you. OGUNLEYE: My name is Ogunleye. I retired from NIPOST. The 2.5 per cent approved by President Muhammadu Buhari sometime this year has not been paid. My question is: what is delaying the payment to the affected retirees? I understood that PENCOM had directed the PFAS to spread it to our monthly pension. This decision should be rescinded. PENCOM: Please note that the eligibility for the arrears of 2.5 per cent employer portion of pension contribution took effect from July 2014. It was paid based on regulations and framework on how additional retirement benefit income are treated. Please visit your PFA as the payment. Only those who were retired in July 2014 and above are qualified. Thank you. GAZAMA: Good day, my name is Gazama. I was retired on January 1, 2018. But I am yet to be paid my benefit. I was called and signed. But since then, nothing has been done. Please look into my problem. - Advertisement - PENCOM: Please be informed that your retirement benefits were paid in December 2021. Kindly contact your PFA for access. FARID: Hello, my name is Farid. The president’s approval of outstanding pension covered 2014 but my father died in 2013. Will his death benefit also be paid? And when will that be? Thank you. PENCOM: Please be advised that your late dad is not eligible for the outstanding pension arrears as this took effect from July 2014. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from the Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for annuity. The Federal Government recently said it has released funds to pay the 2.5 per cent it is owing out of its 10 per cent. When and how will this cash be paid? I am owed 24 months. PENCOM: Please be advised that if the amount is less than N100,000. It will be paid into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider.   Fresh treason charges force shift of Nnamdi Kanu’s trial     Abudu: I won’t welcome insults, abuse     Nigeria on food sufficiency path, says Buhari   GIMBA: Good day, my complaint is about the non-release of my pension since October 2020 till date. My name is Gimba from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. PENCOM: You are advised to  forward your details such as your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA), name as well as other  information to enable us investigate further. Please be advised that retirees of the Federal Government tertiary-Funded Ministries, Departments and agencies are required to undergo a verification and enrolment prior to retirement. If you are yet to do so, kindly visit http://www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the process and proceed to your PFA for verification and enrolment. In addition, please be informed that the Commission has paid the benefits of retirees who quit service in 2020. ANNONYMOUS: Hello, I have been working since September 2016 without a pension account but recently the Human Resources Department asked me to open a pension account which I refused. But I said I would do it only if the management could pay me my pension arrears. Kindly advise me on what to do. PENCOM: Please be advised that you are required to open a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) with any licensed Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) where your pension contributions are to be remitted by your employer. After opening the RSA, should your employer refuse to remit the pension arrears, kindly write to the National Pension Commission, stating the non-remittance of pension contributions. You will be required to state the company name and their address in your letter. Thank you. OKOH: Good day, Omobola. I really want to appreciate your efforts in helping senior citizens to resolve their nagging post-service issues through your pages your newspaper. It is as gratifying as it’s salutary. May God bless the newspaper. The platform has gone a long way to bring the pension reform to the fore for pensioners. However, I like to plead, though not within the purview of the platform, but related to pensioners’ handicap, the National Housing Fund (NHF), to which workers make contributions. It was expected that at retirement, the retiree got his contributions refunded. It’s unfortunate that after a year or two of retirement, neither the Federal Mortgage Bank or the National Housing Fund is saying or doing anything to make refund of accumulated and earned contributions. We would appreciate it, therefore, if your platform would extend the gesture to this nagging issue. We really appreciate your good works as national service to humanity. – Okoh from Abuja. PENCOM: Please be advised that the above complaint is not within the purview of the National Pension Commission. As such, please re-direct the complaint to the authority. Thank you.