The African Cup of Nations soccer tournament opened yesterday in Cameroon with a burst of colour but also under the shadow of a coronavirus pandemic that is surging again because of the rapid spread of the omicron variant just as the continent’s biggest sports show begins. Dancers wearing red, green, yellow, white, and blue costumes gyrated in the middle of the field during the opening ceremony at the newly rebuilt Olembe Stadium in the capital, Yaounde. Some of the performers wore masks in matching colours. The computer-generated image of a giant lion walked across the top of the stadium roof as the ceremony began, then leaped down to the stadium floor and prowled the outer rim of the field. It was a nod to Cameroon’s national soccer team, which is known as the “Indomitable Lions.” Cameroon’s African Cup will take place three years later than planned after the country was stripped as host of the initial tournament awarded to it in 2019 because it was so far behind in its preparations. It was given another chance in 2021, only for the event to be then postponed for a year because of the pandemic.   AFN unveils programmes, names sub-committee heads     Geremi warns Eagles on Egypt’s Elneny     Osimhen clears of COVID-19   Organizers pressed ahead with it this time even with the virus on the rise again, and the month-long tournament featuring 24 teams will be hard-pressed to avoid being regularly disrupted by infections and outbreaks gave that so many teams have had virus cases in the build-up. - Advertisement - “Today, by all of us being here, it shows that we believe in ourselves, that we believe in the people of Cameroon and we believe in the people of Africa,” Confederation of African Football President Patrice Motsepe said at the ceremony. He said it would be the best African Cup ever. Motsepe will oversee his first African Cup after the South African mining billionaire surprisingly rose to the position of head of African soccer last year because of the backing of Infantino. In his speech, Motsepe acknowledged the support of “my brother” Infantino. This African Cup has been the target of more scepticism than most after organizers insisted they would go ahead with a soccer showpiece amid the omicron-driven surge. There had been rumours that it was going to be postponed again, while European clubs have expressed concerns that the health protocols put in place by organizers CAF and local Cameroon authorities won’t be sufficient to protect their African players.