FMDQ Securities Exchange (FMDQ Exchange) Limited has approved the admission of new commercial papers programmes worth N40 billion to its platform. FMDQ Exchange approved the registration of Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria Limited’s N15 billion commercial paper (CP) programme as well as Mixta Real Estate Plc’s N25 billion CP issuance programme. Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria is a social enterprise that seeks to sustainably improve the lives of smallholder farmers in Nigeria through the provision of comprehensive farming services. Mixta Real Estate, a subsidiary of Mixta Africa, is a real estate development company in Nigeria, with a track record and diverse real estate portfolio, and operations spanning the residential, commercial, and retail sectors of the real estate industry.   No extension for capital market operators’ registration,…     Equities record N1.899tr deals     Equities undervalued, but investors must be cautious, says…   Speaking on the successful registration of the CP programme, Managing Director, Babban Gona Farmer Services Nigeria Limited, Mr. Bukola Masha, said the company, as an agricultural franchise, is committed to curbing the growing trend of poverty and violence in Africa by creating opportunities of dignified and fulfilling work for the rural farmer youths. - Advertisement - “We aim to make farming more profitable for smallholder farmers as we support them across the entire production chain. With the successful registration of this N15 billion CP programme, we are a step closer to achieving this goal; we are delighted at the opportunity to diversify our short-term funding sources and look forward to the participation of the investment community when we launch Series 1 of the CP Programme,” Masha said. FMDQ Exchange assured that as part of its mandate to organise and govern markets within its purview, and promote credibility and transparency in the Nigerian debt capital market, it shall continue to provide an innovative and efficient platform targeted at supporting the aspirations of corporate entities. According to FMDQ, it remains committed to making the Nigerian financial markets globally competitive, operationally excellent, liquid and diverse, in line with FMDQ Group’s ‘GOLD’ Agenda, with a view to achieving its full potential of driving growth and development in the nation. FMDQ Group, a vertically integrated financial market infrastructure group, operates through four wholly owned subsidiaries including FMDQ Exchange, FMDQ Clear Limited, FMDQ Depository Limited and FMDQ Private Markets Limited.