The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved various contracts worth N76.78 billion for the Ministries of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and transportation as well as for flood control in the six geopolitical zones. This was disclosed to State House Correspondents after the week’s virtual Council meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. Addressing journalists at the end of the meeting, the ministers of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; FCT, Mallam Mohammed Bello and transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, gave breakdowns of the activities of the Council as well as details of approved contracts. Minister of the FCT, whose ministry received about N56.2 billion the highest of the allocation, said they are for the construction of Kuje 105 highway, access road and car park for Abuja Light Rail station. “Council approved two contracts for the FCT including for the Full Scope Development of Federal Capital Territory Highway 105, Kuje Road, from Airport Expressway to Kuje Junction Stage 1, Abuja at the cost of N54,946,009,160.04. - Advertisement - “It was awarded to Messrs Arab Contractors O. A. O Nigeria Limited with a completion period 48 months. “The second contract award is for the construction of Access Road and Car Park for Abuja Light Rail Stations – Gbazango Station of the Federal Capital City, Abuja – Lot 7 at the cost of N1,291,568,845.33.   My life has become sweet, says hawker who gave inmates money     Nollywood produces 382 movies in 2021 fourth quarter – NFVCB     Ooni of Ife accepts NFC appointment as first Royal Grand…   “It was awarded in favour of Messrs CBC Global Civil and Building Construction Nigeria Limited with a completion period of 8 months.” The transportation Minister said FEC also approved a contract for the reconstruction of the narrow gauge track from Niger to Baro “So, there will now be a rail line from Baro to Minna to join the narrow gauge so that when cargoes come to Baro, they can then be evacuated through the narrow gauge,” he said. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Mohammed, on his part, gave a breakdown of the 14 projects approved for award under the Ecological Fund spanning the six geo-political zones of the country. He explained that two memos were presented on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, including the one that sought approval for the award of contracts for the 2022 emergency procurement of first and second quarters accelerated soil erosion, flood and pollution control intervention projects. The 14 ecological project contracts were approved for award at the total cost of about N15.1 billion. Mohammed pointed out that the present administration has intervened in 291 projects out of which 263 have been completed and handed over to beneficiary communities and institutions while a total of 28 are at various stages of completion.