Nigeria will square up against Tunisia in the Round of 16 of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. The Carthage Eagles booked their place in the knockout phase of the competition as one of the four third-placed countries after a shock 1-0 loss to the Gambia on Thursday night. Prior to their last Group F showdown against the Scorpions, the North Africans needed a win to finish as runners-up. In the closing stages of the first half, they were awarded a penalty as Pa Modou was penalised for a foul on Seifeddine Jaziri. Jaziri stepped up to take the ensuing kick and goalkeeper Baboucarr Gaye guessed the right way to save it. This was the third spot-kick which Tunisia have missed at this year’s tournament. - Advertisement - Despite the 2004 African kings dominating the ball possession, it was Tom Saintfiet’s men who had the last laugh when Seraing midfielder Ablie Jallow curled in a superb left-footed strike from inside the box which left Bechir Ben Said standing motionless. To reach the last eight of Cameroon 2021, Augustine Eguavoen’s men must negotiate their way past Mondher Kebaier’s team. The match will be played Sunday at the Roumde Adjia Stadium in Garoua. The winner from there, will face either Burkina Faso or Gabon in the quarter-finals. Both teams have met on four occasions in the history of the competition, albeit, it is Nigeria who hold the upper hand. The West Africans squared up against the North Africans for the first time in the third-place game of Ghana 1978. With the score tied at 1-1 at the Accra Sports Stadium, the Tunisians walked off the pitch in the 42nd minute to protest the officiating. The Confederation of African Football awarded the Eagles a 2-0 win while banning the Carthage Eagles from the 1980 edition. Twenty-six years later, they met at Stade 7 November, Tunis as hosts Tunisia defeated the three-time African champions 5-3 on penalties after the score ended 1-1 after 120 minutes.   Bayelsa vows to weed out illegal academic institutions     Okowa dissolves Delta State Traditional Rulers’…     Okorocha to Uzodimma: don’t use Somotochukwu’s…   Two years later in the competition, Nigeria avenged their loss by silencing the Tunisians in the quarter-final at the Port Said Stadium. Their last outing was in Egypt 2019 when Odion Ighalo’s first-half strike settled the third-place showdown between Gernot Rohr’s men and the North Africans in the fight for the bronze medal. Meanwhile, defending champions Algeria exited the Africa Cup of Nations after a lacklustre 3-1 defeat at the hands of Cote d’Ivoire. With a single point from three matches, the North Africans finished bottom of Group E. Earlier, Ghana became the first major casualty of the continental finals and the reigning champions and sky-high favourites Algeria were next on Thursday.  Franck Kessié and Ibrahim Sangare scored for the Ivorians before the break and Nicolas Pepe added a third before Sofiane Bendebka got some consolation in the 73rd minute. The Algerians were lethargic and without much fighting spirit for much of the 90 minutes and the defeat marked an ignominious exit for the Algerians, who had come into the tournament on an unbeaten run of 34 matches but failed to beat Sierra Leone in their opening match before slumping to a humiliating 1-0 defeat against Equatorial Guinea. In 1992, Algeria also crashed out of the competition in the first round as defending champions. In the last five editions, the holders have now exited the competition three times in the group stage. “It’s difficult to make a rational analysis at the moment,” said Algeria coach Djamel Belmadi. “We wanted to make up lost ground in this match, we weren’t able to do that. When we didn’t convert our chances early on, perhaps doubt set in. Even penalties we struggled to score.” He added: “Everyone’s preparation was chaotic. Three days before we were to receive our players, we are told that they’d come one week later. We cancel our game against the Gambia. Lots of players that struggled with Covid, who can only half-train and have to stay in their rooms.” His team had come into the tournament with high hopes, even seeking to emulate Italy’s world-record run of 37 matches unbeaten, but Algeria failed to ignite and their campaign came crashing down in spectacular fashion in the space of nine days. Their departure means Africa will crown a new champion on February 6. The playing field is more open than ever. The tournament’s two debutants, Gambia and Comoros, were both confirmed in the last 16. Tom Saintfiet’s Gambian team defeated Tunisia 1-0 to finish second behind Mali on seven points in Group F. Comoros, who knocked Ghana out of the competition, progressed after Sierra Leone’s defeat by Equatorial Guinea and the Cote d’Ivoire’s  victory. They will meet the hosts Cameroon in the second round. In the other blockbusters of the last 16, Egypt take on Cote d’Ivoire  and Nigeria play Tunisia.