The Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) yesterday launched its e-Debit Card, agency banking platform and 27 cargo logistic vehicles to improve its service delivery nationwide. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, who launched the innovations, said the development was in tandem with the administration’s target to achieve a digital economy. He noted that some of the innovations are new in the history of NIPOST and would go a long way in promoting and developing the economy of Nigeria. Pantami said the innovations will also help the government in improving transparency and fighting corruption. “It is the first of its kind in Nigeria because it works offline and online, and it is the first time that NIPOST comes us with a solution similar to this and it is indeed a multipurpose card for financial transaction, conditional cash transfer, payment of bills and many more. - Advertisement - “This is commendable and in alignment with our digital economy for achieving a digital Nigeria. Our target in this country by 2030 is to be completely digitalized,” Pantami said. He said the NIPOST Banking Platform will allow NIPOST to conduct financial transactions with most importantly, Universal Postal Union (UPU) member countries.   Lagos plans to grow N1b agric revenue     Dangote Cement mops up N35.1b shares     ‘CBN intervention on agro processing effective’   “It is another innovative solution that will make our banking system much easier, and this is also in alignment with our proposal to come up with NIPOST Micro Finance Bank. Read Also: Stamp duty face-off with FIRS assisted NIPOST, by Postmaster-General “So, this is just like a pilot program of another subsidiary of NIPOST that will come up soon, that is the NIPOST Micro Finance Bank in which we are to leverage on the existing infrastructure of NIPOST and make sure that our citizens all over the country as long as they have access to the post office, they will be able to conduct their financial transactions. “The third to be commissioned today is the NIPOST Logistics Vehicles; this is also commendable, as the Postmaster-General informed us, that initially, mails comprise 90 per cent of NIPOST activities, while cargo comprises not more than 10 per cent. “But as it is today, the reverse is the case, 10 per cent became the 90 per cent while the 90 per cent became 10 per cent. Email, WhatsApp and other means of communications have displaced letter writing, it becomes difficult for you to sit down and write a letter,” Pantami said. The Postmaster General of the Federation, Dr Ismail Adewusi said the launching marks another milestone in NIPOST efforts to reposition the Post in Nigeria in line with the current digital transformation initiatives of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy. The launching of the 27 new trucks today for the conveyance of logistics and e-commerce products, by the Minister is aimed at strengthening that vision and once again reinforcing the hopes of Nigerians in the capacity of the nation’s Postal service to live up to its responsibilities amidst the emerging threats of the digital era. “I wish to remind us all of the need to ensure maximum utilisation of the services and the values that the new NIPOST electronic card has brought to our doorsteps and I recommend it for both private and business. I equally recommend that all take advantage of the unique offerings by our e-Commerce and logistics venture for local and globe needs”, he noted.