Popular comedienne Lepacious Bose has applauded men who dare to marry plus-size women. The comedienne, who lost weight a few years ago to achieve the body shape of her dream, took her Instagram page to celebrate men married to chubby women. Sharing a video of an obese woman dancing with her husband on their wedding day, Bose captioned the clip with a lengthy message. “It takes a strong man, a real man to love a fat woman. It takes an extra man to openly love her, it takes a man and a half to ignore the naysayers and freaking marry her. Kudos to all the strong men who are not afraid to love fat girls, may your bank account never lose weight.” - Advertisement - Continuing, she urged overweight women not to opt for weight loss because of a man. “Dear fat girl, if you want to lose weight, go ahead, do it! However, do it for yourself, your health, your choice… but never to keep a man.   I stand with Mompha, says Bobrisky     Nigerian artistes with prominent parents     Why I abandoned school, by Portable   “You see, if he’s not ready to fight for what he really wants then he’s not man enough for you. Pls let him go! “If he loves to be with you but wants to hide you from the world pls run. Most fat girls have the sweetest hearts and are wonderful lovers…. Trust me these men know it!!! They are just too wimpy to stay! You don’t need a wimp, you need a real man.” Bose argued that many men crave for fat ladies but they are discouraged by people’s objection. “Let me tell you something, a whole lot of men love fat women, yes! They love the warmth, the flesh, the feel of the lush thick thighs, some even love the stretch marks! “Unfortunately most of them are cowards; they love these women but do not have the guts to openly stay with them. Eventually they leave them because of what “people will say” because their friends and family members feel the ladies are too big and therefore inappropriate. Of course because these uncles are wimps they cannot fight for these women, for what they truly want/desire. Oshisko “They cave in, because they are wimps, they give up the love they want and go for the “socially acceptable” woman….. most of them end up miserable but hey…. Congratulations to them ooo! Am sorry but I love their misery.”