Governor Kayode Fayemi’s camp, which is backing immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, appears to have been dealt a heavy blow with the adoption of the direct primary mode in today’s shadow poll. But, Correspondent RASAQ IBRAHIM reports that the former SSG is most likely to clinch the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket, not only because he is the anointed choice of the governor, but also due to his unbreakable ties with party members The stage is set for the Ekiti State governorship primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Eight aspirants are vying for the APC ticket, to fly the flag of the party during the June 18 election to pick Governor Kayode Fayemi’s successor.  The governor’s tenure would elapse on October 15 this year. The Ekiti political firmament is fully now charged, following a series of activities such as rallies and meetings. There are jingles on radio and adverts on television stations; each aspirant is now more frequent on the local stations. Political programmes are being sponsored by various aspirants. Towns and villages are flooded with posters of many of the aspirants. Social media are not left out of the current political activities, as many sponsored write-ups to market and de-market those perceived as rivals of their preferred aspirants using pseudo names. Although there are many political parties that are likely to field candidates in the governorship election, only the APC and the main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) are firmly on the ground in the state’s political hemisphere. The aspirants include those who contested the 2018 primary against Fayemi and new entrants. Many of those who obtained the nomination and expression of interest forms were cleared to run by the panel set up for the purpose of screening by the APC National Caretaker Committee under the chairmanship of Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni. - Advertisement - The aspirants are the immediate past Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Biodun Oyebanji; serving member of the House of Representatives, Femi Bamisile; Senator Dayo Adeyeye and Senator Opeyemi Bamidele. Others include former Commissioner for Infrastructures, Mr. Bamidele Faparusi; former governorship aspirant, Kayode Ojo; renowned aviation expert, Otunba Demola Popoola and Olusola Afolabi. Looking at the calibre of aspirants eyeing the party’s ticket, especially their political background, experience and the belief by many that the APC is a major platform in the forthcoming governorship election, the shadow poll is going to be a tough battle among the contenders. Already, Governor Fayemi is feeling the heat of a looming showdown going by the utterances of the gladiators jostling to replace him at the hilltop Oke-Bareke Government House. Although the governor is not contesting the poll having served the two terms of eight years, as stipulated in the 1999 Constitution, he would be keenly interested in who succeeds him. To this end, it was gathered that the governor is mobilizing party members and disbursing humongous funds to back Oyebanji’s aspiration. The former SSG is believed to be the governor’s preferred choice for the party’s ticket. As a way of checkmating Governor Fayemi’s bid to hand the party’s ticket to his preferred choice, many aspirants have called for the direct primary, so that all members of the party can participate in picking the flag bearer; rather than the indirect mode where only delegates, many of whom were handpicked by the governor will determine the winner. While the governor’s camp was rooting for the indirect primary mode to elect the flagbearer, no fewer than six of the seven other aspirants insisted on the direct mode. They premised their argument on grounds that the indirect primary would not produce a popular candidate as the outcome of the primary would have been predetermined by the governor who controls the party’s structure. To the utter dismay of the governor’s camp, which prefers indirect primary, the Buni-led APC National Caretaker Committee has adopted the direct method for the shadow poll. It was learnt the decision of the APC to adopt direct primary was informed by a lot of factors. Firstly, the party took into consideration the ongoing litigation filed by done aggrieved members challenging the congress that produced the current executives from ward level to state level. The APC national secretariat was said to be adequately cautious of the naked fact that concentrating the sole power to choose the APC flag bearer in the hands of delegates whose legality was still a subject of litigation would be suicidal if the court eventually nullifies the congresses. It was also gathered that the invisible hands of vested interests influenced the decision. This was also coupled with the determination of President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s determination to ensure that members took ownership of the party in order to entrench proper democratic ideals and solidly build the APC from bottom to up.   Gunmen kidnap Jonathan’s cousin in Bayelsa     Inspector, two others killed in a gun duel with bandits     $24m fraud: Hushpuppi may get 20 years jail on…   An impeccable source at the APC national secretariat told our correspondent that the party’s decision to adopt the direct mode was sequel to President Buhari’s directives that direct primary should be adopted in states where the APC has a sitting governor, in order to prevent hijacking of the process, while the indirect primaries should be used in states where the sitting governor is not of the party. With the direct primary, the temptation to buy delegates in today’s APC governorship primary would not be feasible because such undertaking would prove too costly as the exercise would involve all APC card-carrying members across the 177 wards. Unlike the indirect mode, which requires only approved and sizeable delegates who emerged from the congresses, the direct method involves all registered and card-carrying members of the party. They are entitled to vote for aspirants of their choice and the aspirant that secures not less than 25 per cent of the votes cast in at least two-thirds of all the 16 local chapters of the party would be declared winner of the contest. Keen observers of Ekiti politics are of the view that the adoption of the direct primary for the governorship primary has partially removed the rugs from the feet of Governor Fayemi and has given a lifeline to the other six aspirants to win the primary, particularly the ones that are popular among them. However, mixed feelings greeted the development. While the six ‘independent’ aspirants are in jubilation galore, it was reliably learnt that the governor’s camp was not that comfortable. Although the atmosphere within the party is calm, there are indications that Governor Fayemi and his foot soldiers are jittery of the direct mode of primary because any aspirant could emerge, as it will be a test of popularity. Many believe that the adoption of the direct primary in Ekiti might be a sword of Damocles against Governor Fayemi who many insist is desirous of installing his successor. Sensing the looming danger, the governor and his team have returned back to the drawing board to re-adjust their strategies which were delegates-based to a holistic one that will adequately conform to existing realities of direct primary. To this end, Oyebanji who was hitherto confident of winning the shadow poll, banking on indirect mode had to change his campaign strategy; by embarking on a fresh campaign tour across the length and breadth of the 16 council areas to seek the support of the party members. Opinions are sharply divided on the chance of Oyebanji at the primary. While some APC members claim that he may not win the ticket due to the alleged marginalisation of party members by his backer, others say the governor was on the ground in the party and will sway votes for his anointed aspirant. However, despite the uncertainty surrounding the primary, many believe Oyebanji has a date with history. He remains the frontrunner in the governorship race, based on some favourable factors. First, Oyebanji has the support of the current governor who has humongous resources at his disposal to prosecute the contest. Secondly, Fayemi’s formidable structure across the 177 wards will work to his advantage, particularly since he enjoys the backing of the 26 House of Assembly lawmakers, political appointees, 35 serving council chairmen, 177 councillors among other prominent APC leaders in the state. Also, his wide level of acceptability among the people is commendable, but how that will translate to votes is still in the realm of uncertainty. Although Oyebanji commands respect in the political space due to his generosity and enjoys cult-like followership among the masses, he would be going into the primary election with his fate shrouded in uncertainty. Analysts believe it would not be an easy ride, as the likes of Adeyeye, Bamidele, Bamisile and Ojo parade formidable political networks, virile background and vast experience which can make them to upset the apple cart. But, going by his soaring grassroots acceptability, political precedence and antecedence, Oyebanji is most primed to clinch the APC ticket, not only because is the anointed choice of Governor Fayemi but also due to his solemn and unbreakable ties with party members.