The announcement by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) of the arrest of about 90 persons allegedly involved with fake COVID-19 test certificates and touting at two of Nigeria’s busiest airports, the Nnamdi Azikiwe and Murtala Muhammed international airports in Abuja and Lagos, respectively , is one sure sign that the nation’s aviation sector and immigration departments have  learnt nothing from the present pandemic in the world. It is quite unfortunate that while the world is involved in serious research efforts and adopting various measures to curb the ever mutating virus, agencies and departments of government through laxity, poor or non-existent supervisory diligence have exposed humanity to more danger by allowing touting and forgery of COVID-19 test certificates to individuals. The unfortunate issue is that in this global pandemic era, governments of nations have invested a lot to save their citizens and one of the measures is serious checkpoints at and even closure of airports in some cases, knowing the impact of global travels and the possibility of transmission from country to country. While we commend the efforts of FAAN at arresting the suspects, we are also bound to state that the authority has failed in its duty as the government agency that oversees all other agencies working at the airports. Nigerian airports are some of the most porous with almost unrestricted entry for everyone. Even foreigners and some international news agencies had carried out covert investigations of corrupt activities at the airports. It has been reported that some of the arrested officials have been suspended and are to be prosecuted in Abuja and Lagos. However, the number of suspects and the fact that they are staff of agencies working at the airports is very disheartening. They are possibly not all that ought to be arrested. Who are their bosses? Why have they not been sacked or why have they not been forced to resign?   Good one from NiDCOM     Fixing what ain’t broken?     A benefactor Fed. Govt?   - Advertisement - The crime under review can be regarded as crime against humanity because, with millions dead and more in hospitals across the globe, the touts issuing fake test certificates to travellers are devilish and potentially spreading the virus through their actions in a world almost at the edge of the precipice due to the effects and almost intractable nature of the pandemic. These devilish forgeries are a blight on the image and health of the country and the suspects must not just be suspended, they must face the full wrath of the law. The sad irony is that some of them are members of the staff of the aviation authority and customer services department. Their criminal acts put a big question mark on the due diligence on their backgrounds to ascertain their suitability for the jobs. We are convinced that the forgery of COVID-19 test certificates is somehow an offshoot of the value placed on mere paper certificates in the country. The notorious Oluwole fake certificate ‘minting factory’ on Lagos Island had existed for long and been alleged to have the capacity to produce any certificate and even some countries’ visas. There have been cases of some politicians who lost their positions based on forged certificates, but we believe many are still parading fake certificates undetected. The rhetoric by the Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, about what would happen to any offending staff of the agency when caught is neither here nor there. The number of suspects is scandalous. The fact that most pandemics like Ebola and COVID-19 came into the country through the Lagos airport shows that there is failure of management in that agency. Lives have been lost due to the incompetence of FAAN management; that agency must be made more effective by employing competent and committed handlers. Ports of entry into countries are some of the most important lines of defence or vulnerability of the country and incompetent people make the whole nation vulnerable to attacks and health hazzards.