The manner of penultimate Sunday’s arrest of a former governorship candidate of the Action Alliance party (AA) in Imo State, Uche Nwosu is as puzzling as it is disgusting. His release few hours after he was abducted from a church service in a Gestapo fashion is no less troubling. Nwosu who had just buried his mother was in an outing church service at St Peters Anglican Church, Eziama-Obaire in the Nkwerri Local Government Area of the state when heavily armed and masked gunmen stormed the church venue and engaged in sporadic shootings that disrupted the church service and sent worshippers scampering for safety. Reports had it that the church service was still on when the gunmen stormed it and engaged in sustained shootings that not only disrupted the service but ruffled the peace and tranquillity of that rural community. The manner of the sustained shootings and the style of the gunmen shared similar traits with the modus operandi of the so-called unknown gunmen that had rendered the state a verity of the state of nature where life has at once become nasty, short and brutish. So when the gunmen eventually took away Nwosu from the church service, the story that went round was that he had been abducted and kidnapped. The social media immediately went into frenzy. But as speculations were still rife on the motive of the attack and those behind it, Imo State Police Command issued a terse statement clarifying that the incident was not a case of abduction.  According to the statement “Uche Nwosu was not kidnapped but was arrested by the police and Imo State Police Command is aware of the arrest and presently, he is in police custody”. Arrest? - Advertisement - The statement which gave no reason for the arrest or why he had to be bundled out of the church in such a callous and unprofessional manner reassured the people of the state of their safety while urging them to shun fake news. But soon after the incident, former governor of the state, Rochas Okorocha in an emotion laden interview accused the state government of masterminding the arrest to get even with his political adversaries. He alleged that his family members were not only manhandled but had their dresses torn in the course of the confusion in which the church was embroiled. Okorocha called on the federal authorities to investigate the incident especially because of the wider repercussions of the attack on the religious sensibilities of people of the state. In the midst of the uncertainty of the arrest, the news filtered some hours later that Nwosu had been released from police custody in Abuja. He had since corroborated the story that he was flown to Abuja in a chartered flight after his arrest through the Akanu Ibiam International airport Enugu. The fact of his hurried release after all the bravado inside the house of God further injects complications to the entire episode. It raises searing posers on the propriety of the invasion of the church ostensibly to have Nwosu arrested. So why did he have to be arrested in the manner the police did only to be released few hours later? If the matter for which the police invaded St Peters’ Church was that light, why assail the sensibilities of worshippers through violent disruption of their service?  Is Nwosu that powerful or so elusive that the church premises had to be the best place to track him down? Why inside the church of all places?   What Soludo’s governorship means to Southeast     Welcome to a giddy season     Giving up tribe for Nigeria   These questions are raised to underscore the absurdity of that arrest. It is one arrest gone awry. Initial statement by officials of the state government on the incident was nothing to write home about. Apparently realizing the folly of that initial outing especially in a predominantly Christian state, the state government made a volte face condemning the arrest within the church premises. The state government claimed the “full reason why such an action was taken will eventually unfold and perhaps guide the public better”, even as it urged those negatively affected by the action to bear with the security agencies. We are yet to be availed of either the reasons for that attack or the offence Nwosu committed that the church was considered the only place he could be tracked down in the most violent manner. Both the Anglican Church and the Orlu Catholic Diocese have taken turns to deprecate the desecration of places of worship and the scant regard for the religious sensibilities of the people in the name of arresting a suspect for whatever reason.  The issue is not just about Nwosu or the right of the law enforcement agencies to arrest a suspect. It has also little to do with his brand of politics or that of his benefactor. I do not also believe Nwosu is such a security risk to warrant the embarrassing show of force that disrupted that church service on that fateful Sunday. The man in question had a few days earlier buried his mother and received many guests. He was obviously in public glare. Such a person will pose no difficulty in being tracked down if the security agencies had reasons to do so. Nwosu has also given account of the distressing incident insisting that no invitation was extended to him before his so-called arrest. So, it is difficult to fathom why the church premises should be the best ground to have him arrested in the manner that was seen. With the way he was quickly released notwithstanding the bravado of his arrest, it is clear that there is more to the incident than ordinarily meets the eyes. He has alleged the purpose was to eliminate him given what he went through. Those who conducted that operation did not do the image of the federal government any good. It is adding up to the festering feeling that the religious sensibilities of certain people are not being respected by the government of the day. That is the sad reality evoked by the incident at St Peters Anglican Church, Eziama-Obaire. There is also the disturbing impression that the attack was to get even with political opponents. Both Okorocha and Nwosu have made allegations along these lines and they should not be ignored. Not with the spectre of insecurity that had enveloped Imo – a once very peaceful state for quite some time now. But for the admission of the state police command, that incident would have added up to the several cases of unresolved abductions, kidnappings and killings that are easily attributed to unknown gunmen and sundry non-state actors. It was not for nothing that initial feelers attributed the incident to a case of kidnapping. It is a big statement that the action of the police could be likened to that of unknown gunmen. Apart from the admission that the police carried out the action, nothing has been said of the reasons for such a manner of arrest that has thrown up credibility challenges for the federal government. Neither the federal government nor the Inspector General of Police has come up to clarify the situation. All is still left to speculations. This is not good for the image of the government. The situation demands high-powered investigation to get at the root of that embarrassing incident. Allegations have been freely traded and only thorough and transparent investigation will clear the air that attack was not just contrived to settle political scores. Both Okorocha and Nwosu have alleged political motives for their travails. This needs to be investigated. It is hoped the heightened insecurity in Imo State that has led to killings, kidnapping and serial abductions has no political coloration. Neither is it contrived to weaken or decimate political adversaries. Only a thorough investigation of the Eziama Obaire encounter will clear the cloud surrounding the incident. The public deserves to know the outcome of such findings.