Beyond the excitement generated by the purchase of a rolling stock for the Red Line light rail, experts point at some gaps that needed to be addressed by the Lagos State government, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Since the news of its latest acquisition broke last Thursday, Lagos State has been excited at the imminent take-off of the metroline trains 39 years after the late former Governor Lateef Jakande’s dream was aborted. Though the dream was revived by the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu administration by the turn of the Fourth Republic, nothing could ever indicate that it would take another 20 years before Lagosians could begin to reap the benefit of the dream. However, that the government stayed the course and underscored its resilience in changing the narrative of public transportation and giving to Africa’s first megacity a befitting intermodal system that exploits the huge potential of the state’s vast waterways, as well as the road and rail. According to experts, with a daily commuting population of about 20 million, Lagos is, undoubtedly, sitting on a goldmine, if public sector transportation is fully exploited. This may be the reason the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration made the delivery of the Blue and the Red Light rail project cardinal. - Advertisement - Sanwo-Olu, inspecting the projects earlier in the year, had assured Lagosians that his government would sign-off on the two projects by the last quarter of the year. The people who were eagerly waiting to see only the Blue line activated after 20 years will have the two, which were the flagship and benchmark for the remaining lines. What further bolstered Sanwo-Olu’s confidence to include the Red Line component into the rail deliverables, was the completion of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge project by the Federal Government. The 37km Red Line which runs on the same corridor, is projected to have 10 train stations, with the first phase which terminates at Oyingbo, (a major transport hub), scheduled to be delivered by year end, while the second phase, which picks off from Oyingbo to Marina, is slated for completion later. To underscore the government’s readiness to commence commercial operation, it purchased from Talgo, a Spanish train manufacturer, two series eight trains built for Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States. Designed as a high speed train to connect Madison and Milwaukee, the train, which had never been used, would become West Africa’s first metro train. Sealing the contract last Wednesday, Sanwo-Olu said the train would carry at least 500 passengers in the first six months and scale up to about one million thereafter. He said the rail component was a major part of the Lagos Transportation Masterplan under the Lagos Urban Rail Project (LURP), other components of the plan are the waterways and roads. The idea is to provide public transportation alternatives to the over 20 million commuting populace.   Like Blue, like Red Line However, though it is said to be light train lines, what the government has been investing on are Diesel Multiple Unit (DMU) trains. In 2011, the Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) had sold two 255 H5 metro rail cars to the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) for its Blue line. This, however, was later dropped as LAMATA opted for new trains and in 2015. Former Governor Babatunde Fashola ordered 15 stainless-steel-bodied 100kmph 750V DC third rail sets from Dalian Locomotive and Rolling Stock for the Blue Line.   Lingering Challenges Sanwo-Olu envisaged that the deal would signal a beneficial relationship between  Milwaukee, Talgo and Lagos. He said: “We hope the purchase of the trains would be the beginning of a mutually beneficial business relationship.” He hoped the trains would build the state’s economy, provide jobs, and offer transportation alternatives to the people. The question experts and industry stakeholders are asking is: How does the state intend to ramp up on the opportunities in the Talgo trading? Many doubted that there is nothing much on the table to justify Sanwo-Olu’s confidence. They said beyond serving the need to tell the world that Lagos has acquired the Talgo trains; the Milwaukee ceremony left many questions unanswered. Former Dean of School of Transportation, Lagos State University Prof. Samuel Odewunmi said Lagosians needed to know more about the technical details of the new trains, as the little that had been released was worrisome to those who are knowledgeable of the train system.   Lagos Traffic Radio, LASTMA engage on improved service…     Achieving critical road linkages in Ogun     Lagos steps up on exciting mass transit projects   “Since we are talking of light trains, we need to know whether these are electric or diesel engines like the ones purchased in 2015? Again, more pertinent is how would trains manufactured for long trips, from Madison and Milwaukee, a distance of 79 miles/127km, with a 350 kph speed, successfully run metro shuttles, which has about 10 station stops, which amounts to about 3.5 kms per stoppage at each train station, without wearing out the engines?” Read Also: Consolidating Buhari’s gains in the railway sector Odewunmi added: “My fear is not that the train has been lying unused for about 12 years after manufacturing. My greatest fear is how an engine that is manufactured for a long distance trip can be economical for short trips for which we want to put the trains being metro shuttles?” Despite his reservations, however, he said the Sanwo-Olu government must be commended for daring to sign off on the two legacy projects that have defied his predecessors. He challenged the government to tell Lagosians how much the trains cost and the bargaining advantages the purchase holds, beyond sharing the same colour code with the city of Milwaukee. The university don said the government also needs to tell Lagosians the technology transfer and employment generation component of its train masterplan, since the Milwaukee ceremony merely gave a one-off train purchase. “Are we asking Talgo to come over and start an assembly plant that could service Nigeria and the African market?” But beyond all these, Odewunmi said just as prime attention was given to the western flank, Lagos should give critical and urgent attention to the Eastern flank and commence work too on the Green Line (the Marina to Lekki) in view of the massive industrial developments taking off on the axis. According to him, the imminent take-off of the Lekki Deep Sea Port and the Dangote Refineries and Fertiliser Manufacturing plant, presupposes that traffic patterns would be hugely impacted on the corridor in the next few years. As the government is looking at signing off on the Blue and Red lines, the Green line recommends itself as an urgent project. LAMATA had colour-coded the seven corridors into which it charted Lagos LUTP, comprising the Blue Line (Mile 2 to Marina); Red Line (Agbado to Marina); Purple Line (The Redeemed Camp to Ojo); Yellow Line (Otta to Iddo); Brown Line (Mile 12 to Marina); Orange Line (The Redeemed Camp to Marina) and Green Line (Marina to Lekki) and a monorail system from (Marina-Victoria Island -Lekki). The Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde said the government is committed to delivering on the two lines and work is going as scheduled. “We are doing everything possible to finish the projects as soon as possible and relieve the people of the burdens they have had to cope with since these projects began. We continue to ensure we move traffic seamlessly, even as we plead for more understanding from our people.”   Conclusion A former President of the Nigerian Institute of Structural Engineers (NISE) Victor Oyenuga, agreed the state deserves a mass train transit system. Oyenuga in a recent report in Daily Trust, explained that Lagos is the only city without a mass transit system, adding that the train system would go a long way in changing the traffic and travel pattern in the state. Describing it as long overdue, Oyenuga said; “any city without a rail system is not a city.” Olasunkanmi Dagunduro, a business executive, believed Lagos with its population is ripe for a network of train systems. He urged the government to put the other lines out for bids by the interested private sector. He and other residents are already looking forward to that future when people from Okokomaiko, Mile 2 axis would hop on the train and get to Marina in 15 minutes, same with commuters from Agbado, moving to Oyingbo, getting to their various destinations earlier than those who opted for the road mode. He looked forward to a system that takes 500 or more people in each direction at once and what that does to traffic on the road mode. That future may not be farther than some eight or 10 months away.