In what could easily be described as triumphant entry, Power Black Energy drink from Turkey was formally unveiled in the Nigeria market recently. The unveiling, which was heralded by a beehive of activities climaxed into a soiree in highbrow Ikeja GRA, with many A-List guests including businessmen, major dealers among other eminent personages where in attendance. Addressing journalists earlier, the Marketing Manager of Frisson Nigeria Limited, sole distributor of Power Black Energy Drink in Nigeria, Mr. Ojotobo Samue said branded energy drink, offers Nigerians needed power to achieve their goals with class and finesse. With presence in over 35 countries across Europe, Asia, Africa and Middle East has landed in Nigeria, being the first and only energy drink in Nigeria with a hygienic cover. Ojotobo said as the first and only energy drink with a hygienic cover in Nigeria, Power Black seeks to encourage healthy consumption of energy drink whereby consumers do not have to finish the can of drink at a go as it can be preserved with the hygienic cover all day long. - Advertisement - The Frisson Nigeria boss said Power Black Energy Drink is made with clean water, sugar glucose syrup, carbon dioxide, acidity regulator (Citric acid & Sodium citrate), Taurine, Vitamins B2, B3, B5 and B6.   NLNG suspends exportation of cooking gas, approves 100%…     Hollandia Evap milk offers fresh nourishment     IBL, Itel mobile, others lift teachers in Ekiti state   These ingredients, according to him enrich the human body with desired energy and account for the positive effect on cognitive performance of every individual. He added that there is no negative side effect to Power Black energy drink if consumed in moderation and advised Nigerians that it is healthy to consume everything, including water in moderation. “This is an innovation in the energy drink market and we at Frisson Nig Ltd are proud to take the innovative lead of introducing the “1st and only energy drink with hygienic cover in Nigeria,” adding, as an organisation it hopes to engage in more marketing activities to promote the brand and as our dear friends and partners in progress, we urge you to come along with us in this journey. Validating the claims of the distributing firm, a representative of the manufacturer, Ares Gida Manufacturing-Turkey, Mr. Bunmi Popoola said Power Black Energy drink is made with finest of ingredients and purest of water and it guarantees good health and energy for Nigerians. He added that the brand is the leading brand in the energy drinks market of countries like Spain, Germany, United Arab Emirate, Kuwait, Qatar, Jordan, Chad, Ghana, Ivory Coast and Mali. As latest entrant in Nigeria market, Popoola assured the brands will soon take its leadership position in Nigeria. Also present at the event includes Account Director, BXI Limited, Mr Laolu Olasunkanmi; Communication Manager, Frission Nigeria Limited, Eniola Alawiye.