In the first part this submission, I set out to demonstrate that Ernest Shonekan and the Transition Council were little more than deluded baubles in military president Ibrahim Babangida’s programme of democratization that the noted scholar Richard Joseph, author of a seminal work on Nigeria’s Second Republic, called “one of the most sustained exercises in political chicanery ever visited on a people.” Professor Ben Nwabueze who, even while serving as Education Secretary on the TC mandated to supervise the terminal phase of Babangida’s transition programme and ensure a smooth transfer  of power to a democratically-elected government, morphed into a legal strategist for eviscerating it, has made the point more tellingly. Apart from two or three exceptions, Nwabueze has written, none of the 106 Decrees enacted during the tenure of the TC (Jan- Aug 1993), including the controversial decree that annulled the June 12 election and decrees designed to fustigate the news media ever passed through the TC for discussion, comments or even for its information.  The TC members, Nwabueze said, “learnt about them from the pages of the newspapers or from other sources, just like the rest of the Nigerian citizenry.” He concluded:  “The sidelining of the TC in the process of law-making reduced its role in government to almost total irrelevance and insignificance.” The TC was the deus ex machina that Babangida conjured up to shore up his tottering transition programme.  With the annulment of the presidential election and the dismantling of the institutions that had undergirded it from its inception, the programme was for all practical purposes dead. - Advertisement - But Babangida had to keep up the pretence of desiring to vacate power.  He corralled the two official political parties – the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC) into agreeing to the formation of an Interim National Government to hold power until democratic elections could be held three months down the line, or in March 1994 as was later proposed. He needed a public figure of some gravitas to front as Head of the Interim National Government – they later added Head of State.  He did not need to look far and wide.  Shonekan was only too willing.  His acceptance reeked of careerism in its rawest form.  Moshood Abiola, winner of the annulled election, came from the same town as Shonekan, and was a friend to boot, but such considerations did not trouble Shonekan. In his acceptance speech, Shonekan gushed with gratitude to Babangida.  Amidst the carnage on the streets, the protests and the strikes and the boycotts that paralyzed many cities, he declared that Babangida was the one Nigerian leader who was leaving the country in a better shape than he had found it.  Shonekan evinced nary a hint of those characteristics that had for decades projected him as an iconic figure in corporate Nigeria. At his swearing in, he could have been mistaken for just another hustler. He was no puppet, Shonekan said.  He had accepted the position, not out of a desire to kill anyone’s joy, but as “a personal sacrifice” and to avert bloodshed.  The ING was “a child of necessity.”  The annulled election,” he said with breathtaking insensitivity, should be accepted as having passed into “the dustbin of history.”  Nigerians must put June 12 firmly behind them and work with him “to move the country forward.” His reward was a booby-trapped perch.  In the version I sighted of one several draft decree purporting to set up the ING (several were in circulation!), there was a blank where the name of the head of the ING should have been entered. The deputy head of the ING was unnamed.  The appointing officer was unnamed.  The names were penciled in later. The draft contained the curious provision that if the head of the ING resigned or could not continue in office for one reason or another, the most senior military officer would take over.  This was an open invitation to General Sani Abacha to move to unseat Shonekan whenever he pleased. Even more curious was a provision that no part of the law could be challenged, varied, altered or modified, by any other law.  Shonekan’s hands were not only tied; he was trussed up, blindfolded, gagged and deafened. He did not see the ING’s enabling decree before he took office.  He did not know what powers he would be able to exercise, and apparently did not care. To him, the position was everything. The draft was above all a damning indictment of Shonekan.  It said that the Federal Military Government decided to annul the June 12 election and processes leading to it out of “an abiding concern for national security, law and order, enduring democracy, and the provision of effective economic direction” for the nation and “because the processes had been marked by “grave electoral malpractices.”   Inmates on the loose     Oyedeji joins race for Access Bank Lagos City Marathon     Goalkeeper Okoye gets death threats   In short, Shonekan had brought it upon the nation, himself, and the TC. The indictment was gratuitous.  In the scheme of things, the TC was not even a consultative arm of the government.  It had no legislative or executive power.  But Shonekan took the indictment in his stride, moved on to the ING, and to his final humiliation. Shonekan was hobbled by problems of legitimacy from the outset, not least on account of his rather ambiguous title. What manner of animal is that, many were left to wonder? The concept was novel, to be sure; not all Nigerians literate in English grasped its essence.  In Nigeria’s indigenous languages, it was unfathomable. In the Yoruba-language media, it translated into a government perched precariously on the edge, one that could be dislodged with the slightest shove. `The government promptly banned the term. To generate a semblance of legitimacy, Shonekan embarked on a trip to the northernmost parts of the country the week after he took office.  He went, first, to Sokoto, to greet the Sultan, Ibrahim Dasuki, on the occasion of Prophet Mohammmed’s birthday and to express a hope that Allah would intervene mercifully in Nigeria’s troubled affairs.  From there, he flew to Kano to greet the Emir, Ado Bayero.  Finally, he headed to Maiduguri to pay homage to the Shehu of Borno. The motive and the geopolitics of this excursion were puzzling. First, the motive:  was it confidence building, or was it appeasement? Then, the geopolitics.  Whatever the motive, why concentrate the effort in that particular zone? It was only weeks later that Shonekan sneaked into Ondo State in the dead of night on an official visit lasting several hours in a state where, under normal circumstances, he should by right have expected a rousing welcome.  But he was taking no chances. At the palace of the Oba of Lagos, he got a frosty reception. The palace handed him a letter containing a message that would have been considered indelicate had it emanated from the royal father’s mouth. Shonekan willingly served as head of a government in a regime that issued decrees which formally and deliberately denied Nigerians the protections of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the African Charter of Human and Peoples Rights.  If he was not part and parcel of a conspiracy to annul the sovereignty of the Nigerian electorate, he was incontestably one of its prime beneficiaries. Yet in an act of perjury heard and seen around the world, he told the United Nations with a straight face that his government subscribed unambiguously to the Universal Declaration Human Rights.  Four of the nation’s most vibrant newspapers were banned; yet he claimed that the news media in Nigeria enjoyed unfettered press freedom. Even after the Lagos High Court declared the ING illegal and the instrument setting it up an inept forgery, Shonekan soldiered on for 83 days, putting up with the kind of rejection that would have discomfited a hippo. Until Sani Abacha terminated his misbegotten errand and put him out of his misery. The story line was that Shonekan had resigned.  But he was not even accorded the courtesy of reading his letter of resignation in real time.  He could never shed the label of quisling that a great many of his kin in the Yoruba country pinned on him.