The yuletide season was no fun for some Lagosians late last year when high-tension cables wreaked havoc in their community. Four places were especially hit by this mishap. Though no deaths were counted in some, they were however another cautionary tale by urban dwelling in Nigeria’s most populated city. In Baruwa, Alimosho Local Government Area of the state, a pylon transmitting from the Egbin Hydropower Station fell on cars and ignited. In Idimu and Igando suburbs of the city, another pylon fell on shanties igniting fears. There was also no reported casualty. Again, an incident happened at Isale Odo, LASU/Isheri Road. There were no casualties confirmed. But men of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), security officials, firefighters, and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) were at the scene of the incident. Even before that, in October, a high-tension wire snapped and fell on the pole of the El- Adonai Evangelical Ministry of Abule-Egba. In December in another location in Lagos, the story was not so cheery. A trailer carrying passengers, wheat chaff, flour mills and motorcycles belonging to the passengers drove into a live wire hanging over the road. In spite of cries from onlookers for the driver to stop, the man drove on until one of the passengers held the wire and was electrocuted instantly. Four other passengers close to him died from the electric shock. Apart from the five fatalities, 15 others were injured. Some fell over from the vehicle. It happened near a motor park known as Danlami Garage in Apapa. - Advertisement - “Majority of us inside the truck were commercial motorcycle riders and the pressure from the police and Lagos State government was too much on us, hence we decided to go back home. Some of us that had motorcycles joined the truck with their motorcycles and paid N6,500 each, while those who didn’t have paid N3,000 each,” noted one of the survivors.   Tougher sanctions     Buhari appoints Okadigbo’s widow NNPC chair     ‘Holy bath’ and cranky pastor   It was reassuring that “significant personnel and resources have been mobilised to move in to restore normalcy to the area. All police formations and LASTMA covering that area have been contacted to create diversion for all vehicles coming from LASU, Iyana Iba inward Ikotun and Idimu to LASU-Iyana Iba. The NNPC maintenance crew has also been contacted. Operation is in progress,” according to Ibrahim Farinloye of the National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA. The frequency of the tragedies and near fatalities is due to a number of reasons. One, the city builders and residents are not adhering to safety measures. No residence or public building is supposed to be located at a perilous distance to, or under any such dangerous cables. Two, the city population is growing at a rate that is difficult to control, thereby placing pressures on builders who now defy any such dangers looming. Three, few seek regulatory approvals before erecting any building. Four, many of our citizens have relied too heavily on the superstition that the powers of heaven will always prevail over the evidence of science. The Lagos State government is aware of this hence it enacted the Urban and Regional Planning and Development Law 2010. It comes with specifications of distance between residences and public buildings on one hand and high tension cables on the other. For instance, no house or public property should be closer than six metres to 11KV wire lines. Also, they should not be closer than nine metres to 33 KV wire lines. The state commissioner for urban and physical planning, Anifowose Abiola, stated earlier last year that the state was establishing a zero tolerance to those flouting the law. The recent incidents show that that effort needs to be stepped up.