Why do we take pleasure in making simple things which others do seamlessly look very cumbersome here? How can anyone justify the non-payment of Super Eagles’ match bonuses, even after the country’s ouster from the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations holding in Cameroon? Are we saying that we didn’t know that the Africa Cup of Nations would be held between January 9 and February 6? Could it be said that Nigeria’s participation at the 2021 AFCON wasn’t included in the fiscal budget for the year? If yes, how come we couldn’t pay the players, coaches, and backroom staff their bonuses which they ought to have received immediately after the games. For decency sake, the sharing of the bonuses would be done inside their captain’s rooms after each game in which they won? I hope we haven’t forgotten that it is the same set of boys who would prosecute Nigeria’s Qatar 2022 World Cup qualification matches against the Black Stars of Ghana in Accra and later in Abuja.  How do we expect the boys to believe us on matters of their welfare? We shouldn’t forget that the lifespan of any sportsman or woman to be actively involved in sports is between two years and 12 years,  after which the call of nature would set in forcing him or her to either retire from the game into something else or become a coach. That is if such athletes are injury-free. Over time, such failure of leadership has brought furore in the Super Eagles leading to skirmishes too many to mention here. Buck passing has often characterised attempts to pinpoint those responsible for such a charade. We end up either sweeping such shameful incidents under the carpet or making someone along the line of approval the fall guy. He is either sacked or taken to another ministry. Yet the problems persist. In the past the NFF would have been the fall guy. It would have meant another round of throwing missiles at the Sports ministry. The incumbent minister, Sunday Dare has stopped the NFF cum sports ministry brouhaha with the right synergy. Dare meets with the football chiefs where previous competitions are analysed and solutions found to avoid another fiasco. The delay in the payment of the players, coaches, and backroom staff have arisen from the very strict processes in place at the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Why didn’t it occur to the big men at CBN that time was of the essence if the money needed for the 2021 AFCON was released months earlier instead of this laughable stock where players are made to look like unserious people before their expectant relations waiting for their own share of the players’ good fortunes. With the Qatar 2022 World Cup about 10 months away, it is important that the relevant bodies brainstorm on the urgent need to outsource the country’s World Cup money, possibly by launching a national Support the Super Eagles World Cup campaign fund where fans of the team can wilfully donate, contribute their quota, not forgetting the corporate world keying into the noble venture. A Presidential breakfast with all the movers and shakers of the country’s economy in attendance would further reassure the, eggheads, to invest in the exercise. Mr President would use the occasion to reiterate the government’s interest in sports and what it has to give sports-loving individuals and firms. Such presidential initiatives would ease the problems of getting the sports marketers to sell their ideas to the corporate world on the need to identify their goods and services with sports, knowing that Mr President is truly interested in that particular sporting activity. The big firm players would during that presidential session express their reservations in areas that threaten their businesses which also affects their turnovers. Of course, the company’s money isn’t theirs but for the public who invest in their companies.   A new dawn for Super Eagles     AFCON 2021: Nothing to cheer, but…     Owumi, this is your life   - Advertisement - Read Also: Iheanacho: my unforgettable AFCON partnership with Awoniyi It should be noted that participating at the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations from January 9 to February 6 deprived the players of staying at home with their families or inviting them to Europe to spend Christmas and New Year. It is at such a family rendezvous that the players address their problems. It is at such periods that they provide the cash or make the contact that could resolve pressing issues. Had Nigeria done her bit as it concerns players’ welfare, they could easily have asked their relations to meet them in camp or after training sessions to rub minds on the way forward. It is one of the reasons the players rush to their different homes when they are invited for assignments in Nigeria before heading back to camp. Of course, the time lost in such distractions affects the way we prepare for competitions. Little we wonder why we always totter during competitions, the 33rd Africa Cup of Nations tournament in Cameroon, inclusive. The Super Eagles are the biggest brand to market if they are excelling in competitions. We need to build this team on solid foundations, but this appears far-fetched, especially with our penchant for foreign coaches, given the potential available at the 774 local government areas. We will forever be rebuilding the Eagles if our foreign coaches live outside the country. Eagles need established nurseries approved by the NFF where players to replace the injured and ageing ones are taught the basic skills of the game, through clinics and competitions. No country measures her growth in soccer by listing 22 foreign-based players with one home-based goalkeeper. It raises the poser over the quality of the youth development programmes and what the federation is doing with its grassroots programmes. Nigeria went to the Cameroon 2021 Africa Cup of Nations with 28 foreign-based players.  Thank God Gernot Rohr has left the team. A column for another day. We have two dicey Qatar 2022 World Cup qualification matches against Ghana’s Black Stars first in Conakry and the return leg in Abuja. The Ghanaians are down but this is the worst time to confront, especially as it is Nigeria. They would rather any other country beats them – certainly not Nigeria. Ayew Pele, Black Stars’ inspirational captain is out of the first leg but there are others who understand what it entails for them to lose to Nigeria – it is forbidden. It is good to know that the sports minister is insisting on making the MKO Abiola Stadium the home of our national teams. We have in the past years lost the fear factor associated with the Super Eagles playing against any country in Nigeria due to the team’s nomadic movement across the country. Make no mistake about my intentions here because England Three Lions also play across the country. But big games get played at Wembley Stadium of the Three Lions. Need I waste time mentioning other countries like England? Having a home ground breeds well for the team. Its teeming supporters rally around the players in difficult times and ceaselessly when the players are scoring goals with aplomb.MKO Abiola would certainly be the home for the country’s sports, not just football because Abiola was truly the Pillar of Sports in Africa. Nigerian athletes always prayed for Abiola’s presence anywhere major competitions are being held, knowing the volume of cash he doles out to winners and those who didn’t win laurels. Abiola gave out scholarships as a way of encouraging athletes to combine sports with going to school. I digress! Nigeria’s sports administrators should stop thinking through their pockets. They should always look at the bigger picture of making the sporting industry the veritable ground for stemming unemployment in Nigeria. Is sports truly “play play” as one governor once described it? Who will challenge us to see sports as a platform to bolster the country’s revenue? Doesn’t the government know that sports is the best vehicle for massive employment? The honourable Sports Minister will need to meet with firms who have embraced sports to know what problems they have with the federations. At that meeting, the firms should be told what they stand to benefit from sports sponsorship.