No doubt the insecurity that has befallen our country continues to worsen, and unless urgent measures are taken to stem the tide, the situation will deteriorate. While there are extant laws limiting the use and importation of firearms by private persons, such as the Firearms Act, there has been a clamour by security experts for more stringent laws and measures to rein in the abundant firearms and ammunition in unauthorised hands across the country. To achieve this, there are currently executive and private bills in the National Assembly, and we wonder what is delaying their passage. Is it that members of the National Assembly are oblivious of the state of near anarchy prevailing in parts of the country? According to a report, such bills include: “the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons Bill, 2021 (SB 794)” sponsored by the executive branch. There is also the “the National Commission for the Prohibition of Small Arms and Light Weapons (Est. etc.) Bill, 2019” sponsored by Senator Smart Adeyemi, and another similar bill “the National Commission Against the Proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons (Est) Bill, 2020” sponsored by the Majority Leader, Abdullahi Yahaya. In the lower chamber of the National Assembly, similar bills are also pending for legislative action. They include “the National Commission Against the Proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons Bill, 2019” which was sponsored by the Majority Whip, Mohammed Monguno. Also pending is “the National Commission on Small Arms and Light Weapons (Prohibition) Bill, 2019” sponsored by former Speaker, Yakubu Dogara. The report also listed “the ECOWAS Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons Bill, 2021” jointly sponsored by the Majority Leader and Deputy Majority Whip, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa and Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, respectively.   Intriguing tales     Fair call     Cheaper rice   Read Also: National Assembly proposes Bill against ‘Ponzi’ schemes - Advertisement - Furthermore, the report highlighted a query in the ‘Auditor-General for the Federation’s Annual Report on Non-Compliance/Internal Control Weaknesses Issues in Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the Year Ended 31st December, 2019’ that “the Force Headquarters could not account for 178,459 firearms, out of which 88,078 are AK-47 rifles.” There is also the report of several caches of arms and ammunitions seized by the Nigeria Customs Services from private persons. According to the spokesman for the Nigerian Police Force, Commissioner of Police Frank Mba “at least 1,889 weapons and 52,577 rounds of live ammunition were recovered between January and December 2021,” and they include “General Purpose Machine Guns, Rocket-Propelled Grenade, variants of Avtomat Kalashnikov, with the popular ones being AK-47 and AK-49, and some locally-fabricated weapons.” These statistics reeled out in the report are very scary, and we wonder if members of the National Assembly are immune to the implications on the safety of the general public. No doubt, while there are extant laws in our statute books which make it unlawful for unauthorised persons to bear or import the types of arms described in the report, the proliferation of such arms is on the increase. With the ongoing war with members of the Boko Haram and ISIS West Africa, in the north-eastern part of the country, the brutal banditry in the north-west, the activities of the unknown gunmen in the south-east and armed robbery and kidnappings across the country, the proliferation of arms has become a national emergency. Unfortunately, while the federal police is clearly overwhelmed by the challenges, the Federal Government has refused to sanction state police, to complement the federal police. Again, as acknowledged by President Muhammadu Buhari, our borders are porous. So, if the proposed laws will help to stop the slide into anarchy, we urge their expeditious passage. As a matter of fact, some of the bills may be harmonised because the importance is not necessarily in having many laws on arms proliferation but in enforcing their provisions to the letter. Meanwhile, the Federal Government must deal with the proliferation of arms and ammunition, even with the extant laws. There is no doubt that scrupulous application, even of the extant laws, would reduce the incidence of arms proliferation in the country.