Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen have attacked Melenge farming camp in Ose Local Government Area of Ondos State. Some gunmen attacked the community on Friday morning killing three persons and burnt several houses. Some survivors said that attack was as a result of refusal by the villagers preventing their cows from feeding on their farmlands. The attack is coming weeks after soldiers were withdrawn from checkpoints and other black spots across the state. On Wednesday, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu raised the alarm of imminent jail breaks in the state. - Advertisement - Men of the Ondo  Amotekun  Corps who responded to distress calls from fleeing members of Melenge community were also attacked. It could not be confirmed if any  Amotekun  operative was killed or injured. Ondo Commander of  Amotekun Corps, Chief Adeleye Adetunji, said his men were attacked while returning from Melenge. He urged the villagers to return home as normalcy had been restored. His words, “our men were informed that some nearby villages in Melenge have been taken over by herdsmen while they burnt down some people’s properties.   Gunmen abduct ex-Customs officer in Kwara     Make divine guidance your compass in 2022, bishop enjoins…     Declare for the presidency in 2023, group tells Tinubu   “We moved in with three patrol vehicles and took control of the situation in the village. “On their way back, some men suspected to be herdsmen suddenly opened fire on our men in an unprovoked attack because Amotekun did not want to start shooting people. “We are trying to find out who they are as an adequate investigation is ongoing. “We urged the people of the community to go back to their homes as peace has returned back to the village.” Ondo Commissioner of Police, Oyeyemi Oyediran, who paid a visit to  the affected community vowed to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators. Oyeyemi immediately deployed men  of the Special Squads and PMF personnel to the community to ensure protection of lives and property in the area. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party in a statement by its spokesman, Kennedy Peretei, urged the Ondo Governor to make peace with the Army High Command saying Amotekun lacked the requisite training and weaponry to tackle herdsmen. “Can’t Akeredolu for once, for the sake of the people he governs, make peace with the Army high command?  Amotekun men who went to the Molege raid were repelled. We all know  Amotekun does not have the training to tackle the herdsmen, nor do they have the weapons to engage them.”