Last year was marked by a series of notable events involving entertainers. They included birthdays, burial ceremonies, industry celebrations, concerts, and many more.  - Advertisement - Businessman Obi Cubana threw one of the biggest parties in Nigerian celebrity history to celebrate his mother’s passing. Friends gifted him cows and cash was sprayed in bundles, including foreign currencies. It was a party that sat at the top of other celebrity events last year.  Famous Instagram comedian, Emmanuel Iwueke, also known as Craze Clown, walked down the aisle with his fiance, Jojo in 2021. His colleagues contributed to the glorious event. The event, which held at the Eko Hotel and Suites, was attended by many entertainers. Fans could not stop talking about the highlights of the party on social media.  Multi-talented actress Eniola Badmus celebrated 20 years on stage with a book launch. The occasion had top singers and actresses, as Davido and KWAM 1 thrilled guests with their performances.  The talented music superstar had a birthday celebration to remember last year. He dropped his account details and requested for love from his fans.   2023: 2,500 clerics offer prayers for Tinubu in Kano     Goods destroyed in Nnewi market fire     COVID-19: Adeboye enlists 1,000 prayer warriors over Omicron   The account soon swelled with donations. Born David Adedeji Adeleke, Davido took to Twitter to ask his followers to send him money if they know he has given them a hit song. Many were skeptical about his motives, but the response was overwhelmingly generous. Davido’s request trended for four days, with the star posting regular updates for transparency. He raised N200 million, adding another N50 million himself. The Afrobeats singer, who turned 29 on November 21, released a statement about the donation, commenting “We rise by lifting others.” “I truly appreciate everyone who donated hard-earned funds and I am very thankful for your generosity,” he wrote. “I have always been passionate about giving back and helping people.” He further added he had established a 5-person committee to help oversee the distribution of the funds to orphanages. He rounded off the celebrations with his friends in Dubia.  The beautiful lovers, Adedimeji Lateef and Bimpe Oyebade, after a lot of rumours, got married in 2021. The event was held in both Ekiti and Lagos and was attended by colleagues and loved ones.  Paul and Peter Okoye, popularly known as PSquare, who put their differences aside after years of disagreement, reconciled towards the end of last year. They had their first performance together after their reunion at their 40th birthday party. The event was star-studded.  Controversial crossdresser Bobrisky marked his 30th birthday last year. He had flooded the internet with his unique looks. The socialite had sky-high birthday cakes. Colleagues in the industry flooded the event.