Gunmen have killed three persons and injured two in an attack on a Tyana community in Riyom Local Government Area of Plateau State. The attack occured on Monday around 9:00pm when the victims were ambushed closed to their houses while returning from Riyom . Joel Yohanna, Daniel Bitrus and Christopher Ezekiel were confirmed dead while Paul Luka and Philibus Bulus sustained injuries and receiving medical attention. Chairman of Riyom Local Government Council, Mafeng Gwallson, who attended the burial, described the killings as unfortunate especially when residents were enjoying relative peace in the area. The Chairman, who was represented by the Council’s Secretary, Davou Dambo, condoled with the families of the deceasd and assured the Council would collaborate with the security agencies in the area to ensure that the culprits are arrested and brought to book. - Advertisement - He advised people in the area to be vigilant and stop moving in the night.   10 feared dead in Delta church collapse     Kanu vs FG: Court fixes January 19 for judgement on…     2023: The president Nigeria needs   A local hunter from Kuru town simply identified as Mr Pam also rescued a young lady abducted by ritualists a.k.a Yahoo boys. The Nation reports that ritualist are on the prowl in Plateau, having murdered two girls recently for ritual purposes. Pam was on his routine visit to the bush behind his neighbourhood to check whether his trap caught any bush meat when he suddenly heard a lady shouting “please don’t kill me,” sources said. They suspected yahoo boys were about to harvest her organs with knives, thereby forcing her to raise the alarm, which attracted the hunter. Luck ran out for the gang as the brave hunter engaged them with his local pistol, forcing them to retreat to their car before zooming off. According to her, the yahoo boys used charm on her which made her temporarily lose consciousness. However, the prompt response of the hunter saved the young lady as she has since been handed over to the police to reunite with her family.