Kwara Signage and Advertisement Agency (KWASAA) has reiterated its readiness to ensure sanity in placing posters on any government property or structure in all parts of the state. The Director-General of the agency, Mr Olorunshola Omotayo, gave the warning when he received the Media team of the Turbanning Ceremony Committee of the 2nd Mutawallin of Ilorin Emirate, Dr Mohammed Alimi-AbdulRasaq on Thursday. Omotayo urged politicians, advertising practitioners including the general public, amongst other stakeholders to desist from any act capable of destroying government’s facilities due to the nonchalant attitude of some individuals. The director-general said it was necessary for any group or individuals to seek professional advice from KWASAA before erecting billboards or placing posters. He commended the media team for visiting the agency for professional guidelines. - Advertisement - He urged other groups, private organisations, amongst others in the state to always follow suit in their proposed signage and outdoor structures for better education.   UAE lifts travel restrictions on Nigeria, 11 other African…     Police hold pastor for allegedly sleeping with housewife,…     Badagry records 28, 066 new babies in 2021 – NPC   Omotayo appealed to the residents of the state to always abide by the rules and regulations of advertising and outdoor structures, saying that KWASAA would continue to work in accordance with global standards. Earlier, the team leader, Alhaji Abdulrasak Adebayo, said they were in KWASAA to inform about their plan toward erection of billboards and placing of posters for the forthcoming coronation ceremony of Mutawallin of Ilorin Emirate. According to him, we are here to inform you and seek your professional advice and guidelines as an agency saddled with the responsibilities of controlling and enforcing billboards erection and outdoor structures in the state before we erect posters and billboards. Adebayo who is the immediate past General Manager of the Herald Newspapers solicited the Agency’s support to enable the media team succeed in its assignment. The coronation of the Mutawallin of llorin is scheduled to take place on March 18, 2022, at the palace of the Emir of llorin, Alhaji lbrahim Sulu-Gambari. (NAN)