Pharaohs of Egypt tormentor-in-chief in the AFCON Group D opener against Super Eagles of Nigeria, Moses Simon talks about the team’s focus in Cameroon and his battle to get to the top. Taiwo Alimi captures his words. Super Eagles and Nantes of France speedy winger was the direct choice for MVP by millions of fans that watched the AFCON 2021 Group D opener between Nigeria and Egypt on Tuesday. This is because the petit winger was the tormentor in the chief of the highly rated Pharaohs constantly dashing in from the left flank, and instrumental in dismantling the Egyptian game plan. One of his incursions also led to the lone goal fired in by Kelechi Iheanacho in the first half. Though, Iheanacho walked away with the MVP award, most social media soccer forums in Nigeria gave the award to Moses. Even Coach Austin Eguavoen said after the game that he found it hard to replace Simon. “We know the strength of our players, we know Ejuke is good from the left side, but it was impossible to substitute Simon so we put Ejuke on the right. “It was a tactical change and Ejuke had chances to finish the game. For Umar, maybe first time nerves in such a big stage, he gave me some excuses after the game and we will talk to him later.” - Advertisement - Former captain of the Super Eagles Austin Okocha while heaping praises on Simon, after the game, described him as ‘a menace’ against the Pharaohs on Tuesday. He said, “For me, Moses Simon is the man of the match. He tormented the defence line of the Pharaohs of Egypt. ”He was a menace. He brought out many crosses that would have led to goals. I think he caused a lot of havoc and he deserved the man of the match, anyway my opinion.” “This is the Super Eagles that we usually fight together, work together, that I saw today.  It is not an easy match, but the Super Eagles won, beating the Pharaohs of Egypt, who have not lost sixteen matches. We need to give credit to the Super Eagles”, said Okocha. According to Simon he simply executed the mandate of the gaffer. “Actually, I would give the credit to the technical staff, the coach who gave the team the confidence to play and of course it is all about the team; team spirit. It is not an individual process. “In all our game we have to be careful and seek to lift our game because now in Africa there are no longer small team. Of course, we just need to go all out just like we played Egypt and do likewise in all our games. We have to do our best and give 100 per cent in all games. We take each game one at a time.” In another interview leading to AFCON 2021, Simon echoed the ambition of the team to better the third place finish in 2019. “Actually, winning is the goal because the last one we were third but right now we have to do everything possible to get a gold medal. Whenever I am called up, I will give my best. All we just need to do is to win. Some will say we are in easy group, but I think in Africa, there is no easy group. Now every team is stronger, wiser.   AFCON 2021: Super Eagles cruise into AFCON second round     CAF hand Ghana’s Tetteh three-match ban     Coutinho earns Villa dramatic draw against Man Utd on EPL…   “It’s difficult for every coach that wants to coach Nigeria because you have to do what the fans want, what the people want. You have to win, you have to play good. In Nigeria, everyone is a coach, so it’s not easy to coach Nigeria.” “I don’t have a problem with that. If the coach thinks I can play there. If any coach says ‘Eh, I want you to play even as a goalkeeper because I believe in you’, I will stay in goal.” Moses has had a successful season in the French Ligue 1 since joining Nantes in 2019. He has become an integral part of the team and notched 19 goals in all competitions, even more assists and Player of the Months awards. These he attributed to self-belief and his dogged fighting spirit. “Maybe I wouldn’t be here if I was not stubborn and believe in my abilities. He recollected that his father wanted him to give up on football as a teenager for the military, but he resisted him to focus on his football career. “My dad loves football but he didn’t want me to play,” Simon told AFP. “He wanted me to be as him, in the military, because most football players in my areas didn’t make it in football. But my mum, like every mum, wants the best for her child. If you are happy, for them of course they are happy. But he said ‘No, you have to join the military’. So I had to push, so that was when I went to a school where they played football. He asked: ‘Which school do you want to go, I will pay’. So I had to choose a school that plays football but he didn’t know.” Simon first moved to Europe in 2013 after being scouted by Dutch giants Ajax, but soon returned to Nigeria. But he did not give up. His first big break arrived in the unlikely surroundings of Slovakian club Trencin, though, where he played for two seasons. “It didn’t work out (at Ajax). I believe it was the two parties, the agent and the club,” said Simon. “So that was when I went back to Nigeria. I stayed there for four months before I moved to Slovakia.” The cold region did not stop him too. “I was 18 when I moved to Slovakia. It was okay because I went there with a friend of mine. We played the under-20s together, so we were used to each other. That same day, we went to Slovakia to sign there for Trencin. Of course in January, it was really cold. But we had no choice but to stick together and try to encourage ourselves if we wanted to succeed.” His profile quickly rose in Trencin and was spotted by Belgian club KAA Gent where he played until 2018 and scored 16 goals. By the time he moved to the Spanish League Levante to join up with Levante, he was an established winger that could not wait to move to bigger clubs in Europe.