Popular Yoruba actress, Kudirat Odukanwi, popularly known as Iyabo Oko, was in the news during the week for coming back to life hours after being pronounced dead by her children and colleagues.  Initial reports on Wednesday indicated that the veteran actress who had been bedridden for close to five years passed on. But by the wee hours of Thursday, January 6, 2022, while preparations for her burial were ongoing, the news of her resurrection broke. Oko reportedly moved her hand after being confirmed dead for hours. The daughter of the 61-year-old actress, Olamide, who had initially backed the death reports, also confirmed the news of her resurrection. “Good morning everyone, Iyabo Oko is still alive oo, my mum is still alive o. I was the one that announced and posted that she died after doctors confirmed her death yesterday but she came back to life after three hours. I have been crying. Thank God she is back to us. We thank God ooo” Olamide said. Nollywood actress Foluke Daramola also confirmed the development. According to her, the veteran actress was confirmed dead by her daughter at around 11 pm on Wednesday but later said that she shook her hand and came back to life some hours later.   Margaret Okadigbo: Buhari remembers one-time running mate?     Sanwo-Olu’s wrestling match with federal might     Hellfire memes fabricated, says son of Evangelist Adebayo   - Advertisement - “I have my chats with the daughter here. In fact, it’s on my Instagram page as we speak. Iyabo Oko is alive and is currently receiving treatment at a hospital in Ile-Ife where she has been living, with one of his children,” she said. Odukanwi’s was not the only tale of resurrection in the first week of 2022. Adetoun Adediran, the first female Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, who died on Wednesday and was buried same day, had a twist in the reports of her death on when social media platforms were flooded with posts indicating that she “sneezed” while being bathed in preparation for the burial. A video wherein people were seen jubilating that she resurrected also appeared on social media. But she was later confirmed dead by a doctor after being rushed to the hospital. Unlike Oko, she is not alive to testify about what actually happened to her.