Mali has for some while been a sore thumb in the West African sub-region, owing to an armed uprising since 2012 that has left swaths of the country outside government control. The situation is compounded, however, by its restive military, which periodically butts in to hijack power from civilian leadership. Mali’s military has usurped power since 2020 and has shown an unwillingness to restore control to democratically elected leaders. But the sub-regional Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has vehemently objected to this, signposting a new paradigm in our clime regarding international engagement with internal affairs of member-nations. ECOWAS leaders rose from an extraordinary meeting in Ghana last Sunday, slamming an unprecedented slew of sanctions on Mali because of the reluctance of its military junta to steer the country back to civil rule. Army officers led by Colonel Assimi Goita had in August 2020 toppled elected President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita amid street protests against his unpopular rule. Under threat of sanctions, Goita installed an interim government led by civilians and promised holding presidential and legislative elections in February 2022 to restore full civil rule. But he staged a de facto second coup in May 2021 by dismantling the interim government – a move that disrupted the transition timetable and was met with diplomatic condemnation. Following the second coup, ECOWAS insisted on Mali holding elections this month. But Goita, who declared himself interim president, said he would only set a new date after a nationwide parley, arguing that a peaceful vote was more important than speed. At the end of the parley last December, the junta said it envisaged a four-year transition period beginning from January 1, 2022. Despite persuasions by ECOWAS mediator, former Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan, to the contrary, it announced plans to hold elections in December 2025 instead of February 2022 as originally agreed.   Ernest Shonekan (1936 – 2022)     Avoidable crisis     Chief diplomat   - Advertisement - ECOWAS didn’t buy the dallying and unleashed sanctions with immediate effect against Mali, saying the plan “simply means that an illegitimate military transition government will take the Malian people hostage.” The new sanctions unveiled last Sunday in Accra include closure of member-nations’ land and air borders with Mali and recall of ambassadors from Bamako; suspension of non-essential financial transactions, among them ban on all exports except pharmaceuticals and other humanitarian items; activation of the bloc’s standby force to be “ready for any eventuality;” and freezing of Malian state assets in ECOWAS central and commercial banks. In line with the sanctions regime, the West African Economic and Monetary Union (UEMOA) instructed all financial institutions under its ambit to suspend Mali with immediate effect, severing the country’s access to regional financial markets. The 15-member bloc had, following Goita’s first coup in 2020, shuttered Mali’s borders, imposed trade restrictions and suspended the country from its decision-making bodies, but when the junta installed a civilian-led interim government and pledged to hold elections February 2022, the economic sanctions were lifted although Mali remained suspended from the bloc’s main bodies. The new slate of sanctions by ECOWAS marked the toughest ever by the regional body and signalled an unprecedented resolve to beat back military intervention in power, which seemed to be festering in the sub-region and beyond. Both the toughness and regional consensus behind the sanctions were as well unprecedented, and punctured the notion of insular sovereignty of member-states so as to regulate political behaviour. Mali being a landlocked country, the sanctions are certain to bite, hence the junta in Bamako is rattled. In response, it condemned the sanctions as “illegal and illegitimate,” and applied the principle of reciprocity to recall its own ambassadors as well as counter-shutter its borders with “all affected countries.” But while the sanctions may hurt ordinary Malians, they will also worsen the challenge of internal legitimacy for the junta given that Malian opposition parties had rejected the timetable proposed by it. The new sanctions would have received endorsement from the global community but for Russia and China which, on Tuesday, blocked a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) resolution drafted by France supporting ECOWAS. France, Mali’s former colonial power, and the United States expressed support for the sanctions; but China argued that Mali is amidst a critical transition period and outside forces must refrain from exerting excess pressure, while Russia rejected the proposed UNSC statement as unbalanced and expressed sympathy for the Mali junta. But it wasn’t ‘Uhuru’ for Mali as Algeria, with which it shares a long border, has objected to the Malian army perpetuating itself in power and urged negotiations with ECOWAS to “reach a plan to end the crisis, taking into account international demands and the legitimate demands of the Malian people.” The courage of ECOWAS deserves commendation. But the bloc should extend its swagger to leaders of member-states who perpetuate themselves in power through sham elections and arbitrary review of existing constitutional provisions. The aversion for illegitimacy in power must be comprehensive.