Despite Nigeria’s ouster from the 2021 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon, the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) says its viewing centres across the state will remain open. The Director General, LSSC, Oluwatoyin Gafaar, assured football fan of this on Tuesday, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He gave the assurance while commenting on the impact of the ouster of the Super Eagles from the AFCON. The Nigerian team crashed out after losing 1-0 to Tunisia’s Carthage Eagles on Sunday. Gafar said that the viewing centres erected for the AFCON in the state would not be closed until the final match was played. - Advertisement - He said that the purpose of the viewing centres was to make the people enjoy the good governance of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. “The viewing centres will continue to air the live matches of the AFCON 2021 inspite of the Super Eagles’ elimination from the tournament. “What the state government is doing with the viewing centres is to bring governance to the people as Gov. Sanwo-Olu has promised to make Lagosians and by extension Nigerians happy.   Eight sacked EPL managers in 2021-22 season     Nadal survives Shapovalov scare to keep record bid intact     Gambia edge Guinea into quarter-finals   “The provision of the viewing centres is part of the programmes earmarked to bring smiles on the faces of Nigerians, so, the viewing centres will continue with the live matches. “The plan is to have the live matches from the opening match to the final match, the viewing centres are not attached to the Super Eagles participation at the AFCON,” he said. Gafaar also encouraged Lagosians to continue to visit the various viewing centres to watch other countries play. “We want our people to continue to visit the various viewing centres close to them to watch other teams play because it is for everyone. “We know how much Nigerians and Lagosians love sports and sporting activities. “The governor is passionate about sports in Lagos State and we at LSSC will continue to bring up initiatives that will put smiles on the faces of the citizens. “Lagosians love sports and the king of sports in Nigeria, which is football, and the king of all states in Nigeria is Lagos. We are hopeful that it will get better,” he said. Gafaar said that the number of viewers at the various centres was encouraging, urging more people to join in watching. “The number of people that have been coming to the viewing centres is massive, I was at the Ikorodu centre and was able to see things and enjoy the match with my people. “Though the Super Eagles lost to the Tunisians, it is not a big deal, I wish the Eagles better luck in the future,” he said. (NAN)