The President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor, yesterday warned that any attempt to jettison the North/South political rotational arrangement would throw Nigeria into a political crisis. He urged the All Progressive Congress (APC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other political parties to respect the North/South political rotation. Prof. Obiozor, who spoke in an interview with The Nation, said this historic principle was holding Nigeria together. He added that the principle was bequeathed to Nigeria’s future generation by the founding fathers-Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe(East), Ahmadu Bello and  Tafawa Balewa( North), Chief Obafemi Awolowo (West) among others. He said the arrangement was instituted in the 1999 Constitution through the federal character and other acts of legislation in Nigeria’s political history. - Advertisement - He said: “It is important to remind all the parties, the two major National parties- All Progressive Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the idea of North-South political rotation in Nigeria is a historic principle holding Nigeria together that was bequeathed to Nigeria’s future generation by the founding fathers – Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe (East), Ahmadu Bello and  Balewa ( North), Chief Obafemi Awolowo (West) among others.   Abandoned aircraft not needed for election, says Rivers PDP     Sanwo-Olu: Tinubu has right qualities to succeed Buhari     Fashola: we’ve achieved more than U.S. in infrastructure   “It was instituted and reinforced by further instruments even in the 1999 constitution such as the federal character and other Acts of legislation in Nigeria political history. All these were meant to ensure peace, equity and fairness across the country.” He called on political leaders to avoid the temptation of throwing away political conventions and customs holding the nation together. “I call on the present generation of political leaders of Nigeria to avoid the present trend or temptation of throwing away institutions and political conventions and customs that is holding the country together. These institutions are there to ensure harmonious or peaceful coexistence among all Nigerians. “The institution of North and South rotation is a critical element in the maintenance of peace and unity of Nigeria. We must always remember the precarious balance involved in the making of the governance or history of Nigeria since the amalgamation of 1914. “All patriotic Nigerians or those who wish Nigeria well must join hands in preserving Nigeria unity by taking reasonable and desirable actions to preserve Nigeria unity. “It is important to state categorically that attempt to do away with North-South rotation is an attempt to throw Nigeria into a political crisis and clearly a denial of Nigeria history. “We have a federation as a system of government and in federation throughout the world rotation and fair sharing of power is imperative, and Nigeria is not going to be an exemption,” he said.