The Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has dismissed claims that Governor Nyesom Wike wants to use the Legacy 600 Aircraft to prosecute next year’s election. Wike had accused his predecessor and Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, of secretly abandoning the aircraft in Germany for 10 years. The governor led a team of state officials to Munich, Germany to retrieve the aircraft. A former Rivers Commissioner for Transport, Tolofari George, said the plane was captured in the handover note. PDP, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Tambari Gbara, described claims that Wike needed the plane for political purposes as irrational. - Advertisement - It said: “The party frowns at statements credited to some unscrupulous persons that the aircraft is being retrieved because the governor wants to use it for the 2023 general elections. “One may wonder the rationale behind such insinuations. Such comment is part of a grand plan to downgrade the noble achievement of Governor Wike who through credible intelligence traced the location of the aircraft for the good people of the state”.   Sanwo-Olu: Tinubu has right qualities to succeed Buhari     Fashola: we’ve achieved more than U.S. in infrastructure     FIRS: VAT controversy affected tax collection in 2021   The PDP commended the governor for recovering the aircraft, insisting that the Amaechi administration flew it to Germany in 2012 and abandoned it there. It added: “The PDP sees this move as part of the Wike-led government’s efforts to ensure that no asset owned by Rivers people are allowed to waste or remain outside the confines of the state so long as the Government is aware of where such asset is domiciled. “The mere fact that the aircraft was taken to Germany and abandoned, without any official documentation indicating that the jet was outside the country, speaks volumes of their intention to clandestinely dispose of the aircraft. “The governor in achieving such feat has demonstrated his commitment to his oath of office, which is to protect the lives and properties of Rivers People. “The reason why there was no proper official handover note by the Rotimi Amaechi’s administration is becoming clearer by the day. Rivers People already know who their enemies are and will not allow themselves to be deceived again. “We encourage Governor Wike not to be distracted by the antics of naysayers whose stock in trade is to hoodwink gullible people with petty lies.”