Bandits have killed three people and abducted 28 in Farin-Shinge, Kulho, Jigawa, Dogo Fadama communities of Mashegu Local Government Area of Niger State.  The gunmen have demanded seven 50 litres of fuel, packs of Viju Milk and other drinks as ransom to enable the victims from the Farin-Shinge Community to regain their freedom. The Nation learnt that the attack was carried out from Friday afternoon to Saturday morning. In the Farin-Shinge Community which is on the outskirts of Kontagora, the gunmen attacked at about 1:45 p.m. when the Jumat prayers were about to hold. Eight people were abducted during the operation. The Vice-Chairman of Kontagora Local Government Area, Aliyu Makiga confirmed the attack, saying that the gunmen came through the Tegina route in large numbers. He also added that the security operatives tried to foil the attack but the gunmen proceeded to the communities. - Advertisement - “They kidnapped a lot of people and some were released while others are still with them. “They are demanding for ransom seven 50 litres cans of petrol, Viju milk and other soft drinks,” he said. Another group of gunmen attacked Jigawa, Dogo Fadama and their surrounding communities killing two people while four others were abducted.   Four kidnapped FULafia students regain freedom     Petrol station workers charged with N83m theft     FIDA petitions Bayelsa CP over trafficking of girls   A resident of the Jigawa community, Umar Mohammed said the gunmen conducted house-to-house searches and rustled a large number of cattle. In Kulho Community, the gunmen began the attack at about 3:30 p.m. and ended the operation at about 6:00 p.m. The Nation learnt that one person identified as Alhaji Tanko Kulho was shot dead and 16 people were abducted. Shops were ransacked and over 18 motorcycles were stolen. A resident in Kulho, Abdulrahman Kulho Adamu who confirmed the attack said six members of his family, including his three elder brothers, were among those who were abducted. Niger State Police Public Relations Officer, Wasiu Abiodun, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) confirmed that there was an attack in Jigawa and Kulho communities. He said 15 people were abducted in the attack in the Kulho community. He said: “On January 14, 2022, at about 1:00 p.m., suspected armed bandits/terrorists entered Mashegu Village through Jigawa area of Mashegu and rustled a yet to be ascertained number of cattle, while they broke a provision shop at Kawo Village. “Unfortunately, on the same date about 2:00 p.m., suspected bandits attacked Kulho Village, a remote community via Ibbi in Mashegu Local Government Area and abducted about 15 people,” he said. H said a team of Police/vigilantes has been drafted to the area for search and rescue of the abducted victims.