In the run up to the senatorial election in the State of New York, Hillary Rodham Clinton, was concerned, committed and consummated with one thing that was so unique to her – listening. It was not just listening but doing so with empathy. It is to be emphasized that empathetic listening requires unique and uncommon skills. According to a scholar, in driving this vital point home, Professor Louise Kelly, surmised: “Empathy, she suggests, “is a bridge in relationships. It means to understand, to respect another . . .. To listen with empathy, you must suspend your preoccupation with yourself – your needs, your image, your opinions, your  expertise-and enter the experience, mind and emotions of another person. You must  be silent and not interrupt, argue or give advice.” Hence, to be an effective transformational leader, Kelly, in her treatise on “transformational leadership through listening”, pinpointed highest listening skills as being imperative in connecting and building bridges within teams, groups, organizations and communities. Back to Hillary Rodham Clinton: she took seriously the art of listening over and above other pressing issues even when she knew she was running against a formidable opponent in the person of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Clinton, adamant, commenced what was widely tagged the “listening tour” which ultimately became boring to journalists at a point as constituents were the ones running the shows in speaking and spewing all their concerns and challenges while Clinton patiently listened with equal care and concerns. In her own words: “I think I have some real work to do to get out and listen and learn from the people of New York and demonstrate that what I’m for is maybe as important, if not more important, than where I’m from . . . I’m eagerly looking forward to listening to New Yorkers and hearing directly what’s on their minds about the issues affecting their families . . .” Eventually, the listening tour commenced from July 1999 and ended in February 2000. The month of February 2000 signalled the start of the “talking tour” leading to Clinton’s official declaration of her candidacy for the New York Senatorial race. Hillary Clinton confidently blazed the trail by boldly declaring, shaking the opposition camp, “I may be new to the neighbourhood . . . but I’m not new to your concerns.” Instantaneously, there was a resonating connection with the constituents and contestant  – Clinton . In that epoch making election, Clinton defeated her formidable opponent, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (source: Andrew D. W. (2005). Listening Leadership: Hillary Clinton’s Listening Tour. International Journal of Listening). Tinubu: Consulting or Listening? Asiwaju Tinubu in intimating President Muhammadu Buhari about his intention to put his hat into the ring regarding the race to Aso Rock come 2023 declared that he was yet to make a public declaration to the people of Nigeria his life – long ambition of becoming the President of Nigeria. Meanwhile, he is engaged in consulting with key stakeholders in Nigeria’s project. In a recent interview with Arise TV, the veteran journalist cum politician, Dele Momodu, ruffled some feathers when in the course of the discourse, he declared there exist some nebulous or ambiguous “owners of Nigeria” determining who emerges as president in any election. I do not know whether this set of people are still alive or they reproduce themselves as Momodu was referring to the 1999 election between Olusegun Obasanjo and Olu Falae.  According to Momodu, on approaching Dr. Rilwanu Lukman, one of the shining stars from the north at that time, he was dumbfounded when Rilwanu stated succinctly that the cryptic “owners of Nigeria” are against Olu Falae becoming President but were rather angling for Obasanjo that they could seemingly trust! On this note, Rilwanu rejected the offer of becoming a running mate to Falae. Ultimately, Falae lost gallantly in that election. At this juncture, as a followership scholar, my counsel will be for Tinubu to widen the scope of his consultation. Simply and squarely stated, the present consultation is seemingly slim and skew in content and context. The consultation should span the entire Nigeria’s landscape. In actual fact, there are some that should be excluded from the media glitz; in such tête-à-tête with core, critical and crucial stakeholders. Recalling and connecting the case of Hillary Clinton aforementioned, it is imperative, with attendant burning national issues on the table, on the part of Asiwaju Tinubu to do more listening than talking. This should span all the six geo – political zones (regions) of the country. Nigeria needs healing now more than ever in our history as a country claiming to fly on federalism but undertaking unitary form of governance in colour and content, no thanks to several military incursions and interregnum with concomitant impact on the socio-economic cum political life of Nigerians. It is time to hear, without interruptions, Nigerians, airing their angst, frustrations, concerns, challenges, disappointment, desires and demands. This kind of listening should cut across strata of the societies: students, youths, women, men, and elders; in diverse vocations, professions and businesses. Farmers and herders are very key. Agitators and people fighting for self-determination are crucial. Youths – with the bulge in our unrestrained population – need to be factored into such consultation if there is the belief that they matter in the scheme of things to come taking cognizance of the #EndSars saga of 2020. The time for agenda setting is coming but presently, there is the need to listen to the vociferous and vehement voices of our vibrant and vivacious youths; they are not lazy as Baba Buhari once labelled them. They are only waiting, longing and yearning for their bubbling energies to be harnessed for effective productive ventures.   Alleged contempt: Court to hear suit against Finance…     ‘Why it’s difficult to invest in…     I will decide on 2023 presidency in Easter – Ngige   - Advertisement - Muslim -Muslim Mandate The Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam El – Rufai calculative, not surprising as he is a quantity surveyor by profession, was the first to not only dangled but deified the Muslim – Muslim ticket to the chagrin of many people of his state. It was seemingly unfair as the people are not wont and wired to . However,  in his own political calculation, it was expedient. He won! Is Asiwaju treading this trajectory to the throne? It is instructive to note that Kaduna configuration is minuscule as it is not a miniature Nigeria, in content and colour. Hence, there is the need to widely and objectively consult on this sensitive issue as Nigeria is deeply religious in nature though we perch on secularism. In this regard, there should be thorough consultation with the religious leaders of Christianity (particularly Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN)) and Islam. Listening to their agitations and concerns could result in the possibility of negotiating further with them. As far as this columnist is concerned, there is not much in the power of the Vice President of Nigeria except the incumbent President gives him or her that power. The most powerful Vice President we have had so far was Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Erstwhile President Obasanjo, especially in his first term, due to the political horse-trading and undertone of the time, conceded so much power to Atiku. Presently, the incumbent Vice President enjoys no such power. Hence, one can surmise, constitutionally, there is nothing attractive in that post, as far this columnist is concerned. However, the eventual death of an incumbent President could ‘promote’ the Vice President. Who is wishing or praying for the death of any President anyway? Possible option could be the concession of the seats of the Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives to the Christian community for peace, fairness and equity. This is a perspective or possibility that could play out as a scenario even though many would still be up in arms against this tinkering. Nevertheless, it could prove a better alternative or option to resolving the political conundrum we have found ourselves as a country of diverse divides.   Conclusion As the hand of the clock ticks towards 2023, it is imperative not just for Asiwaju Tinubu to go round in consultation but any serious candidate on any political party platform should tow this line. There is the need to engage the followers, the voters. I have said it in virtually all my appearances as a guest analyst on Channels TV Sunrise, TVC Breakfast and Arise TV Morning Show, Nigerians should no longer tolerate any accidental presidential or gubernatorial candidate that certain “wise men”, in their supposedly all-knowing posture, would thrust on Nigeria’s followers to vote for resulting in production of accidental governors or presidents as it had happened in time past! Henceforth, Nigeria’s followers should demand for debates, dialogues and discourses from aspirants or contestants on the platform of any political party. Nigeria’s followers should demand for more articulate, enlightened, intelligent, competent and cerebral leaders possessed with sagacious strategic vision and consensual core values. Without mincing words, any candidate dodging or denigrating interactions or interface with followers should be jettisoned at the polls. No more “Accidental Governor or President.”