In furtherance of its efforts towards promoting Positive Drinking and propagating the message of moderation, Guinness Nigeria a subsidiary of Diageo Plc and the foremost total beverage alcohol company in Nigeria, officially unveiled at a formal ceremony in Lagos, ‘The Wrong Side of the Road’, a short, authentic, and immersive E-Learning module targeted at reducing alcohol-related harm on Nigerian roads. This module, aimed at changing attitudes towards drink-driving for better road safety, allows users to have interactive and impactful conversations with real drink-drivers who are suffering the consequences of the wrong choice they made to drink and drive. The Managing Director, Guinness Nigeria Plc, Baker Magunda noted at the unveiling ceremony that the organisation remains committed in its drive towards ensuring responsible consumption of alcohol and will therefore be pushing the campaign against drinking and driving far and wide to ensure more people are made aware of the dangers of driving while impaired by alcohol. According to him; “We are excited to be collaborating once again with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in ensuring that we spread the message against drinking and driving across the country and also changing the perceptions of people that it is socially acceptable to drink little and drive. We want to also continue to echo the message that drinking and driving is dangerous, not just for the consumers but also other innocent road users.”   Honeywell Group sets sights on key growth sectors     NAFDAC boss drums support for local content     U.S Consulate, ASF lift women entrepreneurs   Also at the event, the Corporate Relations Director & Company Secretary, Rotimi Odusola said, “The aim of this initiative is to reduce the number of people who believe drink-driving is socially acceptable, and who would consider driving impaired.” While commenting on the e-learning module, the Corp Marshall, FRSC, Dr. Boboye Olayemi Oyeyemi said: “This is a wonderful experience to see Guinness Nigeria promoting the do-not-drink-and-drive campaign. The essence of this module is to promote a road safety culture and to show the drivers and every road user the real-life experience of the victims of drinking and driving” - Advertisement - Dr. Oyeyemi also said that “the other related campaigns will be translated and broadcast in Igbo, Yoruba, Hausa, and Pidgin to ensure that the message reaches every nook and cranny of the country. I want to commend Guinness Nigeria for this initiative and for sustaining its campaign on responsible drinking and collaboration with the FRSC over the years”.The module also addressed the social stigma that comes with drink-driving; the direct impact of the behavior on drink-drivers, their families and loved ones.