President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday assured Nigerians that the current insecurity in some parts of the country would soon become a thing of the past. The President, who spoke while receiving the, Grand Khalifa (overall head) of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement World-Wide, Tidjani Ali Bin Arabi, also urged Nigerians to take responsibility and show interest in their own security by complementing what the government is doing. According to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari said the present administration is well aware of its responsibility with regards to security and will continue to do its best. He urged Nigerians to be fair to his government in assessing the security issue in the country by reflecting on what obtained at the time he took over in 2015 and the successes as well as performance which mark a decisive break from the past, particularly in the Northeast and the South-South, adding that the Northwest, which had given the nation some “headache” will experience a turnaround for the better. ”We have done our best and we will continue to do more by pursuing coherent and consistent policies to deal with terrorism. I hope God will listen to our prayers,” he said. - Advertisement - Turning to Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the Governor of Kano State who brought the Grand Khalifa to Nigeria, President Buhari said: “We thank you for inviting them to come to pray for peace and stability in our country. We are grateful that they agreed to come.” He joined them in praying that God will give guidance and strength to leaders to be accountable and do right in all things that they do. Governor Ganduje, in introducing the Khalifa and his delegation, which included the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero and Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi, the leader of the Tijjaniyya Islamic Movement in Nigeria, said the government of Kano State invited the Tijjaniyya World Leader to the country to lead the faithful in prayer, considering the complexities around security in particular. He said the visit of the Grand Khalifa had also rekindled the old ties between the Tijjaniya and the many cultural and educational institutions in Nigeria.   Shonekan: Memory of interim contraption     Ekiti: Fayemi in search of a truce?     Court acquits ex-air force chief charged with laundering…   The Tijjaniyya leader in the country, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, and the Grand Khalifa, Tidjani Ali Bin Arabi, extolled the existing cordial relations between Nigeria and Algeria and prayed for guidance and blessings for the country and its leaders. Speaking to State House Correspondents after the audience with the Kano State governor, he said: “Specifically, Kano State Government invited the Grand Khalifa, that is the world leader of Tijanniyya Islamic Movement, to come to Kano and develop a good relationship between Algeria and the city of Kano. “It is a kind of rekindling the relationship because Kano is an old civilization with so many  Ulama (Ismamic scholars) from Algeria hundreds of years ago, who came to Kano to assist the development of Sharia leadership in Kano State. ”So, by inviting this world leader of Tijanniyya Islamic Movement is a welcome development for the people of Kano State and for the people of Nigeria. We invited him and his team to pray for Nigeria for peace, stability and prosperity, and also to pray for peace and stability of Kano State and the whole of Nigeria. ”We are all aware of the security challenges we’re having, the federal government and state governments, we are all doing our best. But praise to Allah subhana wa taala. He will also assist because Allah requested us to request from Him and he can grant us our request. “So, as you can see, he was in Kano for four days. We were together until Friday prayers. “In the Emir’s palace, he offered prayers and we had a grand occasion at Sani Abacha Stadium, attended by many Ulama from all over Africa, from Nigeria and from 44 local governments. ”Lectures were delivered for peace and stability of this country and also, prayers were offered. Also, we decided to use the Tijanniyya Islamic Movement as a tool of building relationship. “We organised a lecture with Bayero University, where we examined the history, the origin and the spread of the movement in Africa.