The Senate Committee Chairman on Army, Sen. Ali Ndume has urged the military to suppress the activities of the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) in southern Borno. Ndume made the call on Wednesday when he led members of the committee on oversight visit to the headquarters of Joint Operation Hadin Kai in Maiduguri. ”As Boko Haram members are surrendering, ISWAP is attacking people, particularly in southern part of the state. “It is also important that as we commend your effort to put you on notice. “Please do more so that under your leadership (Theatre Commander) this year, it will be written in gold that you brought and end to insurgency. - Advertisement - ”We are Borno to assess the security situation on ground as well as find ways of addressing the challenges,” Ndume said. Earlier, the Theatre Commander, Maj.-Gen. Christopher Musa lauded the committee for its commitment to address the challenges facing the army and assured it of the theatre’s commitment to discharge it assigned task.   Ex-Governor Alao-Akala found dead in his bathroom     APC’s CECPC focusing on fallouts of congresses ahead…     Afenifere: we have no presidential candidate for now   “We say a big thank you for your dedication, sacrifice and commitment. “We will continue to put our best to ensure total peace is restore to north east and Borno in particular,” Musa said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that while in Maiduguri, the committee also visited Gov. Babagana Zulum. NAN reports that during the visit, Gov. Babagana Zulum disclosed Abadam and Guzamala Local Government Areas are still under the control of ISWAP terrorists as over 20,000 Boko Haram members have surrendered. ” I am pleased to inform you that we have started witnessing gradual return of peace, but more need to be done, because, presently, Guzamala and Abadam Local Government Areas are still under the control of Boko Haram. “Although, the current Service Chiefs, the Theatre Commander and indeed our General Officer Commanding 7 Division are up and doing. We want to commend the military and other para military personnel for their gallant efforts to see to the end of terrorism in this part of the country. “Unfortunately, Government and people of Borno, especially those from southern and northern parts of the state are worried over the increasing number of ISWAP groups who have been terrorizing their communities,” Zulum said (NAN)