Great Nigeria Insurance (GNI) Plc has reiterated its commitment to sustainable initiatives geared at ensuring greater performance and profitability this year. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mrs. Cecilia O. Osipitan,  in her new year’s address during the yearly thanksgiving and praise at the first working day meeting of the year, said the company’s performance and challenges faced in 2021, formed part of the highlights of the session. While appreciating the staff members for their performances in the past year, she urged her colleagues in the management to be committed and dedicated in ensuring that the targets set for 2022 were met and surpassed. She appealed to them not to relent in their quest of making the GNI brand the most preferred and patronised brand in the insurance industry.   African insurers urged to unite     Stanbic IBTC Insurance insures Super Eagles for N1.73b     Leadway extends agric-insurance cover to cattle encroachment   She announced the results of the half-year appraisal, which according to her, is in tune with the organisation’s resolve to recognise and reward outstanding performance. - Advertisement - The exercise showed that 16 employees were elevated in different cadres of the organization to higher positions of responsibility while 13 members of staff received their employment confirmation owing to a satisfactory performance during their probationary period. She said: “Our greatest asset is the human capital which we have recognized as the key success factor in organizational growth and survival, hence we will keep motivating our employees through a continuous reward process so that they can perform at their optimal level at all times. “The organization’s theme of the year was ‘2022 Our Year of Phenomenal Growth and Profitability’, which espoused on the need to consolidate on the gains of the past years while also re-strategizing on how to make the business more profitable, whilst providing customer-focused solutions to the insuring public in the new year”, she added.