The Nigerian stock market rounded off 2021 with average return of 6.07 per cent, its second consecutive positive return, in boisterous defiance of the global disruptions being caused by COVID-19. This implies net capital gains of N1.28 trillion for investors in Nigerian equities. The positive performance was driven by a near market-wide rally, with varied positive returns across all the sectors with the exception of the industrial goods sector, which closed negative with average return of -2.15 per cent. The stock market, as the barometer of the economy, underlined the resilience of the Nigerian macroeconomic indices. For eight consecutive months, inflation rate has decelerated closing at 15.4 per cent in November 2021 as against 18.2 per cent in March 2021. Nigeria’s  Gross Domestic Products (GDP) has sustained a positive, though fluctuating, trajectory, rising from 0.5 per cent growth in the first quarter to five per cent in the second quarter and now at four per cent in the third quarter. Nigeria’s benchmark equities index, the All Share Index (ASI) closed 2021 at 42,716.44 points, 6.07 per cent above its 2021’s opening index of 40,270.72 points. The ASI- a value-based common index that tracks all share prices at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), is generally accepted as Nigeria’s sovereign equity index, a barometer for measuring pricing trend and investors’ mood at the stock market. All major sectoral indices also closed positive, with the exception of the benchmark for the industrial goods sector. The NGX Oil & Gas Index led the rally with average return of 52.52 per cent. The NGX Insurance Index posted a full-year return of 4.54 per cent. The NGX Banking Index recorded average gain of 3.32 per cent. The NGX Consumer Goods Index rallied net gain of 2.78 per cent. The NGX Pension Index, which tracks stocks specially screened in line with pension fund investment guidelines, rose by 16.96 per cent. The NGX Lotus Islamic Index, which tracks stocks that comply with Shari’ah rules, returned 5.74 per cent while the NGX 30 Index, which measures performance of Nigeria’s 30 largest quoted companies, closed with average return of 5.01 per cent. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the NGX closed 2021 at N22.297 trillion as against N21.057 trillion recorded as opening value for 2021, representing an increase of N1.24 trillion or 5.89 per cent. The difference between the ASI and aggregate market value was due to share capital reconstruction and delisting. The performance in 2021 sustained the positive trajectory of the Nigerian stock market, which had in the throes of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 recorded net capital gain of N6.48 trillion or average full-year return of 50.03 per cent. Also, at the NASD OTC Securities Exchange, the over-the-counter (OTC) market for trading in unlisted securities, the bulls directed the market in 2021. The number of deals, volume and value of activities rose by 233.42 per cent, 63.29 per cent and 158.88 per cent respectively in 2021. Turnover stood at 4,988 deals for 12.95 billion shares valued at N32.845 billion in 2021 as against 1,496 deals for 7.93 billion shares worth N12.69 billion in 2020. At 742.85 points, the NASD Security Index posted a year-to-date returns of 1.34 per cent while the OTC market capitalisation closed at N629.03 billion. - Advertisement - Most analysts remain cautiously optimistic about the outlook for the Nigerian economy, and the financial markets. In its latest outlook, FSDH Group, an investment banking group, expects GDP Growth in 2022 at 2.6 per cent with average inflation rate at 14.7 per cent. External reserve is forecasted at $37 billion while average exchange rate is estimated at N430 per dollar in 2022. Despite variations in models and expectations, analysts agreed that political risk is the elephant in the room. As the road to Nigeria’s 2023 general elections becomes clearer, politics will be major consideration in public policies and its closely linked private sector. “The election year comes with lots of market uncertainty. In addition, there will be a new administration as the tenure of President Buhari comes to an end. This means that investors would be cautious of long term assets and would therefore take more short position,” FSDH stated. According to analysts at Cordros Capital Group, with 2022 being a pre-election year, the sensitivity of market to events in the political landscape would be heightened. “Historic2ally, electioneering periods have brought a significant amount of volatility in the Nigerian financial market. The peculiarity of 2022 alongside our expectations surrounding the macroeconomic environment inform our view that periodic portfolio rebalancing will be pertinent in traversing the murky recovery,” Cordros Capital stated in its preliminary 2022 outlook. Bismarck Rewane’s Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) noted that Nigeria’s macroeconomic indicators are still considerably below their potential and uncertainties still hang in the cloud, with appetite for new deals being stalled due to policy ambiguity and electoral political risks. FDC however stated that the overall outlook was hopeful and promising.   How next Olubadan of Ibadan will emerge     How I will take APC beyond 2023, by Al-Makura     Shape of things to come   “As 2022 beckons, there is hope and promise and we remain cautiously optimistic about a better year,” FDC stated. Managing Director, NASD Plc, Mr. Bola Ajomale, said the OTC market would sustain its positive drive in 2022 by using technology to create greater investment opportunities that meet people’s investments needs. He noted that the OTC market has gained strides and now looking forward to the boundless opportunities the year 2022 promises to offer. “NASD Plc is committed to delivering value and making the OTC market a fertile ground for investors through our innovative strategies. We look forward to a better 2022,” Ajomale stated. The Nigerian financial markets open 2022 with the dual theme of mergers and acquisitions and technological competition. With increasing business combinations and takeover bids, most analysts expected to see increased tempo in the mergers and acquisitions segment as well as the primary market. The banking sector is leading the financial services sector into a new round of aggressive self-driven consolidation as the largest banks return to one-stop financial services supermarket model. Many banks that had restructured into holding companies in 2021 are expected to begin the actualization of their new status with acquisition of existing and new businesses. Good and stable corporate earnings are expected to support the stock market in the early part of the year. Third quarter reports of most quoted companies had shown appreciable growth, which is expected to reflect in full-year earnings and dividend payouts. Retail investors, who have substantial influence on secondary trading at the Nigerian market, are considerably influenced by dividend payouts. FSDH noted that good dividend payout “will drive positive sentiment towards the equity market in 2022”. Analysts at Cordros Capital expect yields in the fixed-income market to inch higher due to a confluence of factors including tighter global financing conditions as global central banks commence of normalisation of monetary policy and consternation regarding the pre-election period resulting in yield expectations that will likely be unpalatable for the fiscal authorities. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is also expected to switch to a hawkish stance to attract foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) and mitigate currency pressures in the face of capital flow reversals while there would also be increased sub-national and corporate issuances as issuers frontload borrowings prior to increase in yields. “In all, we expect the fixed income market to be far more volatile in 2022 than in the preceding year, with intermittent periods of upward pressure in first quarter 2022 and second half 2022. “Given our expectation of yield elevation in the fixed-income market and a heated political climate that characterises a pre-election year, we expect risk-off sentiment for equities. That being said, we see corporate actions supporting market performance in first half 2022, although buying activities may be constrained by expectations regarding monetary policy direction and developments in the political landscape. Consequently, we expect a disconnect between improvement in company fundamentals and valuation multiples,” Cordros Capital stated. Analysts at Cordros Capital still expect major quoted banks, cement companies, agricultural companies and telecommunication companies to deliver impressive returns in 2022. Innovative technologies and products are expected to expand the investment horizon in 2022. With the recent launch of its central counterparty (CCP), the Nigerian market is expected to commence trading in derivatives. Derivatives are super secondary financial instruments built on other assets or related indices. They help to deepen market portfolio and provide alternative options to hedging risks and pooling returns.