As 1992 drew to a close, it had become clear that military president, Ibrahim Babangida’s political transition programme had lost its momentum, and with it much of the credibility it once possessed.  It needed a new face and fresh voices. A Transitional Council (TC) was the answer Babangida conjured up.  Its remit was to supervise what remained of the much-revised transition design and ensure a smooth handover of power to a democratically-elected government in August 1993.  In its many emendations, the transition blueprint had given no hint of this innovation. The TC was made up entirely of civilians, most of them technocrats and distinguished professionals, though two of them, Matthew Mbu and Dr Christopher G. Okojie, were figures from the from the late colonial and immediate post-colonial era.  Ernest Shonekan, most recently chairman of the United Africa Company of Nigeria (UACN), a component of the British multinational Unilever, was named chair of the Council and “Head of Government.” That designation was intended to create the impression that the military and Babangida were disengaging and that the Federal Government was now being run by civilians.  But it was a false label. The Armed Forces Ruling Council made all the laws, controlled the armed and security services, and its appointees ran the federal bureaucracy. In a speech at the opening session of a Conference on Federalism and Nation-Building, in Abuja in January 1993, Shonekan came in sixth in Babangida’s order of precedence, behind members of the Armed Forces Ruling Council, former head of state, General Yakubu Gowon, members of the Diplomatic Corps and behind Dr Iyorchia Ayu, president of a senate that had virtually no lawmaking powers. - Advertisement - Nor did Shonekan in office play the part of “head of government.” Uche Chukwumerije, Secretary for Information in the TC, told me that, in its early days, members sent memos meant for Babangida’s attention to Shonekan.  But on discovering that Shonekan merely initialed the memos and forwarded them without comment, they bypassed Shonekan and sent their memos directly to Babangida. But Shonekan, who died last Tuesday aged 85, was content to live a lie. And not just once, as I will argue in this column and the follow-up. Rumours of the coming of the TC had been circulating for months.  Babangida, so went the rumours, would name the head of the TC from a shortlist of five prospects – Dr Pius Okigbo, the distinguished economist and public intellectual; Bashorun Moshood Abiola, publisher of Concord newspapers and business mogul; Joseph Wayas, Second Republic senate president; Cornelius Adebayo, Second Republic senator and executive governor of Kwara State, and Shonekan. I saw it as a thinly-veiled scheme to extend Babangida’s tenure for as long as possible.  Whoever   agreed to serve in that post, I felt certain, would come to grief and that I had a duty as a public affairs analyst of the “participant-media” school to point out the dangers ahead.  Back then, whenever I felt I was embarking on an errand that was too big for my shoes, I usually turned to General Olusegun Obasanjo, respected statesman-at-large and chairman of the African Leadership Forum for help and advice. I knew Okigbo and Adebayo well enough to conclude that they would reject Babangida’s proposal    on the threshold.  Something told me Wayas would get no such offer.  That left Abiola and Shonekan. Could Obasanjo, for the reasons I had advanced at a private meeting at his Otta Farm House, dissuade Abiola and Shonekan from consenting? A week later, Obasanjo told me that Abiola needed no dissuading.  Abola had indeed been offered the position but had garnished his rejection with a judicious Yoruba proverb. “What of Shonekan?” I asked. Obasanjo said Shonekan told him he had accepted the offer based on Unilever’s assurance that it would use its influence with the British Government to ensure that Shonekan made a success of it. Did Obasanjo warn Shonekan that he might unwittingly be lending his name and reputation to the  prosecution of a dark agenda?” Obasanjo said he did, and that Shonekan had assured him that if Babangida sought to prolong his tenure beyond June 27, 1993, Babangida would get know the stuff Shonekan was made of.   NCC uncovers ‘virus’ attacking organisations     Inflation rate rises to 15.63 per cent     Why people leave city centres for suburbs   Did Obasanjo believe Shonekan? “Let us just say that Ernest is naïve or ambitious or both,” he said. During the week Shonekan took office, I reached out to his Special Adviser, Isaac Aluko-Olokun, who had served as UACN’s chief economist when Shonekan was chairman. The whisper in UACN’s corridors was that Aluko-Olokun was Shonekan’s “brain” and that not even an inter-office memo could emanate from the chairman’s office unless the chief economist had cleared it, assuming that the chief economist was not its author. I had met Aluko-Olokun not infrequently in media circles and on public discussion forums, and I felt I could take a chance on him.  I told him I was sure his boss had got himself into a situation he had not bargained for and from which he was unlikely to emerge undamaged, but that all was not lost. If it ever occurred to Aluko-Olokun that his boss had been recruited merely to serve as cover for a hidden agenda, I would gladly serve as a backchannel through which he could communicate his fears to the public under deep cover and protect his reputation. “You would do that?” Aluko-Olokun asked excitedly. I assured him that I would. One week passed, but no word came from him.  Then, two weeks, and three.  So I called Aluko-Olokun again.  He apologized profusely, saying that he had been tied up in Abuja.  He said he was about to leave for the airport to board a flight to Lagos and would definitely see me that weekend. He never did.  And I never raised the matter again. Even as Election Day June 12, 1993 approached, there were few indications that the nation was about to reach, finally, the culmination of a transition that had been eight years in the making.  In contravention of decrees stipulating stiff penalties, all manner of persons, many of them widely believed to have been sponsored by the government, called for the scrapping of the transition programme, and for Babangida to continue in office. The TC seemed helpless.  It could not even warn that such advocacy was subversive of the transition and stood to be punished by fine and imprisonment.  And yet it was squarely on the shoulders of the TC that Babangida had placed the responsibility for completing the programme. Yet, at some point, it was almost as if Clement Akpamgbo was chief counsel and strategist to those elements bent on scuttling the transition programme, and not the nation’s chief law officer. A week to the poll, I learned from Information Secretary Uche Chukwumerije on deep background that the election was unlikely to hold. In the end, what forced the military authorities to go ahead with the election was a statement by the United States Embassy in Lagos on the eve of the poll that its postponement would be unacceptable to the U.S. Government. They went ahead with the election, only to annul it.  Shonekan and the TC were not privy to the annulment.  None of the members demanded an explanation.  None felt that they owed the public an explanation. None resigned. They stood by, unquestioning, as Babangida scrambled to confect another duplicitous formula to continue the aborted mission of the TC:  a so-called Interim National Government, with the obliging Ernest Shonekan cast again in the fictional role of “Head of the Interim National Government” for 83 days that even he must have counted among the most miserable in his long and eventful life.