A Veteran journalist, Tony Oyatedor, has advised Nigerians to focus more on competence rather than just zoning in the race to find President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor in 2023. The commentator on religious and global affairs noted that zoning was a common feature of some major democracies, ‘but those agitating for it in Nigeria should act in the country’s interest and consider capacity and competence’ also. Oyatedor, who spoke with reporters, said the country was faced with many problems, and getting the right leadership was key to resolving them, hence the need for competence over zoning. He said: “In the U.S. where I returned from, you will be fascinated to know that there is a zoning system. “So, in Nigeria, you can zone all you want but if you are zoning just for zoning sake, you won’t get results. If the next president can be zoned to the North, can you bring someone who is competent, somebody who will work for the people…?   Council to go after debtors     Media firm unveils Lagos Show Podcast     Mamora, others condole with Adediran’s family   - Advertisement - “And then, you cannot say you are a president from Bayelsa and employ the whole staff from Bayelsa or you are a president from Katsina and everybody surrounding you is from Katsina or you are from Ogun State and surround yourself with Yoruba people. You are not a president of Ogun State; you are a president of Nigeria. “You can zone, but bring somebody from that zone who is competent and will go there to work for all Nigerians regardless of ethnicity.” Oyatedor, author of Leadership, gave tips on how to solve insecurity. He said investment in weapons alone would not end insurgency, unless the government found the root cause of the crisis and changes tactics. “We have travelled the world and people ask what does Boko Haram mean?” he said, urging the government to apologise to those who feel aggrieved or treated unfair. Oyatedor added: “So why don’t you try and change course; humble yourselves; tell youths that you are sorry, that you have misled them for decades and you would do much better in the future. They will lay down their axes and embrace peace.”