OLISURU Rex Ogunniyi might not quickly ring a bell but at the mention of Rex Suru, lovers of highlife and soulful music will nod at the dexterity of the singer and businessman. In an unusual moment, Rex Suru takes The Nation into his world, music, inspiration and current singles. Rex Suru’s two new singles are his major priority as he looks forward to a launch in few weeks. On the inspiration and preparation to launch the songs during the third edition of his Love Concert, he says, “The two singles, Hallelujah and Good morning Jah Jah, were inspired by the Holy Spirit, as a precious gift to the world. I just felt it’s right to say good morning to our Heavenly Father, before anyone else. These songs arouse a feeling of great fullness and joy in me, whenever I sing them.”   TOKE MAKINWA: Somebody’s son must find me in 2022     OB plans big with Afro-Soul for 2022     AY comedian: I’m happy that people are supporting Nollywood   Continuing, he said, “The One love concert is a concept by my manager, Levimas Atafo, to promote my music and my motto: Unity of All People. We have had two editions at our facility CVR bar, at Adetola street, Aguda, Surulere. Our last show will commence on January 14, at freedom park Lagos. We are seizing this opportunity to introduce my single release, Good Morning Jah Jah.” First of seven sons of his parents, Duncan and Victoria Ogunniyi, Rex Suru explains how the idea to float a record label came about as well as how he manages being a songwriter, singer, and record label owner. - Advertisement - “Years back in 1989, while working on a high rise building in Sanfrancisco, California, a question crossed my mind to Our Heavenly Father , which was, “Quote” Father, what should I name my band?  Instantly, I heard within me, Cherubim Vibes. I also asked, what should I name my production company, I also heard in reply, House of Rhythms Production. Three years ago now, I registered my company as Cherubim Vibes records, under which all my songs and other artists under the label are published. On how I manage my roles, I tend to devote my time and resources equally on both tasks but recently, I engaged the assistant of a management and public company, which has made things easier,” he said. With an aim to spread love and unity through music and make his Cherubim Vibes Records a beacon that will revolutionise the music industry in a positive light, Rex Suru says he has signed on two music acts, Queen  Bebra and Helena, alongside himself on the record label.