Dr. Austin Nweze, a Political Economist, Faculty Member at the Lagos Business School, LBS, and Head, Centre for Applied Economics, Pan African University in this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf shares his thoughts on the prospects and challenges of the 2022 budget. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the 2022 budget? The World Bank says Africa’s economy will grow by 2.5 % in terms of GDP. The USA is also doing belt tightening measures. This year, for instance, the US says it is not going to spend as they used to and that is going to affect the aids and donations they give to less developed countries across the world. In our own case as a country, we have a situation where we are going into an election year.  With this at the back of our mind, the government is also considering supporting fight for COVID-19 for the release of vaccines is not over yet. Of course, if the election holds at all, it is going to be the most election the nation will experience till date. This is because some politicians are very desperate.  The INEC is also asking for more money so that they can improve on their past performance. The National Assembly padded the budget.  There is no way the budget this year will serve any significant purpose because all they’re (the cabals) is interested in is how much they can get in at the end of the day because most of them in the NASS  may not come back hence this desperation.  The federal and states’ government will also offer some bonds. Inflation will be very high this year. Already, inflation is now at between 17-18%. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) will also have a herculean task of controlling or managing inflation.  As far as I’m concerned, the budget for this year is quite unreasonable. The question to ask really is how do you finance the budget? From what we can see, it is all about deficit. Already, the projected revenue from oil this year about 90% will be executed in servicing debts. You don’t throw money into all problems, it doesn’t work. You have to find a creative solution to sort such issues. Money doesn’t answer all. Some of the states are employing more than they can cope with. In some states, politics is the biggest industry. We should get away from this kind of situation. I think increasing the amount on the budget for me was a grave mistake in itself. There was no need for that. Ideally, we should have a budget of say N9trillion, just like we had some three years ago and concentrate on the ongoing projects rather than thinking up fresh ones. Nigeria is in a very dire state and people don’t even care. It is not just one factor. It is a global factor. You know, as I said earlier, we’re expected to expend more money to buy COVID-19 vaccines because the USA and countries in Europe are not ready to fund the purchase of vaccines. They want countries like Nigeria to patronise the big pharma in the US so they can make money too. I’m not a prophet of doom but I have studied patterns. It was exactly what I predicted in 2018 when I appeared on Channels TV. I said at the time that kidnapping and all manners of crime would be on the rise but no one listened to me at the time. Today, what do we have? Kidnapping and crime has been on the increase. No amount of law will stop kidnapping except we go back to the fundamentals. But if we survive 2023, Nigeria will emerge a solid nation. We don’t have a national strategy yet as a nation. Rather, everyone is following ethnic religious lines and selfish interest. The only time we’re a nation is when the Super Eagles play. That’s the stark reality. Are you saying that the 2022 budget won’t deliver on it promises?   2022 Budget: What prospects for Nigeria’s economy?     CBN introduces e-invoicing for importers, exporters     States, banks, others delay ICDs completion   - Advertisement - Of course, it is not going to deliver anything and that has been the situation for the past six to seven years. Under this administration, the budget has never delivered. It will only deliver the campaign money for the next elections so don’t expect anything whatsoever. It was like that in the beginning and so shall it be. I can tell you for a fact that the budget will not stop Nigerians from sliding into deeper poverty. No. Inflation will rise to over 20 per cent. You and I know that in the build up to the election the government will fail to release allocations to the ministries for execution of capital projects. I remember one time I visited some ministries and they said they didn’t get capital expenditure apart from salaries. The budget is good on paper but implemented in the breach. As a developing nation, our budget should not be skewed in such a way that it fails in its fundamental role of supporting growth. Unfortunately, that has been our lot as a country all these past years. How would you compare the budget performances of past regimes and the present administration? No budget has ever worked. I recalled that during Yar’Adua, the budget performed to at least 28 per cent and under Jonathan it recorded between 30-35 per cent performances. But unfortunately, from 2015 till date, the present government has not been able to tell us the budget performance. You know their style they will tighten up everywhere by playing the same old game they used to play. But it will be worst this year. The suffering will affect the family units especially and a lot of people will pray they don’t even have family because they won’t be able to feed their families. What is the way forward? In summary, making a budget is one thing but implementation of the fiscal policy itself is an issue. However, going forward, one thing we should begin to see how we can encourage entrepreneurship to help the economy to further grow. I also feel strongly that the interest rate should be on single digit. The cash reserve ratio should also be in single digit so that the banks can have more money to play around with especially as investment vehicles. We cannot afford to have multiple interest rate. The monetary policy should stop inflation targeting in order to curb inflation. Rather, they should encourage more local production. Until we are able to produce sufficiently our foods, our economy will still be in doldrums. Already, our farmers can’t produce enough for us to eat because of the lingering issue of farmer/herders clash which has made a lot of our farmers abandon the farms. We should move away from subsistence farming and embrace mechanised faring wholeheartedly. There should be many more Olams operating in the country today.  Unfortunately, science has been removed from agriculture. We need to research on high yields crops and shouldn’t wait on seasonality but we should be able to produce all year round.  The economy needs to be decentralised. We should have what we call factor-endowment, a situation where there is a base strategy to build raw materials from where such can transit to the industries. That’s what happens in most civilised worlds. I recalled at some point in time Obasanjo approved export grants for businesses to be able to establish outside the shores of this country but when the late Umar Yar’Adua came he stopped that. I strongly believe that Nigerian businesses should be encouraged to expand outside the country so that they can export back foreign exchange to the country to help boost our reserve as well as boost the value of our local currency.