The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) has rejected the Advice of the Lagos State Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP) exonerating students and officials of Dowen College, Lagos, from the death of Sylvester Oromoni, a student of the college. The group has hired the legal services of Chief Anthony George-Ikoli, SAN to seek justice over the demise of Oromoni. Mr Henry Oyobolo, the Chairman of the Lagos Chapter of IYC, faulted the Lagos DPP advice of January 4 at a media briefing in Lagos yesterday. He said following the release of the DPP Advice, the IYC staged a peaceful protest on January 6 at the gates of Dowen College, Lekki, Lagos, to express their displeasure about the findings of the Lagos State Government. The IYC Chairman said following the protest, the group hired George-Ikoli, SAN, a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Bayelsa, as legal counsel. - Advertisement - “Part of the scope of Chief George-Ikoli’s work will be to reveal all medical reports, statements released by the police, Dowen College and Lagos State Ministry of Justice as well as all correspondences and documentations exchanged between all stakeholders.   Olu of Warri hails Africa’s longest reigning monarch…     FG, States, LGAs share N699.824bn December 2021 revenue     Revealed: Real reason Nasarawa farmer beat wife to death   Read Also: Let ‘dear Sylvester Oromoni’s soul rest,’ Dowen College urges critics “He will liaise with the law firm of Mr Femi Falana (SAN) or any other law firm instructed by Sylvester Oromoni’s father in any court or other proceedings in relation to the facts of the case. “He will also take appropriate steps towards representing Ijaw Youth Council, Lagos Chapter, if and when necessary,” Oyobolo said. The group assured the Oromoni family of their support and reiterated their resolve to do everything legally possible to get justice for the deceased. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there were allegations that 12-year-old  Oromoni died on November 30, 2021 from injuries sustained in an attack by five senior students of Dowen College for allegedly refusing to join a cult. It was also alleged that he was forced to drink an obnoxious substance by his attackers. The January 4 Lagos State DPP Advice, however, stated that the cause of Oromoni’s death was acute bacterial pneumonia due to severe sepsis.