Former Borno Governor Senator Ali Modu Sheriff on Friday said he is not interested in the presidency but the national chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He made this declaration during an interactive session with newsmen in Abuja. According to him: “So many insinuations are going around, Ali Modu Sheriff is not looking for Chairman; he is looking to be Presidential candidate. “Please, I want to put it on record today, I am not looking for President. I am looking for a National Chairman so that I could lead the party to victory. “I want to lead a campaign like what we did to 2014 to make sure that our father and leader (Buhari) hands over power to another APC man as a President. - Advertisement - “If I want to be President, I am not afraid of anybody but I don’t want to be President but National Chairman.” When told that the party might have zoned the national chairmanship to the north-central geopolitical zone, the chairmanship hopeful maintained that the party was yet to come up with any zoning arrangement.   Vermaelen retires, sets to become Belgian assistant coach     Oscar willing to take pay cut for Barca move     Cemetery worker remanded for alleged rape of Ondo minor   He noted that the Caretaker Committee of the party at the end of its crucial meeting on Wednesday refuted the news making round over zoning arrangement. Modu- Sheriff argued that those harping on that zoning arrangement are afraid of his towering chances of being elected as the next National Chairman of the party at the convention. He noted that he is not the only aspirant from the northeast. According to him: “As of today, even from the North-eastern states of Nigeria, many people are looking for chairman, it is not only Ali Sheriff.” Referring to a media report of his being edged out of the chairmanship race, the former Governor said those pushing such notion are only afraid of him. Hear him: “It clearly shows you that those that are writing this are afraid of the man called Ali Sheriff. They are afraid, Ali Sheriff is the target, they don’t probably want to go to the convention with Ali Sheriff, they are afraid, period.” Admitting that the party has many capable hands, he noted that his experience, connection and vast knowledge of party administration put him ahead of other aspirants for the job of the national chairman. Assuring his party faithful that his chairmanship will strive towards attaining the dream of the founding fathers by ensuring that under him, APC will be the largest and strongest party in the continent.