Victims of Sexual and Gender-based Violence (SGBV) usually encounter all manner of difficulties in their quest for justice against their violators and abusers. In this report, CHIKA MEFOR-NWACHUKWU examines how the families of these victims undermine their efforts in accessing justice.   For 18 years, Georgina, a petty trader in Emene, Enugu State, has suffered domestic violence at the hands of her husband. Every time he physically abuses her, she runs back to her father’s house, but returns to her abusive husband after being persuaded by her in-laws and family members. “It started immediately after we got married. Whenever he beat me, his brother would intervene and try to talk some sense into him, but it seemed like the more his brother talked, the worse he became,” she lamented. After enduring the dehumanizing treatment for years, Georgina decided five years ago, to seek the help of a non-governmental organization (NGO), Women Aid Collective, in New Haven, Enugu State. The NGO quickly summoned her husband and mediated their disputes, and after which she was urged to go home with him. But the   assaults did not stop. Time and time again, he threatened to kill her despite her pleas for mercy. Her brother-in-law who was an EFCC staff, discouraged her from going to the police, claiming that it was a family issue that ought to be resolved within. The mother of five said she could not return to the NGO to complain again because she had lost confidence in them, owing to how they had earlier handled her case. - Advertisement - Georgina who is now 45, lamented that the violence in her house did not only affect her but that it affected her children who she said were performing very poorly in school. “One of my children told me that he was always losing concentration because of his father’s actions. My children are not doing well academically. Secondly, my first son, Chinedu, is nowhere to be found. Before he ran away, he said he would not continue to watch his father beat his mother. I cannot explain to you what my eyes have seen in the last 18 years,” she said as she struggled to hold back the tears. She said she has resigned to fate as she prays fervently for her abusive husband not to beat her to death one day. “I leave it to God for His intervention,” she concluded. According to UNICEF, an estimated one in three women worldwide will experience physical or gender abuse in her lifetime. Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV) refers to any act that is perpetrated against a person’s will and based on gender norms and unequal power. Georgina’s story is typical of how families hinder victims of sexual and gender-based violence from accessing justice. Her in-laws and members of her immediate family did dissuade her from speaking up and reporting her predicament to relevant authorities. She was told to stay back in the abusive marriage and continue to endure the inhuman treatment that was being meted out to her by her husband. She was told to consider her children and remain in the marriage. Then, a major reason why most of the women who find themselves in a similar situation as Georgina’s are forced to remain in their abusive marriages is that they lack the means to survive independently. They are usually totally dependent on their partners for financial support and upkeep. According to the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence (NCADV), up to 99% of domestic violence victims experience economic challenges during an abusive relationship, and finances are often cited as the biggest barrier to leaving such relationships.   Marriage as a bondage Chidimma was deceived into a shammed marriage when she got unwantedly pregnant at the age of 17, in 2016.  The woman who deceived her came with the tale that her brother who lived in Onitsha had assigned her to organize the marriage rites on his behalf, as he was too busy to come back and do it himself. Chidimma, a native of Nsukka in Enugu State, was encouraged by her family to accept the marriage proposal. So, she ended up marrying a man she didn’t know. Two years after the marriage and with the birth of her baby girl, Chidimma still continued to wait for her supposed husband to show up. She eventually got a hold of his contact and then got the shock of her life. “The man told me he knew nothing about me and the baby, and that he was already married. That was how we found out that the said man had been married for years with no issue and that his sister, the one who approached my family, wanted desperately to help him have children,” she narrated. Chidimma who is now 23, wants out of the marriage, but Ifeyinwa Okeke, who paid her supposed bride price, is insisting that her family must pay back the whole money she spent on the marriage. “She told my family that we will have to pay her N273,000. Where will I get such money? I am in bondage right now, and I don’t know how to free myself from it,” she lamented. Chidimma had approached an NGO, Civil Resource Development and Documentation Center (CIRDDOC), to help her out of the quagmire, but her family had kicked against it. For them, the matter was a case of tradition and should be handled as such, and the only way to do that was to pay back the pride price to Ifeyinwa. Payment of bride price is proof that a marriage has been sealed between a couple. Without bride price, a marriage cannot be said to be valid. This is according to the Igbo customs and traditions.  So, the refund of the bride price signifies the dissolution of the marriage. Because of their belief in the consequences of violating tradition, Chidimma who wants to start up a new life for herself is now stuck. “No man will marry me with all these hanging on my neck,” she lamented. Unreported rape cases due to stigmatization Many SGBV victims rarely speak up, report their experiences or seek justice due majorly to the fear of stigmatization. These were the cases of Oluchi and Esther. Oluchi was raped by a ‘pastor’ whom she had been friends with for years. He had invited her to his church’s anniversary celebration and the event proceeded into the wee hours of the night. She then decided to pass the night outside her home instead of taking any risks. She narrated her story thus: “He offered to pay my hotel bills. So, while I was checking in, he escorted me to the room to ensure that I settled in properly, and as soon as we had entered the room, he pinned me down on the bed and carried out the wicked act.” Oluchi who is today the founder of an NGO that caters to SGBV survivors, refused to report the case due to the stigma that is usually borne by victims of rape cases. “I couldn’t do anything with myself after that awful experience. And whenever I considered my position in the society, I was even more pained. I was dying inside, yet I couldn’t speak to anyone about my ordeal. The culprit has been apologizing over the years because he’s scared I would speak up, but I have said nothing all this while,” she explained. Esther, on the other hand, was raped by a member of Enugu State House of Assembly whom she has refused to call out, not just for fear of societal stigma, but also because she feared for her life as the man in question was a top politician and had strong ‘connections.’ The sad incident had occurred at a popular hotel in Trans-Ekulu, Enugu State. Esther was then a student and needed money for her clearance fees, and the politician whom she said she had a lot of respect for, had offered to help. “He told me to come to a hotel where he was having a meeting. The meeting lasted till 1:00am. He called and apologized for keeping me waiting for too long and taking all my time, and then offered to pay for my lodging,” she narrated. Esther, who was unsuspecting, went to sleep and was awakened by a knock on her door. On enquiring, the politician announced his presence and then she went to open the door. While still at the door, he informed her that he had only come to check on her, that they would talk more in the morning. “I said okay and was about to close the door when he swiftly and forcefully entered the room, locked the door behind him and pinned me down. He tore my dress and forced himself on me,” she explained. Sometimes, the families of rape victims, mostly minors, chose to accept money from the abusers of their relatives and quash the cases, instead of suing for justice. This consequently hinders the victims’ access to justice. Speaking on one such incidences, head of the legal department of CIRDDOC, Mazi Jerry Udochu, narrated the case of a 13-year-old girl who was defiled severally by a 53-year-old security guard at a United Bank of Africa (UBA) branch in Abakpa, Enugu State.   Five Nigerian female celebrities who went from fat to fit     Eight Nigerian celebrities with traditional titles     Five habits of billionaires you should emulate   He explained that the family of the girl had wanted to cover the case up, but the doctor who had examined her in the hospital had already reported the case to his organization. “We swung into action after that. We wanted to prosecute the man, but he kept begging that he had a wife and children, and that they would suffer if he was sent to jail. The family of the girl then told us that they would rather go for mediation,” he narrated. He added that while they were still trying to convince the victim’s family to pursue the case, they went behind and collected N250,000 from the culprit, and insisted that they had settled the matter. Also speaking on the issue recently, Center Manager, Tamar Sexual Assault Referral Center (TSARC), Mrs. Evelyn Onah, said that the greatest challenge to the onslaught against rape was that most families sometimes abandoned such cases in the court because of the fear of stigmatization, and to protect their name. “Some will even collect as low as N10,000 to settle out of court because of poverty in the land,” she said.   Access to justice stalled by the police and court While many SBGV victims opt to rather remain silent for fear of being stigmatized, the few who summoned courage to expose their damning situations and pursue justice encountered real challenges and upheavals that were enough to keep them from continuing their pursuits. At the centre of their frustration are the Police officers who sometimes sabotage the entire process. In Abuja, 14-year-old Doris was raped by a man who was said to be married with two wives. The man who was simply known as David was a neighbour and had threatened to kill her if she exposed him. David’s act would have been concealed and buried just as he had wanted it, but Doris ended up pregnant, and that was how his act caught up with him. When she narrated her ordeal to her father, he immediately went in search of the rapist but alas, the man had disappeared. “I was in a state of shock. How can a grown man who is said to have two wives in the village come here to do this to my daughter?” Samuel Agbonoga, Doris’ father, asked. The father of four explained that he had since reported the case at the Ijayapi Police Station, Kubwa, and added that the police had assigned an officer to investigate the matter. “This David, I was told, was brought to Abuja by his relative. He is from the South West and I heard his two wives are in the village. When the police came to arrest him, he had already escaped. They now took his relative whom he was squatting with. They were hoping that the relative will produce David,” he said. According to Agbonoga, the relative had asked the police to give him two weeks to search for his brother, and then he was released.  He added that after two weeks, the relative couldn’t produce David. He further stated that he had gone to the police station severally to get an update on the case, but that his inability to fund the investigation stalled the case. “My family and I have decided to stop pursuing the case,” he said with a tone of finality. He did not bother to return to the Police Station to withdraw the case, and no one had called him since then to ask of his intentions towards the case. Also in Abuja, a 17-year-old girl was molested from when she was 10 years of age. Divine, an orphan, had come to Abuja from Kaduna in 2014 to stay with her aunt at Lokogoma. Her aunt’s live-in-lover then groomed her into his sex toy. Even when she left Abuja and returned to her family in Kaduna, her insistence on returning to Abuja got her family suspicious. Upon interrogation, she confessed all that had happened to her in the past seven years. “We decided not to let the matter rest. We are intent on getting justice for her,” revealed Bitrus Dodo, Abigail’s uncle. He had reported the case at the Apo Divisional Police Headquarters and the accused named Obed Jika from Wamba Nasarawa State, was arrested. Dodo revealed that one Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sarah, had urged him to accept money from the culprit and close the case, but that he had rejected the advice  and that that was the beginning of his frustration. “They took the case to a magistrates’ court even when I was insisting that the matter wasn’t under its jurisdiction. They also changed the charges from Rape to Incest. We were just going back and forth until the matter was referred to a High Court in Maitama,” he explained. Dodo added that for two years now, he has not been able to get justice, and that since he wasn’t financially buoyant to push the matter, that he had opted instead to focus on providing psychological support for his niece. Reports have shown that victims and families of victims who are seeking justice are being frustrated not by the police alone, but also by the slow judicial process in Nigeria. It is even more difficult with cases in the South East, considering that there is more threat to the life of the average policeman in that part of the country than elsewhere, and also with the constant sit-at-home order given by the proscribed separatist group, Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Secretary of Enugu State Network of Civil Society Organizations, Engr Umeh Ikechukwu, stated that mobilizing the police to effect arrests in cases pertaining to SGBV has become really difficult with the rising insecurity in the region. Ikechukwu who is also the founder of the Initiative for Gender and Civil Development (IGCD), said the IPOB sit-at-home order has contributed to prolonging cases in court, adding that this has frustrated and discouraged SGBV victims. Last year, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and the Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, announced  that the federal government was engaging with heads of courts to ensure the establishment of special courts for fast-tracking the dispensation of justice to SGBV victims. Ikechukwu  said such a move will no doubt improve the dispensation of justice to victims of SGBV and serve as a deterrent to potential abusers. NGOs are arm-twisted when families decide to withdraw cases Udochu, who is chairman of the Enugu State Child Protection Network, said the NGOs are usually helpless when families of victims decide to withdraw their cases, adding that some of the families would even go to the extent of ‘throwing you under the bus if you insist’. “There was a rape case we insisted we would take to court, but the father of the minor told me that as long as he was the one that reported the matter, that he also had the right to withdraw it. He said that if I continued with the case, that he would come to court and testify against me,” he added. Udochu further stated that most times, court processes and the cost of navigating through those processes are cumbersome, and that ignorance and illiteracy have continued to hinder victims’ access to justice. He added that over the years, they have taken sensitization and awareness campaigns to local communities to educate rural-dwellers on their rights and on the provisions of the Child’s Rights Act (CRA) and the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Law, so that they don’t remain silent in the face of SGBV and other crimes. Beyond sensitization, Oluwatoyin Falaiye, an Abuja Based Lawyer, said the government ought to mete out stiffer penalties to gender-based violators and abusers, adding that there should be other means of convicting abusers and not solely on evidence-based judgment. “There was so much awareness on HIV that we now know we can freely hug an HIV patient without being infected. We need that type of campaign for gender-based cases. We need people to know that they ought to speak out and that if they do, they would be protected. “Thank God that today, there are Sexual Assault Referral Centers all over. The media should make SGBV an all-time trending topic, until there is considerable reduction in the cases of abuse and SGBV,” she opined. Falaiye who is the founder of Jewel Hives Initiative and a rape survivor and a Trauma Recovery and Mental Health Coach, said SGBV victims should be offered counselling and psychosocial support as that would enhance their healing and closure.