The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency (SMEDAN) is partnering with Google DigitalSkill alongside MindtheGap in training 3,700 youths on digital skills. The training which will be carried out mainly for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) is expected to hold across the six geo political zones on January 18, 20 as well as January 25 and 27 respectively. A statement from the IT Department of SMEDAN also added that the training will commence daily from 9am to 5pm while registration details can be found on www.mindthegap.ng/digitalfirstng/ “The Training is initiated and sponsored by Google International to train 1 million youths in Africa. SMEDAN as a body that regulates Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises in the country will be concerned with the training of the selected MSMES in Nigeria which are 3,700 in number.   Zinox okays N500m for jobs     Glo supports Benin Great GSM Village festival     BUA Foods lists N720b shares on Stock Exchange   “The training will be the third in series of collaborations between Google International and SMEDAN in the area of digital business skills for business owners. - Advertisement - “SMEDAN this year will also expand the number of beneficiaries from 25 to 100 each that will be drawn from the 36 states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory,” the statement read. The major consultant that will facilitate the training is MindtheGap while SMEDAN will also introduce their business module to entrepreneurs in the course of the training. The major target of the training is for MSMEs to move their businesses online seamlessly without paying a Kobo, as the world gradually revolutionize to digital technology. After the training, participants will get their business addresses on Google Map and other Google Search engines so that meeting prospective buyers and clients will be less stressful. SMEDAN over the years has been engaged in training MSME for better performance in their different trade and fields of endeavours, and urge MSMEs to take full advantage of the training.