Following the widely reported engagement between Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the residents/property owners in Magodo Phase II Estate and an unidentified Chief Superintendent of Police, sent from Abuja to lead the supposed execution/enforcement of a Supreme Court judgment, the governor trended during the week. While the story begat several follow-ups in the mainstream media, social media feasted to its fill on the incident. Many Nigerians continue to condemn the “disrespect” shown to the governor by the police officer. But they have also been pouring accolades on him for what they described as his maturity in handling the situations before, during and after the encounter with the CSP. High Chief Akin Oseni, an octogenarian retired diplomat, described him as ‘a governor for a time like this’, while lauding his handling of what he described as ‘a messy incident.’ The lingering land dispute in the estate took a different dimension on Tuesday as the police officer publicly defied the order of the governor to vacate the location. - Advertisement - Amid a protest by residents, Sanwo-Olu had arrived the estate with some members of his cabinet, among them Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Moyosore Onigbanjo and Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso. In response to the governor’s directive, the police officer affirmed that his team would only leave the estate on the directive of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Inspector General of Police who deployed them on the assignment. Even when the governor calmly asked him to call his superiors and inform them of his presence and directives, the officer refused, instead he asked Sanwo-Olu to make the calls himself. In his response, the defiant officer said: “Thank you very much, sir. Your Excellency sir, I’m not here on my own order. I am here on the instruction of the Inspector General of Police through the AGF. I am too small or too low to call them. “Your Excellency sir, with due respect sir, you can call them directly sir so that they can tell us to come.”   Hellfire memes fabricated, says son of Evangelist Adebayo     How my friend and I celebrated Christmas in kidnappers’…     Cross River communities where girls are used as collateral,…   Thereafter, the governor asked the leader of the police team to give an account of the number of policemen at the estate. But the officer will not budge as he refused to tell the governor how many men were there. “I have several of them, sir. I cannot precisely tell you how many we are,” the CSP replied the governor. “I know the number of my men here sir, we sought for some other people to join us. But for security purpose, I cannot say this is the figure, sir.” Obviously dissatisfied with his response Sanwo-Olu declared the presence of the security team at the estate as illegal. “It is a very illegal operation. They are not from the Lagos State Police Command. They said they are from Abuja, and I don’t know what other interests they have beyond keeping the peace of the country,” he said. To the amazement of all and sundry, the governor went to his car and made the calls. And in spite of the obvious provocation and disrespect by the officer, he didn’t leave the estate without playing his role as governor and father to all. He pacified the gladiators; urged both parties to give peace a chance and promptly put in place a committee to find a lasting solution to the issues in contention. He directed a meeting between all concerned parties at his office on Wednesday. He also revealed that he had spoken with the Inspector-General of Police Mr. Akali Baba, on the issue which he believed would be resolved soon. “It’s difficult to start the New Year like this. It’s because of the importance of seeing to all of the information and lack of proper information that I had to take up this assignment myself. When the first incident happened about two weeks ago, I indeed intervened and If you remember very well, the action was immediately halted and there was no incident again. Throughout the festive period, we started communication. One of the things that we need to first understand is that the residents, the people that went to court and the police themselves are my subjects. “So, I have the responsibility to ensure that fairness and equity are entrenched. The people that went to court have Supreme Court judgment, while the residents living there (Magodo) have proper title and the means to live there. So, in the car, I had spoken extensively with the Inspector-General of Police and the Attorney General and we’ve resolved all of the issues,” the governor explained to the admiration of his listeners. And since he left Magodo, he has been working hard at finding solution to the logjam. The meeting held as promised on Wednesday and the parties are gradually moving towards a common resolution,” an aide said on Friday.