A Chief Risk Officer of banks, Dr Kingsley Ononogbu, has emerged as the new chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State. An election was held to replace the former chairman, Mazi Enyinnaya Habour, who died last year. A statement by the party said Ononogbu holds a first degree in Banking and Finance from University of Nigeria Nsukka, a Master’s Degree in Business Administration, from Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT), and PhD from the Walden University, United States. After completing his Youth Service in 1984, he joined Citibank Nigeria as operations Officer, later joined Citizens bank to establish the operations department as assistant Manager and rose to the position of Chief Inspector /Auditor of the bank. He joined Spring Bank as a deputy General Manager, and at various times acted as the Executive Director, Corporate banking group, Secretary to the board credit Committee and retired as a General Manger Risk Management in 2009. - Advertisement - Driven by passion to contribute to national development, he ventured into politics after retirement by joining the APC, and has been an active participant and a grass root mobilizer for the party in the state. In a state party congress that drew party faithful on Saturday from the 17 Local Government areas of the state, he secured 1, 067 votes to emerge the overall winner of the congress as the next Abia state Chairman of the party.   Lagos to seal schools over failure to resume on Jan 4     Two-year-old Daniel missing     Sexual harassment: Rivers lecturer bags three months…   The Congress, tagged special Abia congress was organised by a Committee set up by the national body of the party from Abuja. The five-man committee was led by Hon Babatunde Kolawole, a strong party stalwart and one time member of House of Representatives. The congress was observed by INEC, Civil society organizations, all arms of Security agencies, including DSS, police , Civil Defence corps, the army navy and Airforce. Seventeen ballot boxes for delegates from the 17 Local government councils in the state were lined up by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) before 7.30 am who closely observed the exercise. Announcing the victory of Ononogbu, Kolawole said that the total number of votes cast is 1,075, while 8 votes were Void, bringing the total number of valid to 1067 votes. “I hereby announce that the total votes cast in favour of Dr Kingsley Ononogbu is 1067 Votes, and declare accordingly that he has by this, been duly elected as the Chairman Abia state APC, having scored the highest number of votes, and he is hereby declared the winner of the today congress,” he said. In his appreciation speech, he thanked all who made his victory possible and prayed God to reward them accordingly.