Lagos has become the proud owner of two new 10-car speed trains for its Red line rail projects. The trains run at 330km/hour. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu completed the acquisition deal with Talgo Incorporated in Milwaukee, United States of America, yesterday. He was accompanied by the Commissioner for Transportation, Frederic Oladeinde; Special Adviser on Works Mrs Aramide Adeyoye and Managing Director of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) Abimbola Akinajo. The Governor said the government is excited to complete the purchase of the new trains.   FEC approves N75.78bn for FCT, transportation, erosion…     My life has become sweet, says hawker who gave inmates money     Nollywood produces 382 movies in 2021 fourth quarter – NFVCB   - Advertisement - According to him, they were in Milwaukee to see things for themselves in respect of the purchase of the trains, adding that they had inspected the trains, seen their configuration and are satisfied that they fit into the tracks of the Redline. He said: “A train is not something you can just pick up on the shelf so we are very lucky to get brand new trains. We have seen our beautiful white and red trains. Coincidentally, the rail line is called Red Line, and you can see they have given us the colour. We will only brand them. “We hope this purchase will be the beginning of a mutually-beneficial business relationship. Providing a source of livelihood for our people is all about providing jobs for our people and that is what we are doing. It is about ensuring that we can build our economy; people can move from one location to another and businesses can grow.” The acting Mayor of Milwaukee, Cavalier Johnson, who received Sanwo-Olu, said: “It is a little bittersweet. I am sending my congratulations to the Governor of Lagos State in Nigeria but also a little disappointed that we missed out on the opportunity to have those train sets operating here in Milwaukee and in Wisconsin.” The Chief Executive and President of Talgo USA, Antonio Perez, said: “For us, it is important that our trains are utilised. It doesn’t make any good for the trains that we built to be stored and kept without passengers riding them.”