Dapo Daniel Oyebanjo aka D’Banj has stamped his feet on the sands of time in the music scene as one of the game-changers. The energetic singer, composer and entertainer was in his elements as he took The Nation on a journey of his music, other businesses, family, and love . Excerpts: This is my sixth year of marriage. It’s very important to me when I say that I got married when I got married and also for the reason why I got married. There are reasons why people do stuff and if they do it for the wrong reason, I think it also affects you so for me, the reason was that I had gotten to that stage in my life to form an empire and for me to do that you need to have your best friend as your partner and you have to be true to yourself. So, all these and I pray a lot and the Bible says he who finds a wife finds a good thing. So, I found myself my best friend and my best partner, who understands that we could grow together. Yes, I do miss those days as a bachelor but that is why I am happy that there is a difference between Daniel Dapo Oyebanjo and D’Banj the Kokomaster. - Advertisement - When I get on stage, I am still the Kokomaster and it has not reduced the number of kokolets that flock and rush me on the stage but you know you still have a woman at home and now you are committed and when you have done it all over and over again before marriage, what’s left to do when you are married than to remain with your spouse. I have businesses. I love that and I tell people that music gets you into your room but what you do once you get into that room is entirely up to you. I am not saying music is not profitable. I am saying it goes beyond music alone to attain that level of wealth and comfort you desire or we are talking about.   Son of Hollywood actress Regina King commits suicide     I would be bringing a lot to Nigerian Idol 7- IK Osakioduwa     Mercy Aigbe finds love again after four years   If you notice my career trajectory, you would notice that I have been more focused, especially when I became a married man, this is my sixth year as a married man, and I have tried to see different platforms that I can do. If you google Jay Z, and rich musicians around the world, you would notice that 99% of their wealth didn’t come from music. I will still release songs and hits but as rich as Kanye is, you will find out that his wealth from music is probably $100 million but the rest is the business and we need that in Nigeria. It’s about having other businesses, merchandising, then the music. Music is part of me, music will always be there. We grew up not having anyone to look up to when we began but now the younger generations in the industry have us to look up to, they have to work hard and stop collecting peanuts but probably become the one sponsoring the next Nigerian Idol. My son, if he wants to be a musician, he is welcomed and for my daughter, she might already be a singer. This is the first time I am a judge. I have had different offers through the years but this is the first time I would be on a reality show as a judge. Nigerian Idols is it for me because first and foremost, I am a Nigerian and there’s no better time because of the growth of the industry. The growth of the industry is such that it is important for us to embrace what God has given us, this is a journey we have been on for several years and we are happy today that the world is listening to us today, so important to grow the industry and let them know that we are at par, hence, there’s no perfect platform than Nigerian Idol for me.