Rotimi Abiru is a member of Lagos State House of Assembly representing Somolu II Constituency. He spoke with reporters in Lagos on Legislative/Executive relations, state police, the Value Added Tax (VAT) controversy and other issues. Excerpts: Why are you in support of state police order? This is one thing that we have been clamouring for before insurgents started. We have been to other countries and we know how security is considered very important over there. And beyond state police, there is also community policing. The people can police their state better because they understand and have better knowledge to police their community than anyone the Nigerian Police may deploy to maintain law and order within the community. Some of these officers do not understand the community where they are posted. Although they will claim to be professionals unlike when you have people that live within. The community police can easily identify visitors and nip in the bud any plan that could result in a crisis. Nothing can be better than the Federal Government granting the state the full autonomy to set them up. Even in some states, they have had reasons to set up internal mechanisms to boost security within their state. In some parts of the country, we have Ebube Agwu in the East, the Southwest has Amotekun while Lagos has the neighbourhood watchers and others. And it has indeed helped to protect lives and property. What is your view on the claims that some states may not be able to fully fund the personnel? Irrespective of teething problems in individual states. I believe that the governors will not be there forever. They will serve their tenure and move on. We cannot start complaining now when we have not tried it. Right now, some states are empowering vigilante groups and paramilitary groups. And since then, these local security groups have complemented the role of the federal security agencies. I am not sure that the Nigerian Police have enough men to police the country. Yes, I agree that the concerns are genuine but again I do not think that should be sufficient enough to stop the establishment of state police. more states have realised that it is the best solution to improve security within their state and that will also give the governors the sense of responsibility to know that the security of the state lies with them. This will change the current narrative because now when they give out instructions to the police and the IGP gives counter instruction, the law enforcement officer will do the IGP. But you need to understand that Lagos State Government has often been supporting the police and other law enforcement across the state through the State’s Security Trust Fund with arms and ammunition as well as boosting their morale often. Inspite of that, none of the law enforcement agencies or any individual can say that the government has used the agencies against them. I think it is better for all of us to think through it and understand that it is a necessity that must be done to protect lives and property across the country. Thank God there is peace in Lagos and this is because we have not rested on our achievements over the years. And during our engagement with the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, he indeed disclosed that the state recorded about four cases of kidnapping, and the way they dealt with the supposed perpetrators has sent warning signals to others that they will not find it easy here. We understand that no one can compel the other person not to commit a crime; it is left for the law enforcement officers to be active and nips such in the bud immediately. I am sure that anyone living in Lagos can attest to the improvement in security and I believe that it should be sustained. - Advertisement - Setting up a state police for Lagos, will that not be affecting the state’s funds, considering the numerous projects before the government? I do not believe that there is much more to spend on the issue of policing Lagos state even if we take responsibility. I have an idea of how much the state spends on law enforcement. We give glory to god for the establishment of the LSSTF. The funds provided by the LSSTF were not totally from the government. They are funds from both the government and the private sector because they all know that business can only thrive in a peaceful environment. They support the funds and they all see what the funds is been used for. security cannot be left for the government alone, it is what everyone needs to get involve in. We need to understand that the LSSTF does not draw budget from the government purse. Although the state has a way that it supports it but not solely run on governments funds. The LSSTF annual account rendering has earn the trust of everyone that contribute into it. with the funding of the law enforcement agency, hardly will there be bank robbery within the state and its security network would not catch up with them. And for the criminals too, they will prefer to operate in areas where they can have an easy ride. Right now, the waterways are secured, so I can reason that these criminals are thinking about outside Lagos for their nefarious activities. Recently, Oil has been discovered in the state, has there been any discussion on the need to include Lagos among the oil producing states. No doubt, I think that status has since been achieved. I want to believe that the state has started realising income from that although it may not be so much for now. it is been trapped. I think that we have been recognised as such but I cannot say for a fact how much the state has realised from the sector. I think that is been done with some private firm. I believe that it would soon add up to the revenue of the state. What is the update on vat collection?  I think there is an inter-ministerial committee that is looking into that collection. It was that the state just woke up and demanded that it want to start collecting VAT. It was based the ruling of a court of competent jurisdiction to the effect that states have the power do that. ofcourse, the state is a sub-national of the Nigerian nation and it behold on us to act within the ambit of the law, which is the 1999 constitution. the VAT was not mentioned in the constitution. There are more engagement ongoing to address the issues that surround that. VAT is like consumption tax; it is charge on goods and does not affect ordinary man on the street. It is meant for companies that operate within the confines of a particular state and we should not forget that the effect of the company’s activities is been bore by the state where it is sited. So, why should the FG be the one to collect that It is not only on the issue of VAT, the issue of Stamp duty is also involved. Again talks are ongoing with the FG to ensure that the state gets the maximum support in that regard. You will agree with me that the bulk of the revenue comes from Lagos State and it is not too much for the FG to consider us as a special entity because this is about resource control. Lagos is a state surrounded by water and this is like a resource to us. So, activities therefore, increase human activities and that human activities have its own effect both on the lives and the environment of Lagos, particularly the pollution from trucks and others. This is not unquantifiable. Ofcourse it creates a challenge for the government because the government will not allow its residents to inhale all the emission from the activities. The state on its own, through LASEPA is working effectively to ensure that the air quality is good and ensure some great level of compliance among those generating these activities in the state. It is for the federal government to support the state that has the capacity to collect the revenue because the state will be able to collect more than what the fg is generating for the country. We are here, it is our base, we have all the resources to do that. But we cannot be seen as struggling with the FG because governance is about the people. And I pray that at the end of the day it will be resolved in the favour of the state, so that the state can have more money to develop its infrastructures and care for the peoples’ need without depending on the apex government for assistance.   Eight aspirants jostle for Ekiti APC governorship ticket     2023 presidential election: The race begins     Okorocha set to join race   Is there any plan by the government to extend the wharf landing collection to dry port? We have seen that there are some dry pots all around the state. And the essence is that is to assist the industrialists move their goods easier and faster within the state. You will agree with me that with all the bottlenecks around Apapa ports to Agbara and other parts of the state particularly the infrastructure going on along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway and others, what you find this days is that there are some locations which NPA and NIWA synergies to move goods by water. For instance moving through the water from Apapa to Agbara where the companies are located. And doing that they can encounter less traffic moving their goods. We should not forget that the wharf landing does not collect any money from the government to run their affairs. It generates its running funds and supports the state government with funds. What is the plan the Lagos State government have for border communities, especially collaborating with Ogun State? It is strategic for both states, Lagos and Ogun, to focus on their border communities. What happens now is that people live in Ogun and work in Lagos. Aside that, they pay their taxes in Ogun after getting their resources from Lagos. The centre of excellence is a viable state. It is also strategic for the Ogun state government to ensure that people on that corridor can also get the dividend of democracy. And they have started making these border communities attractive so that they can get people that do not have the resources to live in Lagos but working within the state, to live in Ogun. There is nothing wrong with that but to my knowledge, I am not sure if work had been done on that but I have heard about that before. This is to ensure that both states do not short-change the other. I believe it is one thing that both state should look intio and strategies on what to do in order to maintain the relationship. How did the House address the agitations that trailed the conversion of aocoed, mocped, laspotech to universities?   We have worked on the bill before now, but there were afew areas of contention that needed to be looked into. And that includes the name and locations for the main campuses because some people from other parts of the state are agitating that they wanted the campuses in their area. These were some of the issues that was addressed. While addressing the issue, there were two names in contention, University of Education, Lagos or Lagos State University of Education (LASUED). After several arguments, we finally resolved that inline with our identity, as the case of LASU, and we felt that it is better to follow that tradition. And that was why we agreed to use LASUED. Also, we agreed that the location should be where there are available facilities that enhance quick take-off of the institution. Also, it was agreed that it should be multi-campuses varsity with MOCPED serving as one of the campuses. Again, it is to take care of the dichotomy between BSC and HND that was recently abolished. For me, I think it is in the best interest of the people of Lagos. Although, setting up varsity comes with its early challenges. And to reduce challenges was why we opted for an institution that already has existing infrastructure, AOCOED. It will help to ease the start. It will also encourage lecturers to up their game by obtaining higher certificates and others. All we have done is for the development of education in the state. I believe that this New Year will offer good tidings for the people of Lagos state. Will government provide hostels for the new varsities and lasu?  I believe that having an hostel facility is not one of the major criteria for NUC to approve a varsity in the country to run courses. I believe it is the quality of lecturers and others facilities. The funding of a varsity cannot be left for the government alone. For instance, LASU was not initially designed as a residential institution. But what you find now is that sector participation is now on the increase to fill the gap. So not all varsities have the entire facility to accommodate all students that are willing to stay on campus. There is nothing wrong for school to operate off campus accommodation. This is an opportunity for the private sector to use as a business venture. What is the relationship between executive and legislature? The relationship between the lawmakers and the executive has been very smooth and that is not ordinary. The reason for this is because we all put the interest of Lagos forward whenever issues arise. You all know that two sets of people cannot be working together for the state and they will not have issues that make them cross each other’s path. But when this arise, we often seat on the round table to resolve issues and rather than slogging it out. We all ensure that our jobs are done effectively for the state. We are independent of one another but there is still inter-dependency among us. We sacrifice for Lagosians to get all they desired from the government and that was why we decided to pass the budget before 2022. This is to give the government privilege to commence work immediately and prevent any lacuna that may arise in governance in Lagos. This is logical.