Dr. George Anacious Asuelinmen got special recognition when he was awarded his Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) degree at the University of Lagos last week as the oldest graduand at 70. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE reports on his journey and research. AT 70, Dr. George Anacious Asuelinmen should be taking things easy as senior citizens are advised to do. But he may not slow down just yet because he hopes to make use of the findings of his PhD thesis to make three-wheeler taxis popularly called Keke NAPEP safer for public use. Asuelinmen was one of 145 students who got their Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) during the 52nd convocation of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) last week. The Edo-born septuagenarian, who was the only Ph.D graduand in Mechanical Engineering for 2020, said his work on ‘Stability, Analysis and Redesign of three-wheeler taxis in Nigeria” could help in making them more stable and safer for public use. “The area of my study is basically that which is relevant to the Nigerian society. I want to pursue that area to ensure safety of Nigerians and their property. We went into alliance with some organisations; standard organisation, and so on with the idea of coming up with a standard, so that the three-wheelers will be stable. - Advertisement - “We don’t normally make recommendation in the thesis but now that I have finished, I will be making some recommendations to the department of mechanical engineering on the way forward,” he said. But for COVID-19, the septuagenarian said he would have completed his programme a year or two earlier.  And even though he is now retired, Asuelinmen said he could still offer his services to whoever needed him. “I want to work for myself but if there is anybody that is interested in keeping me, or employing me to involve in their school, I will not mind,” he said.   Our helicopter didn’t crash in Bauchi – Police     UAE lifts travel restrictions on Nigeria, 11 other African…     Police hold pastor for allegedly sleeping with housewife,…   Asuelinmen said he did not set out to earn a Ph.D when he started his career, but did so after venturing into the academia. “When I finished from University of Benin, I worked in the industry for about 25 years before I joined the Ogun State Institute of Technology, Igbesa as a lecturer. I did not have a Master’s degree. They said I needed master’s degree. So, I enrolled at University of Lagos to obtain my Master’s degree.  It was just to make sure I am in line with my colleagues. “It was when I finished my Master’s that I discovered that I qualified to read Ph.D. I applied and I also was involved in selecting the topic in my area of interest. “That was how the journey started.It was not that I planned to pursue Ph,D; it was just the circumstances of education that created itself. So, I took advantage of it.” Despite the challenges posed by finance, and combining his studies with his work as a lecturer, Asuelinmen said he soldiered on. “When you have passion for something, once you start, you may not even know where you are going. But as you study and read, inspiration will come. “It is not that the day you start you know where you are going exactly; but once you have the passion and the interest not to give up, so you will surely finish,” he said. The retired academic urged young ones to grab opportunities as he did and never give up. “My own is that whenever you see opportunities, take advantage of it. Just prepare for opportunities,” he said.