The management of Osun State College of Education, Ila-Orangun started 2022 with crisis as the state Auditor-General (AG), Mr Folorunso Adesina, indicted the institution’s bursar, Dr. Olanrewaju Oyedeji, in a financial report that the Acting Provost, Prof. Jimoh Afolabi, rejected. The report dated December 21 2021, copies of which were sent to the Chairman, Public Account Committee of Osun State House of Assembly, Gbenga Ogunkanmi and Permanent Secretary of Higher Education indicted Oyedeji and sought for his ‘quick’ replacement. In the report with reference number: GP/OSCE/6/Vol. II/96 obtained by The Nation, the AG alleged that the management committed several offences numbering 24 items, including: writing-off under-lodgment and over-lodgment of N21 million; manipulation of college account, tax evasion, refusal to release account records for audit purpose, non-maintenance of school assets, among others.  The review covered 2016 – 2019. The report reads: “With the gross financial irregularities observed in the accounts of Osun State College of Education Ila-Orangun as duly established by the provision of the Financial Regulation and other extant Laws, the state government is hereby advised to declare a state of emergency on the Bursary Department of Osun State College of Education Ila-Orangun since the Auditor-General has uncovered major irregularities perpetrated in the College accounts. Moreover, the 2018 and 2019 financial statements of the Ccollege are unreliable because they do not show the true and fair view of the state of affairs of the college.” - Advertisement - However, findings by The Nation revealed that there may be more to the accusations as there were claims that the Bursar and the AG were friends before falling out last year. According to a source, their quarrel began late last year when the AG allegedly attempted to dictate how the college should be run. The source said an influential indigene of the town sought Adesina’s help to reduce the amount of money a worker was asked to repay monthly for not rendering proper account to the college. “A prominent indigene of Ila-Orangun invited the Auditor-General to a meeting pleading with him to help reduce the repayment of money owed by the former Director of Works, Olatokunbo Ogungbemi, who the college had been deducting N100,000 from his salary after the AG’s report indicted him of financial misappropriation. “Ogungbemi was indicted in 2019 after the AG discovered that cash advances amounting to N13 million was not used nor retired into the account of the school; rather he produced fictitious documents and records to claim that he executed the projects.” A document dated July 15, 2019 with ref no: OSSCE/LR/PROV/AUDOS/19/7/0, titled, “Suspected Irregularity and an attempt to evade surcharge of unretired cash advances”, authored by the former Provost, Prof I. O Oyewole referenced memo dated November 2018 (with ref GP/OSCE/6/161.1/327) informed the AG that the Bursar of the college carried out his instruction that all cash advances that were not retired between December 31 2013 and 2014 should be converted to personal loan and recovered from the salary of all affected cash advances holders at the source – meaning be deducted from their salaries. External auditors had recommended that Ogungbemi be surcharged for the N13, 554, 686.00 he could not account for in 2013. Following Ogungbemi submitting forged documents to support his claim of retiring the money to the College – allegedly helped by a senior member of staff in the internal audit unit – the institution sought the AG’s intervention for proper investigations and further actions. The AG replied the request in a document dated September 10, 2019 with ref: GP/OSCE/6/Vol.1/328 calling the attention of the Bursar, Dr. Olarewaju Oyedeji that Ogungbemi;s claims that he had retired N13million into the college account were fictitious. The document said that the 29 projects that Ogungbemi claimed he executed and retired the documents to the college were fake. He recommended that “The institution shall recover the cash advances since Ogungbemi had deceived the management with false and forged documents, he shall be sanctioned in accordance with the provision of relevant portion of the state public service rules.” It was in line with the recommendation that the College began deducting N100,000 from Ogungbemi’s monthly salary in 2019 and refunding it to college account.  The refund was expected to last until Ogungbemi retired. However, a source told The Nation that following the prominent indigene’s appeal, the AG instructed Oyedeji to reduce the deduction to N50,000. Oyedeji refused to obey the directive. The source said following Oyedeji’s refusal, an Assistant Director, Parastatals/Special Investigation Unit, S. K. Akande called for reverification of projects executed by Ogungbemi on behalf of the AG. The document dated November 1, 2021 with ref number GP/OSCE/6/Vol II/80 titled, “Re: Verification of Projects Executed by Engr Ogungbemj Olatokunbo” reads, “I am directed to invite your attention to the provisions of Section 125 Sub Section 1-4 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. I wish to inform you that an audit verification team has been dispatched to your institution to carry out on the spot assessment of other outstanding projects executed by the Director of Works between 2013 and 2018. The project executor or his nominated representative is expected to lead our Audit team to the project sites. “The Bursar is expected to make available all records relating to deductions resulting from non-retirement of imprest obtained by Ogungbemi Olatokunbo between the years under reference. Apart from the ones that have been submitted to us, any other authority or documents required to assist us to determine salary and allowances payable to a Principal Officer of the College who has been appointed to function in acting capacity should be made available.” The source said Oyedeji declined the request based on the previous findings by the AG. The decline to yield to the instruction of AG’s office contributed to souring the relationship between the AG and the Bursar. Oyedeji further drew Adesina’s ire for refusing to pay the institution’s Acting-Registrar, the salary of a substantive registrar. Explaining the situation, a source simply called Kike, said: “When the tenure of the former registrar, Gabriel Adeoti, was about to end in November 2020, he wrote a letter to Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for renewal, but the request was not granted.  Oyetola appointed deputy registrar, Mr. Segun Ajiboye, as the Acting-Registrar but there was a clause in the letter which stated that he should function forthwith. “Ajiboye is on salary grade of CONTEDISS 14 step 9 as Deputy Registrar and after his appointment as Acting-Registrar, he maintained the grade because he is not yet the substantive Registrar. Substantive Registrar is grade CONTEDIS 15 step 9. But the Acting-Registrar will be given responsibility allowance of N80,000 because of additional responsibility,” Kike explained. However, a memo from the office of the Registrar dated June 7, 2021 with ref No. OSSCE/LR/R/45/VOL.2/16 signed by Deputy Registrar Establishment, Mrs. A.A Adeniyi addressed to Commissioner for Education, Folorunsho Bamisayemi, requested that Ajiboye be placed on the salary of substantive Registrar and also migrated from grade CONTEDIS 14 to 15. It was gathered that Bamisayemi did not reply to the memo.  However, the Office of the AG in a letter dated November 24, 2021 with ref No: GP/OSCE/6/Voll/90 interpreted the placement of Acting Registrar. The document stated: “The substantive salary of Deputy Registrar before his elevation was CONTEDISS 14 step 9.  The Acting Registrar is entitled to the difference between his actual salary CONTEDISS 14 step 9 and CONTEDIS 15 step 5 (Immediate Higher Post) as part of the acting allowance due to him. The CONTEDIS 15 step 5; therefore the best Immediate Higher Post to be used in determining.”   Alumni donate solar inverter to school, marks golden jubilee     Pupil gets scholarship to dream school despite not making…     New texts for English, other languages in 2022 UTME   A credible source in the AG’s office disclosed that the Oyedeji’s consistent disobedience infuriated the AG. It was gathered that some people conspired to replace Oyedeji with one Mr Obisesan who is allegedly a close ally to Acting-Registrar. A document dated December 7 2020 with ref No. OSSCE/PO/412/11 by the then Acting Provost, Oyewole requested the nomination of an external auditor as the preparation of the year 2018 and 2019 accounts neared completion. The college asked the AG to nominate three firms among which it would pick one. AG office replied in the memo dated April, 9, 2021 with ref No. GP/OSCE/6/VOL.II/54 signed by Assistant Director, Parastatals/Special Investigation Unit, S K Akande. He nominated Moshood Ganiyu & Co, Biodun Fakeye & Co and BDO Oyediran Faleye & Co.  The school picked the first. The office of AG approved the engagement of Moshood Ganiyu & Co as external auditor to check the 2018 and 2019 account. The audit last about three months after which the copies of their reports were submitted to the AG. The external auditor’s report praised the institution for well-kept and accurate records of the financial account for the years 2018 and 2019. Copies of the 2018 and 2019 external auditors reports made available to our correspondent both stated, “In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the college as at 31 December 2018 and 31st December 2019; its financial performance and its cash flows for the year ended in accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS).” However, when the AG reviewed the audit reports of 2016-2019, he indicted the College’s management and accused the Bursar of financial impropriety. When contacted about the AG’s review to his audit report, the head of external auditor for 2018 and 2019, Mr. Moshood Adejumo defended his work, saying that the financial statements of the college gave true and a fair account. “I do not know about the review of the Auditor-General indicting the school.  I think his review started in 2016 to 2019 but all I know is that my reports of 2018 and 2019 are the true financial state of the college,” he said. A copy of the 2017 external reports conducted by Gbadamosi Mudasiru & CO, obtained by The Nation also gave the college pass mark. “In our opinion that subject to the issues raised in our domestic report, the college has kept proper accounting records and the financial statements are fairly in agreement with records. “The financial statement presents fairly the state of affairs of the College and of the surplus of income over expenditure and cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2017, and have been prepared in agreement with provision of Osun State Government Edict establishing the College and generally accepted accounting standards.” When Oyedeji resumed as Bursar on August 1, 2016, the Acting Provost, Prof. Jimoh Afolabi said, the situation of the bursary department was not good enough. He said: “We have outstanding accounts that were not audited for five years including 2011 to 2015; we did not have fixed asset register; no record of monthly reconciliation of accounts; no financial regulations; and no accounting manual for Bursary Staff to guide operations. There were over 80 number of accounts in operation; hidden accounts in two banks, unretired advances of N128 million and revenue automation. “But when Oyedeji assumed office, he prepared all the outstanding accounts from 2011 till date which has been audited by the external auditing firm. He prepared fixed asset register, monthly reconciliation of accounts, financial regulations, accounting manual for bursary staff to guide operations.  He converted over 80 accounts that the school was running into Treasury Single Account(TSA); he discovered two hidden accounts; recovered over 60 percent of N128,621,103.35 while others are being recovered through the affected staff’ salaries accounts and also implemented revenue automation in the college.” He expressed sadness over AG reports, saying, “The College Management observes with sadness the AG’s recommendation that the Head of Bursary should be replaced with a sense of urgency. This is highly uncalled for. The Bursar’s refusal to give ‘kick-back and bribe’ to these corrupt officers facilitated this present unfounded auditing report. It is believed that the refusal of doling out of public fund, stoppage of collection of cash in the system, automation of revenue collection, not yielding to the illegal instructions of the AG, adamant to undue influence of the AG on the College staff, and disobedience to double standards could have been responsible for this persecution by the AG and his office.” When contacted the AG said his report could not be distorted. He said: “Audit of the office of Auditor-General is statutory in accordance with the law of the land. There is a way we go about our duties.  We do not go about to undermine the integrity of anybody. You cannot see an element of vendetta in anything we do because we know that whatever we say is a fact that cannot be distorted by anybody.  So whether anybody is saying things against it, it is their own making. I have submitted my report to the House of Assembly.  I will not comment on the report again.  At the appropriate time everybody will know what is actually happening.  We cannot do it without audit documents. It is left for the House to decide. People should not make the insinuation that is not adding up.” Reacting to the allegation of arm-twisting of some officials of the institution, he said, “Let the House decide, you cannot hear anything from me aside from the report, let us wait for the decision of the House, there is law guiding us, anybody cannot use initiative to execute government business.  It must be done according to rule and regulation whether administration and accounting, the moment anybody goes astray, office of Auditor-General must ensure compliance. The moment there is a breach we issue audit query with physical evidence to back up. “I do not have any enemy or friend in the institution.  I was not in the school, my officers were the ones that brought the reports.” Oyedeji on his part declined to comment, saying, “the matter is before the Osun State House of Assembly, I cannot speak about any report.” Ogungbemi confirmed on telephone that he approached the Auditor-General after the school was surcharging some certain amount of money in his account over alleged fictitious retirement document. “They did not give me a fair hearing on the matter of indicting me over N13 million projects. I am very sure that the reports authored by AG office and the school are not fair enough to me. They are just deducting from my salary.” When the Acting-Registrar, Mr  Segun Ajiboye was contacted over the crisis rocking the school and his demands of salary of substantive Registrar, his phone rang out of time and refused to respond to text message sent to his number as at the time filing this report. Speaking on the probe of the Auditor-General’s financial report of the College, the Chairman, Public Account Committee, Osun State House of Assembly, Gbenga Ogunkanmi said the investigation was on. “The House has the Auditor- General’s report and it has been committed to House Committee on Public Account. The person that was alleged has also responded to the report. So, the committee is investigating the matter and will submit its report to the house. For now, nobody has been indicted by the house of assembly. We are investigating the matter.”