Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed has said he will need experts’ clarification on the state of petroleum subsidy to enable him accurately inform Nigerians. Mohammed said this yesterday while addressing State House Correspondents after the week’s Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. He was asked to clarify the issue since the 2022 Budget has no subsidy provision beyond June 2022 and as there were affirmations on Tuesday night after a meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and Senate President Ahmad Lawan that the President had not instructed removal of petroleum subsidy. Mohammed said he needed to consult with the relevant government agencies to determine the Federal Government’s exact position on the subsidy removal question. - Advertisement - “As for the removal of fuel subsidy, I think you will give me time to consult with relevant departments and ministries. I will get back to you,” he said. The Senate President had conceded that subsidy was a big burden, saying there should be a solution to it.   Kanu pleads not guilty to terrorism charges     Governors tighten grip on APC ahead convention     Cross River to become net supplier of processed chicken,…   He added: “I’m happy to inform Nigerians that Mr. President never told anyone that the petroleum subsidy should be removed. “I know and I agree that the subsidy is very heavy. But I think we must never transfer the burden to the citizens.” Also, the new President of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Debo Ahmed, has pleaded with the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited to ensure payment of outstanding briefing claims owed marketers. Ahmed said IPMAN members have billions of naira as transport claims with the defunct Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF), now with Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA), unattended to. The new IPMAN president spoke at the annual general meeting (AGM) and inauguration of the newly elected National Executive Committee (NEC) of the association in Abuja. He said: “Our members have billions of Naira as transport claims with the defunct Petroleum Equalisation Fund now with Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) unattended. As a united association, we have to follow up to make sure our members are paid unconditionally. “The new Customer Service Department in Petroleum Products Marketing (PPMC) is another bottleneck tying down members’ billions of naira for product payment without supply. Rising cost of levies charged for outlets is escalating across the country from some federal and State Government agencies. IPMAN National is to dwell in all these extra costs to harmonise the justification if need be and so many other issues pending.”