The two sons of former Taraba Commissioner of Justice and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Gebon Timothy Kataps, and others kidnapped last week by gunmen in Gashaka local government area have regained freedom. Kataps said the abductees were released on Wednesday around 3:00 am after spending “seven agonising and traumatising days” in the kidnappers’ den. He gave the names of the victims as Emmanuel and David Kataps (his sons); Esabella Kataps and Rita David (nieces); Esther Geofery (Staff of FGGC) and Bala Magaji (his driver). They were kidnapped while returning from Sardauna local government area to Jalingo -the Taraba state capital after the Christmas and New Year festivities. The kidnappers had demanded N200 million ransom for their release. - Advertisement - Kataps said the abductees were released following a “negotiation” with the kidnappers. Kataps’ wife, Justice Clara Kataps and his three daughters “narrowly escaped” being kidnapped, the former SSG disclosed. Seven other persons were kidnapped, one person killed and a few others wounded by the bandits during the attack, which took place around 12.30 pm on Thursday along Jamptari-Gayam Road in Gashaka local government area of Taraba state, eyewitnesses said.   Maya Angelou becomes first black woman to feature on US coin     Many traders feared kidnapped on Birnin Gwari-Kaduna highway     I’ll succeed Fayemi as Governor, Bamidele boasts   “Hallelujah! Freedom and home at last. A show of gratitude. Your Excellencies, my lords spiritual and temporal, my dear friends, brothers and sisters. “On Wednesday, January 5, 2022, my family was attacked on their way to Jalingo. My wife and other members of the family were lucky to escape. However, other members were not lucky as they were kidnapped. “I requested for fervent prayers from friends and loved ones since prayers remain the best weapon to freedom. “Today January 12, 2022, at about 3am, after eight agonising and traumatic days in captivity, the Almighty God, who is the way maker, miracle worker and light in the darkness, has again answered the numerous prayers of the faithful and delivered them from captivity and they are home. “We have commenced the necessary medical examinations and trauma therapy. I solicit your prayers and understanding in this regard. “I have always believed and known that the only thing God cannot do does not exist. I, therefore, wish to thank God for His unlimited grace and favour by answering our prayers for the safe return of these six and for the fast recovery of the wounded in the hospital. “God bless you for your show of love, solidarity and support, both in prayers, cash and in kind. “I pledge, on behalf of my family, that we shall not take your love for granted. To the assailants, abductors and their collaborators, it is not in my power to judge them but God Almighty will. I forgive them. Shalom,” Chief Kataps wrote on his Facebook wall on Wednesday.