President Muhammadu Buhari has warned officers and men of the police force not to misuse vehicles and security equipment in their possession. The President spoke yesterday at the Force Headquarters in Abuja while inaugurating and handing over 200 Buffalo branded operational vehicles, bulletproof vests, protective helmets, medical and other security equipment worth over N8.7 billion to the Nigerian Police Force purchased by the Nigerian Police Trust Fund (NPTF). President Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Alhaji Muhammad Dingyadi, urged the police force to continue to fight crime and criminality across the country without fear. He said the procurement by the current administration, through the NPTF as contained in its 2020 Budget, is part of the ongoing reformation of the police by prioritising the provision of modern infrastructure to aid policing in Nigeria. The President congratulated the Board of Trustee (BoT), management and workers of the NPTF for meticulously and meritoriously completing the execution of the projects.   13 not 37 people killed in Niger attack, say police     Lagos Pilgrims Board gets new members, secretary     NDLEA secures 50 convictions against drug dealers in Enugu   - Advertisement - He said: “In this connection, let me also applaud the initiative to select this brand of Buffalo trucks, which are judged rugged and capable of withstanding varied geographical terrains and atmospheric conditions. “The establishment of the NPTF is very timely and apt as it came at a time the government is determined, more than ever before, to holistically address the various security challenges confronting our great country Nigeria.” President Buhari assured Nigerians that his administration was poised to provide all necessities to the NPTF to enable it to meet its mandate and attain the expectations of the police force and Nigerians. The President added that achieving the overall objectives of the trust fund should be internalised as the collective aspiration of all Nigerians in order to bridge the funding gap in policing by providing the NPF with required operational tools, equipment, training, and re-training of personnel as well as the motivation of officers and men through improved welfare. He urged the police to do their best in the discharge of their duties and adopt a holistic internal security mechanism to provide an environment conducive for peace and development. Expressing appreciation for Federal Government’s determination to pursue one of the three cardinal objectives of protecting life and property, Inspector General of Police (IGP) Usman Baba Alkali said the NPTF was set up to provide finance, logistics, and other critical intervention to the police.