A former Rivers State Commissioner for Transport, Tolofari George, yesterday denied allegations by Governor Nyesom Wike that his predecessor and Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, secretly abandoned the state’s aircraft in Germany for 10 years. George, who served under the Amaechi administration from 2007 to 2015, said in a statement that the status of the aircraft was documented. He said Amaechi Administration accounted for the aircraft in his ministry’s handover notes to the incoming administration in 2015. But the government faulted the former governor’s defence, insisting that the plane was not handed over. George said: “When we got the new aircraft that the current government is using now, the older Legacy aircraft was sent to Germany for repairs and refurbishment and then to be sold to generate revenue for critical infrastructural projects in the state. - Advertisement - “To the previous administration, there was no economic sense to keep and maintain two state planes. The cost was just too prohibitive, so the plan was to sell off the older Legacy plane. “The plane was still in Germany at the time we handed over to the incoming administration. Everything was in the handover notes of the ministry of transport. “In 2015 when the new administration took over, they claimed the same aircraft had been stolen. Today, they are now saying again that the aircraft was secretly abandoned. “We can now all see that the issue is purely political and vindictive, hurling false allegations on the previous administration. “That the Legacy aircraft was in RUAG, Germany was written in my handover notes that are in the custody of the Rivers state government”. George said it was not the first time the issue would come up. He said: “Sometime last year, a staff of Rivers State government got in touch with me, asking questions about the aircraft. “I clearly told him where it was. So, I just don’t understand what this current fuss is about? “We couldn’t have taken an aircraft to Germany and just dump it there and walk away without proper and formal documentation. Is RUAG, Germany a dumping ground? “I recall that Rivers State government had made an issue of the new aircraft currently in use, having a United States registration number, accusing the past government of wanting to steal the aircraft. “They accused us of doing an N registration for the sole purpose of wanting to steal the aircraft. They made so much fuss at the time. “But till date, which is nearly seven years after taking possession of the aircraft, they are still using the same foreign registration. Why haven’t they changed it to Nigerian registration? “The whole information about that aircraft – the Legacy plane – was in the handover notes prepared by the ministry for the incoming administration in 2015, including the fact that the plane was to be sold because it was more economical to sell it off.” Wike had accused the Amaechi administration of abandoning the state-owned Legacy 600 aircraft in Germany.   Buhari to Olu of Warri: I’ll be fair to Itsekiri nation     $6.7b needed to rebuild ravaged states, says Northeast…     Mixed reactions trail student loan scheme   He claimed that under Amaechi’s administration, the aircraft was flown to Germany in 2012 and abandoned there. Wike, who led a delegation of Rivers leaders to the General Atomics Aerotec in Munich, Germany, where the aircraft had been kept for 10 years, said efforts to repair and retrieve the aircraft cost the government over €3million Speaking during a meeting with the General Manager, Business Development, General Atomics Aerotec, Markus Froetschi, Wike explained that his administration in a bid to recover state assets, discovered through intelligence that the Legacy 600 jet purchased by Dr. Peter Odili’s administration was in Germany. He said: “This plane was bought in 2003 by the government of Dr. Peter Odili, and by 2007 he had handed over to the next government which was my predecessor’s, now, Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. “While he was in office, by 2012 this plane was brought here. Reasons we do not know. “The issue is, why was there no documentation to let the incoming government know that we have this facility and we sent it to RUAG for inspection?” Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, yesterday faulted a former Commissioner for Transport, Tolofari George, who said the status of the state’s aircraft was documented in a handover note. Governor Nyesom Wike had accused the Rotimi Amaechi administration of abandoning the state-owned Legacy 600 aircraft in Germany. Nsirim claimed in a statement that the Amaechi administration never wanted to hand over to Wike in the first place. The statement reads in part: “Everyone residing in Rivers State in 2015, is aware that the previous administration never intended and indeed had no intentions whatsoever, of handing over to the administration of Governor Wike when it became incontrovertibly clear that he had won the 2015 Governorship election… “George Tolofari in his watery defence had gone to great lengths, especially since he was the Commissioner for Transport in the previous administration, to insist stubbornly, but with scant corroboration, that the issue of the secretly abandoned aircraft was properly articulated, in the hand over notes passed down from the previous administration. “We all know what manner of handover notes would be prepared by a roundly and comprehensively defeated outgoing administration that never intended to hand over and did not even hand over at all in accordance with the recognised and accepted modus operandi of the process. “Indeed, Governor Wike has confirmed everything they have said about the Aircraft, from its purchase by the Dr. Peter Odili administration, up until the point where the previous administration surreptitiously sneaked it into Germany on some very spurious reasons and then apparently forgot it was there for the next three years. “It is, therefore, better left to the imagination to conjecture what the intentions of the previous administration, which never intended to hand over in the first place, would have been, when they decided to ‘abandon’ the aircraft in Germany for three years and as the saying goes, you will have to use your tongue to count your teeth to get the answer on this matter. “Rivers State remains the only state in world history where a previous government refused to hand over in a democracy. “George Tolofari who was part of this odium should bury his head in shame as he continues to defend his master’s profligacy. “Rivers people will surely be grateful and satisfied that Governor Wike has succeeded in recovering this most valuable secretly abandoned huge asset for Rivers people. “This is the true quality of a patriotic leader who is sincerely determined to give his people quality and resulted-oriented leadership.”