Three persons kidnapped from a private hostel housing some students of the Plateau State Polytechnic, Barkin Ladi have escaped from their abductors and have been picked up by security agents at Nding community in the local government area. Although the management of the institution had earlier denied the reported kidnapping of their students, they later found that the two girls among them were their students while the boy was not. The Polytechnic’s spokesman, Matthew Dokotri, who had earlier said the abducted persons were not students, has since admitted a mix-up and apologized. He said: “We did not get this information at that time. The girls are our students, but the boy is not. These have been confirmed.” Dokotri further explained that “the people that abducted them tied them in the bush and fell asleep. Probably they took too much drug. - Advertisement - “The people were able to untie the ropes and ran away. They went to a nearby village to report and the people called the police. That was how the police picked them up.   Leaders ought to give best to their people within limits of…     Oil ownership: Niger Delta leaders, groups sue NASS, demand…     APC governors set for showdown talks over convention,…   “One of the girls is in the Social Services Department and the other is in the Hospitality and Catering Services. The boy is not our student.” The Nation had reported that Military Information Officer, Operation SAFE HAVEN (OPSH), Major Ishaku Takwa, in a statement said: “Three students of Plateau State Polytechnic kidnapped yesterday Wednesday 12 January 2022 have been rescued unharmed by troops of Operation Safe Haven deployed at Barkin Ladi. “The troops deployed at Nding Sesut, a remote community in Barkin Ladi, noticed an unusual movement of persons during patrols. “Troops immediately conducted cordon and search in the general area that led to rescue of the three students at an abandoned poultry farm. “The victims have since been united with their families. Manhunt to apprehend the suspects is still ongoing.” The State Police Command through its spokesperson, ASP Gabriel Uba, in his statement, noted: “The team of Police and STF deployed to rescue the victims kidnapped yesterday at Ban Village behind the Plateau State Polytechnic have rescued them today 13/1/2022 at about 1430hrs unhurt and are presently with the Police. “Meanwhile effort is still on to arrest other perpetrators of the act.”