Senator Musiliu Obanikoro and many of his classmates in the 1977/78 set of the Anwar-ul-Islam College (former Ahmadiyya College), Agege, have credited their success in life to the quality education they received as pupils of the school. Obanikoro spoke during the inauguration of a library remodelled by his set and named after Alhaji Jimoh Gbadamosi, the principal they credited for keeping them on the straight and narrow. “Anytime I am here it brings out some nolstagic feelings, moreso on a special day as today that we have a rare convergence. When I look at this building (a one-storey block of classroom) where I started from and the entire school I am moved to tears.  Some people paid for us to get the education here. I sold apoti (low wooden stool) in this Agege.  Ahmaddiya College made me what I am today,” he said. Considering all he gained from the school, Obanikoro said it inspired him to raise the funds needed to rehabilitate the library when the Set’s N25 million fundraising attempt did not yield much fruit. Obanikoro took over the fundraising after getting about N1.6 million donated by some old boys and co-opted his children to donate towards the worthy cause. - Advertisement - “I told my biological children there was a task before them.  I told them I was not putting any amount on you and they contributed to what we are witnessing today.  It is my own way of training them to give back to the community,” he said. He said the provision of library furniture and e-library facilities which were not initially factored into the costing, were also provided for. He expressed hope that the school would take its pride of place among top secondary schools in Lagos.   Corps member donates furniture to pupils learning on bare…     Joy as pupils orphaned by insurgency complete primary…     Oldest UNILAG PhD graduate hopes to make three-wheelers…   To be named among the top missionary schools, President-General of the Anwar-ul-Islam College Agege Old Students Association (ACAOSA), Mr. Lawal Pedro said the proprietors of the school, the Anwar-ul-Islam Movement must reposition the school and charge fees to attract better clientele. Pedro said: “My appeal to Anwar-ul-Islam Movement of Nigeria the proprietor of the college through its indefatigable President, Alhaji Mubashiru Ojelade, is to realise that in the absence of government subvention to mission schools they are now being run as business ventures because they pay salaries and other expenditures to maintain them.  It is not possible to maintain and develop this college to become an ivy league college with the current low fees, fisebillai or sadaqat or offerings in the mosques or at events of the movement.’’ “The movement should therefore consider handing the college over to a set of professionals to run it as purely private school without interfering in its operations.” In his remarks, President of the Anwar-ul-Islam Movement, who is also an old boy, said the movement would consider the old boys’ recommendations.  He said the schools did not generate enough to run optimally. “What Pedro has put before the movement is very important.  If we have to depend on what we get from the schools we won’t be able to do much.  What we get from here is barely enough to pay salaries and overhead.  All across fees in our schools are easily the lowest in any private school,” he said. Ojelade, a lawyer, praised former Principal Gbadamosi, who at 94, was unable to attend the inauguration for all he did for the school. “Baba Gbadamosi will take credit for what we are today.   There was a lot of discipline in his time.  As Gbadamosi helped groom us, all his children will be well taken care of. The new library was inaugurated by Erelu Abiola Dosunmu, whose brother, Seun Dosunmu, also attended the college.