Pension regulator, National Pension Commission (PenCom) and Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) are set to deepen micro pension penetration amongst workers in the informal sector this year. This is coming following low subscription on micro pension two years after its luncheon, prompting the regulator to mandate Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to develop and forward an annual media campaign plan to drive subscription before 31 January of every year. Data earlier obtained from the PenCom revealed that as at August 2021, informal sector subscribers to the micro pension plan was 70,000 out of over 90.91 million workers in the nation’s informal sector, leaving 90.21 million workers uncovered under the commission’s Micro Pension Plan (MPP). To cover the gap, the PFAs are expected to set up appropriate structures to effectively carry out enlightenment and public awareness for registered and prospective Micro Pension Contributors (MPC); protect registered and prospective MPC from false and misleading information; form the basis for monitoring and evaluating the enlightenment and public awareness efforts of the Commission and PFAs on the MPP and achieve the Pension Industry’s strategic vision on expanded coverage of the CPS.   Pension complaints and solutions     I’m blind but alive with pension, says Lagos retiree     PenCom, PFAS rise against COVID-19, macroeconomic indices in…   PenCom said Sections 5.3.1(c) and 5.4.1(i) of the Guidelines for Micro Pension Plan 2018 stipulate that the Commission shall “Create awareness by carrying out public enlightenment and education on the establishment, operations and management of MPP” and PFAs shall “conduct regular public awareness, enlightenment and education on Micro Pension Plan”, respectively. - Advertisement - Section 6.3.1 of the Guidelines for the Operations of Pension Fund Administrators stipulates that a PFA must obtain prior written approval of the Commission before advertising, promoting or providing information on its products and services or about its operations. The entire material for distribution, advertising, promotion or informing the public must be submitted to the Commission for this purpose, it posited. PenCom stated that the framework aims to achieve the following: Set minimum standards for enlightenment and public awareness on MPP and ensure adherence to best practices in Public Relations. It noted that the following rules shall apply to the Commission and PFAs. PFAs shall establish a desk and appoint an officer to oversee all enlightenment and public awareness activities on the MPP in line with Section 7.1.1(i) of the Guidelines for the Micro Pension Plan, issued by the Commission.