Chairman of Cubana Group Obinna Iyiegbu aka Obi Cubana has advised youths to make their contributions to lifting the nation. The business mogul, in a lengthy post via his Instagram page, said man’s primary duty is to support one another but people would rather compete than collaborate. According to Obi Cubana, even when you’re being supportive and nice to others but unappreciated, you mustn’t swerve from your purpose as that is what gives one’s life meaning. The socialite implied a tree cannot make a forest adding, we rise by lifting others. He wrote: “Good morning my fellow Nigerian Youths. Today let’s talk about “Lending A Helping Hand”. Ever heard of the saying, “we rise by lifting others?” - Advertisement - “Everyone needs help every now and then. And we can only get help through people. “Even when we pray for help, God still uses people to answer that prayer. So you can actually see that we are all connected in this universe. “Our first and primary call is to humanity but sadly, we seem to have lost that. We’d rather compete with each other than support one another.   I almost got slapped at beach, says Tiwa Savage     BREAKING: Veteran musician Dayo Kujore dies     Prophet Fufeyin offers amputee actor N5million for…   “Be more collaborative than competitive!! Supporting another’s success won’t dampen yours. Lighting another’s candle definitely won’t blow out yours. “Be nice to people. Maybe it’ll be unappreciated, unreciprocated, or simply ignored, it doesn’t matter! “Just spread the love anyways; Preach love! Practice love! Show love! “Do a little something every day to help out either at home, office, or community because it translates into big things. “When you help others, your life starts to have meaning & purpose. Real joy comes not from material possessions but from people. “We were called to be human 1st. So our main priority on earth is to help each other and be our brother’s keeper. Pls be that person that’ll make a difference in someone else’s life. Help others achieve their dreams and you will achieve yours. “At the end of the day, it’s not about what you have or even accomplished, it’ll be about who you’ve lifted or who you’ve made better. “I charge you this Monday to dare to reach out into the darkness to pull another person into the light. Seek for who you’ll hold their hands for…Together, we rise! “Ubuntu…I am because you are! (in my South African voice).”