The Director-General, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Dr Mojisola Adeyeye has impressed on multinational companies operating in the country to consider local manufacturing as an option. The NAFDAC boss made this appeal during the formal manufacturing contract signing agreement between GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria Plc. and Fidson Healthcare Plc. In Lagos, recently The DG who commended the two firms for their sustainable investment in the Nigerian pharmaceutical industry, said as a regulatory NAFDAC “is focused on local manufacturing because if you want to avoid substandard, falsified medicine or reduce it, then we have to emphasise local manufacturing. It is good for our country and the economy. It will reduce unemployment, increase our GDP and return us to where we used to be; which was exporting healthcare products.” It may be recalled that the two firms commenced the local production of healthcare products from their first contract manufacturing partnership signed in 2019.   Guinness Nigeria launches drink-driving e-learning module     Honeywell Group sets sights on key growth sectors     U.S Consulate, ASF lift women entrepreneurs   Specifically, in 2019, Fidson, a pharmaceutical manufacturing company in Nigeria, signed a contract manufacturing agreement to manufacture five products for GSK Consumer Nigeria Plc. The production from this partnership which officially commenced on the 16th of December, 2021 aims at enabling the continuous improvement of local manufacturing capability in the Nigerian pharmaceutical industry through technology transfer. This partnership has been hailed as one of the largest technology transfers in the Nigerian pharmaceutical industry that is in line with global standards and also enables export opportunities for locally made pharmaceutical products within the AFCTA. - Advertisement - At the production commencement ceremony in Lagos, the Managing Director at GlaxoSmithKline Consumer Nigeria, Kunle Oyelana explained the rationale behind the partnership.  “When we decided at GSK to evolve our operating model to a point where we go into partnering with local manufacturers to produce some of our products, it was a significant endeavour. We took that decision in the interest of the country, particularly the economy and the patients in Nigeria,” Oyelana said. In his remarks, the Managing Director, Fidson Healthcare Plc, Dr Fidelis Ayebae explained that the partnership will generate more employment opportunities for Nigerians. “This is a transfer of manufacturing capabilities and assets from GSK to an indigenous company, Fidson Healthcare Plc. It is however not a merger or acquisition but an outsourcing arrangement. This is a big deal for Fidson and Nigeria. This agreement will benefit Nigerians such that they will continue to have access to the quality products of GSK for a long time through an indigenous company, Fidson who employs Nigerians to run its operations” Ayebae said. In his goodwill message, the Deputy British High commissioner to Nigeria, Ben Llewellyn-Jones reiterated the Commission’s commitment to supporting GSK and Fidson in the production of locally made products for the benefit of Nigerians. “I am pleased as we celebrate a fantastic partnership and one of the largest technology transfers of its kind in recent years. Our overseas development assistance programme known as Manufacturing Africa is aimed at scaling up manufacturing in all industries in Nigeria because we firmly believe that the best way to support Nigeria is to support economic growth and jobs. We want to help Nigeria to boost its production capacity and indeed export” Llewellyn-Jones said. The deputy commissioner commended both companies and charged other companies to do the same to achieve more efficiency in the manufacturing industry.