As Nigeria begin their quest for glory at the delayed Africa Cup of Nations(AFCON) Cameroon 2021 against Egypt tomorrow , striker Taiwo Awoniyi has been tipped to be a scoring sensation for the Super Eagles by experienced coach Manu Garba. The foremost youth coach with super record with the U-17 and U- national teams, that the Union Berlin’s forward is capable of filling the void following the withdrawal of Victor Osimhen . Awoniyi flourished under Garba with whom he won the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup in the UAE and the 2015 U20 AFCON in Senegal where the striker was among the goals as Nigeria claimed their third title since the continental youth competition became a biennial championship . Garba said Awoniyi has the potential to be a standout striker for the Super Eagles based of his pedigree.   “33” Export Lager Unveils Okocha as Ambassador     Nwakali vows to lift Super Eagles     CAMEROON 2-1 BURKINA FASO: Indomitable Lions off to winning…   “He(Awoniyi) is more experience than Osimhen, and have played together with Kelechi Iheanacho Samuel Chukwueze , Kelechi Nwakali and Wilfred Ndidi before and most importantly, he is the listening type, very intelligent and hard working person,” the 56-year-old former Nigeria international told NationSport. “He can score goals with the head, foot and can provide assist; I am optimistic that Awoniyi will lead the attack well in the absence of Osimhen.” - Advertisement - Garba continued: “Awoniyi is already an AFCON U17 silver medalist, FIFA U17 World Cup Gold medalist and AFCON U20 Gold medalist and that enough is enough to give him confidence in the senior AFCON. “In the FIFA U17 World Cup in UAE 2013, he scored four goals and some assist after coming in the second match against Sweden to replace injured Success Isaac (Nasara). “He was the one that speared the attack in Senegal 2015 AFCON U20 tournament scoring three goals and some assist, and we ended winning the U20 AFCON in Senegal. “I want to use this opportunity to wish the Super Eagles success at the AFCON in Cameroon, “noted Garba.