Ronke Ademiluyi is passionate about Nigerian fashion and the adire fabric. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about the things that inspire her, fashion tourism, diversifying and being more innovative post COVId-19, mentoring young people and more. How would you rate all the activities you did in 2021? First, I am grateful for having the opportunity to relaunch and be more innovative and more creative. This is because we all know what happened in 2019. It was the year of COVID, a lot of businesses shut down. We couldn’t have Africa Fashion week London, we couldn’t have Africa Fashion week Nigeria. So, ending the year with the Launch of the Adire on Wheels, which is a project of the Adire textile hub in Ife is every reason to be grateful. Would you say taking the fashion show to Ife as another innovation? Two things! We did the Queen Moremi Ajasoro cultural pageant in Ife for the First time and we decided to use some of the Africa Fashion week Nigeria designers to kit the participants. So, we just felt that it would be a good combination to have the African Fashion week in Ife and also to promote fashion tourism. A lot of people who have never been to Ife before for them it was an opportunity for us to showcase Ife to them. - Advertisement - Is it going to be a yearly event in Ife now? No, it is going to go round. You know we have always done it in Lagos and we might bring it back to Lagos or even take it to another city around Nigeria. The adire fabric seems to be moving at a great speed around the world. Can you say this is part of the efforts that you have put in over the years? The speed of light! I would say we are just adding to what has been on ground already. Pioneers like Mummy Nike of Nike Arts Gallery in Ife, actually paved the way for what is going on now and for us to come in. We have to give credit where credit is due and honour where honour is due as well. She’s been doing it for close to 50 years  now and she is the one who made it very popular, very global and we are just adding a lot of technology, modernity , creativity and putting vibrant colours to what is existing already. Let’s talk about last year, the COVID year, what lessons did you learn? First of all, the biggest lesson is for us to know that there is almighty God. And when he told all of us to go and sit down, we all sat down. When he told us to stand still, we all stood still. So, that is a big lesson for me. Another lesson is being able to be flexible, being able to adapt to whatever situation comes your way. Not to be rigid in our decisions. Initially, we had Africa Fashion Week London, and we were hell bent on just doing it in London. Not exploring other ways that we could make it possible. For London this year, aside from the physical show, we had a virtual show as well. So, COVID also , as much as it was a bad year for so many people , it also taught other people how to be more creative , more innovative and to be able to adapt to changes as  well. Tell us about the Adire on wheels Project, what is the idea behind it? We launched the adire Odudua Textile hub in Ile Ife in March 2021, about ten months ago. It is under the chairmanship and sponsorship of his Imperial Majesty, The Ooni of Ife. It was launched as a facility to help women and youths bounce back after COVID. It was launched to allow them to use their heritage fabric as a wealth creation project. It was launched to teach them to use their creative skills, their innovative skills and the profitable skills of the adire industry as well. Adire on Wheels is a new project of the textile hub courtesy of His Imperial Majesty that keeps on seeing the need to empower and to support us. What we aim to do with this is that a lot of people cannot come to Ife, and we also know that Lagos is the center of Excellence, the commercial center of Nigeria.   My Beauty REGIMEN: I take weight loss supplements and…     Residents live dangerously amid growing number of…     Bloody night in Zamfara   So, we decided to bring it to Lagos. The adire on wheels is a mobile truck that is branded with adire; it has so many adire designs in it. We are going to be offering workshop services and we also sell to the public as well. It enables us to bring the creativity of the women in the community, to bring their work to life.  So, that people can see and it is not restricted to Ife alone. This is not restricted to online, so that people can actually feel the texture and appreciate the designs. It is going to be all over Lagos, one day it can be on the mainland and next day on the Island. It can be in Ikoyi today and Adeola Odeku tomorrow and Lekki the next day. It’s the first of its kind. Could this be a way of reducing western dressing for African styles? I wouldn’t say that because I am British. I was born and grew up in London. So, that is second home to me. Rather than chase it away, we are trying to blend it, creating a synergy between both. Letting people know that we can use our native fabric to make creative English wear. We can adire jeans, turtle neck, adire on chiffon, on organza or on jersey. There is no fabric that you cannot put adire on. So, we are blending it. The reception so far has been amazing, didn’t know it was this popular. Up until last year December, I wasn’t wearing adire. I was wearing Ankara, now for me it is strictly adire. I love it so much and it allows us to tell our stories. The fabric you are wearing enables you to tell a story. Who are your targets? It is women in the community. Women in the environs of Ife, the youths in general as well. We work with young people from all over the country, from different universities. So, it is a project that targets women and youths and we are passionate about it. When you come into the hub, the first thing you would see are the trainees. At the moment, we have over a hundred people and after training they graduate and we give them start up funds. The trainees are the core arm driving the project, for us production is secondary. Yes, we produce as well and from when we started till now, we have sold in over six countries around the world. This includes the UK, US, Canada, Brazil and all parts of the world that are requesting for the adire fabric. I think that adire has now evolved finally. It has now chased Ankara which is not our own away. A lot of people do not know that Ankara is a fabric that we adopted from Indonesia. It was dumped at the coast of Africa and because it was printed, it made it very cheap. So, a lot of people did away with adire and they had the Ankara option. Also we had the Chinese who did the printed versions making it cheap. However, people like the handmade version; the uniqueness about the handmade adire is that, you would never see of a kind. The same person can do two fabrics but you will still see the differences, in the patterns. Even if you sign your own signature, if you sign it two times, there is no way it can be the same. That is the uniqueness about the adire fabric. We have so many technologies, both modern and ancient. From the batik to the alabere, eleko, oniko, screen printing and so many others. What is the focus of today’s musical concert in all this? Today’s gathering is another project of our chairman, His Imperial Majesty. It’s called memorable moments with music. He has so many music talents that he has put together and he is showcasing them. Most of them are wearing adire and that is why we decided to launch the adire on wheels today in collaboration with this event. Tell us about some of your memorable moments doing all of this? We had a new queen who emerged as well. We have been doing this for five years, we didn’t do it during COVID, and she is our 6th queen. They are young ladies, talented and most of the queens we have had are undergraduates who have graduate into various fields. We have had a dental surgeon, we have had an automobile Engineer, we have had graduate of English, a graduate of Psychology. When they become the queen they are gifted with a car, an entrepreneurship cash prize as well. We teach them to become entrepreneurs, we all know the state in Nigeria when you graduate and there is no guarantee that you will get a job. So, His majesty gives them entrepreneurship funds to start their life in business. Let’s compare when you started and now, what has changed? I wear so many hats. I am the founder of Africa Fashion week, London, Founder Africa Fashion Week Nigeria. I am His Majesty’s Global Ambassador for Queen Moremi Initiative. I am also the CEO and founder of the Adire Odudua Textile hub which is under the chairmanship of His Majesty. And for me in everything that I do, I get fulfilled when I am able to leave an impact, inspire and mentor others who are coming behind me. When I was growing up, we didn’t have anyone to mentor us. We went into this journey, this life on your own. I remember when I went to London at the age of 18 to do my A levels, there was nobody to look up to. You were on your own. So, a lot of young people , young girls need mentoring and I feel so rewarded when I am able to impact on their lives .Leaving a positive impact on their lives is fulfilling and rewarding for me. Also 80 per cent of the people I work with are young people.  From my models to my stylists, designers, fashion photographers, make-up artists are all young people. Naturally, they make you feel young? My daughter is the same age as them and I think I know how to deal with them, how to discipline them and I know how to be friendly as well. I balance both. What advice do you have for young Nigerians at this time? Rome wasn’t built in a day. There is a due process for everything. If you see people like my age mate carrying expensive bags or driving expensive cars, we have history. I remember when I was still in Rukkies almost 20 years ago, when I moved back to Nigeria. So, it has been a long journey, for the young people out there, I would say don’t be in a rush. You have your whole life ahead of you. There is still a time to carry a one million naira bag or a ten million naira bag. But it is all a due process, Follow that due process, don’t be in a hurry, don’t be in a rush.