The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of CFL Group, Mr. Lai Omotola, said there are challenging for businesses to thrive in the country. Omotola spoke at the annual end-of-the-year economic and business assessment parley organised by the firm. According to him, the CFL Group, with strong bias in real estate and property development, was able to complete its Prime Triangle business place at Lekki, while also commencing construction of the Alade Market. He narrowed down the challenges in building construction to factors like, the delay in the registration of title and ownership, which he said has continued to take a longer period of time to process-between six months to two years, including getting building approval.   ‘Improve budget allocation for education’     Islamic City petitions Buhari over ejection plans     Firm wins award on inverter, battery brand   He blamed both the government and subscriber for the delay. - Advertisement - “Our view is this problem can be solved through the use of land information in the office of the Surveyor-General but again the land information is inadequate because it only tells you whether government has interest on the land or not. I think it is title to expand the information to include the actual owner or the family that owns the area. This will go a long way in curbing unhealthy practices,” he said. Omotola regrets that banks and other financial institutions are not favourably disposed to funding real estate projects because of the uncertainty in the business sphere. For example, he explained that it is a common occurrence in the sector that after securing funding from a bank, moving to site could become a problem for months or during construction, it is possible to encounter land disputes. According to Omotola, the real estate sector is still the highest enabler of employment and construction still remains the fastest way of getting out of recession because of the large value chain to the economy towards creating jobs.