The Federal Ministry of Water Resources yesterday called for strengthened coordination from all partners to prevent cholera deaths. The ministry was reacting to over 3,598 deaths recorded in 2021 across the country. The data sifted from the Cholera Situation Report for 2021 revealed that the age group of five to 14 years was the most affected, with Bauchi, Jigawa, Kano and Zamfara states leading. This was the thrust at the National Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in Emergency Group meeting in Abuja with participation from line ministries and development partners. The Director of Water Quality Control and Sanitation in the ministry, Mr. Emmanuel Awe, said it was worrisome that cholera deaths still occurred in many parts of the country. - Advertisement - The director noted that there was no doubt that humanitarian assistance was of cardinal importance to victims of emergencies with assistance in an organised and coordinated manner.   Family, landlords parley over court judgment     Suspected herders kill five in Ondo     Military rescues wife of Plateau’s deputy governor’s aide   “In 2021, Nigeria’s reported cholera cases as of December 6, 2021, totalled 107,911 with 3,598 deaths. These exceeded the number of cases reported in 2020, that is, 1,858 cases and 95 deaths. “These figures are not acceptable. The number of deaths from cholera was actually less than COVID-19, waterborne diseases are actually preventable, and all we need to do is to ensure that our people have access to clean and safe potable water at all times. “Cases have been reported from 341 local government areas in 29 states, including the conflicted states in the Northeast and crisis-affected Northwest. “These reports of resurgence of cholera in states and in the FCT are a worrisome public health crisis, especially coming amid the emergence of the highly infectious Omicron, showing the third wave of COVID-19 cases.” Awe said improving access to WASH services could reduce illnesses and deaths, affect poverty reduction and socioeconomic development improve health, economy, life expectancy, among others. He said the meeting was an avenue to brainstorm on ways to see that cholera cases were brought to the barest minimum in 2022 through coordinated collaboration.