Dr Uche Menakaya, an Australian trained Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, has advised women with ovarian cancer symptoms to consult trained specialists early enough for clinical outcomes. Menakaya gave the advice on Wednesday by the sideline at the three-day ‘Coastal/Junic Gynecologic Ultrasound Training Programme’ held in Warri, Delta. The Australian-based Nigerian gynaecologist, who is one of the key facilitators of the training, said that the life span of an ovarian cancer patient could be increased by about 70 or 80 per cent when diagnosed early. He added that early detection would have a better clinical outcome and urged women with the symptoms to quickly go for an ultrasound. “Women should have access to properly trained specialists that can make an early diagnosis. - Advertisement - “Early diagnosis increases the life span of a woman with ovarian cancer and those with late cancer detection have 30 per cent chances of survival,’’ he said. Menakaya said that early detection would have better outcomes clinically and better chances of survival. “If you have any symptoms, go quickly for an ultrasound where the specialist is properly trained. “Women should begin to understand that these services are available and certain diseases are easier to treat when detected early without affecting the quality of their lives. “The problem is that when those diseases advance, it becomes very difficult to treat,’’ he said. Menakaya said that there was a need for improved advocacy on why women should always go for an ultrasound.   Man seeks N9m for kidney transplant     NCDC issues Lassa fever alert, as death toll hits 102     15.4m Nigerians vaccinated, says NPHCDA   He urged the government at all levels to invest in ultrasound services by way of providing equipment to address the needs of the people. “There should be a regulatory framework to guide the use of ultrasound in Nigeria. “For instance, in developed countries, ultrasound images are not released until eight years after, to protect the right of the woman but in Nigeria, it is not so,’’ he said. The gynaecologist urged the government to provide training opportunities where ultrasound would be introduced in a structured way to improve on the skills of medical doctors. The medical expert urged participants to always ask for a clinical history of their patients before treatment of any ailment. According to him, such clinical history may include their age, menstrual circle and number of children while conducting the ultrasound to enable them to know more about the patient. Several instructors in the medical field including Dr Kingsley Agholor, Prof. Bukar Mohammed and Dr Janet Akinmoladun among others took the participants through the intensive theoretical and practically inclined training programme. The programme was attended by 35 participants from different parts of the country. One of the participants, Dr Ifegbu Ifegbu commended the organisers saying, “the training has been so wonderful, the organisers have done so much to hold these great lectures and I am indeed happy with them.   (NAN)