Dolidol, a Moroccan market leader in the mattress space, has acquired Mouka, Nigeria’s leading brand of mattresses, pillows and other bedding products, making a smooth transition for Mouka’s sustainable market leadership. According to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Mouka, Mr. Raymond Murphy, this affiliation with a regional market leader, following the transaction, sets the scene for bigger and greater things for the Mouka brand. “In the light of this new development, Dolidol, a Moroccan market leader in the mattress space, will bring to the fore significant foam science, technical and engineering expertise to Mouka. As the market leader in Francophone Africa, Dolidol’s expertise will also be introduced to boost Mouka’s operations and the quality of its product portfolio”. Murphy said, in a statement made available to The Nation over the weekend. The Chief Operations Officer of Mouka, Mr. Femi Fapohunda, also shared his excitement about this change in ownership. “With Dolidol’s stake in Mouka, our consumers and trade partners should look forward to new and ground-breaking innovations due to the technological expertise Dolidol brings on board.   UBA: Lifting promo winners with cash prizes     NIMASA begins digital operation     DBN to raise N100b bond   “In addition, from an operational point of view, we look forward to improved productivity and product quality that meet consumer needs and exceed their expectations.” Mouka’s Chief Commercial Officer, also said: “I believe this strategic ownership will create additional investments in the expansion of the Mouka footprint within Nigeria and beyond our borders.  I look forward to the synergy between the Mouka and Dolidol in deploying a world-class route to market strategy.” The CEO of Dolidol, Mohamed Lazaar, had this to say: “I believe the acquisition of Mouka will allow Dolidol to strengthen its presence in the continent and complement Mouka’s growth in the region with an addressable market of around 200 million Nigerians.” The Nation learnt that Dolidol’s strategic plans are centred on massive investment in Mouka, which will result in the development of the brand, people development, and the creation of more job opportunities. - Advertisement - Speaking on this, Ms Sofiane Lahmar, a Partner at Development Partners International (DPI), said, “As the most populous country in Africa, Nigeria shares many of the same trends as the rest of the continent, including positive demographics, a fast-growing middle class and rising consumer-spend. “We remain confident in the future of the business and look forward to working with both management teams to execute the company’s ambitious strategy and vision.”