Sanai Bolanle Agunbiade, National Chairman of the Nigerian Majority Leaders’ Forum, in this interview with Assistant Editor ‘Dare Odufowokan, speaks on his new position, his experience as the Leader in the House and some of his achievements as a lawmaker. Excerpts. You were recently elected as the Chairman of Nigerian Majority Leaders Forum. What exactly is the forum about? The forum is a national body of Majority Leaders of the State Houses of Assembly across the country and it is meant to help deepen the legislature in our country through interrelation and cross fertilization of ideas and practices. It is not a new body as we have been on it for a while now. But I can say with this election, we have taken a step to ensure that the idea lives beyond our tenures as Majority Leaders. The Conference of Speakers assisted so greatly in laying the foundation for the formation of the forum and we owe them greatly for this. The seed that has germinated into the establishment of this forum was sown in Abuja in 2019, when the Speakers of the respective states assembly invited their Majority Leaders to accompany them to the Speakers’ Conference. That was where we muted the idea that germinated into what we have as Majority Leaders’ Forum today. When we also decided on a convention to elect our officers, our Speakers supported us by releasing and sponsoring their Majority Leaders to attend the convention. Without the generous gestures of the Speakers, the Majority Leaders’ Forum would have remained just an idea that it stated with. We owe the Chairman and other officers of the Conference of Speakers a lot for the establishment of the forum. Now that the forum has been established, we will strive so much to deepen the relationship with the Conference of Speakers realizing that we need the support of the Speakers to sustain the forum since they are the numero uno of each of the state House of Assemblies in the country. - Advertisement - How were you able to convince your colleagues to allow you lead this nation body? It is not me; rather it is God who made it happen the way it did happen. It is my colleagues that know why they deem me fit and proper to lead the forum. I appreciate them greatly and will not take their decision to make me the national chairman for granted. And that is why I desire to make the best use of the opportunity given to me to serve them and ensure I leave the forum better than I met it whenever it is time for me to give the baton to someone else. Foremost of my plans is to galvanise other officers of the forum to work together as a team for altruistic service to the forum. We shall as a team of officers of the Forum, organise cross learning and experience sharing programmes. With the support of the Speakers Conference and development partners, we will exchange ideas amongst ourselves as majority leaders and the different Houses of assembly, with a view to enhancing legislative reforms in the state legislatures across the country. We shall pursue capacity building programmes for Majority Leaders so as to acquaint ourselves with best legislative practices in modern day legislature with a view to boosting law making processes and capacity of the state houses of assembly across the country. We will ensure that there is harmonious relationship between the Speakers and Majority Leaders and other members of each of the houses of assembly in the country through sustainable mechanisms that will drive peaceful conduct and ease of legislative business. We intend to establish sustainable structures within the forum for our successors to build on. These among other things we plan to accomplish within the very short duration of our tenure, God helping us.   Benue 2023: APC chieftains in fierce struggle to succeed…     Controversy trails Ekiti PDP ward congress     ‘A sober reflection on worsening insecurity’   How challenging are the duties of a Majority leader? A majority leader among other roles, is saddled with the responsibility of seeing to the order paper of every plenary, a task that is onerous and requires absolute diligence. He leads the business at Plenary and needs to be conversant with the rules of proceedings. He should have passion for reading and be analytical with experience of legislative process. He must be able to balance ever conflicting interests among members and be a listening figure. He must be tolerant and prepared to deliver on assignment entrusted to him by the Speaker. He must be creative and up and doing at times. He interacts with all committee Chairmen of the house. No one can satisfy everyone but a majority leader must strive to satisfy all of his colleagues with diverse requests and expectations.  There lies his major challenge. You are the member representing Ikorodu 1 in the state assembly. How well have you impacted on your constituents since your election as their legislator? My impact on my people is not a matter to be oiled on media propaganda but entrenched quietly in people that have genuinely and practically felt things I have done overtly and covertly in the number of years I have been representing the people of Ikorodu constituency 1, back to back since year 2007. This is my fourth term to the grace of God and with the benevolence of the party leaders and my constituents who have been voting for me since 2007. I have influenced reconstruction and rehabilitation of major roads in and around my constituency. I have assisted in the employment of many youths into the civil service of the state. I have organised and sponsored empowerment programmes for youths and women. Some of these programmes were done personally while others were in conjuction with the state ministry of women and poverty alleviation (WAPA).  I have initiated and sponsored academic and sporting programmes where talents were discovered and some of the talents discovered are on scholarships within and outside the state. I have given succour to vulnerable members of my constituency either as widows or people living with disabilities. I have always identified with religious groups (Muslims, Christians and African traditionalists) I have resuscitated and promoted a dying culture of my people unaided. I have facilitated construction of schools and assisted in fighting of crimes through legislation and donation of crime fighting equipments. I have assisted in the admission of young ones to schools and assisted many Community Development Associations to execute community projects and in particular, I have given a glowing face to my constituency in the legislature through advocacy in the hallow chamber, sponsoring of several motions as well as bills. How will you describe leadership? Who is a leader in your opinion? I will want to see leadership as a selfless act by an individual who steps into an altruistic role of mobilising and motivating other people towards the accomplishment of a goal and accepting to undertake the risks involved. He takes the lead and gives his all in the process. To me, a genuine leader is someone who displays a good personality, identifies a goal to pursue or what needed to be done, approaches that which has to done with courage and have a genuine and clear vision about the goal he sets out to pursue. That, to me, is leadership.