Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Reconciliation Committee to use wisdom and patience in resolving differences among aggrieves party members. This, he said, would strengthen the party’s unity. The governor noted that given the ruling party’s popularity, the committee would be meeting different people with different ideas and expectations. He said there is need for patience and wisdom to enable the party members unite and resolve their differences amicably. Sanwo-Olu spoke when the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led APC National Reconciliation Committee visited him at the State House in Marina. - Advertisement - The governor said the assignment and terms of reference of the committee speak to the real essence of the constitution and party politics.   2023: Some APC stalwarts plotting against me, Fayemi alleges     Stop wearing military camouflage for campaigns, DHQ warns…     ‘Poor braille literacy, resources leaving blind students…   He said: “People might have different expectations and different ways in which things need to run in their states. So, I believe the assignment and terms of reference of the committee speak to the real essence of the constitution and the real essence of party politics and participations that, indeed, we might have differences, but in those differences we should be able to resolve our differences. “Given the calibre of eminent Nigerians and members of our party that have been drawn together, I’m certain the outcomes of these interventions that you have taken up will be very fruitful.” Adamu noted that Lagos had no issues since the committee did not receive any petition to show disunity among party members in the state. The former Nasarawa State governor added that the committee’s visit was to further strengthen existing unity of the ruling party in the state. “We appreciate the reception of His Excellency. I am happy and I speak for the members of the committee. There are no petitions. We are all members of a family. There is no strain and no complaint of anything regarding the relationship between the major stakeholders. “This is encouraging and this kind of state of affairs does not just come by accident. It goes to show the extent to which His Excellency and his team have been able to manage the party’s affairs in the state, how they have been able to advance the interest of the very complex party membership in Lagos. We commend you, the people, particularly party members,” he said.