Lagos State Government is hoping to exceed the N1 billion revenue  it recorded from agriculture last year  and  improve youth employment. To this end,  the government is strengthening its massive youth empowerment programme  to find a path for young people to secure decent work opportunities, as well as explore innovative e-business models in the agricultural sector. Speaking during a sensitisation meeting on the Lagos Agric Scholars’ Programme (LASP), the Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Abisola Olusanya, noted that  that youth employment in agriculture and agribusiness was a way of lifting a significant number of them out of unemployment and poverty. To this effect, the Commissioner who spoke through the Permanent Secretary, Mr Hakeem Adeniji said LASP was  part of the programmes to develop and implement youth-in-agriculture initiatives and to improve  employment opportunities in the agricultural sector. According to her, the programme will expose students to modern agricultural skills and farming methods with the aim of empowering them  with sound practical knowledge of agriculture to complement the theoretical aspect being taught in the classroom. - Advertisement - Read Also: ‘CBN intervention on agro processing effective’   Dangote Cement mops up N35.1b shares     ‘CBN intervention on agro processing effective’     Marginal field: 33 awardees fail to pay signature bonuses   She said LASP programme is also expected to assist schools to generate income, ensure food security and mitigate possible effects of global food crisis. Under SAP, she explained that 158 agricultural projects comprise poultry, piggery, aquaculture and vegetable production were established in 150 public secondary schools, Michael Otedola College of Primary Education ( MOCOPED), Noforija,Epe, as well as within the Girls’ Correctional Centre,Idi Arabs,Surulere. She added: “ it is pertinent to inform this gathering that due to the skyrocketing cost of agricultural inputs for poultry, piggery and fish feed by approximately 170 percent was the major reason for focusing on new enterprise under the rebranded LASP programme.” She continued that the approval of the governor has enabled the ministry to embark on new projects such as snailery, rabbitry, grasscutter and goat rearing enterprise under LASP. The Commissioner said the ministry has established 32 projects in more correction centres and selected public secondary schools located within education districts 1,11 and VI .  The projects, according to him will be implemented as phase 1 in the early part of this year. Other key activities, she mentioned is a capacity building training for Education Districts Desk Officers, Agricultural Science Teachers and Correction Centre Instructors. She said the Eko Schools Agricultural Comic which was produced in collaboration with Corporate Farmers International (CFI) limited is a way of stimulating teaching of pupils and students in public primary and secondary schools.