Chairman of Ajeronmi-Ifelodun Local Government Area in Lagos Fatai Ayoola has called on youths to take advantage of the council’s monthly empowerment programmes. This, he said, would make them become employers of labour instead of engaging in criminal activities. He spoke with The Nation before the presentation of the budget. Tagged, Budget of Sustainability, Ayoola said it would sustain the legacies put in place during his first term.   Court orders Customs to release traders’ trucks, consignment     Delta reconstitutes council     Killings: Nigeria fast returning to barbarism, says ACF   The council chief appealed to the youth to be law-abiding and embrace the government policies. - Advertisement - “They should leverage on the empowerment that we have been providing for them.  They should also access our website for the monthly empowerment of N100,000 to 40 youths.  We want to assist them to be their own employers of labour and it will keep them away from crime. We are also appealing to them to take sports as their hobby instead of crime,” he said. Ayoola said more funds will be injected into road constructions, sporting facilities and completion of ongoing projects like the healthcare facilities at Alayabiagba and the secretariat to accommodate the federal agencies and the council chamber for councillors. “We are going to spend more on security, on food interventions because of the reality that hunger kills more than COVID-19. We are going to make our health care facilities in Akere run 24 hours and we are going to put more security measures in place at black spots that will curb any infractions in terms of security breaches. We are going to assist the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Navy and the three police divisions in our community. We are going to do more on youth empowerment and women emancipation and care for the aged,” he said. He enjoined residents to pay their dues as the council intends to improve on the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to be able to do more projects.