HASSAN: Hello, my name is Kabiru Hassan. I work with Nigeria Railway Corporation. I need your assistance concerning my pension fund. My RSA has not been credited for seven years, from 2012 to 2018. Although I got a message on September 29, 2021 showing payment of N46,592.15 to my RSA account for 2017 which I don’t understand. My PEN number is anonymous. I will be very glad if my request is considered.  PENCOM: You are required to inform your employer, Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) to forward your nominal roll from 2021 to 2018 or to the date NRC joined IPPIS for processing of your outstanding pension contributions. Please note that issues related to pension contributions from the date NRC joined IPPIS are not within the purview of the Commission, they should be channelled to IPPIS in the OAGF.  IVARA:  I am Mr. Ivara, I retired from the Nigeria police on 2015 under the Contributory Pension Scheme. Recently, payment was made to pensioners in other federal establishment under consequential adjustment arising from the implementation of new minimum wage on April 30, 2021. The arrears took effect from April, 2019 and payment commence from May,2021. I will like to know the position of police retirees and pensioners. Are we not pensioners in Nigeria?  PENCOM: Since you retired in 2015, you are not eligible to any pension benefits arising from any new minimum wage implementation after your retirement, as your complaint was bothering on minimum wage increase in 2019 which took effect in 2021. Thank you.  ANNONYMOUS: l retired from Nigeria police in 2015. l made a complaints for non-payment of consequential adjustment to pension benefits arising the implementation of new minimum wage on 30th April, 2021 paid to others Federal retirees/pensioners. Furthermore, we applied to our PFA for payment of additional lumpsum, but they have not been paid. Please we need explainations. Thank you, Senior Citizen. - Advertisement -  PENCOM: Please note that the eligibility for the arrears of 2.5 per cent employer portion of pension contribution took effect from July 2014. It was paid based on regulations and framework on how additional retirement benefit income are treated. Please visit you PFA. Thank you.  DUMNAMENE:  Dear Omobola, kindly assist me to wipe my tears away by implementing my monthly pension that was stopped sometimes last year due to double pin. I was referred to ARM Pension for recapturing, which I did from Fidelity Pension. I don’t know why it is lingering till now. Kindly help. Dr Dumnamene from Rivers State.  PENCOM: You are please advised to forward the two PINs to the Commission for further investigation. ANONYMOUS: Good day, I will like to know how long it take to get PENCOM approval for payment of accrued rights for someone who died in active service.  PENCOM: Please note that payment of accrued rights of deceased employees of treasury-funded MDAs are subject to release of funds by the Federal Government.   I’m blind but alive with pension, says Lagos retiree     PenCom, PenOp refresh micro pension plan for 2022     PenCom, PFAS rise against COVID-19, macroeconomic indices in…   ADEOSUN: My name is Adeosun, a pensioner since 2019. I have not been paid my pension benefit. Kindly help.  PENCOM: You are please advised to forward your PIN to the Commission for further investigation.  OCHENI: My name is Ocheni. I retired from the Federal Polytechnic Idah. I worked from 1996 to 2019 for 23 years. I need answer to three complaints: The first is that should my total retirement benefits be N3,310,881.89 as was paid to me? Secondly, if the first question is yes, should my lump be #827,720.47 as was paid to me? Thirdly, should my monthly pension be #22, 627.90?  PENCOM: Please note that your retirement benefit was determined based on the information you provided to the Commission during the Enrolment Exercise. Furthermore, your lumpsum and monthly pension were determined based on your final RSA balance, Annual Total Emolument (ATE), age and gender using a programmed withdrawal (PW) template. AKEREDOLU: Good day, greetings to The Nation newspaper. God bless you more for the good works you are doing for pensioners. Please, I want to know the reason why the PENCOM or PFAs are not paying the arrears of money of retirees that retired in 2014, 2O15, 2O16, etc up till now. My PFA, Legacy FCMB Pension does not send me any information or alert till date. I want to know what they are doing with my money. PENCOM:  should warn or sanction my PFA for not communicating with me.  PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as the payment has been effected from the commission. thank you. ADEMOYEWA: Good Day, the Federal Government in July 2021 increased it share from 7.5 percent to 10 percent under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and directed a retrospective payment of arrears from 2014 to its workers. In other words, the 2.5 percent increment should be paid to its retired workers under the CPS from 2014 to date. PENCOM is yet to implement this directive for those of us that retired in 2018. Kindly help us out. Dr Ademoyewa.  PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as the payment has been effected from the commission. Thank you. DADA: President Buhari approved payments of outstanding accrued pension rights for FGN retirees, death benefits and 2.5% increase of monthly pension contributions for FGN employees. Pencom, please when are you paying us the 2.5%?  PENCOM: Please forward your full name as well as your RSA pin details to enable the commission investigate further. Thank you.