The latest Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) report on sectoral utilisation of foreign exchange for the third quarter of 2021 showing that the country spent $1.68bn on food importation between January to September last year should be a source of worry to every Nigerian. It is, if anything, indicative of the vast gap that still exists between the government’s oft-touted claims about sufficiency generally, and what the marketplace actually suggests. Put in the context of the billions poured into the various intervention programmes by both the apex bank and the Federal Government, Nigerians might begin to wonder if indeed those massive interventions are having the desired effects. Even at that, the report is hardly an isolated one. In yet another report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the country is said to have imported over N1trillion ($2.06billion) fish from major nine countries in the last two years. And only recently, this newspaper reported that the country actually spent about N500 billion on fish import in the last 11 months alone. Both reports also suggest that the imports have actually been growing over time. For instance, from $789.74million in 2019, fish import was found to have grown to $1.27billion in 2020 – a whopping 38 per cent or $480.2million in value. The same, of course, applies to Nigeria’s milk import bill said to have risen by 28 per cent within nine months. In other words, our economy has remained a consumptive one. Not that we are entirely surprised at the findings of the reports. If anything, it seems highly likely that the figure is understated given Nigerians’ love for anything imported and the extent unscrupulous Nigerians will go to thwart those polices of government designed to encourage citizens to look inwards. At this time, the question that must bother those in charge of policies, as indeed every Nigerian, is the question what is actually going on or, better still, what needs to be done to reverse the trend. By this we mean getting Nigerians to invest in and eat what they grow. After all, the government has tried the weapon of a protracted border closure targeted at stemming the nefarious activities of smugglers and to protect our local farmers. Yet, the overall effects in either arresting smuggling or boosting domestic agricultural productivity have remained most debatable, such that commodities as foreign rice and poultry products, most of which are smuggled, are still found everywhere in the country. Equally noteworthy are the billions of naira committed into the Anchor Borrowers’ Scheme as indeed several other intervention projects to boost not just rice production but agricultural production in general. Even here, the jury is still out on whether these have achieved their intended objectives. It takes nothing for government to admit that huge gaps still exist between the intendments of policies and the actual deliverables. That admission can only help it to better focus, if not appreciate what additional steps that need to be taken to bridge the gap.   Shadowy govt accounts     Hard tackle on Mali     Ernest Shonekan (1936 – 2022)   We must of course admit that the monetary authority in particular has shown commendable leadership even where its fiscal counterpart has either faltered or acted below par. Overall, however, it is clear that massive gaps still exist within the value chain, notably in the area of logistics, storage/preservation and marketing that continue to hobble genuine efforts at the sector’s transformation. This obviously calls for renewed focus on investments – a basic prerequisite for commercial agriculture which is particularly desired at this time. - Advertisement - As for the sub national governments, theirs have been most unimaginative in terms of their overall response to the alarming food insecurity. Going forward, we expect our various state governments to put their acts together, particularly as the task of addressing the gaps, in the final count, lies in their hands. So much for the billions flying around in interventions; we now realise how far these can go. Without the state governments putting in complementary measures – such as the strengthening of their extension services, with particular emphasis on site and services activities to ensure that our farmers are weaned off the drudgery of physical exertions, to mechanisation, not only will the desired goal of improved productivity of our farmers remain a mirage, the sector will continue to be unattractive to the army of young people so badly needed to turn the sector around. Of course we cannot forget the insecurity in the land which has made many farmers flee their farms. This must be tackled vigorously if we don’t want to be pumping funds into agriculture only for bandits and other criminals to make such funds go down the drain.