Considering the turn-around being witnessed in all sectors of the Ogun State economy, in the last 30 months that the current State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, was sworn in, it would not be an exaggeration if one concludes that the age-long Yoruba mantra of hard work as the antidote to poverty “Ise Logun Ise” and the first word of the Anthem of the Gateway State, “Iseya” or “Call to Service,” are the driving force of the administration, that came on board on May 29, 2019. To those that wished the state well, the Captain of the ship, Abiodun however, could not have done less than to prove wrong his detractors, who did not give his administration any chance of success at inception. Determined to prove his critics and detractors wrong, Abiodun hit the ground running with the five-letter word “ISEYA,” meaning “Work has Started”. Almost 30 months down the line, the governor has effected fundamental changes through many initiatives encapsulated under the acronym I-S-E-Y-A.  These programs targeted putting an end to poverty and misery. Each letter stands for a specific area of action by the government,  geared towards enduring development of the Gateway State: I –infrastructure development S – Social Welfare and Wellbeing E – Education and Human Capital Development - Advertisement - Y – Youth Empowerment, and A – Agriculture and Food Security   Infrastructure:  Several infrastructural projects have been executed in the three Senatorial Districts of the state to make life more meaningful to the residents and to encourage investment and provide ease of doing business. In the area of roads, a total number of 270km of new roads across the three senatorial districts have been constructed while over 300km of roads have been rehabilitated throughout the state. The affordable housing project is another area of infrastructure in which the current administration deployed financial resources. Apart from the fact that the housing project provided one of the basic needs of human existence, shelter, the government also used the project as a means of generating employment for the people directly and indirectly. The government within the first 100 days in office, delivered 150 low housing units at Prince Court Estate located at Kemta Estate, Idi-Aba, Abeokuta under the First Phase of the project. There are also ongoing housing schemes to deliver 2000 units including  King’s Court Estate (Abeokuta); Laderin Civil Servants Scheme,; Ilaro, Otta; Ijebu Ode and Sagamu. Still, on infrastructure, the Dapo Abiodun led Administration also embarked on Reinvigoration of Security Architecture on assumption of office. The efforts of the administration commenced with the  Amendment of Ogun State Security Trust Fund (OGSTF) Law in August 2019. The Operationalising and Funding the Trust Fund was a major departure from what it used to be as the government distributed over 200 vehicles and 100 motorcycles to security agencies; provision of tracking devices and mainstreaming of local hunters, vigilantes into the State security architecture. The government also facilitated the deployment of a helicopter for aerial surveillance leading to the arrest of kidnappers and bandits. In line with the decision of the South-West states to set up State Security Network, the state government initiated the Amotekun Bill, which was passed by the State House of Assembly and made functional with the appointment of   Commandant and recruitment of Corps to boost the security network of the Gateway State. The government undertook Urban Development with the setting up of three parastatals to handle Planning and Development, Slum Regeneration, and Building Production Management The initiative also involved signing up of an Urban Renewal Memorandum of Understanding on the three-year Future Cities Nigeria programme in a partnership drive with the UK, through the UK Prosperity Fund. As a major aspect of infrastructural development, the government embarked on the expansion of the state power distribution network by procuring and installing several 500 KVA transformers to communities in all the 20 local government areas of the state. The government has also commenced Urban Water Resuscitation projects in various locations to provide potable water to Abeokuta and 14 other major communities in Ikenne, Igbogila, Ibooro, Odonopa, Ipokia, Idowa, Omu Ijebu, Ago Iwoye, Igbesa, Owode Yewa, Imoru, Ibefun and Ikangba. The Powerline at Ikangba Borehole Scheme in Ijebu-Ode Other notable projects executed by the current administration in the area of infrastructure are: Establishment of new Waste Disposal and Management parastatal, the Ogun State Waste Management Agency (OGWAMA);   Social welfare & wellbeing Social Welfare and Wellbeing, which is the second component, of the acronym, involves activities geared towards the ensuring of healthy and quality living standard of the citizenry. These include healthcare facilities, provision of facilities to facilitate ease of doing business and means of building and increasing the capacity of the people doing business. Under the healthcare programmes, activities of the present administration include Rehabilitation of Primary Healthcare Centres  (PHCs) at  minimum one primary health centres across in each of the 236 wards in the state.   Lagos APC to Lagosians: expect a better 2022     Why disagreement over Electoral Bill may not be resolved     Major events that would shape politics in 2022   The government has also equipped State hospitals in Ijaiye, Abeokuta and Ilaro in Yewa South Local Government Area and other secondary health facilities across the three senatorial districts and purchased a new fleet of 10 ambulances. To optimise return on physical investment on healthcare facilities, the government recruited and provide incentives for medical personnel including resident  doctors, nurses,  pharmacists and other healthcare professionals in various cadres into the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu and across the General Hospitals and PHCs The government had also embarked on Medical outreach by offering free medical examination and dispensation of including free eyeglasses, immunisation, and BP checks, Hepatitis tests, counselling and vaccination in several locations of the state. During the outbreak of COVID-19, the administration initiated: proactive measures to mitigate and flatten the curve of the virus by pioneering the establishment of the first mobile COVID-19 testing booth; the first NCDC accredited Mobile Molecular Laboratory in Nigeria; Drive-Through and Walk-In Testing Centre, equipped with a specially designed protective glass box to be used by medical personnel collecting samples, allows suspected patients drive their cars in or simply walk in and get tested with almost instant result. Also during the period, the government prioritised welfare for frontline workers and people by establishing five isolation and treatment centres and increasing health workers salaries. The government during the period, raised by 300%  Hazard Allowances of Frontline workers just as it initiates life Insurance covering 8, 000 medical workers in different categories. Other aspects of the Social Wellbeing Component of the State Policy are: Greater Ease of Doing Business by leveraging on World Bank OGSTEP Facility of $250million credit, towards the financing of the Ogun State Economic Transformation Project (OGSTEP) through the strengthening of its agriculture value chains, developing skills and fortifying its business environment.   Education In the last 30 months of administration of Governor Dapo Abiodun, the government has executed several projects in the books and crannies of the state and had embarked on policies aimed at raising the bar of education in the state. These activities are:   Youth empowerment: In any society, the importance of the Youth in all aspects of human endeavours cannot be overemphasized. However, this class of population in Nigeria, which accounted for a substantial percentage, is bedeviled by various negative characteristics occasioned mainly by a high level of unemployment. Determined to reverse the trend to make youths in the state productive and contribute to state development, the Dapo Abiodun Administration has initiated several youth-oriented policies. These policies include:   Agriculture and human security In Ogun State, Agriculture is one of the flagship programs of the administration. The government, through various agricultural policies and programs, has been engaging youths productively. The agricultural programs of the state had earned the state and the governor, Abiodun, several awards both within and outside the state. Some of the agricultural programmes executed by the state include Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), Ogun Broiler Project, Rice Intervention, Agro-Industrial Processing, fish farming and FADAMA Scheme. The government through the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) facilitated the crediting by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) of 6,265 farmers drawn across all 20 Local Government Areas. Also, the Ogun Broiler Project: Ovever 9,000 youths benefited with each beneficiary making an average profit of N180,000 per six weeks of production. The Ogun Rice Intervention programme involves the facilitation of access to loan and seedling to rice farmers across the state and provision of farmlands, including the 120,000-hectare rice farm at Sowunmi Village along the Ofada/Mokoloki axis of the State. The program, also involved fast-tracking of the Joint Ogun State and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) Value Chain Project in eight Local Government Areas. Under Agro-Industrial Processing, Ogun State after competitive bidding, was on 8th April 2020 shortlisted by the African Development Bank (AfDB) as a major hub for Industrial Cassava, Poultry, Agro-Forestry and Fishery processing zone. For fish farming, the intervention was done, as the government constructed and maintained 385 (Dug-Out – 235; Tank – 130) new fish ponds/tanks 300 fish farmers across the state. This is as 2,815 farmers were assisted in stocking over 3,815,000 Clarias Fingerlings. In the FADAMA Scheme of the administration, 200 youths benefited under  FADAMA Graduate Unemployed Youths Scheme (GUYS), with beneficiaries being granted over N74 million. The government has also constructed four solar-powered boreholes, bringing to 11 number of the type and serving 2,500 beneficiaries of the Ogun State Value Chain Development Programme (VCDP) having access to safe drinking water.