Mozambican music trio, DJ Tarico, Preck and Nelson Tivane better known in music circles as Yaba Buluku Boyz have taken time-out to highlight the love Nigerian musicians show to other African artistes. “We are making an impact in Nigeria and people are noticing us,” the group remarked recently during their visit to Nigeria. The trio gave their insight on the backdrop of the scathing remarks by Ghanaian singer Shatta Wale which was targeted at Nigerian artistes. From nowhere, the Yaba Buluku Boyz have breezed in to pitch tents on the Nigerian music landscape with their Amapiano themed style of music. At the close of the year, December 31, 2021, the trio sealed the year with a collaboration with Mama Africa, Yemi Alade titled “Tell Somebody”-a song powered by Effyzzie Music and Geobek Records. - Advertisement - Highlighting the love Nigerian shows to African artists, Yaba Buluku Boys opened up on making the line-up of performers at Burna Boy’s Live Experience show.   Sotayogaga preaches peace after new role as Queen Mother     Don’t marry if you aren’t a millionaire, Joro Olumofin…     Burna Boy gifts $3000 to singer who grabbed his foot   They also revealed that they headlined 2RS Fest with Focalistic from South Africa and also, Phyno and Olamide featured them on their annual show which had A-list artists performing live. Read Also: Sotayogaga preaches peace after new role as Queen Mother They also informed that a handful of nightclubs in Nigeria have also hosted them and given them VIP treats. On their music collaboration with Burna Boy, they revealed that the Nigerian artiste supported them on the remix of their smash hit ‘Yaba Buluku’ which has given them global recognitions and awards for Best Song of the Year, Best Collaboration of the Year and top 100 Best songs of 2021 on Apple Music. Their newly released collaboration with Yemi Alade is focused on African unity and the group is set on a Geobek Standard Pan-African mission to use music to unite the African nations. “If Nigeria can accept the boys, and other African collaborations then there shouldn’t be any feud between Ghana and Nigeria,” says George Beke aka Geobek, manager of the Yaba Buluku Boyz. Shatta Wale had stated that there were doubts in some quarters that he would not be able to attract enough fans to fill his concert set for Ghana’s biggest stadium unless he engages a Nigerian act to join the show.