A 10-year-old girl was allegedly defiled by 16-year-old twin brothers, Chukwuemeka and Chukwuebuka Okpe, in Abagana, Njikoka Local Government of Anambra. The Executive Director of Davina Care Foundation, Mrs Rachel Yohanna, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday, in Awka that the case was brought to the foundation by the mother of the victim, Mrs Benedict Sunday, a nurse. NAN learnt that the suspects were children of the caretaker of the house where the victim lived and had been continually harassed for her refusal to be defiled a second time. Yohanna said the alleged crime was reported at Abagana Police Station on Jan. 16, and the suspects and their mother, Mrs Chinwe Okpe, were arrested. She said the girl was taken to Ntasi Centre for Sexual Assault Cases at Enugu-Ukwu General Hospital, where it was confirmed that she was defiled, following perennial tears (the area between the vagina and the anus). - Advertisement - She also said that the victim, accompanied by a police officer and an aunt to the suspects, went for a second test at police clinic when the mother of the suspects said the medical result from Ntasi centre was forged. According to Yohanna, the result still came out positive.   Police arrest three suspects for allegedly, stealing,…     Cultists kill no fewer than five residents of Ilesa     110 abducted Chibok girls still unaccounted for – Community…   “The mother of the victim said her daughter complained of pains in her private part and stomach sometime in November 2021, without telling her the caretaker’s sons defiled her. “As a nurse, she bought drugs and used hot towel to massage her daughter’s vagina area. ” On Jan. 16, she said she got back from work and met vigilante group with her daughter waiting. The group said they brought back her daughter after she ran to them for safety. “She said the twin boys tried to defile her daughter a second time and because she refused, they beat her. When the girl reported to their mother (caretaker), she slapped her and threatened to deal with her if she did not keep quiet. “The girl ran to the vigilante group for safety. And her mother reported the matter to the police station in Abagana afterwards,” she said. Yohanna said that during police interrogation, the victim said the twin boys attacked her in the bathroom while her mother was away, held her down on the floor and defiled her. “The twin boys are still denying the defilement, “she said. Yohanna said the victim was on treatment while the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Akwa, for further investigation. She said the case would be charged to family court after investigation, while the foundation will mobilise support and follow up the case to ensure the victim get the needed medical help and justice, ” she said.(NAN)