Popular Fuji musician, Saheed ‘Osupa’ Akorede has urged his colleagues to pay more attention to the creation of quality lyrics rather than lewd lyrics. Osupa noted that with quality and meaningful lyrics, Fuji music would continue to rise above other genres of music and remain relevant. According to the singer, Fuji musicians should avoid imitating hip-hop singers in creating the lyrics of their songs. “If we sing Fuji music in its proper way, Fuji music will never vanish or die. As an African, I have to behave like a typical African, though I do infuse hip hop into some of my songs but I will not allow that to bastardise my Fuji music,” Osupa said.   Gifted ranks top, enters season three     My entire acting career has been in Nollywood, Amata     Five Nigerian female celebrities who went from fat to fit   He further encouraged his colleagues to remain loyal to the genre saying, ‘late Sikiru Ayinde Barrister never moved from his Fuji music to any genres of music so that is what we should emulate as professionals.’ - Advertisement - Continuing, he said, “The meaning of Fuji music is experimentation of late Sikiru Ayinde Barrister’s music dexterity. He used various flavours of music that are in vogue and combined them to his music to gain fans of those popular musicians then but his song never loses Fuji music flavour.” The singer cum actor, who is fondly referred to as ‘Olufimo,’ said that there is no point for any Fuji artists to switch fully to the hip hop genre. “My thought as an African that is not Eurocentric like some people that have westernised their brain is that I never paraded myself as a hip hop artiste. I remain a Fuji musician because Fuji music already contains different elements of genres. It is the combination of the various flavours of music just like a cocktail or salad. So, if other Fuji musicians are doing an infusion of hip hop music like I do, without going into it fully to the extent that Fuji music does not lose its flavour but in a new form it would’ve been good,” he submitted.