For the oil and gas industry, 2022 is set to be a defining year for so many reasons. This is consequent upon the legacy matters that were carried over from last year. Chiefly among the factors that held the sector down were litigations. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Chief Timipre Sylva has counted down to this year for conflict resolution. On May 5, 2021, he told judges, including the Chief Justice of Nigeria, that owing to litigations, many International Oil Companies (IoC) were mulling the idea of leaving their onshore operations in the Nigeria. He lamented that on assumption of office, he realised that the industry had the penchant for sueing oil firms.The practice, according to him, was impeding the growth of the industry. To address the menace of unnecessarily court cases, the ministry held a National Oil and Gas Workshop for Hon. Justices and Judges. The theme of the workshop was “Petroleum Industry Act New Legal and Fiscal Regime in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry.” He said it had become apt to train those at the bench on the nitty gritty of the industry, especially with the enactment of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). Sylva said it was predictive that the act would provoke more court cases. He described the litigation as one of the major factors retarding onshore operations of the country. - Advertisement - Sylva spoke in Abuja, at the last year’s  workshop for judges. He said: “We must start from the judiciary because I can tell you that this is one of the weakest link in the oil and gas industry. When I first came in as Minister of State, someone told me there were a lot of cases in the court. “He wanted us to support him to win the cases. What I realised was that was what was happening in the oil industry. “The industry was taking oil companies to court. He said he had over 200 cases in court. And unfortunately, it has impeded the growth of the industry. “Today, I can tell you that a lot of oil companies are contemplating leaving the onshore of Nigeria. “And one of the biggest problem we have onshore in Nigeria is incessant court cases that revibrate across the industry.” The Chief Justice of Nigeria,  Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, said the PIA would increase transparency. He admitted that the judiciary is not unaware of what has been going on in the oil and gas industry. The CJN vowed that the judiciary would provide the required interpretation of the PIA when necessary. Unless the Federal Government, judiciary and stakeholders in the industry resolve to settle unnecessary matters out of court, 2022 may remain just another year of stagnation. Still in the upstream, the government has in its hand the issue of crude oil production allocation to the marginal field operations. Myriad of complaints had permeated this section of the sector last year, which have remained unresolved in 2022. Recall that due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, demand for crude oil dipped to its abbys in the international market. Consequently, the black gold’s prices nosedived unprecedentedly. Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the cartel of the global crude oil market pruned its production quota. Nigeria, its highest African supplier of the commodity, had no choice. As the organisation cut its quota, the country returned home to the drawboard to reduce oil companies quotas. This measure affected both the international oil companies and marginal field operators. To the latter, it was an unfair decision. Although the marginal field operators, complained with their tongue in their cheek, they patched on in the industry with the veneer of hate. As some of them could not confront the minister and the then Director, Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Sarki Auwalu, to table their grievances, they registered their angst through the media. One of them, who spoke on condition of anonymity said operators of marginal fields were groaning under the new Federal Government directive which reduced their production volume by half. The policy, which they described  as adverse to their operation, might still compel them to pull out of the business if the government fails to address the situation in three months. This was as at early last year. The Nation gathered from some of the operators, who are mostly indigenous players, that since the government applied the measure, the investors in the marginal fields can no longer service their loans. But the marginal field operator said “We were producing 5,000 barrels per day. They have reduced our production to 2,500 bpd in the last three months. You have already killed the companies. We cannot meet our obligation to our creditors.” According to the investor, they find it difficult to run the fields because of the minimal production volume. Explaining that the marginal filed operators can no longer cope under the policy, he said, “therefore, we have to retrench.”   Djokovic’s many troubles Down Under     Messi yet to recover from COVID-19     2023: Members, not leaders, will choose PDP’s presidential…   The grouse of the marginal field operators is that their businesses are worse hit since they are yet to stabilise like the the international players. He added that the marginal field operators have more of indigenous workers under their employment, noting that it is through their employment money trickles down directly to the Nigerians, especially the downtrodden. Basically, it is through the marginal fields that the commonwealth from the industry gets to the indigenous people. In other words, the implementation of the Nigerian Content Act is better realised via this segment of the industry. It is pertinent to recall that marginal field operators that retrenched some of their the workers as a result of the 2016 recession and unfavourable business environment have not reappointed them. Only last year, it became apparent that the government was yet to conclude the 2020 marginal field bid round programme. But the last that was heard of the fields was that the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC) is set to close out the 2020 marginal field bid round programme and has put in place necessary machinery to progress the bid round exercise to conclusion in line with the Petroleum Industry Act 2021 (PIA). According to a statement, the Commission’s Chief Executive, Mr. Gbenga Komolafe in a notice to participants in the programme indicated that an in-house work team has already been constituted to deal with outstanding issues, including distilling and addressing the concerns of awardees to close out issues affecting multiple awardees per asset and formation of Special Purpose Vehicles (SPV) by awardees in line with the  letters of award. Consequently, the Commission has enjoined awardees with the indicated issues to avail themselves of the resolution mechanism provided, in the overriding national interest. Mr. Komolafe also stated that the Commission is collaborating with lease holders to agree on transition mechanisms in line with the PIA and the aspirations of government for the marginal field bid round exercise. Restating that the 45 days period for payment of signature bonus by successful awardees, as stipulated by the Marginal Field Guidelines has lapsed, he assured those who have fully paid their signature bonuses that the Commission would ensure that all guidelines to enable them progress to the next stage of the exercise, are fully implemented. Upon the completion and operation of these acreages, they will in no small measure contribute to Nigeria’s crude oil production. It is thus obvious that the assignment of making haste to support the development of the marginal field has already been cut out for the government. Through the field, the government can employ so many people and realise its dream of raising crude oil reserve to 40 billion barrels. Besides, it can spur the journey towards attainment of four million- barrel day production target in 2022. Yet, this year remains key to the completion of some projects likes… the $3.6 billion Brass Fertiliser and Petrochemical Company Limited (BFPCL), which the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) with its partners DSV Engineering Limited and Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) took Final Investment Decision last year, slates for inauguration in 2024. The corporation and its partners took the FID for the construction of first ever methanol plant in Nigeria at the cost of $3.6 billion. The plant, an integrated methanol and gas project in Odioma, Brass Island, Bayelsa State, which is scheduled to come into operation in 2024, is expected to produce 10,000 tons of methanol daily. To this gigantic project, 2022 is a defining moment for it to ensure to completion, therefore, the partners must see to its implementation to completion in 2024. Another wake up call is for the Federal Government to make good its promise of completing the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline. 2022 is a great expectation for the conclusion of the project. Last June, President Muhammadu Buhari signed a pact for the construction. In June that year, the government commenced the construction of the 40-inch x 614km gas pipeline project with 24 months’ timeline of project delivery target. The AKK Gas Pipeline is a pipeline planned to transport natural gas from Ajaokuta, in Kogi State to Kano, in Kano State, through several states and urban centers, as part of the Trans Nigeria Gas Pipeline. Upon completion, the project will enable the injection of 2.2bscf/d of gas into the domestic market and facilitate an additional power generation capacity of 3,600MW. Last year, the government cried out over oil theft. It partnered the military to bring oil bunkering and pipeline vandalism to a halt. This year should be a follow up moment for the government in its assignment of oil theft stoppage. On the other hand, there is also the issue of petrol smuggling to neighbouring countries that do not enjoy petrol subsidy. Last May, the daily consumption of the product rose surprisingly to 60 million litres from a neighbourhood of 54 million litres. This year,  the task for tracking petrol smuggling remains a core mandate for the security operatives before the removal of the subsidy. With the enactment of the PIA, all eyes are now on the Federal Government to put in place all the conditions precedent to the full deregulation of the downstream sector. Majorly among the factors is in-country refining of petroleum products. 2022 is actually a year to test run the PIA. It is essentially a moment for the government to gather the courage to allow market fundamentals to determine the prices of all petroleum products. In order words, the removal of petrol subsidy remains a bold step that may make or mar the government in 2022. Should the government remove it, according to its calculation, it will free more fund for infrastrutural development. However, owing a trust deficit, the citizenry have cast a shadow of doubt on the government sincerity. For the government, there is huge task of awareness campaign about palliative that will cushion the pains of exit from the subsidy. The government must make some frantic efforts  for people’s buy in to the policy before its execution to avert the looming danger of hunger and anger. The Federal Government, last year,  awarded a contract for the  rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refining Company at $1.5 billion. It is an 18-month project, which the NNPC Group Managing Director, Malam Mele Kyari, said could start refining even before the completion of the entire project. The year has thrusted the task of making up for government’s inability to provide refined products for the country to private investors. While the government relies on Dangote Oil Refining Company and other modular refineries to meet its needs, its patience to allow them come on stream before phasing out the subsidy must not snap. Once Nigeria hits substantial a level of refining, there is no doubt that all the stakeholders will be in dire need of a sincere mutual consent for the removal of petrol subsidy to avert anger and hunger, and on the other hand, to block the financial drain pipe of subsidy.