Instead of bemoaning how singularly horrible the past year was, or engaging in the dismal task of delineating a hierarchy of horribleness in the events thereof, would it not be healthier, certainly more respectful of the reader’s equanimity in particular and the temper of these times in general to dwell on matters more diverting and perhaps in some respects even more illuminating? Such as, well, Matters Miscellaneous?  Why not? That, any rate, is the mission of the column today, the first in 2022. Who has not by now had a surfeit of the litany of bad news, more bad news and very bad news that has suffused the airwaves, the headlines and the front pages of the news media.  You cannot get away from them.  They pursue you insidiously and relentlessly.  Who would not welcome a respite, however brief, from such suffocating attention? You don’t have to look hard to find them. To even mention them, however obliquely, is to ruin the spirit of the occasion; hence, this miscellany, starting with a lexical concern. - Advertisement - To preserve the purity of the language, the lexicographers at the English Oxford Dictionary (OED) periodically cast shadows on the legitimacy of some words in current usage.  Bless their fairmindedness, they scour the lexicon for some terms that are widely employed in current usage but had not been accorded formal entry into the language. It was in one such review in early 2020 that many terms that were formerly dismissed as “Nigerianisms” were formally incorporated into proper lexicon – terms such as barbing, bukateria, ember month, flag-off, non-indigene, next tomorrow, gist, guber, rub minds, sef, and K-leg. Whatever the rank OED now accords them, I would hesitate to use them when writing for foreign audiences   or the newly literate in English. To update its review, OED should next look at terms that are not widely used and in fact may not be a candidate on any protagonist’s list for promotion but nevertheless have such a powerful ring on the ear that you have to wonder what they are doing outside the league. I am thinking of the term “byforce,” noun. It won me over the very first time I heard it used in the pidgin, as in Dem byforce you? And since then, I have never missed a chance to use it myself. It is felicitous, it is direct, it is vigorous, and it admits of no ambiguity, it is as sharp as a command. Rendered in Standard English, it would come out in the interrogative as:  Were you forced? Did anyone force you?  Or as “Did they force you? That sentence has nothing of the vibrancy, the vigour, the directness, and the immediacy of “Dem byforce you?” So that if and when you finally accord the term its proper place or set out to translate into Standard English, take special care, ladies and gentlemen, to preserve those elements that make it so finely wrought. Who would have thought that, even in Nigeria, being referred to as a former holder of an office you have  long ceased to hold can cost a third party more than a little inconvenience?  That was what happened at the Kaduna Investment Summit last September, when the master of ceremonies introduced the Man of the Moment, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, as the “former Emir of Kano.” The former emir’s countenance changed as he rose to speak. “Next time don’t call me a former Emir of Kano,’’ he said gravely. “There is nothing like that.” If anyone in that august assembly was steeped in protocol, it would have to be the master of ceremonies, Muhammad Sani Abdullahi, chief of staff to Kaduna State Governor Nasr el Rufai.  So, what went wrong?   Ban: Twitter meets conditions     Expanding social safety nets to reduce poverty     ‘Let’s go back to competitive, constructive federalism’   Would Sanusi have preferred to be called a former governor of the Central Bank, at the end of which controversial tenure he was named emir of Kano in contentious circumstances? For good measure, Sanusi hinted before resuming his seat that that he too might soon have to call Abdullahi a former Chief of Staff. Three weeks later, the former emir’s prophecy came true.  Abdullahi had indeed become former chief of staff.  Substantively, he had been reduced to an ordinary permanent secretary, following a cabinet shuffle. Observers are still puzzled as to the cause of the former emir’s umbrage.  Was it because the title was not prefaced with “His Royal Highness”?  Would he have preferred to be called “the deposed former emir of Kano, or even more truthfully “the deposed emir of Kano”? Since the former emir whose attendance is so much in demand at home and abroad, and since he still dresses the part, san the staff of office he used to cradle so fondly, he should clarify matters to save his hosts future embarrassment. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, had cause to rebuke the media lately for, among other crimes, holding the government hostage.   I am surprised that he has not urged the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice to comb the statute books for laws prohibiting and punishing that kind of rascality. The charge seems to me to be based on a misreading of the evidence. If anything, it is the media that are forever investing President Muhammadu Buhari with powers he does not possess, thus seeking to hold him hostage to their fancies. Thus, hardly a week passes without encountering newspapers headline such as the following: Buhari orders power agencies to double output by March. Buhari orders NUC to produce Nigeria’s Nobel Prize winner in Physics. Buhari orders NNPC to double oil exports to meet demand. Buhari to Army Defence Chiefs:  Crush Boko Haram and ISIS Now. It is also only in Nigeria that you have the media reporting all kinds of persons, most of them insignificant, “dragging” the eminent persons of the realm to court, among them, the President, the Senate President, state governors cabinet ministers, and just about anyone who wields a rubberstamp. One crucial issue at the recent Glasgow Conference on Climate, COP 26:  What to do with coal, a leading source environmental pollution, beg your pardon of greenhouse gas emissions. Phase it out, some countries submitted.  Phase it down, others said. Those in favour of phasing down said it was the first crucial step toward phasing out; that you cannot phase out without first phasing down.  Those for phasing out could not but agree that phasing down was a good start toward that goal.  They debated targets for phasing out or phasing down. Each side went home with sense of accomplishment. A nice dodge, until they meet again. To the National Assembly:   Before you engage in another public spat with the executive branch again over legislative jurisdiction, make sure you do your homework.  You cannot afford anytime soon the kind of dusting you suffered last week.  It wasn’t pretty.