Chairman, Senate Committee on Sports, Obinna Ogba, has declared his intension to contest next year’s governorship election in Ebonyi State. The Senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial Zone made the declaration in his Nkalagu country home in Ishielu Local Government Area during a press briefing. He dismissed the charter of equity, otherwise known as zoning, for governorship position in the state. “There is nothing like charter of equity in Ebonyi,” he said. The state has three Senatorial zones, all of which have produced governors. - Advertisement - The Senator representing Ebonyi North/former Governor Sam Egwu and some other stakeholders have been clamouring for power return to the North. Egwu claimed there was a charter of equity in the state for the governorship position. But Ogba challenged proponents of zoning to produce the signed charter, adding that he will not join issues with them. A one-time council chairman, he is a two-term Senator and former Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state.   4.5 million Nigerians fully vaccinated, says Fed Govt     Oyebade retires in style     Abiara to Nigerians: ignore prophets of doom   Ogba said: “Since 1999 when the first governorship election was held in Ebonyi state, our history has been shaped by values of democratisation and the primacy of the people in deciding who rules them. “This process has thrown up men and leaders like Dr Sam Egwu, the first elected civilian governor of Ebonyi who was succeeded by Chief Martin Elechi, and currently Engr. David Umahi who is concluding his second term in the office. “Each of these leaders has contributed their qouta in various aspects of growth and development of Ebonyi state. “But despite all their efforts, youths and human capital development are still suffering in Ebonyi, while poverty is still massively prevelent in our homes. “These among other things are the reasons I am declaring my intention to run for the position of Governor of Ebonyi State with the intention to do things differently by the grace of God if given the opportunity to serve the people. “When I look back at my experience, I realised that God has prepared me for this moment. “I served Ebonyi for the first time as the council chairman of Ishielu LGA. “Our government if elected will be basically welfarist and build the capacity of our economy so that we can provide job for the youths and make Ebonyi attractive, suitable and secure for business. “It is on this premise, that I named my campaign slogan ‘Ebonyi will be happy again’. “I will be human and welfarist-driven while maintaining the existing structure and focusing on rural development.”