All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; eminent lawyer and founder of Afe Babalola University in Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), and other disnitaries yesterday hailed Professor of Mass Communications and Journalism, Ralph Akinfeleye, for his contributions to the shaping of the industry. The occasion was the presentation of a 928-page festschrift in honour of Akinfeleye, the first African to be elected into the council of the global body of journalism and mass communication scholars and professionals – World Journalism Education Council (WJEC). The festschrift, which held at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), and titled: Issues in Fourth and Fifth Estates of the Realm, was edited by Dr. Fassy Yusuf, Prof. Lai Oso, Prof. Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisika, Prof. Innocent Okoye, and Prof. Umaru Pate. Tinubu, who was the chief presenter, and Babalola, the father of the day, were joined by the crème de la crème of the media and journalism industry as well as Akinfeleye’s colleagues, former students, among others. The former Lagos State governor praised Akinfeleye, who recently retired from UNILAG after about 40 years, for training a long line of successful professionals. - Advertisement - The 2023 presidential hopeful was represented by the APC Lagos State Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo. Oladejo said: “I come here this afternoon with warm greetings to this August gathering, most especially to the honouree. He (Asiwaju Tinubu) has asked me to congratulate you on this occasion on your landmark achievements in this profession and all the good things a whole lot of guests have said about you.” Noting that the book was unveiled at “a very auspicious time, a time we are going to the season of politics,” Oladejo added: “I want to say that the political class will find the part of the book that talks about media law and ethics, media social responsibility, press and media politics and other topical issues there very interesting, especially at a time like this.” Read Also: UNILAG NASU, Bashmoh Homes partner on 250-housing scheme   PDP, APC bicker over Ebubeagu, declaration of ex-lawmaker…     Don’t abandon power shift to South, Ohanaeze cautions     Abandoned aircraft not needed for election, says Rivers PDP   Babalola, who was represented by Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), described Akinfeleye as the “media Jagaban of Africa” and a “thorough-bred academic whose exploits in the field of Journalism remain commendable”. He added: “Prof. Akinfeleye was one of the progressive and courageous lecturers who helped me during my seven-year stint as the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of UNILAG. “You all know the story of my tenure as the Pro-Chancellor of this great university. This was when the UNILAG campus was riddled with a cornucopia of problems, including but not limited to the Outreach Centre in Korea scandal where UNILAG certificates were being issued to people without the approval of the university’s Senate, ASUU crisis and Students’ Union restiveness. I have tremendous respect for him because of his forthrightness, downrightness, uprightness, maturity and cooperation.” Pate, the Vice Chancellor of the Federal University, Kashere in Gombe State, praised Akinfeleye for his excellence. Others at the event included marketing communications guru, Dr. Biodun Shobanjo; Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NiDCOM) Chairperson Abike Dabiri-Erewa; chairman of Channels Television, Dr. John Momoh; eminent journalist, Mr. Ray Ekpu; former UNILAG VC, Prof. Rahman Bello, among others. Columnist and TV anchor, Dr. Rueben Abati, who reviewed the book, noted that it was an encyclopaedia on Mass Communication and its adjuncts. He added that it would be of relevance to scholars, practitioners, and students in journalism, broadcasting, public relations, advertising, social media, and related disciplines. The book is divided into seven parts with a section devoted to tributes. It covers Media Law and Ethics, Media Social Responsibility, and Press/Media and Politics. Others are: Social Media/Information, Communication and Technology; Media Convergence and Digitisation; Communication and Development; and Miscellany: Electronic, News, Music, Health, Print, and Sports.