“We shall reach out to all party members, young and old, male and female, create alternate platforms to actively engage the young people and our women, not only for winning elections, but for advocacy, policy formulation and the design of a new development agenda for the party. “We shall return the party to vigorous discussions; pay serious attention to new thinking and the implementation of policies and programmes that will secure and improve the quality of life of all Nigerians” – Senator Iyorcha Ayu, PDP Chairman. I urge my distinguished readers to read the above and compare it with what is happening in the APC under the Governor Buni-led Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee among whose functions is to reconcile members in the several state chapters where crisis is fast consuming the party. Like in its convention planning function, failure is writ large. Ayu’s  speech, and the Buni-led committee’s perfunctory performance, recently led me to write as follows in a piece which I subsequently discarded: “I have watched, with utter  trepidation, as it daily looks to me like there is a real possibility that a party, which Nigerians  happily sent packing a few years ago, might just find its way back to power, not for anything it has done positively, but principally because the ruling APC  is  taking Nigerians for granted: what with its  dilatory leadership and the unceasing bickering tearing many of its state chapters apart? Concluding my discarded piece, I wrote: “I will, therefore, advise APC leaders to see Ayu’s withering attack (I have deliberately left out  the expletives in this piece) as the best tonic for the party’s re-invigoration because, truth be told, it has completely slept on almost all its electoral promises to Nigerians as was ably captured in the Daily Trust Editorial Opinion of Sunday, 12 December, 2021, titled: “Life Has Lost Its Value Under Buhari’s Nigeria”. It is just as well that the article didn’t get published, so my homily therein, can today be directed at my state chapter which is presently in the thick of the primaries for the must win, June, ’22 governorship election. When PDP chieftains boast that they would upend APC in 2023, all they are telegraphing is the chaotic situation in many of its state branches, the reason they say the party may soon unravel. Of course, it needs no gainsaying that contestation for power is the spice of politics, especially in an election year. One is, therefore, not unduly perturbed at the election related – acrimony in both Osun and Ekiti chapters of the party but for the overall good of the party and, indeed, for its  long time survival, its warring chieftains in both states will have to re-strategise, eschew discord and sheathe their swords. In either state, there are many capable hands who can step into the shoes of the current governors but, with the best of intentions in the world, each state can only have one governor at a time. Therefore, utmost caution is advised lest acrimonies at the primaries come back to haunt the party. - Advertisement - As far as Ekiti state is concerned, let me say, a priori, that my overriding concern, as it is for Nigeria in general, is peace. It is only in a peaceful atmosphere that the people can thrive and socio-economic development go on apace. Or truth be told, what development can anybody be talking about in Zamfara state today? I am in a pole position to know that most of those aspiring to be governor in Ekiti have made considerable  contribution to the growth, and acceptance, of APC in the state, and should, therefore, need no lessons on what we have suffered in the hands of a ruthless PDP,  dating back to the days of former President Obasanjo’s ‘FEHIN GBE PON’ when  APC’s victory, then as ACN, whether at elections proper, or at supplementary ones,  and right through the courts, were  egregiously scuttled, until that glorious day in 2010 at the Appellate court, Ilorin, when truth trumped all the lies of the ruling behemoth. We must remember those days and realise that  it is time in Ekiti we abandon our penchant for: kaka k’eku ma je sese a fi sawa da nu, meaning – just spoil it all. It never helped us one bit, even as we had one day governors and Obasanjo inflicted an inchoate impeachment on us, both of which completely arrested the state’s socio- economic development. Another election cycle is here. Must we go the same rout again?   Nigeria 2022: Permutations, postulations and projections…     New year window     How Buhari is reinventing youth and sports administration…   Why must we, whether prior to, or after the primaries, as usual, throw caution to the winds and allow all manner of predators to lay siege to a party we have all nurtured through thick and thin, and which, without a scintilla of doubt, has positively impacted each, and every one, of Ekiti’s 131 towns , villages, communities, even settlements, especially during the first, and current term, of Governor Kayode Fayemi, claiming that we care not, whatever happens to the party? Just because it may not be our turn this time around? Who among us knows who will emerge the candidate? After all, it is not for nothing that it is said that man proposes but God disposes. Who of us knows God’s time table for our lives? This is why we must always shudder from fighting to the death. Besides that, if post-election patronage is the issue, the sky is vast enough for a million birds to fly, unhindered. No, not at all. I am not in the least trying to oversimplify the issues involved in a massive election like the one we are going into: the hopes and ambitions, the expenses, mental and financial, nor am I oblivious as to how deeply people feel about the issues they are canvassing. I have, personally, been privileged to be involved in some of the most intricate electoral crises in Ekiti. I was one of the about 12, or so, individuals who attended the last ditch effort to reconcile then contestants Femi Ojudu and Opeyemi Bamidele, both of who were literally ‘ready to do just about anything’, (for which reason, and to the knowledge of the governor, I had to call our leader, Ashiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, very late the night before, to kindly intervene by speaking with both Femi and Opeyemi after Dele Alake had honourably quit) to be the senatorial candidate of the party. At the meeting were former governors Bamidele Olumilua now of blessed memory, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and Governor Fayemi, but  so difficult ,and intractable was the matter that at a point, the two of them were holed up in an adjacent room in the hope that they would amicably resolve the issue by themselves. Today, they have both been senators of the Federal Republic, showing how miraculously God works; His ways totally incomprehensible to us human beings and further showing why we need not fight to the death for anything, whatever. Nor was that, indeed, the most serious of our election ‘mini wars’, in the state. The crisis-ridden, and very dangerous 2018 primaries, at which some twenty plus contestants could be said to have been arrayed against a single opponent, will easily take the cake. Difficult as it was, good sense prevailed, and as soon as Dr Fayemi emerged winner, he did not allow the cock to crow, the following morning, before he hit the road, visiting each, and every one, of his co contestants. It still surprises many today that not a single one of those other contestants decamped to another party. More interesting was the fact that, to the last person, they were all involved in the candidate’s subsequent campaign. That is what peace can do. One thing  the party leaders have to do now is caution those people who are writing terribly scurrilous articles against the presumed ‘enemies’ of their principals/candidates, just so they can be noticed when, in reality, they are on a frolic of their own since nobody sent them. As members of the same party, let our campaigns be decent so that whoever emerges the candidate will have the support of all when most needed. Bad words hurt, and should, therefore, not be part of our lexicon. I know, for a fact, that there is no personal enmity between Governor Kayode Fayemi, Senators Femi Ojudu and Tony Adeniyi, all my highly respected and close aburos, that they cannot all forgive, and forget,  and return to the ‘status quo ante bellum’, in their relationship. These are  persons I knew to be very close and, in fact, the first two were, indeed, 6 and 7. I know that the three are  very passionate about Ekiti and  should they strike a rapprochemore today, tomorrow morning will see the heat in the party  go down several decibels. I mention these names strictly because they are the arrowhead of the two main groups in the party, and not because I under rate or disrespect the others nor that the issues they are canvassing, e.g. Southern candidacy, are not important. We must be reminded that the primary election, no matter now vociferously each person makes his case, is nowhere comparable to the election proper, being intra party. We must, therefore, avoid roughening up anybody’s airs as we will need all hands to be on deck for the real thing. We must appreciate that we have a wily, and very dangerous customer as our main opponent come June, 2022. Like Chairman Ayu of PDP promised, the party is already working at reconciling its warring Chapters. That could have consequences for us here in Ekiti where we now have to factor into our calculations, PDP’s ongoing attempt at reconciling the Fayose and Olujimi factions. Fortunately, they no longer have the wherewithal to do what they did in 2014, when the sitting President told the Army Chief of staff that he was, himself, the PDP candidate in the Ekiti governorship election, expecting the Army Chief to decode that, which he did with all the consequences.  But knowing them, we must not allow any lingering issues, or any larger political issues outsourced from outside Ekiti,  to be the harbinger of doom for a party that has served Ekiti well. If we all work together, and not allow fifth columnists to wreak havoc within/ amongst us, running with the performance of our sitting governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, alone should effortlessly eventuate in our party claiming the diadem in the June ’22 election. The 2022 governorship election is a MUST WIN for the APC in Ekiti. And all hands must, therefore, be on deck. I therefore plead with all my compatriots in the APC, whether as leaders, individuals, groups, contestants or sponsors, in the name of  God, and everything you hold dear, to let us all work with one mind for our party’s victory. God will frustrate whoever may wish to deliberately work against our collective aspirations for the party in the June ’22 election. Amen.