The suspended erstwhile head of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team, Abba Kyari, yesterday graced the wedding Fatiha of Maina Alkali, the son of Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba. Kyari had not been seen in public functions or activities since the outrage that greeted his Facebook post on August 4, 2021 amid his controversial involvement with alleged internet fraudster Hushpuppi. He eventually deleted the post and disappeared from the Blueville and also from Instagram where he had over 80,000 followers. His last post on the platform was on July 26, 2021. However, the Borno indigene took to his verified Facebook page with over 450,000 followers yesterday to share photos from the wedding ceremony. Kyari had been suspended in July 2021 for alleged involvement in a $1.1 million Internet fraud allegedly perpetrated by Hushpuppi and four others; AbdulRahman Juma (Abdul); Vincent Chibuzo (Kelly); Rukayat Fashola (Morayo); and Bolatito Agbabiaka (Bolamide). - Advertisement - The Federal Bureau of Investigation had alleged that Hushpuppi paid $20,600 to two bank accounts allegedly provided by Kyari on January 20, 2020.   APC chair: Governors in the dark as Buhari keeps party…     EFCC detains VON DG over ‘N1.3bn fraud’     Outrage as four teenagers kill girl, burn head for money…   Kyari denied any wrongdoing. The Nation learnt that yesterday’s wedding ceremony took place at the palace of the Shehu of Borno, Abubakar El-Kanemi, in Maiduguri, the capital of Borno State. Sharing over 400 pictures on his Facebook page, he wrote: “Today At the wedding of our younger brother Maina Alkali in Maiduguri my home town. “May GOD bless their union with Happiness, Prosperity and Beautiful children, Ameen Ameen.” In some of the pictures, he was seen shaking hands with immediate past Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Assistant Inspector General (AIG) Hakeem Odumosu, Obinna Iyiegbu popularly known as Obi Cubana and others. The wedding also had in attendance, the Senate President Ahmad Lawan; former governor of Borno State, Kashim Shettima; Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika; President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote; Managing Director/CEO of Tiamin Rice, Aminu Ahmed, among other dignitaries. It was also learnt that the event was attended by host Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno and his Yobe and Jigawa State counterparts, Mai Mala Buni and Badaru Abubakar respectively.