Ahead of the 2023 gubernatorial election in Benue State, prominent chieftains of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) are angling to succeed Governor Samuel Ortom, writes Uja Emmanuel. Benue State is one of the states where a change of leadership must happen in 2023. This is because Governor Samuel Ortom will be completing his second term of four years in office by then and will not be eligible to seek another shot at the position. Expectedly, the race to succeed Ortom is already gathering momentum with several willing contenders daily throwing their hats into the ring of the gubernatorial contest. Within the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), not less than a dozen aspirants have officially declared their interest in the party’s 2023 guber ticket. Observers of the politics of the state say the contest for the APC ticket will be a fierce one going by the caliber and political antecedents of some of the contenders. Having lost the state to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) shortly before the 2019 general elections, following the defection of Governor Ortom to the party from the APC, over allegations that he had been given a red card by APC leader, Senator George Akume, the main Benue opposition party is now regrouping to stage a comeback come in 2023. This perhaps explains why many governorship aspirants have emerged on the platform of the opposition party in Benue state with more still expected to join the race. Party sources told The Nation that the APC is currently being hugely publicized in the nooks and crannies of the state by the governorship aspirants, who are going round the three senatorial districts to talk to party members and other citizens, set up offices and made their presence felt at every major functions and ceremonies across the state. - Advertisement - “Some of them are known to have also built financial war chests in readiness for the elections. They are moving round every sector of the state like the tentacles of the Octopus. The result is that everywhere in Benue state today, people are aware the APC is ready to sack the PDP from office. Our party is the party of Benue people and they are eagerly waiting to vote APC back into Government House,” a party chieftain told The Nation.   The contenders Observers of the politic of the state say the APC aspirant currently jostling for the party’s ticket can be divided into two groups of the ‘serious’ and ‘unserious’ contenders. “We know those who truly want to be governorship candidates. They are the serious contenders. There are also those unserious ones who are in the race just to be noticed and considered for future appointments and patronages,” a party leader from Otukpo told our correspondent. Some prominent chieftains of the opposition party currently working round the clock to clinch the APC gubernatorial ticket include;   Chief Barnabas Gemade Chief Gemade needs no introduction in Nigeria, particularly in Benue state. Since Gemade declared his intention to contest the 2023 governorship race, the youths have nicknamed him “The Big Project”, because of his obvious political weight. Gemade, a former national chairman of the PDP, was also the Managing Director of the defunct Benue Cement, Gboko, now Dangote cement. He served as Secretary of Works in late Sani Abacha’s military regime. He contested for president against the former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and was elected into the national assembly to represent Benue northeast senatorial zone for two terms of eight years. Gemade is has joined Benue governorship race with a rich political experience. His “Big project” is widely spreading to all nooks and crannies of the state with many people embracing his ambition. He is 72 years old. Chief Mike Aondoakaa    Coutinho earns Villa dramatic draw against Man Utd on EPL…     Tinubu stands for politics without bitterness- Makinde     AFCON 2021: Simon dedicates man of the match award to…   Chief Mike Aondoakaa, former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, is another APC governorship aspirant in Benue state whose ambition is receiving acceptability among the people of the state. Those who spoke to The Nation said Aondoakaa, who is the chairman of Mikap Nig .Limited, a multi million naira rice milling company with a modern factory in Makurdi, has employed about 12,000 people across the state. Mikap Nig. Limited, producers of MIVA rice, also have 5000 rice farmers on its out growers’ programme backed by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Scheme, an initiative meant to boost the income of rice farmers. This has endeared him to many people since he joined the Benue governorship race.   Chief Steven Lawani Chief Steven Lawani is the only governorship aspirant on the platform of APC from Benue south senatorial zone. Lawani was the deputy governor to Senator Gabriel Suswam for eight years. What Chief Lawani has going for him is the zoning consideration. Since the creation of Benue from Plateau State, no person from his zone has occupied Government House, Makurdi and many people believe this is the time to give an Idoma man a chance to rule the state. With his aspiration so far, Chief Lawani has made a strong statement that he is ready to replace Governor Ortom come 2023. He told The Nation in an interview that from his consultations across the state so far, he is widely accepted because of his rich experience in politics and development. 73years-old Lawani was the 2019 APC Senatorial Candidate in Benue South.   Professor Terhemba Shija Professor Terhemba Shija, 60 is a Tiv-born Professor of English Studies at the Nasarawa State University, Keffi. He is another governorship aspirant on the platform of APC in Benue state that needs no introduction. He was a House Representatives member. Shija was also Commissioner for Information and Culture; Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, as well as a University don and community leader before his current aspiration. Professor Shija is grassroots politician and lover of humanity, especial youths and widows including the vulnerable in the society. He was among the first politician to declare their ambitions to contest the governorship race and he since not look back.   Mark Tersoo Hanmantion Mark Tersoo Hanmantion is young man who is not joking with his governorship aspiration going by the seriousness with which he is moving around the state.  The 38 year-old says he is not pretending about his ambition to replace Ortom on the platform of APC. Analysts say he took Benue by storm and has vigorously traversed all the 23 local government areas of the state campaigning. Hear him: “2023 is for the youths. Let our elders stay at home and send us. We shall provide democracy’s dividends and take care of them.” Mark Tersoo said his three point agenda is to create wealth, tackle insecurity and improve on mechanized agriculture where farmers will have value for products.” He has a huge support base amongst youths. “Today, he is gradually warming his way into the hearts of Benue people,” a source said.   Hon. Herman Hembe Herman Hembe, is the 45 years old politician son of highly respected Late Professor Godwin Nyor Hembe, a Political Science scholar. The young Hembe is a lawyer who is currently serving his fourth term as a federal lawmaker. He is the memebr representing Vandeikya/Konshisha Federal Constituency of Benue State at the National Assembly. Many analysts say he is banking on his performance as a long serving lawmaker as well as his respected family name to clinch the APC guber ticket and win the general election.   Others Also being touted as possible contenders in the race for the APC governorship ticket in Benue state are Dr.Mathise Byuan, Hon Nick Wende, DR. John Tor Tsuwa and Richard Tersoo Mnenge. The names of Hon Sam Ode and Hon Emmanuel Jime have also been mentioned in connection with the race for the APC guber ticket. And as the country march towards the election year, remains to be seen if the opposition APC has the political courage to send the ruling PDP out of the Benue state Government House in Makurdi, the state capital.