A lawyer and retired military officer, Sylvester Olumuyiwa Adu, is a People’s Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives aspirant in Akure North and South Constituency. He spoke with reporters in Akure, Ondo State capital, on his ambition, insecurity, restructuring and other issues. Excerpts: Why did you choose to go into politics? Well, I am not a new person in politics and if you can agree with me, politics is also played within the family unit, at work and in every area of life. Yes, we have politics that is popular in Nigeria which decides the faith of every Nigerian. Several years back, I opted to contest, but for one reason or the other, I withdrew for someone else. The same thing happened the second term because the person I was to contest against seemed to be popular, acceptable and people around benefited from him and I felt that such an individual should not be removed from position because of my own personal ambition. And then this, I was actually invited by my people who said they wanted me to represent them on grounds that the person who was there died and he was somebody who was highly respected and has done a lot for the community and having done their research, they felt that I will fit into his shoes and the next thing was to call me. And when I came on board, I discovered that from kingship to the subject, female and every category of people within the two local governments just rose in a very encouraging manner and showed that they actually wanted me and with that reception and the look of their reactions to call me to politics, I feel it was encouraging. Among the political parties in Nigeria, why did you choose the PDP? We talk about the majority. So, if my people could call me to politics, which party are my people? My people are in PDP. So, I have no choice but to stay in PDP. It is the party of my people. - Advertisement - Does it mean the PDP is the party to beat in this zone? It is easy to say it verbally, but somebody will want facts in support of what you are saying. The fact remains that the most recent elections that were held in the two local governments the PDP won, meaning that the majority of my people are in PDP, so why should I go into any other party? There have been elections in the past, especially when it comes to by-elections, you discover that the ruling party always muscles the opposition. So, are you not afraid that this could happen in this forthcoming election? We have seen in recent times that it is only easy for elections to be rigged where the majority of the people are in support of that rigging. Very clear, we have seen it. Oyo State is controlled by the PDP today, despite the fact that the incumbent president belongs to the APC. The people determined and said the man they wanted was Governor Seyi Makinde. Look at the case of Ondo State, despite their resources; they couldn’t win the two local governments of Akure South/North for the APC. So, it is not going to be easy for anybody to rig an election where he doesn’t have the support. What are you going to do differently if given the ticket or win the House of Representatives seat? We are going to look at this thing from various angles. The jobs are not limited to one area. One, you look at what I am going to do in the National Assembly. How will I link the benefits of that to the people I am representing? Then, personal care, which is the third, is what I need to have for the people that are supportive of me. What is your view about the structure of Nigeria?   Tinubu’s networth, bullion van and other matters     2023: Jonathan keeps everyone guessing     APC National Convention will hold in February — Governors   Look at Nigeria, people keep saying it is not well structured and I give you an example; that is restructuring geopolitically. In Nigeria today, the structure is such that the whole of the North is divided into two and the South is divided into four. Whereas, Abuja is the middle in latitude zero, which means anything below Abuja is south and anything above Abuja is north. This is a question of geographical terminology, not Southeast, Southwest. Rather than the way they divided North into two; comprising Northwest and Northeast, come down to the South and divide the South same way, so there can be that block power in a situation where the entire country will see themselves as equal but that was not done. Dividing the South into four splits us; an Igbo man will tell you he has no relation with somebody from Southsouth and nobody has been able to talk about that. Why must Kwara, Kogi, Plateau, Benue and Niger be called the Northcentral geo-political zone? If Abuja is the centre, then anything below Abuja is South. It is only, if we are able to geo-politically restructure Nigeria that there will be equity and justice in terms of ownership of this country and we will not even bother about where the presidency comes from. In a country where we are still talking about a state of origin, these are the things we need to address in our constitution. I want a country where we talk about the state of residence and not a state of origin. These issues are outside the purview of a National Assembly’s members. It is not, it is because the people are not aware. They lack the knowledge, they don’t know their rights. They only know how to wake up, go and queue at the gate of anybody that is representing them. They should come and challenge that person to have meetings with them on what he’s doing there. That is how it should be. Again our people have a problem that is rooted in poverty. A lot of politicians, before getting to position, would have spent millions of Naira, which they would want to recover after getting there. Part of my plan is to engage the people to give them the required education they need to do what is right in a way that those that are going there will not see politics as a business venture because as it is, it looks like a business venture. I am going there to make a difference. What is your view about electoral reform, especially when it comes to the issue of direct and indirect primary, which has prevented the president from signing the amended bill into law? Whatever they are doing right now, I can tell you that there is no foundation for them because geopolitically, we are not well structured. An average Hausa man is thinking about how to remain in power forever, how to continue to oppress others and the same thing with an average Fulani man. That is how it is in this country today and for us to speak the truth to each other, for us to be able to agree and move this country forward; we must first restructure this country. Now, let me come to your question. We are talking about electronic voting. At a time in this country, when automatic teller machine (ATM) came, many Nigerian believed old people would not subscribe to it. We can’t continue to remain in a particular position because of people who are not actually educated enough to be able to go along with development. For example, you could say a government wants to construct a road that will benefit millions of people, but you say because some 10 to 15 people have houses along that road, you won’t do it. We are just wasting our time; we have a lot before us. There is no sincerity in whatever we are doing in this country. It is part of what I am going there to correct. By the time we start restructuring, a lot of things will fall into place and you discover that an individual’s interest will no longer be famous against collective interest. There is no collective interest. Nobody is pursuing a collective interest in this country today. How can the president be the one signing and approving how to spend money, even the governors? Sincerely speaking, everything we are doing concerning the electoral process, as far as I am concerned, are all waste of time. And I know we are only shifting goal post. The present government is only looking for a way where it will not be out of power. I am not saying there is no ingenuity in some of the things they do, but bringing them to practical implementation is the problem we have. For now, I don’t have confidence in whatever they are doing. Nevertheless, we will continue to do it the way we do. We are talking about direct or indirect, I can tell you that it is not difficult for anybody or individual in this country to have a card like ATM and on the day of this election, you just put your card and press whatever you want to press and you can even do it from your home. There are so many things we can do to better all these things. We are just playing around it, because people do not want to lose the grip of power in this country. So, whether there is electoral reform or not, what I know is that with time, the people that will cause these changes. If there is no electoral reform, how do you think credible candidates can emerge? Today, where are we? When we have a professor being the vice president to a man we are not sure of his certificate. You know what I am talking about! Are we really having the right set of people in power? We are in a country where people who have intellectual fecundity aren’t allowed to run either because they don’t have the wherewithal for whatever reason. The people who are supposed to say, I damn the consequences of money are the people who will milk their candidates. In fact, if you want to contest an election and you don’t give some people money, they will tell you whether you are the best person in this world, they won’t vote for you. So, it’s a general problem. In this country, we have National Orientation Agency but what are they doing? What is the level of information they are giving to the citizens on how to correct some of these abnormalities? The right people aren’t there! If they are there, we won’t be in this mess which we are today. You can’t even be a governor without somebody bringing billions to sponsor your election and by the time you get there, what will you do? You have to pay that money back. There have been different meanings of restructuring, what is your definition of restructuring? Restructuring is the only thing that can enshrine true federalism and we know what true federalism means. It means that you can grow based on your own strength. It is not like that in this country. A country where you want to offer admission to citizens of this same country and you say some people can have lesser mark and some have higher. Is that a country? We can only call it a country, not a nation because we don’t do things in common, we don’t share things in common. There is a lack of equity and justice. These are things that restructuring will address, if only it is allowed. All the institutions we have in this country are located in the wrong places. Before you cite any industry or any institution, there must be certain things called natural resources or endowed resources that will support it to function. You can’t locate what is not supposed to be in a dessert in a dessert. So, these are the issues. There is no equity, there is no justice. Look at what is happening on the streets. A country where we have banks, look at what you see today where the currency is sold on the streets without being arrested and we are talking about bringing down the value of the dollar to the naira. How can that work? A lot of things are not done rightly. The restructuring will ensure that we prioritize our projects and what do I mean by that? We don’t have electricity, Ajaokuta is moribund. We went borrowing money to construct road and rail lines, whereas, if you have electricity and you are able to develop that Ajaokuta, from there, the steel we need to construct the rail tracks will come from there without importing them from Germany. The only thing we need is technical support. As a former military officer, what is your suggestion on how to end insecurity, insurgency in this country? First and foremost, I was part of the team that started Operation Zaki in Borno State with the now NDLEA Chairman, Gen Buba Marwa (retd). It was from there, Lagos State emulated Operation Sweep. Then, the military was in power, sincerity of purpose was there and there was nothing like political influence. But today, the problem with our politics is very clear. People bring politics into everything and as I said, whatever we see regarding our security issue, are a result of political rottenness. I can tell you with my experience in the military that it doesn’t take Nigerian Army, Nigeria Air force and Nigeria Navy one month to end all these security challenges but the cause, I don’t know but I can tell you that it is politically motivated, not because the guys are not professionally competent. There was a diatribe between Obasanjo and Edwin Clark over who is the owner of oil in the Niger Delta. What is your view on that? The two of them are correct. To me, Clark doesn’t really understand Obasanjo. As an individual, I take Obasanjo’s statement to be mocking the nation because what he said is in the law of this country today and that is why the Federal Government is controlling mining exploration. Obasanjo is right because legally, that is what the law of this country says. So, if he says, it belongs to Nigeria, that is what the law says. But Edwin Clark is saying that on grounds of the fact that there is no equity and justice. Of course, whatever resources you have in your area belongs to you. But is that what the law of the country says? So, the two of them are right. As at today, the oil belongs to the country and these are things we need to look into, either to amend or suspend. Morally, what comes out of your land belongs to you because he who owns the land owns everything on it. What is your view about Nigeria under the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC)? There is no doubt about the fact that we are heading to nowhere. We aren’t making progress. As I speak, in the next five or six months, you may hear that some of the rail lines are not working because the spare parts are not produced in this country. Industrial wise, we aren’t making any move. No electricity, people are suffering, education is zero and the security has nothing to offer because they are helpless. Go to the streets and see the vehicles police are using to patrol. So, the country has no bearing and I can tell you that if we don’t go back to the basis or foundation and discuss how to restructure and restart afresh, we might not progress. What stops the Federal Government from restructuring the police? Because one of our problems is that we don’t have a good policing system. That is why we have most of these crimes. Left for me, I would want a committee to be set up. This committee will sit down, everybody in the police; take all they have in terms of qualifications and everything. If it is the construction that you are inclined to, we can build police barracks and allow you to maintain them across the federation. We are not really thinking about productivity, we are only thinking about getting money and squandering it.