Lagos State will combat challenges posed by climate change, especially flooding, this year, Joe Igbokwe has said. Igbokwe, who is Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s special adviser on Drainage and Water Resources, spoke at a one-day review of 2021 Seasonal Climate Prediction (SCP). The SCP is an annual event of Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) where information on expected rainfall pattern is released to help stakeholders plan and strategise. Igbokwe said the state would embark on innovations to rid the state of flood in 2022. The special adviser, who was represented by Permanent Secretary (Office of Drainage Services) Olalekan Shodeinde said it became necessary to review the 2021 SCP and seek better ways to tackle challenges recorded. - Advertisement - He said: “Reviewing the 2021 SCP will afford us self assessment, especially in the global climate change era and the challenges it poses. It is especially necessary due to its impact which is mostly felt at the communal level, which comprises already vulnerable individuals. “The state is thus open to new partnerships and improved synergy with relevant organisations which will help to improve the knowledge base and bring forth new ideas in the technology to combat flooding.”   Rivers approves N8.2b for 10th flyover     ‘See your ordination as service to humanity’     Council presents N3.1b budget   An analysis of actions taken by the state on the 2021 SCP flood mitigation showed that the ministry embarked on public awareness and sensitisation, constant repair and maintenance of drainage systems. Shodeinde, who presented the analysis, said: “The state is constantly improving on repair and maintenance of drainage systems, and will also establish its own network of weather stations. ‘’We also ensured flood was promptly curtailed by empowering resident engineers to attend to all flooding matters in the 57 LGAs/LCDAs. “The ministry also deployed the services of Emergency Flood Abatement Gang (EFAG) throughout 2021 which were divided into three semesters of Pre, Mid and Post rainy season to reduce flooding incidents. ‘’A total of 72km and 289.08km of primary and secondary drainage channels were cleared and maintained during the year and more hydraulic structures were built to mitigate flooding…” Representative of NiMET Director-General Dr Mailady Yusuf said states should pay attention to the prevailing weather and climate in their communities. He noted that NiMET was mandated to record effects of climate change on the people’s livelihood, saying it was necessary ‘because small changes in the global average temperature could cause major and dangerous shifts in climate and weather’.