Over 18 people were killed, 40 injured and several abducted when terrorists invaded Galadima Kogo community in Shiroro local government area. The attack started around 5 pm on Saturday and lasted for hours. The Nation learnt that the terrorists issued a four-day notice to the villagers prior to the attack. The notice, it was gathered, coincided with the withdrawal of security personnel from Galadima Kogo. Several houses were razed and several cattle of the residents rustled during the attack. - Advertisement - A resident of Galadima Kogo told The Nation they received a notification from the bandits that they would attack in four days. He said leaders of the community informed the security taskforce deployed to the community but they were shocked when the security was withdrawn from the community. The Convener, Lakpma Youth Assembly, Jubrin Allawa confirmed the incident. Hr said that the security taskforce posted to the area was withdrawn from adding that this gave the terrorists to have a field day in their attack.   First multi-million rice mill commences operation in Imo     NDLEA arrests three trans-border traffickers with 48,000…     Alleged contempt: Court to hear suit against Finance…   The Concerned Shiroro Youths of Niger state also condemned the withdrawal of security from the community. A statement by the co-Conveners Sani Abubakar Kokki and Bello Ibrahim, the group said that they had found the bodies of 12 people who were gruesomely massacred, adding that several others were sustained gunshot injuries while several others are still missing. “The decision taken by government to withdraw the security personnel notwithstanding the accompanying reason is reckless and insensitive in its entirety, especially to the plights of innocent and unarmed law abiding citizens already ravaged by incessant insecurity. “Considering how porous, prone to insecurity and vulnerable to deadly attacks by the rampaging terrorists Galadima Kogo is, one can easily conclude that the withdrawal of security personnel at this material time is a deliberate attempt to further jeopardize people’s lives and put them in the line,” the group stated. The youths told the government to restore the withdrawn security personnel and deploy additional security personnel to other areas prone to insecurity with immediate effect. “Enough is enough as we can no longer fold our arms watching while our lives are being wasted senselessly by criminal elements. Forewarned is forearmed as a stitch in time saves nine!”, the statement read. The Nation learnt that the bodies of 18 victims were brought to the Minna General Hospital late on Saturday night while several injured persons are currently receiving treatment at the Minna General Hospital and the IBB Specialist Hospital in Minna. Niger Police spokesman DSP Abiodun Wasiu, said information on the attack can only be given by the Commissioner for local government, Chieftaincy Affairs and Internal Security, Mr Emmanuel Umar. Umar could not be reached as at the time of filling this report.