The board of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) yesterday published a set of good practices related to the use of global supervisory colleges in securities markets, to increase cooperation and information-sharing among securities regulators. IOSCO is the global body of securities regulators and it is recognised as the global standard setter for securities regulation. Its members regulates more than 95 per cent of the world’s securities markets in some 130 jurisdictions. Nigeria is a member of the board of IOSCO and also a member of its highly influential Growth and Emerging Markets (GEM) Committee; the largest committee within IOSCO, representing more than 75 per cent of the IOSCO membership, including 10 of the G20 members. The report: Lessons Learned from the Use of Global Supervisory Colleges, provides a framework for securities regulators seeking to create new global supervisory colleges for sectors of financial markets where they are not currently used, which could strengthen cooperation between regulatory authorities and further assist regulators in addressing the adverse effects of market fragmentation. The report is based on previous IOSCO work on market fragmentation and builds upon the experiences of IOSCO members with supervisory colleges for such entities as credit rating agencies and central counterparties (CCPs).   How Nigerian economy may turn out in 2022, by FXTM     BUA Foods to leverage capital market for export business     Sukuk issuances to hit $150b in 2022   - Advertisement - In its earlier reports, IOSCO identified supervisory colleges as one of the collaborative mechanisms that securities regulators could use to obtain a more complete picture of an internationally active market participant. IOSCO members participating in supervisory colleges said they gained access to higher quality information, enabling them to better identify and assess risks stemming from the operations of a supervised entity. The 14 good practices cover matters such as general purpose, membership, governance, multilateral confidentiality arrangements and the cross-border operations of supervisory colleges. Based on member feedback, the good practices also encourage the use of supervisory colleges to share information and solutions in times of crises. The report called for the use of ”core-extended” structures where circumstances allow. This arrangement would allow all relevant authorities – including those from emerging jurisdictions – to participate in information exchange about a supervised entity appropriately. Also, the report considered sectors of securities markets where the use of supervisory colleges could be expanded; building on considerations such as interconnectedness where market participants may be doing business across multiple jurisdictions and conduct activities which could have spill-over effects on other jurisdictions. The report also considered new emerging areas where supervisory knowledge may not yet have been fully developed. Based on these criteria, some IOSCO members have suggested there may be merit in making use of supervisory colleges for market intermediaries, financial benchmarks administrators, crypto-asset platforms and asset management.