Fashion design, in Nigeria, was largely all about cutting and sewing but its evolvement into a more entrepreneurial concept has given visibility to young upcoming designers with differing creative expressions. IBRAHIM ADAM writes. Miss. Ifeoluwa Bejide got an outstanding award as the best graduating student in the Department of Microbiology from the Redeemer’s University in 2015 and immediate employment but chose to joggle her career as a lecturer and business as a couture owner and branding expert. “Being a lover of fashion right from my secondary school days, I just decided to strike a balance between my career in the academic world and passion in the fashion industry. With personal funding and extra support from my mom, I started off by buying fashion items such as bags and shoes for friends but now I have both a physical store known as Bejaid couture and an online platform to serve my clients nationwide.” As a side hustle, she also trains upcoming designers on graphics design and sales strategy. “It’s not been easy combining all these but God has been kind to me,” Bejide said. As commonplace with Small Medium Enterprise, start-up capital usually takes a toll on the business but for Gabriel Ibeabuchi, the founder and Creative Director of Twelve06 clothings, his network as a former corporate banking expert gave him leverage to start off his business on a good foot. The Master’s degree holder ditched his banking job after his mentor Tony Elumelu retired from the industry to pull his weight and resources behind helping young business owners through his Foundation. Ibeabuchi specialises in bespoke men’s wear alongside exceptional unisex ready-to-wear designs. “Twelve06 is poised to revolutionise and showcase African fashion to the world in stylish contemporary designs. Our designs are appreciated globally by fashion enthusiasts who crave excellence,” he bragged. His fulfillment as a designer stems from the fact that he was selected alongside 19 Nigerian designers under the IVLP programme sponsored by the United States. His brand has got some international recognition from South Africa and the US Consulate. Thus, he’s optimistic about more opportunities for global connections and trade relations in the fashion industry between Nigeria and the USA. - Advertisement - Mrs. Olubukola Olajide, an educator, writer and communication expert recently participated in the International Visitors Leadership programme organised by the US Consulate General. The founder of Debbyrose Fashion Academy was recognised as one of the online fashion design trainers who is promoting economic growth and trade in the fashion industry through her empowerment courses. She has trained over 300 people directly and has a Facebook group with over 120,000 members with who she shares her knowledge. Olajide believes that “the education of designers should not be exclusively about the technical know-how, but should focus on business management, excellent customer relationship, creative exploration and knowing how to leverage technology especially, social media to make profits.” In Nigeria, most people think the only moneymaker for photographers is wedding shoots or events coverage but for Tolu Baiyewu of Lily’s studios, having top-notch photography skills and deep creativity has set him apart as a fashion photographer. “My focus on fashion photography centres on the need for designers to show off their works, capturing the right angles and essence of what they do. The creative said one of his biggest moments in the industry was when he was recommended to join a group of Nigerian photographers to cover a show in Dubai. He’s of the opinion that his artistic prowess breathes life into his photoshoots. As a young chap who started photography as a final resort from employment, he presently has three branches nationwide.   Lagos acquires two speed trains from U.S. for city service     Fire razes spare parts building in Lagos     Okowa sends nominees’ names to assembly   “In the next  three years, we will be franchising the studios for effective management as we increase in the number of branches thereby replicating our authenticity, creativity and professionalism, “he said. Reiterating his involvement in youth empowerment, Baiyewu said: “We have been able to reduce the unemployment ratio in our immediate environment through our training. We don’t just teach the art of photography, we are very keen on the business angle and this has helped in reproducing what we do with over 24 students running their own photography outfits nationwide.” He draws inspiration from RAM studios Ghana, Veejay studios Kenya and Tolani, the official photographer of Professor Yemi Osibajo, Nigeria’s Vice President. Another fashion designer who is celebrated for her indigenous designs is Tolulope Adebiyi. Her love for the adire fabric grew out of her interactions in Abeokuta, one of the indigenous cities where Adire is being made. The CEO of Aayanfe Creations decided to focus solely on adire making, production and styling. Recently, she organised an event tagged “The Adire Festival” that got the attention of Ogun state’s Minister of Tourism. According to her, “I discovered that the major producers of Adire are elderly women and once they die, their knowledge goes into extinction. So, I decided to put my all to encourage the participation of youths in the Adire industry.” She’s on a journey to diversify into another creative sector of Adire other than clothing and apparel. “One of my major goal is to change the narrative of Adire from fabrics to other creative materials like Adire rug, wallpaper, chair etc.” Her impact in Abeokuta has encouraged collaboration among young Adire makers to ensure that supply will meet the demand for adire on a larger scale. Interestingly, there’s a male-dominated field of fashion design that is now being explored by women. Esther Olaoluwaremi incubated the idea of establishing Dame Ayo’z Shoe and Bag Factory for the sole purpose of training young people and thankfully, her dreams came to pass immediately she rounded off the National Youth Service Corps programme and got the contract to train corps members under the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) initiative in Jalingo, Taraba State. In about five years, her products have been recognized by the National Board of Science and Technology (Technology incubation center) which gifted her a bungalow in her resident state to expand her business. According to her, she was on the journey to becoming a super falcon in the Under-17 Nigerian team until an incident pushed her into shoemaking instead. “Right from my childhood I love creating things with my hands, I have a passion for craft and so I decided to choose a skill that girls are not interested in. So, I learnt bag and shoemaking from a factory in my 300 level while studying at the University of Ilorin. I ditched football to focus on this business and by the grace of God, my team has trained over 500 people both physically and online and we are still moving.” The young enterprising lady who sees Mrs. Folorunsho Alakija and Mrs. Ibukun Awosika as role models, Ayo believes that a woman can be successful in any field of endeavour she chooses to focus on. Apparently, she’s doing well for herself by taking the Northeast, one state per time to train girls, especially in the craft. “Presently, we supply customised school bags and lunch boxes to 15 schools in the North and we are committed to training more girls and women so that they can become financially independent early in life,” she reiterated. In addition, her online Academy started during the covid pandemic lockdown which made her reach more people across the world. As it is today, no business in the world can taste success without the assistance of technology. There’s no gainsaying the fact that it’s no longer business as usual in the fashion industry because technological advancements have necessitated the trend of doing business in a more tech-savvy way. In this century, fashion is about introducing oneself to the latest technology that will be helpful in doing business in order to make maximum profits and impacts.