The Global Alliance of Progressive Professionals (GAP3) has launched an aggressive spiritual intervention to realise the presidential ambition of Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello. It is also interceding in fervent prayers for the early release of the mother of the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Jamiu Abdulkareem Asuku, Madam Asuku who is still held captive by her abductors. The National Coordinator, Dr Fahad Chikaji Ahmed-led crusaders for Bello’s presidency made this known in a statement in Kaduna where the event was held. Religious faithful, members and leaders of the group attended interdenominational service, including executives of the group from the 36 states and Abuja. Notable clergymen and women from across religious divides from the Kaduna, Kano, Jigawa and other states were present, including Imams, pastors and traditional worshippers who engaged in thunderous prayer sessions with the mammoth crowd that greeted the event. - Advertisement - Ahmed said the spiritual intercession became necessary because of the faith of GAP3 leadership in God adding that without which every mortal is nothing. According to him, the prayer sessions began at the wee hours of Friday and ended at 5 am on Saturday to ensure that the governor’s aspirations are fulfilled hitch-free.   Refuse dumps overrun Anambra cities     MTN Nigeria, Mafab Communications yet to pay S546m for 5G…     2023: e-transmission of election results shaky   He said the coast was now clear for the governor to make his Presidential declaration to Nigerians as declared by the people of God at the end of the aggressive prayer sessions. Ahmed noted that Bello’s administration pioneered excellent service delivery to the people by performing beyond his campaign promises. The feat, he maintained, should be replicated at the national level, adding that Bello’s team is a winning team and no responsible human society throws away its winning team. Ahmed said: “The governor has rewritten the trajectory of the state since assumption of office namely: education, security, prompt payment of salaries to the state civil servants in a departure from their ugly past, infrastructure and good governance.” The governor, he said, took the challenges posed by the criminal elements to launch what he described as an unrelenting war against crime and criminalities, making the state one of the most secure in the country save for pockets of heinous crimes targeting soft spots. According to the GAP3 National Coordinator, any criminal element who chooses to operate in Kogi is committing suicide because such person or persons will be sent to their ancestors by the security machinery put in place by the governor, who he described as an achiever with propensities to achieve more for his people. Ahmed said although it was the first of its kind, GAP3 will hold prayers for the governor at regular intervals in addition to the success that will be recorded in their mobilisation for Bello at the “political field by the group.”