Super Eagles midfielder Kelechi Nwakali said he  was eagerly bidding for his time and  not bothered about his bit part role so far from  the  bench role in Nigeria’s first  two games at the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Cameroon 2021.  “We will keep progressing, whenever I have the chance to start I will show my stuff,”  noted the Huesca midfielder in the mixed zone after the Eagles’ 3-1 defeat of Falcons of Sudan  at Ominisports Roumde Adjia in Garoua. “The most important thing is the team. The team comes first. We are looking at progressing.  “It depends on the coach, if he wants me to start I will be ready,” he added. Nwakali made his AFCON  debut in the 80th  minute of the Super Eagles’ 1-0 win over Egypt on Tuesday while he was a 64th minute replacement for Joe Aribo against Sudan. Meanwhile, Super Eagles  caretaker manager Austin  Eguavoen has admitted that it is difficult for him to find a role for Nwakali in the team because he does not have enough experience with the team. - Advertisement -   Super Simon underlines Eagles quest for AFCON     Algeria 0-1 Equatorial Guinea: Obono ends  Fennecs unbeaten…     Australian Open: ‘Disappointed’ Djokovic…   Nwakali was called up for the biennial competition to provide more attacking options, but he has only made two substitute appearances in the games against Egypt and Sudan. Eguavoen has gone with a midfield combination of Wilfred Ndidi and Joe Aribo, which has proven successful. “More patience, I’ll say, and he’s been a fringe player in and out of the team, Eguavoen said after Nigeria’s game against Sudan,” Eguavoen was quoted as saying by  Modo. “And now we’ve given him the confidence to come in and not to start the game because Aribo has been there, good understanding with the team and of course with Ndidi in the middle of the park.”  “Ndidi actually haven’t played with Kelechi, so it’s a little bit difficult to just change the team’s formation,” Eguavoen added. Yet Nwakali  will be looking forward to play a starting role as the Super Eagles take on Guinea Bissau on Wednesday  in their last  Group D encounter in Garoua.