The relationship between Barcelona and Ousmane Dembele is fracture beyond repair, with Mateu Alemany confirming that the club are actively working to sell the French forward, meanwhile Dembele has sensationally hit back with a post on social media. Dembele made clear that he wouldn’t succumb to blackmail, intimating that the Catalan club have treated him poorly throughout the current situation, and it’s hard to disagree with him. Dembele doesn’t deserve to be treated like this by Barcelona, although he has made mistakes along his journey on a contract at the Camp Nou which is due to run until June 30, 2022. His work ethic at times has been poor, especially off the pitch, with stories relating to his treatment of a club-supplied dietician team for home use being rather unfortunate. However, no footballer wants to be injured. Dembele didn’t force Barcelona to make him their second most expensive ever signing in a scramble to replace Neymar after being embarrassed publicly by Paris Saint-Germain. If anything, Dembele was very receptive to Los Cules’ interest and helped their cause by facilitating a move away from Borussia Dortmund, burning bridges there in the process. Barcelona have gained virtually nothing from Dembele from a footballing standpoint, which is highlighted by his cost and the club’s current financial woes. Yet, from the outside looking in, it appears as though the club are looking to take out their frustration over the entirety of this deal on Dembele. It’s a free hit for Joan Laporta and his cabinet, with Dembele one of the more unpopular players amongst supporters due to what the French forward labelled as ‘a campaign’ against him. It is perfectly fair for Barcelona to want to avoid losing Dembele for nothing in the summer, but it would have been better to just be up front with that and look to sell him at the beginning of January. There is a degree of irony that Barcelona are petrified of losing Dembele for free, when for the last two summer windows they have outwardly try to push him out of the club.   Makinde mourns 3SC’s General     Troost-Ekong sets sights on AFCON title     Eguavoen: Super Eagles will practice penalties   - Advertisement - Manchester United failed with a late loan discussion, although everyone dodged a bullet there, in October of 2020, with the window shutting later due to COVID-19. Since then various clubs have been linked, but Dembele has always wanted to be a success at Barcelona. Los Cules can’t legally force Dembele to accept an offer, yet at every avenue they have made their own decisions and now have to own them like adults. Nobody forced them to pay so much for him, nobody forced them to try and sell him in each of the last two summers, and nobody forced them to hire coaches that haven’t been overly receptive to utilising wingers, until Xavi, and then it was too late. Football clubs are often  not transparent with their actions, and it annoys supporters. It is obvious why Barcelona want to sell Dembele now. They need to recoup any funds through transfer fees and they can’t afford his salary. There is no doubt about it, any talk about wanting Dembele to show a commitment to the project is sheer nonsense and grandstanding to supporters, and it’s unfair that the player is being painted as the bad guy in such a scenario, he doesn’t deserve it. Meanwhile, after Barcelona made official their decision to sell Ousmane Dembele, the former Borussia Dortmund forward took to social media and made clear his own position on the subject, suggesting that he wouldn’t give in to blackmail. *Courtesy Marca