Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, on Sunday, expressed shock at the passing of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso 1. He described the monarch, who passed on at 93, as an exemplar in royalty. Makinde stated that the demise of the royal icon, who he described as a great leader of his people and an exemplary royal father, was painful despite his old age. He added that his wisdom and wealth of experience would be sorely missed. The governor expressed condolences to the immediate family of the Olubadan, the Olubadan-in-Council and all Ibadan indigenes as well as the Oyo State Traditional Council. - Advertisement - Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, in a statement, the governor said the Kabiyesi gave his all to see that Ibadanland is developed and took its pride of place as one of the major cities in Africa. He said: “The news of the death of our father, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, came as a shock.   BREAKING: Olubadan’s body arrives palace     BREAKING: Olubadan joins ancestors at 93     Man City move 11 points clear, Spurs close in on top four   “Kabiyesi’s exit at this time is painful, to say the least. “His wealth of experience, his immense wisdom and his commitment to seeing a greater Ibadan and a better Oyo State are unrivalled. “Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria and humanity at large will miss Kabiyesi, who was ever ready to give his all to see a better society. “I commiserate with his immediate family, the Olubadan-in-Council, the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) and all Ibadan indigenes at home and abroad on the demise of our father. “I equally extend my condolences to the Oyo State Traditional Council and pray to God to keep all our Obas safe and give them more years to direct the affairs of our people, especially as Olubadan’s death is coming on the heels of the demise of the Soun of Ogbomosoland and Asigangan of Igangan. “May God grant them all eternal rest.”