Smarting from Round of 16 knockout defeat by Tunisia at the ongoing delayed 2021 Africa cup of Nations in Cameroon, the high-flying Federal capital City Football Association (FCTFA) Chairman Mohammed Adam Mouktar, believed only a concerted effort can see the Super Eagles qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Mouktar is miffed about the Super Eagles’ faint-hearted performance against Tunisia in Garoua on Sunday after a near-perfect first-round show that saw Nigeria beat highly-fancied Egypt as well as Sudan and Guinea Bissau. “We got so carried away with the first round results; it got into our heads and we over celebrated,” Mouktar told NationSport. “The loss to Tunisia is heart-wrenching; devastating for a team that suddenly raised the whole country’s hopes of winning something after a long time and igniting massive expectations in a World Cup year, “We must now come back to the drawing board; do an assessment of where, how, and why it went wrong then proffer solutions in the way forward. “We must be strong and give encouragement that we can pick up the pieces and rebuild in time for the task and challenges ahead.”   Eguavoen recounts blunder against Tunisia     Coach banned over forged vaccination document     Results of 3 rescheduled 2021/2022 NPFL fixtures   - Advertisement - The immediate task before the Super Eagles is the qualification for the forthcoming FIFA World Cup in Qatar and they were on Saturday drawn against the Black Stars of Ghana for the two-legged Play-off to be played on March 23 and 29. Yet Mouktar has warned of impending doom should the NFF fail to seize the moment by pulling all resources towards a successful campaign, even as he faulted the federation for lack of direction and vision. “The NFF must quickly bring together a task force really of egg heads to assist in this huge task of World Cup qualification and the World Cup preparation,” he said. “We don’t have a choice we must get it right. “The tenure of this current board of the NFF is ending in September with elections coming up; so they must deliver and leave (World Cup ticket) as a legacy; if not, they will be remembered for the wrong reasons.” He continued: “Our game can definitely be managed better; we are a powerhouse and we deserve more. The expectations are very high and we do have the potential to achieve great things… We need a well-organized, structured, and capable leadership to deliver on a vision, plan, and a mandate for the country that loves football so much.” A visibly angry Mouktar noted that NFF must move into action quickly: “Eguavoen didn’t do himself justice with the way the team played against Tunisia and with this we need a top-level coach. Definitely, the coaching issue needs to be resolved and he must swing into action to impress his style on the players.”