Super Eagles forwards Moses Simon and Terem Moffi have been listed in the French Ligue 1 Top 100 for 2021. While Moses Simon of FC Nantes was ranked 48th, Lorient’s Moffi was placed in 73rd place by GetFranceFootballNews with both players ensuring their respective clubs escaped relegation last season. For Moffi, his transfer from KV Kortrijk to Lorient marked a major outlay for Les Merlus, with £7.2m spent to secure his signature. In the early stages of the move, the transfer looked to be a failure, with just 2 goals in his opening 11 appearances before the turn of the year.   Fans fault Joshua on link with Mayweather     Costa Rica 2022: Danjuma invites Demehin, 25 others for…     NFF yet to clear Rohr’s outstanding wages   However, in January, the Nigerian international really found his stride as Lorient looked destined for a relegation scrap going into 2021. The 22-year-old ended the 2020/2021 season with 15 goals across all competitions for Lorient including 14 goals and three assists in his first season in the French top flight. With five goal contributions in 16 appearances this season, the Nigerian has had a hand in 36% of the goals Christophe Pélissier’s men have scored. - Advertisement - Meanwhile, Simon joined Nantes initially on loan from Levante of Spain with a €5m option to buy. While it was not all rosy at Les Canaris, who just remained in the Ligue 1 by winning the relegation play-off against Toulouse, the 26-year-old did just enough for Nantes’ manager Antoine Kombouaré to cough out the aforementioned €5m to acquire his signature permanently and Simon has not disappointed so far this season. The former Gent winger has been ever-present, starting nigh on every game on the left wing of a 4-3-3, with Ludovic Blas on the right and Kolo Muani to finish things off in the middle. Levante complained that he didn’t score often, and while that is still the case at Nantes, Simon happens to be the 4th ranked in assists in the league at the time of writing. He has two goals and six assists before the end of 2021.