It is bad news that the number of poor Nigerians has increased to 91 million. “The World Bank estimates that an additional one million people were pushed into poverty in Nigeria between June and November 2021, re­sulting in a total of about eight mil­lion people being relinquished to poverty in 2021; and bringing our nation’s poverty headcount to about 91 million,” Chair­man of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), Asue Ighodalo, lamented. That is 91 million Nigeri­ans afflicted by the ‘poverty virus,’ which is every bit as deadly and more infectious than SARS, COVID-19, judging by the numbers,” he added. Considering that Nigeria’s population is about 214 million, the stated number of the country’s poor is indeed considerable. The news was food for thought at the launch of the 2022 Macroeconomic Outlook Re­port in Abuja on January 25. The focus was on reforms towards signif­icant improvement in nation­al economic outcomes. It is noteworthy that the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), in May 2020, said more than 83 million Nigerians were poor. This figure is from its 2019 report on poverty and inequality in Nigeria.   PDP, APC in war of words over Ebubeagu     Two kinsmen     Tinubu consults with APC UK leader, others   - Advertisement - President Muhammadu Buhari, in his national address following the 2020 #EndSARS protests and the resulting anarchy, had boasted that “No Nigerian government in the past has methodically and seriously approached poverty-alleviation like we have done.” But there are still too many millions of poor Nigerians. This suggests that his administration has not done enough, and needs to do much more, to tackle mass poverty. Also, in September 2020, when Buhari inaugurated a National Steering Committee to oversee the development of the ‘Nigeria Agenda 2050 and Medium-Term National Development Plan (MTNDP),’ he mentioned the objective of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty “within the next 10 years.” Lamentably, the current figure does not show a reduction in the number of poor Nigerians but a disturbing rise. It is useful to identify the markers of poverty. The United Nations (UN) defines extreme poverty as “a condition characterised by severe deprivation of basic human needs, including food, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, health, shelter, education and information. It depends not only on income but also on access to services.” The issues that need to be addressed in fighting poverty in the country are clear enough.  If the poverty problem worsens, the country should expect a worsening of the problems caused by poverty. Nigeria cannot afford to allow uncontrolled spread of the ‘poverty virus.’