A Chief Magistrates’ Court sitting in Kano on Monday ordered the remand of a 34-year-old school proprietor, Abdulmalik Tanko, in a correctional facility for the alleged murder of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar. Ordered to be remanded alongside Tanko are Hashimu Isyaku, 37, and Fatima Musa, 26. The three accused, who resides at Tudun Murtala Quarters, Kano, are standing trial on a four-count charge of culpable homicide, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and concealing/keeping in confinement a kidnapped person. The Prosecutor and Attorney General of Kano State, Mr Musa Abdullahi-Lawan, told the court that on Dec. 4, 2021, Tanko, being the proprietor of Nobel Kids Comprehensive College, Kano, conspired with the two others to kidnap Hanifa. “In the process, Tanko emotionally tortured and held Hanifa hostage in his house situated at Tudun Murtala Quarters, Kano, for six days.” - Advertisement - Abdullahi-Lawan alleged that on Dec. 10, 2021, Tanko killed the 5-year-old girl with a rat poison, slaughtered her corpse and put her into a sack. “The second defendant, Isyaku, buried her in a shallow grave at the premises of Northwest Preparatory School situated at Kwanar Yan Ghana Tudun Murtala, Kano. “The defendants collected the sum of N100,000 ransom out of the N6 million earlier requested,” he said.   Hanifa: Kano govt. revokes operational licences of all…     UPDATED: FG shelves proposed removal of fuel subsidy     Bandits abduct 15 in Niger   The attorney-general also told the court that investigation into the matter has been completed, adding that they have received the case diary. “We will file a proper charge in the next seven days,” he said. The pleas of the accused were not taken. According to the prosecutor, the offences contravened the provision of Sections 97, 274, 277 and 221 of the Penal Code. Chief Magistrate Muhammad Jibril subsequently ordered the remand of the defendants in a correctional centre. He adjourned the matter until Feb. 2, for further mention. Speaking after the court sitting, the Attorney General, called on the people of Kano State to stay calm and let the law take its course. “We are a society of law-abiding citizens. We intend to pursue the case rigorously, within two months to finish with the prosecution,” Abdullahi-Lawan said.   (NAN)