President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof George Obiozor, has said restructuring is not a threat to the unity of Nigeria. Prof. Obiozor who spoke on Friday on Arise TV morning show, said that restructuring is a national blessing. “Restructuring is not a threat to the national unity, it is a very dynamic thing in a dynamic institution of a nation state where as you grow, new things are developed and new ideology evolves. In fact every country that is wise and progressive takes restructuring into account as they grow. In case of Nigeria it will help to build a more perfect federation or union where conflict will be less and cooperation will be more.” He said if Nigerians had taken to 2014 National Conference, most problems faced by the country today would have been solved. “If we had taken time to look at restructuring, we should have actually taken more from the 2014 National Conference to lessen the conflicts that exist in this country, whether it is in our fiscal federalism, political or boundary issues particularly in revenue sharing. It is absolutely a problem federations solve very easily. Unfortunately all matters in Nigeria are over politicised.” On Nnamdi Kanu, he said that though President Muhammadu Buhari was right when he said that the case was in court, he however urged the president to apply his prerogative of mercy on the case. “The president said that the matter is in the court and you cannot fault that one. If he says he does not want to interfere in the function of the judiciary, there is division of labour at Federal level where judiciary is independent, so, he is technically right in thinking that the case is already on. We are asking for something different from the judiciary and we are asking for him to consider his prerogative of mercy which is his own prerogative.   Let’s have direct primary for Ekiti, Opeyemi Bamidele…     Olubadan: Iyalode endorses council’s decision on Lekan…     STAR-STUDDED AFCON GETS UNDERWAY IN CAMEROON   “The idea is treating him with mercy as a son and citizen, to be considerate and compassionate. We are not talking about the judiciary. If he is taking the judiciary route then he is taking the right route logically, but then away from what we are talking. We are appealing for mercy and some form of amnesty.” He said that IPOB does not speak for Ndigbo and equally chided the Northerners who encourage their youths to make comments that incite. - Advertisement - “Take it from me and it is the right statement, IPOB doesn’t speak for Igbo and that is the truth and to be very candid with you, the IPOB anger is an accumulated anger based on perceived or real injustice against Ndigbo for so long. We understand their anger and anger of many youths across the country, however the truth of the matter is that they are not mandated to speak for Ndigbo and the Northern groups that are making the statements is unfortunate because we don’t respond when their youths in their youthful exuberant make certain comments like they did before that all Igbo must leave the North In fact the idea that some responsible people in the North can take position, it is predetermined. On state police, Ebebuagu, he said the state police or formation of Ebubeagu or Amotekun is imperative in a federation like Nigeria. “If you want to be effective country, you have to look at how other countries succeeded not how they failed. The reality in Nigeria today is that Nigeria police is so small to police our country. You need not call it a state police. You can call it state guard or anything but train them to detect crime and reduce crime. As society gets sophiscated, crime will increase and nobody will say Nigeria is not developing no matter how slow you can see it.” On presidency, he said a President from Igboland and South East is an idea whose time has come. “It is politically justifiable and morally defenciable, it is indeed logical and in all sincerity, justice, equity and fairness have finally come home to Nigeria to crowd the Nigerian political history,” he said.