Last week was extraordinary for the people of southeast. It was perhaps, the first time the zone would stay indoors for three to four consecutive days due to conflicting signals on the sit-at-home order which the Indigenous People of Biafra IPOB had since confined to days their leader, Nnamdi Kanu would appear in court. Even in this case, the self-determination group had clarified for the umpteenth time that it had cancelled its Monday sit-at-home order. It said sit-at-home would only be observed on Tuesday January18, when Kanu would appear for trial at the Abuja Federal High Court. The group further clarified there would be free movement on January 19 and 20 despite the billed appearance of their leader in an Abia High Court on those days. Though the clarifications were to correct reports of an impending weeklong sit-at-home given the experiences of previous Mondays, the billed appearance of Kanu at the Abuja court on Tuesday January 18, and his case coming up in Abia on Wednesday, they appeared not to have achieved the desired result. Matters were further aggravated by reports in the social media reminding people of the consequences of coming out given the fluidity of such situations in the past. Unfortunately, some of those reports were neither signed nor their source indicated. Yet, they found their way in the social media. These created fear in the minds of the people and contributed in scaring them away from the streets. Perhaps also, Kanu’s case in Abuja contributed to the uncertainties of last week in the zone. The last time he appeared in court, the trial judge had adjourned the case for accelerated hearing when it resumes. This gave rise to speculations that the case may run for some consecutive days on resumption. Should that happen, the projection of a week-long sit-at-home would have become a foregone conclusion. That prediction somewhat became a reality when the case was adjourned the following day. - Advertisement - So it was that for three consecutive days, activities in the zone were virtually at a standstill except in some state capitals.  Respite however came with the adjournment of the case in Abuja to February and the judgment delivered by Justice Benson Anya at the Abia High Court, sitting in Umuahia. With the adjournment of the Abuja case and the judgment delivered in the Abia case, temporary relief came the way of the people of the southeast who had been on lockdown. That was after they had lost three days to contrived sit-at-home order. In the Abia judgment, Justice Anya ordered the federal government to pay N1billion to Kanu and apologize to him over the infringement on his fundamental rights by the military. He also advised the federal government to seek political solution to the Kanu matter. The ruling seemed to have brought closure to the Abia suit albeit temporarily. The handling of the two suits put paid to speculations and rumour mongering. Their net effect became evident in the easing off of the tension and paralysis in social and economic activities that had held the people down for three days. Things started looking better on Thursday as some people resumed their normal activities though not without some measure of caution. Of the three days the southeast was on shutdown, the IPOB only declared ghost town on January 18, while urging people to go about their normal activities on other days. So how come people stayed indoors refusing to venture out on Monday January 17 and Wednesday 19? While that of Wednesday could in part, be attributed to the adjournment of Kanu’s Abuja case and rumours before then; continued observance of sit-at-home on Mondays has become a huge puzzle- a challenge to the authorities.   NDLEA arrests six over drug cookies, noodles     Zamfara: Burying patriotism in the courtyard of bitter…     Issues that will shape 2023 politics   This is more so with clarifications by the IPOB about September last year that it had put off ghost towns on Mondays to days Kanu would be appearing in court. Why still Mondays? Why are people scared from coming out on Mondays despite the cancellation of the order four months ago? Who profits from it or what interest does it still serve? What sustains civil disobedience on those days and on whose shoulders do we rest culpability for the fear and mistrust that add up to restrain people from venturing out? These are the very issues thrown up by the continued observance of Mondays as sit-at-home despite its cancellation by those who instituted it. And in this, both the governments of the southeast and the IPOB share the blame. Yes the IPOB because, it has come out to accuse sacked and dissident members of unauthorized enforcement of non-existing sit-at-home orders. It is being blamed for its inability to rein in those members. The group had also blamed security agencies for alleged clandestine roles that instil fear in people during those Mondays. This has been evident in the blame-game that has been the fate of some of the attacks on innocent citizens that ventured out on some of those days. Though security agencies denied those allegations, they contributed in no small measure to the spectre of fear, trepidation and uncertainty that added up to incapacitate activities on that day. And since human life is involved, people prefer to err on the side of caution. Nobody wants the risk the uncertainties of a fluid and ominous situation in an obviously insecure environment. But because the responsibility of maintaining law and order is the primary duty of governments, the blame for the fear that prevents people from coming out on Mondays, weighs heavily on their side. It is the duty of the government to secure the environment for lawful activities to thrive. The ability of the present government to discharge that basic responsibility has been in serious doubt as events from across the country have shown. Since the IPOB has severally said it has nothing any loner to do with Monday ghost towns, one had expected the security agencies to capitalize on that and ensure there are no further disruptions and threats to lives and property on those days. But that has failed to happen. What we get are blames and counter blames for some of the infractions that are recorded on such days. It is true the sit-at-home orders have become injurious to the economy of the zone. There is no doubt about that. No less a person than First Republic minister, Chief Mbazulike Amaechi had cause to decry the debilitating effects of the order on the fragile economy of the southeast zone. He called for a change of tactics from the IPOB for him to continue with the peace mission to the president during which his group demanded for the release of Kanu. So the damage to the economy of the zone by the recurring sit-at-home orders is not in doubt. The impression these convey is that of a government that is unable to protect its citizens- a government that is in a ferocious and constant struggle with non-state actors for the loyalty of the citizens. And in this competition, primordial loyalty seems to be having an upper hand against the civic authority. That is the sad realty brought to the fore by events in the southeast. And it does the country no good. The situation calls for a change of attitude by the leadership of this country. And as events clearly indicate, the solution to the Kanu challenge does not lie in his current court trials. He may as well be convicted and jailed. He could also be incarcerated as long as the case lasts. But that can nether offer lasting solutions to the issues to the agitations nor assuage the feelings of his teeming followers. His continued trial would only lead to situations that had held the southeast economy prostrate for quite some time now. Maybe some people will not care if that region collapses. But whatever damage the zone suffers will ultimately have a domino effect in other parts of the country. That is the potent danger in the current posturing that the judicial angle holds the ace for the final resolution of the matter. The judicial dimension can neither bring a final closure to issues to the agitations nor assuage the feelings of those who share sympathy with the cause Kanu is championing. The political angle that has been copiously canvassed by many including Justice Anya of the Abia High Court at last week’s ruling is definitely the way to go. But will someone listen?