Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila is set to deliver the University of Lagos(UNILAG) 52nd convocation lecture on Monday, January 17,2022. The lecture is entitled:”Building Back Better: Creating a new framework for tertiary education in Nigeria in the 21st Century.” This was made known by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, at a press conference on Tuesday to unveil  activities lined up for the event. The VC said 238 bagged First Class, 2,454 were  in the second class upper division, 3,459 second class lower,while 1,183 were in the third class category. He added that 85 got pass and 201 have degrees that were not classified. He noted that  the Faculty of Engineering which had 63 First Class graduates was the highest in the school. - Advertisement - A total of 12,217 students would receive various degrees at the convocation. Furthermore, a total number of 7,799 would be awarded  first degrees in various disciplines, while 4,418 would bag postgraduate degrees and diplomas in various fields.   ‘I didn’t know I would be overall best’     IBBUL student develops App     Women and human trafficking   “The overall Best Graduating Student in the first-degree category, for the 2019/2020 academic session is Ekeoseye Elizabeth Osereme of the Faculty of Science, Department of Zoology (Environmental Toxicology and Conservation Option), who is graduating with a total Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.95 out of 5.00. “The Best Graduating Student in Humanities is  Atanranshe Oluwaseyi Gideon of the Faculty of Management Sciences, Department of Accounting, who is graduating with a CGPA of 4.92,” he said. He said the overall best Ph.D. Thesis award for this year goes to Umudu Joy Chinyere who obtained her Ph.D. in Mathematics (Pure),while Ehiorobo Osa Abraham who obtained his Ph.D. in Management,clinches the best in Humanities. Ogundipe, whose tenure  ends in November this year, said the university made tremendous progress during his tenure. “We became a centre of excellence in entrepreneurship and we were able to attract grants in excess of N17 billion and we are rated high national and globally. We have to acknowledge numerous individuals and corporate bodies who believe in us and supported us as well,” he said. The VC added that  to reduce the cost of electricity, the management, with support from the Federal Government, would soon start an independent power project, IPP. The university is also billed to host the Nigeria University Games, NUGA, in March this year.