A new Olubadan of Ibadan may be named this week, following the death of Oba Saliu Adetunji. The first class monarch, who joined his ancestors yesterday after a brief illness, was buried around 4pm at his Popoyemoja Palace; Ibadan, Oyo State capital. He was 93. Eminent Nigerians, top government officials, led by Deputy Governor Rauf Olaniyan, and many indigenes witnessed the burial conducted by the Chief Imam of Ibadanland Sheikh AbdulGaniy Agbotomokekere. - Advertisement - A government source disclosed to The Nation that the palace would write the Ibadan West Council today informing it officially of Oba Adetunji’s demise. The letter, it was learnt, would also inform the council of his burial and declare the Olubadan stool open. However, a source close to the Olubadan-in-Council, said the council may wait for the completion of the 8th day fidau for the late monarch after which the high chiefs would meet to choose the new Olubadan. It was learnt that two members of the council – the Eekarun Balogun and Eekarun Olubadan – will be excluded because they are not kingmakers. According to the chieftaincy declaration, the next-in-line will be chosen, except there is a strong objection based on disability or question of integrity. High Chief Lekan Balogun, who is the Otun Olubadan of Ibadan, is next in rank to the Olubadan. He is expected to be crowned as the new Olubadan. Dr. Balogun, former university lecturer and senator, was the governorship candidate of the Nigeria Peoples Party (NPP) in Oyo State during the Second Republic. The late Oba Adetunji was crowned the 41st Olubadan on March 4, 2017 after the demise of Oba Samuel Odulana Odugade. Born on August 26, 1928 to the family of Raji Olayiwola and Suwebat Amope Adetunji in the Alusekere compound, Popoyemoja,  he was the eldest of his father’s 17 children. His mother came from the Balogun family of Apomu while his father was a renowned Ibadan indigene. Explaining how the monarch passed on, his media aide, Adeola Oloko, said: “It was around 1am that Kabiyesi passed on.   What Nigerian passport applicants went through in 2021     Ikpeazu backs Anyim for president     UNIBEN directs admission seekers to upload O’ level results   “Around 9pm (Saturday), he was first taken to a private hospital, before he was taken to UCH, Ibadan, around 1am. Thereafter he passed on. “Baba passed on after a brief illness. He spent about five to six days at the hospital.” Also in a statement entitled: “Olubadan passes on, to be buried today”, Oloko said: “The 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland, and Chairman, Oyo State Council of Obas and Chiefs, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, has joined his ancestor. “Oba Adetunji, 93, passed away in the early hours of this morning (yesterday) at the University College Hospital, UCH, Ibadan. “He is survived by his wife, Olori Rashidat Ololade Adetunji, children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. He will be buried at 4.00 pm today at his Popoyemoja, Ibadan Palace according to Muslim rites. Other things follow later.” President Muhammadu Buhari, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, governors, Asiwaju Bola TInubu and other eminent Nigeria have condoled with the government of Oyo State and the people of Ibadan over the loss. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, President Buhari charged the people of Ibadan, especially the royal family and the Olubadan-in-Council, to preserve the virtues of devotion to unity, peace and tolerance that Oba Adetunji was known for. The President said the death of the monarch, whom he described as a visionary and compassionate leader, has created a huge void in traditional leadership in the country. “President Muhammadu Buhari extends heartfelt condolences to the government and people of Oyo State, the royal family, the Olubadan-in-council and the people of Ibadan on the passing of Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji. “The President affirms that the late Kabiyesi was a visionary and compassionate leader, who used the spheres of his influence as a respected traditional ruler and a lover of the creative industry to advance the progress of his people, encouraging and motivating them to give their best in their vocation and to the nation. “While his demise understandably leaves a huge void to fill, the President urges the people of Ibadan and Nigerians from different walks of life to honour the eternal memory of the deceased by imbibing the virtues he cherished so much: generosity, peace, tolerance and devotion to unity. “As the funeral rites of the 41st Olubadan of Ibadanland get underway in Ibadan, the President trusts that the process of selecting his successor will be guided by wisdom, understanding and good judment that exemplified the life he lived. “President Buhari prays God to grant the soul of Oba Adetunji eternal rest and comfort the family, friends, associates and subjects he left behind”, the statement said. Gbajabiamila expressed sadness over the demise, nothing that he provided good leadership as an exemplary leader with uncommon love for his people. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker sent his condolences to the Olubadan royal family, the people and government of Oyo State. He prayed God to find a peaceful resting place for the late Olubadan and console his family and subjects over the loss.