The Chief Executive Officer, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Adesola Adeduntan, has reiterated the gains of investment in knowledge and educational system for the good of the society. He spoke yesterday as special guest at the inauguration of projects at Lafiaji Senior High School, Lagos Island. He said as with every investment, there were high expectations of returns and the utmost returns of these projects will be the outstanding performances by the students in this school. “It is always my pleasure to identify with the Rotary Club, as every such interaction leaves a lasting impact of the values of visionary and purposeful leadership, which your club epitomizes in the way you latch onto every opportunity to demonstrate humanity at its best. We at FirstBank are proud to be witnessing the inauguration of the laudable projects the Rotary Club of Lagos embarked on in Lafiaji Senior High School which have materialised today.” “These achievements illustrate values that resonate with us at FirstBank. We have over the years demonstrated a dogged commitment to promoting educational development as a major component of our corporate responsibility and sustainability programmes. We therefore share the common vision for Education and Health as we see demonstrated here today,” he said. Adeduntan explained that as part of the numerous ways by which FirstBank reinforces its commitment to the education sector, the bank has provided far-reaching educational interventions over the past 127 years. - Advertisement - “For instance, at the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic FirstBank strengthened the education sector to recover by launching the e-learning initiative aimed at moving one million students across the nation to e-learning. We also supported public school students in Lagos State with 20,000 mobile devices loaded with educational curriculum to keep them engaged during the lockdown. Notably, this initiative has received global recognitions and awards,” he said.   NESG expresses concerns over weakening naira     Dangote maintains rank as Forbes’ richest man in Africa     NLNG, NMDPRA partner on domestic gas supply   He urged all students to maximize the use of the cozy classrooms and library facilities to their maximum advantage. “Also, with the provision of the borehole to supply potable water, Rotary Club of Lagos has demonstrated that the quality of health and wellness of our children will continue to be of utmost priority. I therefore enjoin you all to continue to imbibe the culture of hygiene and physical well-being to sustain the tempo as we all know that the saying holds true that “Health is Wealth”. Adeduntan said the youth will also enjoy making banking transaction on the popular Lit App by FirstBank. “With FirstBank, there is always something for everyone! Therefore, let me also note that we have Naira Credit Card (NCC) products suitable for teachers and other salaried employees to take advantage of in meeting their personal financial needs thereby giving you the needed financial comfort while you tend to the educational needs of the students,” he said. Also speaking, Group Managing Director, FBN Holdings, Nnamdi Okonkwo, said the group will continue to support Rotary Club projects. Okonkwo, who was represented by Chief Finance Officer, FBN Holdings, Oyewale Ariyibi, said: “It gives us great pleasure to be part of the project. It is in our DNA to support Rotary Club. We support all projects that will add value to human development. We are very happy to be part of the projects.” President, Rotary club of Lagos, Babawale Agbeyangi, said the group’s intervention in the school started in 2014. “We previously donated computers. We have also constructed a borehole here. We have also donated equipment to promote robotic technology,” he said.