Outgoing Commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps NSCDC, Gombe, Samson Wabulari has charged men and officers of the corps to be more proactive, vigilant and law abiding in the fight against insecurity to provide a save haven for the nation’s unborn generations. Wabulari,who made the charge while giving his farewell speech at his pull out valedictory ceremony, said this has become imperative for posterity sake. “As a youngster in Bama, Borno state, we used to play and stay outside till 2:am and nothing will happen to us but today, can we do the same thing in same Bama. “We should all be obedient in serving this nation because it belongs to all of us. “If we destroy the nation now, our children will not have a place to call their home. It is when Nigeria is good that all of us can enjoy it,” he said. - Advertisement - According to him, the NSCDC has performed creditably well in the area of bringing peace to the nation and in the protection of government assets and infrastructure.   FG asks Customs to generate N3.019tr in 2022     Kizz Daniel announces 2022 world tour     AuGF, Nigeria minting company disagree over N162 billion…   He added that the performance of the corps has helped in improving the revenue generation drive of the country especially in the protection of the nation’s oil industry infrastructure. “When I was in Rivers State, we did help the government in reducing the menace of oil bunkering in the area and because bunkering was reduced to the barest minimum, all the leakages were blocked and the revenue generated by the federal government was increased. “All those monies hitherto going to illegal purse was brought to the purse of the federal government. The results today is obvious in infrastructural development all over the country. ” However, all these successes were not recorded alone by the NSCDC, it was done together with other security agencies but we are the leading agency in that area, that’s why I said we have contributed a lot,” he said. Wabulari, who is pulling out of the service on Friday, advised members of the corps to always put the nation first wherever they find themselves in the service of the country. “My advice is that whichever place you find yourself in this country and whichever capacity, serve your nation well. Am advising my successor to also serve the nation well and put the nation above his personal interest. “This is because if you do that, so many people will come to you and give you free information that will be helpful to you. Then you filter them and utilize them,” he said.