Hollantex, a leading pan-African Ankara wax print manufacturer, has announced the signing of singer and global entertainer, Fally Ipupa. As the new brand ambassador, Fally Ipupa will be instrumental to growing the brand’s presence across Africa with a particular focus in the francophone region where he is deeply adored. He will support the launch of Hollantex’s new collections and leverage his status as Africa’s most admired male entertainer to promote the brand’s beautiful patterns. The artiste will bring together style, ambition and success to showcase the limitless potential of Hollantex Ankara fabrics for today’s leading man. Responding to the signing, Ipupa said, “I am delighted to join the Hollantex family. Fashion, culture, and music are all important parts of my life and identity, so I’m thrilled to be collaborating with a Brand that brings all three of these elements together. - Advertisement - Thomas Fournier, Hollantex founder, said of the engagement: “Our commitment to being Africa’s most fashionable wax fabric brand is unwavering and this partnership with Fally Ipupa is testament to the fact. “Fally brings that element of irresistibility to our fabrics. “His brand, his sweet serenading voice that lights up concert halls and fills our hearts with love and romance, coupled with his values make him the ideal candidate to represent our brand and communicate our mission in Africa: to bring light and colour to the continent through our high-quality fabrics. “Fally Ipupa adds beauty, desire, elegance and romance to fashion and we are truly excited about this partnership and what we can achieve together. “We feel confident his fans and our customers across Africa will enjoy it too.”   64th Grammy Awards postponed over COVID-19     Bobrisky begs billionaires to patronise his ‘market’     Actress Kemi Afolabi narrates encounter with traffic robbers     Hollantex is a leading Pan-African textile manufacturer providing high-quality Ankara fabrics. Since its creation in 2003, Hollantex has pursued a simple goal: to integrate traditional African culture into the heart of fashion and to achieve this, innovative and high-quality wax fabrics have been passionately created at competitive prices. For further enquiries, please contact pr@hollantex.com or visit  www.hollantex.com Instagram : Hollantex_Official Facebook : Hollantex Tiktok : Hollantex Pinterest : Hollantex Youtube : Hollantex