The need for motor insurance cover has become more crucial as finances continue to shrink in the country. To avoid paying from your pockets when you are involved in a motor accident, theft, and fire, among other unforeseen circumstances, experts have urged Nigerians to purchase a motor insurance cover. There are two types of motor insurance covers in the country. They include third party motor insurance and comprehensive motor insurance policies. Third party liability cover is a legal requirement under the Motor Vehicles Act. The beneficiary of the policy is someone other than the two parties involved in the contract (the car owner and the insurance company). Benefits of motor insurance The Third party policy covers the insured’s legal liability for death or disability of third party loss or damage to the third party property. Since the third party insurance cover is mandatory, all non-life insurance companies have an obligation to provide this cover. Third party insurance covers you for damage to other people’s vehicles, if you are by any means involved in a car accident and is deemed at fault. - Advertisement - Comprehensive insurance, on the other hand, not only covers you for damage to other people’s vehicles, but also covers your own car as well. If your vehicle is stolen or damaged in an accident, even if you’re at fault, comprehensive cover has your back. There is a variant of motor (third party) insurance in the market where for a premium of N10,000, the policy can be extended to cover damage to the limit of N250,000.   Motorist reacts In an interview, Mr Collins Osakwe, who works in a bank, said he bought third party insurance from Mutal Benefits but has never made claim.   Reinsurance in Sub-Saharan Africa records premium growth     Way forward for insurance, by experts     LandWey gets GPWIN certification   He said although he has been involved in a minor road accident once where a car hit him from behind, he didn’t make any claim because he felt the processes would be too long and time consuming. He noted that he would try and explore the benefits in future. A businessman, Mr Chikodi, stated that he has a third party insurance which he purchased at the rate of N5000 from an insurance firm. He noted that he had never made claim of it because he had never been involved in an accident.   NIA recount efforts The Chairman, Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), Mr. Ganiyu Musa, at a media forum in Lagos, said aside their discussion with the Lagos State Government, insurers were discussing with Kaduna, Niger, Kogi and Ogun state governments to ensure that motorists get genuine insurance cover at the point of renewing their vehicle particulars at licensing offices across these states. Musa said the stakeholders in the industry were unhappy with what it is losing to racketeers and non-insurance of vehicles, adding that the association, aside engaging these five states, planned to extend to other states. “We are also working with the state vehicle inspection service on enforcement of motor third party insurance in the state. “We are engaging Niger, Kaduna, Kogi and Ogun states, and remain hopeful that other states will see value in the platform and embrace it,’’ he said.