The Osun State Gubernatorial Screening Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has admitted cracks in the party ahead of its primaries and the July 12, 2022 polls. It warns that the cracks could affect the success of the party in the election if there is no genuine reconciliation immediately. It recommends that all the processes leading up to the primaries be transparent, free, fair and credible. The committee’s warnings are contained in the report of its screening of six aspirants. Cleared during the screening were Senator Ademola Adeleke, Dr. Akinade Ogunbiyi; Emmanuel Olusanya Omiran, Engr. Fatai Akinbade, Prince Oyedotun Babayemi, and Bamidele Adeleke. The panel, headed by a former Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Mohammed Bello Adoke (SAN), said there must be continuous engagement in post-primary  election reconciliation to avoid anti-party activities during the governorship election by PDP aspirants and members.   Osun APC is two factions, I belong to TOP, says Aregbesola     2023: Who would the cap fit?     Osun APC and the lyrics of reconciliation   Other members of the panel were Ambassador Aminu Wali, Hon. Nnenna Ukeje and Chief Rahman Owokoniran; The panel, in the report, expresses concern about “a deep gulf between one aspirant and the others,” and stresses the “urgent need for intervention by the party to reconcile the two proclivities even before the primary elections.” It adds: “upon interaction with the aspirants, the committee noted that the prevalence of petitions bordering on anti-party activities may have been consequent upon the notion that the primary elections gone past were not deemed to be free, fair or transparent and no real reconciliation efforts were in place to assuage disenfranchised members of the party. “The committee noted that all the aspirants were eminently qualified to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming elections as they all had their individual strengths that would bring value to the party. We noted that their commitment to the party was not in question.” Continuing, the panel says transparent, free, fair and credible primaries will “boost the confidence of all the participants in the newly repositioned party.” - Advertisement - It adds: “there must be commitment and continuous engagement in post-primary election reconciliation so as not to witness a reoccurrence of anti-party activities by aggrieved aspirants to the detriment of the party. Petitioned aspirants must be informed on time to avail them the opportunity of response and to mitigate any an ambush. Due diligence must be carried out on documents submitted to the office and a report generated as part of the documents to be screened.”