African music sensation Yemi Alade has been announced as a brand ambassador of Hollantex, a leading pan-African manufacturer of Ankara (the textile/fabric used to make African prints). As a new brand ambassador, the global entertainer will be instrumental to growing the brand’s presence across Africa. She will support the launch of Hollantex’s new collections and leverage her music and social media platforms to promote the brand’s beautiful patterns, showcasing the true elegance of the brand’s Ankara fabrics for today’s leading woman. Responding to the signing, Alade said: “For many years Ankara has served me well, allowing me to display my unique fashion sense in various colours and multi-pattern work. “You can see it in my music videos, red carpet moments and my daily wear. - Advertisement - “My partnership with Hollantex is a match made in heaven.” For Thomas Fournier, Hollantex founder, the partnership is a statement of Hollantex commitment to being the most fashionable wax fabric brand in Africa. He said: “Beyond Yemi’s incredible consumption influence and commercial value, we are truly inspired by her transformation into a global superstar with successful collaborations with the biggest names in the world including Beyonce and the Queen of England.   Fashanu, Tboss, attend Adini premiere     Deba Uwadiae releases ‘Imela’     Adebizz is face of Topklass   “She represents the ideal fusion between traditional African cultures and elements of western fashion and perfectly embodies the ethos of the Hollantex brand. “It is a match made in Ankara heaven and we are truly excited about this partnership and feel confident her fans and our customers across Africa will enjoy it too.” Before for the end of January, fans will get a glimpse into the collaboration through photos, videos and styles developed exclusively for this campaign.       Hollantex is a leading Pan-African textile manufacturer providing high-quality Ankara fabrics. Since its creation in 2003, Hollantex has pursued a simple goal: to integrate traditional African culture into the heart of fashion and to achieve this, innovative and high-quality wax fabrics have been passionately created at competitive prices.