Though Gernot Rohr has not rue the opportunity of not being able to lead the Super Eagles to the delayed 33rd African Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon after he was unceremoniously sacked by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on the eve of the tournament, the former Bayern Munich defender has tipped Nigeria as one of the favourites with the caveat that there would be surprises as the best 24 teams on the continent battle for gong and glory in the land of the Indomitable Lions,OLALEKAN OKUSAN reports.   Gernot Rohr is a familiar with the dictates of African football after holding forth as manager of Burkina Faso, Niger, Gabon as well as leading Nigeria to a third-place finish at the continental showpiece in 2019. Eased out of the Super Eagles days to the delayed 2021 AFCON, the German said the tournament this year promises to be exciting with top teams going up against one another to decide the continent champion. Hosts  Indomitable Lions of Cameroon will open the  tournament on Sunday at the Olembe Stadium otherwise known as the  Paul Biya Stadium (named after President Paul Biya), against the Etalons of Burkina Faso. Rohr who played for Bayern Munich in the German Bundesliga and Bordeaux in the French Ligue 1  in his heyday, noted playing in front of their home fans may tilt the tie in favour of  Indomitable Lions, the  2017 African champions who are desirous of a sixth continental title. - Advertisement - “The AFCON will start finally and the first match is already very interesting involving Cameroon the host country and Burkina Faso which is also a very good team,” Rohr who managed the Etalons between February and December 2015, exclusively told NationSport. “It is already an interesting entry into the competition because Cameron is also one of the favourites; they know their own stadiums, they have the support of the public, they are at home and this can be interesting for them to go until the end of the competition; and it is always a particular match especially the first one because everybody will watch and it will give the rating for the next matches.” Yet Rohr noted that the hosts like every one of the 24 teams in the competition would have their work cut out when the hostilities began even as he gave the traditional teams a head start. He said: “The top-ranked teams are Algeria, Senegal, Tunisia, Morocco and Nigeria but it is going to be tough because Cameroon is one of the favourites as they have the home advantage with a very good team, so it will be very open for these top teams. All the teams in Cameroon can spring surprises. “Zambia was the underdog in 2012 and I was there (at the AFCON) with Gabon and it is possible again to find the countries who can go there and do well. “We have good countries who play good football and teams like the Gambia is a good team like Mali who can cause an upset and can even make it to the semi-final. “Ghana also has the quality as well as Gabon with Aubameyang; so everything is possible knowing this is the last game especially when you are playing in the last 16. “It is only one match to decide if a team progresses or not so it is possible to see again one outsider like what Zambia did in 2012.”   Okocha offers Eagles tips to stop Salah     Egypt’s Pharaohs hit Cameroon today     Covid knocks out Aubameyang   Incidentally, it was at the 2012 AFCON that the Rohr came into the consciousness of African football followers as he helped Gabon that co-hosted the tournament with neighbouring Equatorial Guinea. “I had too many good moments at the AFCON having made it to the quarter-final with Gabon in 2012 by winning all our three group games,” he recalled. “We won our first group match against the Niger Republic while we also defeated Morocco 3-2 through the last-minute goal. “Our last group game was against Tunisia which we won 1-0. We played very good football with young players like Aubameyang, who was very young at that moment. “ Thereafter, Rohr managed Niger Republic and was named the Super Eagles manager in 2016. He led Nigeria to her first AFCON in 2019 after the country had missed two previous editions in 2015 and 2017: “Also, the second moment was leading Niger Republic to South Africa in 2013. Of course the bronze medal, Nigeria won at the 2019 AFCON in Egypt. We also the highest goal scorer with Odion Ighalo in a very young offensive team.” A few months ago, Rohr was in the mix when the draw of the 2021 AFCON was held in Yaounde and the opportunity gave the 68-year-old to assess the readiness of the hosts for the African football fiesta. “I saw the facilities and Cameron really did a good job to prepare the stadiums, the training pitches,  the hotels because what I saw was really great and at least six or even eight stadiums have wonderful grass and even the training pitches are good. In Garoua, where Super Eagles will; they have a big advantage that everything is closed,  the hotel is close to the stadium, to the airport in a quiet area and I think most of the teams have the chance to play on good pitches and to have these infrastructures would be encouraging for the teams.” He admitted that he would not be in Cameroon as he would be watching the matches on TV, hoping that Nigeria excel though with a tinge of regret. “My regret about AFCON is not to be with my team in Cameroon because we prepared everything for the championships by getting a good hotel, planned friendly matches and I hope they (Nigeria) would do well,” he said. “But of course, I’m won’t be there with my players who have bonded with me for five years and four months. I hope that the team will be feeling the same motivation, in the same spirit for the players to succeed. I will support all the players and the staff to excel in Cameroon.” He, however, ruled immediate job hunting, while hoping to take a rest from coaching for now. “I have already some proposals but for the moment I will take a little bit of rest with my family and perhaps my role will be an observer on TV. “But I will watch all the games, especially support my Super Eagles,” he affirmed.