Sports marketing firm Ceniplug has held the 2021 edition of VGC Badminton Open with winners receiving one million naira prize money and souvenirs. tournament which was fused with a caution party, was held at Victoria Garden City in Lagos recorded about five hundred participants. Meanwhile, Obinna Igwe emerged winner of the men’s singles while Jacob Ife was runners-up. In the women’s category, Ruth Toju Danbaki emerged winner of the singles while Chineye Oguejiofor got the silver medal.   Monfils & Svitolina: tennis happy couple     Nadal relishes exciting tennis career     Qatar 2022: 1.2 million tickets sold in 24 hours   In the mixed doubles category, Obinna Igwe and Thelma Ajomiwe got the gold medals while Osuyi Ik and Ruth Danbaki were runner-up . - Advertisement - Tosan Emmanuel Lori, founder of Ceniplug and coordinator of the VGC Badminton Club, spoke about the essence of the event: “Keeping fit through physical activities and sports have many benefits for the body. Sport is also a lucrative business at the professional level. Grooming talents that can represent the country on the global stage is a laudable activity that one can be proud of. This badminton open serves as both a recreational activity and a talent grooming event.” He added: “We are a badminton club with a focus on training and developing players whether they are completely new to the sport or at the professional level. We have a proven track record. “ We get invitations to events for ratings and external interactions with other clubs. We will be traveling to Abuja in February, Jalingo in April, Dubai, and Kaduna before the middle of the year for more invitational matches.” Dignitaries at the event included Chairman of VGCPORA, Mr. Gihan Imbelu; Cascade Luxury, Mr. Chike Derrick; Professor Awonusi University of Lagos ; Mr. Oscar Ede, MD of Captival Bank; Mrs. Titilayo Eromosele, MD of CASRICK Homes; Mr. Daniel Osamede, Masterpiece Badminton Club Abuja; Mr. Sly Lori Jahi, Badminton Club, Abuja and Mrs. Tamara, Ikoyi Badminton Club, among others.