It was another day of appreciation yesterday of the sacrifice of  Nigerian soldiers who have fallen in the course of service to the nation, with President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and state governors laying wreaths in honour of the heroes. The wreath laying ceremonies climaxed a three-month-long remembrance that started on October 28, 2021 when Buhari launched the remembrance emblem in Abuja. Earlier in the week, a memorial Christian service was held at the National Ecumenical Centre, on Sunday, while Islamic prayers were held on Friday at the National Mosque, both in Abuja. During yesterday’s ceremony, which took place at the National Arcade, Abuja, the President inspected a guard of honour mounted by detachments of the Nigerian Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the Nigerian Legion, and laid a wreath on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He was followed by Vice President Osinbajo, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila;and the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko. - Advertisement - Others were the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, Service Chiefs and representative of  the Nigerian Legion. Three volleys of 21 gun salute were fired at the event, followed by the signing of the Remembrance Day anniversary register by the President. Buhari thereafter released white pigeons as a symbol of the harmony in the country. Wike to Buhari: fulfill your campaign promise, stop killings by bandits, Boko Haram  At a similar event in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, Governor Nyesom Wike asked President Buhari to stop the killing of innocent people by bandits and particularly by Boko Haram insurgents in line with his cardinal electoral promise of securing the country. Nigeria, Wike said, was at a crossroads and everyone was fed up with the prolonged Boko Haram insurgency in parts of the country. “There is also the unbridled killings by bandits and the rising insecurity in most parts of the country with members of the armed forces made to pay the price of containing these internal wars continuously,” he said. The governor acknowledged that some progress has been made in the fight against the insurgents but stressed that the generality of Nigerians “believe that the progress made can’t be good enough insofar as Boko Haram, its affiliates and the bandits are still active in the North-East, North-West and some other parts of the country, killing, maiming and kidnapping helpless people, including school children, and destroying and displacing hapless communities.” He urged the President to “redouble his efforts and fulfill his cardinal electoral promise to secure the country and ensure that Nigerians feel safe and remain safe and secure wherever they are in their own country.” Wike said the Federal Government should also make  appropriately equipping the armed forces a  top priority, while counting on the military to “quickly end the raging insurgency and restore peace and hope to all our distressed people and communities who bear the physical, emotional and psychological scars of war and destruction.” Masari: Armed forces must tackle banditry, restore security Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State expressed similar sentiments while speaking at the Armed Forces Remembrance Day in Katsina. While hailing soldiers for their untiring sacrifice in securing lives and property in the state, he charged them to remain committed to the ongoing war against banditry and other forms of insecurity in the state. He paid tribute to and prayed for the repose of the souls of officers and soldiers of the armed forces who have “paid the supreme price and were killed and wounded in action” in the state. He said: “The relative peace now experienced in the state is largely attributed to the dedication, professional competence and discipline of our brothers and sisters serving in the military and other sister security agencies.” Fallen soldiers’ sacrifice is symbol of Nigeria’s unity, says Sanwo-Olu Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State said the sacrifice made by the fallen heroes was supreme and symbolised the nation’s unity. He charged members of the Armed Forces to continue to uphold the fine tradition bequeathed to the military by the departed soldiers. He said the remembranceday was meant “to continue to encourage the men of the Nigerian Armed Forces and to show them that the country will continue to remember them and ensure their efforts are not in vain.” We shall soon overcome insecurity challenges  – APC The Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in a goodwill message on the occasion assured Nigerians that the country would soon overcome the prevailing insecurity situation. Secretary of the party,  Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, in a statement commended Nigerian soldiers for their focus, zeal and dedication in the course of performing their duties. “From insurgencies, banditry, insurrection to other crimes in the country, our gallant troops are fighting relentlessly to maintain our territorial integrity, internal peace as well as supporting regional and overseas security efforts,” he said. Uzodimma makes case for spouses of Nigerian fallen heroes  Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State advocated the setting up of businesses for spouses of the fallen heroes so that they can earn a living on their own instead of waiting for handouts. “Nigerians should do something exemplary to provide for the families and relations of the fallen heroes left behind so that it will be a source of encouragement and motivation to officers that are serving,” Uzodimma said in Owerri. Continuing, he said: “We should be more compassionate towards them, knowing full well that the relative peace we enjoy today in the country is a result of their sacrificial contributions. “Apart from award of scholarships to the children of the diseased members of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Nigerians should also do their best to set up businesses for their spouses.” Abiodun urges Nigerians to ensure unity, oneness In Abeokuta, Governor Dapo Abiodun said Nigerians should continue to ensure oneness and unity of Nigeria, saying only one and indivisible nation would ensure peace, progress and development. Abiodun said this would ensure that the labours of past heroes did not end in vain.   2023: Intrigues in Abia as stakeholders insists on Charter…     Benue 2023: APC chieftains in fierce struggle to succeed…     Coutinho earns Villa dramatic draw against Man Utd on EPL…   He also called on the governments and well-meaning Nigerians to see to the welfare of the children and spouses left behind by the heroes who fought for the territorial integrity and unity of the nation. We mustn’t take Nigeria’s unity for granted – Obaseki For Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, Nigerians should not to take the country’s unity, which was achieved on the blood of the nation’s fallen heroes, for granted. He said: “The unity of this country has been achieved on the blood of our fallen heroes, and it is not something that we should take for granted or we should joke with. “People are still sacrificing in the various arenas and battles in the country today and we shouldn’t take it lightly. “We are here today because people gave up their lives and have done so through the years. We should stop making unguided utterances about the unity of this country. “People must understand that such careless talks caused the loss of lives and we should not lead ourselves where history will repeat itself in this country.” Diri tasks politicians on bloodless elections Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri charged the political class to avoid actions capable of setting the nation on fire. The governor said the outcome of elections should be determined by the ballot box and not the strength of the gun, adding that the ultimate power to enthrone leadership lies in the hands of God. He recalled the bloodletting that characterised the 2019 governorship campaigns in Nembe community and cautioned that all political players should vow never to allow the killing of youths in the state because of elections in spite of their ambitions. Diri appreciated the sacrifices of fallen heroes and serving members of the Nigerian Armed Forces to protect the territorial integrity of Nigeria, adding that the remembranceday should remind Nigerians of the sacrifices of the military and the need to live in peace and unity. We won’t allow the labour of our fallen heroes go in vain, Makinde pledges Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State reiterated his administration’s determination to ensure the efforts of the nation’s fallen heroes are not in vain. He said his administration will keep encouraging and working closely with members of the Armed Forces to provide a safe and secure environment in Oyo State. Makinde said: “Some people made sacrifices for us to be where we are right now and also paid the ultimate price. So, I believe we should not allow their toil to go in vain. “As a government in Oyo State, we will keep encouraging and working closely with members of the armed forces to provide a safe and secure environment in Oyo State.” Lalong urges citizens to honour their sacrifices by embracing peace Governor Simon Bako Lalong of Plateau State urged all citizens to honour the courage of the fallen soldiers by living in peace with one another and exposing criminals. Lalong expressed displeasure at the recent security threats in the country and said unless Nigerians deliberately work towards building a peaceful society by respecting one another, obeying the rule of law and exposing criminals, the security challenges would  not be resolved because the capacity of the security agencies will continue to be overstretched. Soldiers’ widows get N180m loans in Ondo The Ondo State Government said it has provided up to N180 million in loans to assist the widows of fallen soldiers in the state. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu said in Akure that government could not have done less since the deceased laid down their lives to sustain Nigeria’s unity. He said the state government would not relent in making the widows self-employed, self-reliant and independent through capacity training with start-up packages. “We on our part, without mincing words, have come to praise them, both the departed and the living, for their patriotism. They died our deaths, they bore our injuries, and they lost their lives for humanity.  They have indeed sacrificed their lives for us to know peace,” he said. Bello: Their efforts will not be forgotten Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State urged the Armed Forces to continue to work towards ending the security challenge in the country. He promised the widows of the fallen heroes that the government would intensify efforts to enroll them into skills acquisition programmes to make them self-reliant. Atiku: Nigeria owes  veterans a debt of gratitude Former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, said Nigeria’s military veterans can’t be repaid for their supreme sacrifices, but their welfare should be treated as a priority by any government. In his solidarity message on the occasion of Armed Forces Rememberance Day, Atiku said that laying down one’s life in the defence of one’s country and fellow citizens is the highest sacrifice for the sake of patriotism. “Soldiers lose life and limb in the course of serving their country. Nigeria owes them a debt of eternal gratitude for their immeasurable sacrifices,” he said. The former Vice President advised the people in government to always give priority to the payment of the pensions and other entitlements of our military veterans as and when due. He wondered why “our veterans should be allowed to be sleeping in the open to protest non-payment of their pensions.”