Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola and his delectable wife, Alhaja Kafayat, were at the Osogbo Central Mosque last Saturday to honour his childhood friend, Alhaji Abdul Yeqeen Abimbade Adeshina during his installation as Saraki Adeen of Osogboland and three others. Alhaji Adeshina was decorated as the Saraki Adeen of Osogboland. The ceremony had A-list personalities in and out of Osun state. The event featured recitation from the Quran, lecture, royal blessing and special prayers by the Chief Imam of Osogboland Sheikh Musa Animashaun and Asiwaju Musulumi of Yorubaland including Edo and Delta, Alhaji Khamis Olatunde Badmus There was a N200 million fundraising for the community’s cemetery project. - Advertisement - The turbanning followed after the lecture.   FACT-CHECK: Did Ishola, Lam Adesina, Ajimobi, Alao-Akala,…     Industrialist urges govt to avert strike     Law firm, NGO partner on gender violence eradication   Alhaji Adeshina fondly called ‘Bade was the cynosure of all eyes when he mounted the podium. Elegantly dressed in a white agbada, an Alukinba and a matching cap, many chorused Allahu Akbar as he mounted the podium. After his decoration with a turban, he received a certificate from Sheikh Animashaun and went on to greet guests at the high table. He later landed in the waiting arms of his beloved sweetheart, Alhaja Asisat Olanike, who Governor Oyetola called Nikky Babe. They hugged, pecked and crowned it with a kiss while the guests watched with amusement. Guests led by Governor Oyetola, his wife, Alhaja Kafayat; former Osun State Deputy Governor Otunba Titi Laoye-Ponnle and her husband/Chairman, MicCom Wires and Cables Prince Tunde Ponnle, former Head of Service of the Federation Prof Oladapo Afolabi, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Premium Pension Mallam Umar Sanda Mairami, former Sterling Bank Director Mr Yinka Adeola, Former MD/CEO of Skye Bank (now Polaris), Mr Timothy Oguntayo; Director, APIS Capital Equity in United Kingdom Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi, Justice Kunle Adeigbe (retd) and wife, Mistura; MD/CEO Health Assur Ltd Dr Rotimi Zedomi, Abiodun Owonikoko SAN, converged on Alhaji Adeshina’s residence at GRA Osogbo for a reception. It was a lavish treatment as guests were treated to local and foreign cuisines with choice drinks. Other eminent personalities at the event include Mr and Mrs Nimbe Ayenuyo, Chairman, Mega Chicken Group; Alhaji M.F Lawal; Alhaji R. Ebiti; Dr Lateef Odekunle and wife, Remi; Prof Wakil Isola and wife; Alhaji Lateef Bakare and Dr Halimah Egberongbe.