The Federal Government under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is committed to crushing banditry and insurgency, the party has said. The Secretary of the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, gave the assurance in a statement yesterday in Abuja on the recent killings by bandits in Zamfara State. The scribe said the party was deeply pained by the killing of innocent Nigerians in their villages, assuring that President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration was working hard to crush the perpetrators. - Advertisement - “The government has been steadfast in retooling the Armed Forces, recruitment of personnel and intensified training to enhance their operational capacity in safeguarding public safety and the territorial integrity of the country. “We assure Nigerians that banditry and insurgency will be crushed. “Indeed, the recent designation of these satanic, evil and criminal elements as terrorist groups will further buoy our security services to deal with them as such and ultimately contain their nefarious activities in the country,” he said. Also, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) condemned the killings. In a statement yesterday in Abuja by its President Ayuba Wabba, the umbrella labour union said the Federal Government must take drastic steps to end the current ogre of bloodletting, destruction of property and displacement of Nigerians. The statement reads: “Between Tuesday, January 4, 2022 and Thursday, January 6, 2022, armed terrorists invaded a host of villages, including Rafin Danya, Barayar Zaki, Rafin Gero, and Kurfa, all in Anka and Bukkuyum local government areas of Zamfara State, leaving in their wake a trail of bloodbath.   Man loses three children to midnight fire     ‘Govt never told states to enforce compulsory vaccination of…     Fed Govt accuses politician of fueling boundary disputes   “Eyewitnesses put the number of persons killed at 200 while official sources put the casualty toll at 58. Conservative estimates put the number of displaced persons, mostly the poor, from the affected communities at 10,000… “The deployment of proactive intelligence, active surveillance and hi-tech weaponry would be useful in combating and conquering the new strain of barbarism and desperation being exhibited by the terrorists.” Also, Zamfara State Governor Abdul’aziz Yari has commiserated with the victims of the attacks in Anka and Bukkuyum local government areas of the state. In a statement by the Chairman of his All Progressives Congress (APC) faction in the state, Alhaji Lawal Liman, the governor expressed his condolences on behalf of the party leaders, stakeholders and members in 147 wards, 14 local government areas to the affected families, communities and survivors of the attacks. Also, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) yesterday condemned the killings and sent a condolence message to Governor Mutawalle. In a statement by its Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola, MURIC said: “…We strongly condemn these killings. They are callous, cowardly, disheartening, horrific and barbaric. “We call on security agencies to leave no stone unturned in apprehending the perpetrators.” Also, there was a march for peace yesterday in Kaduna. The organisers of the march, the Coalition of Northern Activists for Peace (CNAP), said there was a campaign of calumny against the North as a beleaguered region. CNAP spokesman Prince Zubairu Mukhtar said the rally was organised in appreciation of the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and security agencies at addressing the challenges that have bedeviled the North. He condemned the killings in the region and urged those making negative comments about the North to desist forthwith.