This is one of those calendars when the wish of a happy new year bears a great deal of political resonance. It is an election year in the sense that two major polls, in Osun State and Ekiti State, will invoke the gubernatorial choices of their citizens. But more broadly, it is the prelude to Nigeria’s major democratic rites. It is the year that major political parties will chart their path for the next half decade at least, if not a full decade. The parties will pick their major officers. They will convene conventions that should help them mollify internecine rages, placate mammoth egos, navigate ethnocentric bigotry and inclinations, sue for general peace and decide who should be their point persons in key positions in the general elections billed for 2023. It is true the race for a general election begins after a general election. But it is never more tense and never more febrile than when the door opens for campaigns, candidates are nominated and deadlines erupt whether in the parties in primary quests or in the National Electoral Commission. It is often an uncertain time in the country. We see individuals duel for positions, aggregate interests and try to win either by following the rules or by overthrowing them That is when the social and political peace is at the mercies of perverted men and so the fabrics sometimes creak and crinkle. We see persons of great influence and affluence who deploy their resources to stamp despotic ideas and interests on the political parties. - Advertisement - As we begin the year, the two major parties, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC), hold the nation in their grips. It is the nature of de facto two-party states. One of such is the United States with the Democratic Party and the Republican Party sometimes called the Grand Old Party (GOP). Osun State and Ekiti State will show us a hint of what is to come. We want to cheer at the Anambra State governor poll that ended as a joyful anti-climax. The winner Chukwuma Soludo will be sworn in this year. While the PDP has arrived at his party helmsman, it still has a convention to hold in order to resolve quite a number of issues. One of such is whether it wants its party to discountenance a convention of rotating the presidency between north and south, in which case the party has to chew whether its version of democracy will chose hegemony over accommodation. That remains nebulous as some of its key contenders have forsworn rotation and are couching it in terms of competence as though any region monopolises ability. Wherever they go, they have to be sensitive to the multi-ethnic profile of the nation. Again, the APC also has choices to make. It has fixed February for its convention, but it has not decided on the date. The internal unease within the party leadership has stirred much fear as to whether the party has or can ever design a formula for peace or find the time and avenue to do it.   How Buhari is reinventing youth and sports administration…     How to be what you claim on your CV     Nigeria to Benin Republic by rail   It has no party chairman or executive and it has operated without a clear road map to electing its chairman to steer the organisation towards the general elections. There is also the big challenge of getting its choice for the presidency and what formula it intends to adopt, and whether the party as it stands is in the mood for either reconciliation or despotism. Hence it is important that the two parties should come together and choose tranquillity over chaos, collective good over self-interest, and rule of law over the will of a few. One of the fears is the resort to violence. We call on all to eschew attacks and the deployment of thugs. After the conventions, and the candidates are known, we shall move swiftly into election campaigns. It is at that stage that we report shootings, kidnaps and assassinations, although these could also sully the party primaries. The other step is judicial rigmarole. Some politicians who seek to upturn the process tend to employ the help of judges and lawyers. This does violence to legitimate elections. But it is sometimes a conundrum when some big men rig the polls and foist the wrong candidates either on the party or the people or both. In those case, the aggrieved sue, and it tends to put a damper on the legitimacy and imposes delay. This applies not just to the presidency or national offices of the political parties but at every level from states to the local governments to wards. Politics at each level, if not handled with decency, could turn into a mayhem of local leaders or those seeking leadership. The year is also the time for lame ducks. While those eyeing new offices take over the narrative, it is important that both at national and local levels, office seekers do not stop work. It is a year of legacy, whether it is a governor who has begun a major road or school or hospital, or it is in the centre where major infrastructure work of different kinds is expected to be unveiled, the Nigerian people are waiting. This year harps on the idea that governance is a continuum. The vista of those who are winding down beside those gearing up paints for us the concept of democracy as collaboration not only in geography but also in time. One of the issues that must encapsulate the mind is security. Those who are leaving office next year should not allow the breakdown of law and order skew the nation towards fear and impotence by not acting. It has been a scary few years, and we look forward to a nation of peace. Political distraction should not doom citizens to Golgotha of kidnappers, ritualists and murderers.