The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Maj-Gen Shuaibu lbrahim has inaugurated the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Mega Printing Press in Kaduna, saying more of it will be established in other zones. The NYSC boss said the press would handle the printing of publications of the NYSC, thereby cutting down its running costs. He said the project, which was conceived almost a decade ago, is a testament of the commitment of NYSC management to the functionality of the six Mega-Printing Presses, as approved by the Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation. In a statement by Deputy Director of Press and Public Relations of the NYSC, Emeka Mgbemena the Director-General expressed appreciation to thhe Senate President Ahmad Lawan, yesterday called for a thorough investigation into the incident in which a motor driver was reportedly shot dead at Garin Alkali in Bursari Local Government of Yobe State. The incident ignited violent protests in the neighbouring town of Gashua, the headquarters of Bade Local Government on Saturday. - Advertisement - According to Lawan in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, in Abuja, the probe has become necessary with a view to bringing whoever has a hand in the killing to book. He expressed sadness over the incident and sympathised with the family of the victim. “I am deeply saddened by the tragic news at Garin Alkali on Saturday and the violent reactions that followed it. The killing of the innocent driver is wicked and reprehensible. It should not be condoned for whatever reason. “My heart goes out to the family of the victim. May Allah console them over their bereavement. “I urge the authorities to thoroughly investigate the incident with a view to establishing why and how it happened and applying appropriate sanctions to deter future reoccurrence. “I also appeal for calm and assure the peace-loving members of the community that justice will be served in this matter. “I urge members of the community never to take the law into their hands whatever the provocation as such reactions often lead to further tragedies,” Lawan said. The Senate President commended the Yobe State Government and the police for their quick intervention which helped to quickly douse the tension and restore normalcy to the affected community.   ‘There was no bomb blast on Al-Qalam varsity campus’     PDP chieftain advises against ceding 2023 presidential…     UN chief pledges rehabilitation support for Northeast   e HoS for the unwavering support being offered the NYSC. Ibrahim added that the birth of the printing press is a confirmation of one of his administration’s policy thrust, which is centred on reinvigorating the NYSC ventures. He said: “It will be a veritable source of revenue with attendant increase in our remittances to the federal coffers. “This facility and similar ones that will be sited in other geo-political zones will be open to public patronage, and in addition to handling the printing of publications of the NYSC, thereby cutting down our running costs.” The Director-General stated further that the Printing Press would also serve as a training platform for NYSC Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development as interested corps members would be accorded the opportunity to acquire skills in publication and digital printing. He urged the managers of the Printing Press to hit the ground and ensure efficient and effective handling of the facility so as to meet the printing and publication needs of all NYSC formations in the North-West geo-political zone and the general public. “This is a strategic project which must be placed in good stead to compete favourably in the printing market. “I expect you to be above board in canvassing patronage from individuals and organizations in both the public and private sectors”, General Ibrahim said. The D-G also directed all the NYSC formations in the North-West to ensure patronage of the printing press as it is set to offer a wide range of services in digital printing technology. He canvassed support from well-meaning Nigerians for the establishment of NYSC Trust Fund, which will address infrastructural deficit in the Scheme, as well as enhance the training and provision of start-up capital for Corps Members under the Skill Acquisition and Entrepreneurship Development programme of the scheme. He said this will go a long way in making them self-employed with the multiplier effects of lifting millions of other Nigerians out of poverty. General Ibrahim added that his administration would continue to use the potentials of Corps Members for national development. Mgbemena commended the Director-General for his laudable achievements, including the NYSC Radio and Television which would be inaugurated soon. He assured him that the printing press would not be a flash in the pan, but would run profitably as a strategic business unit of the scheme.