Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative, a faith-based Non-Governmental Organisation, has launched a zero-tolerance campaign against the use of pornography, drug abuse, child abuse, rape, sex for grades, prostitution and youth trafficking. Tagged “I am forever precious campaign,” the initiative, according to Anchor International founder, Dr Bolarinwa Omotosho, would sensitive youths to the dangers of the vices. Omotosho lamented that the vices have destroyed many youths globally and cut short their potentials, vowing the organisation would stop at nothing to empower the youths to fight them. Omotosho added youths under the influence of the vices have faced personal grief, illness, suicide, social crises, sexual abuse and exploitation. According to him: “Pornography is more destructive than HIV/AIDS and it has ravaged the lives of youths. Pornography has resulted in many forms of sexual abuse, molestation and exploitation of young people throughout Africa.”   Music has given me huge platform – Odusax     2022 year of progress for God’s people, says Adeboye     Tinubu ‘ll take Nigeria out of wilderness says cleric   - Advertisement - He called for support to assist youths to tackle the plagues through a zero-tolerance policy. Senior Pastor of Grace Assembly Lagos, Dr Femi Paul, while formally launching the initiative, praised Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative leadership and team for spearheading the historic initiative to address the threats that society, particularly young people face. The summit, which drew over 425 people, featured a number of notable schools, organisations, notable personalities and partners from Nigeria and the United States of America. The launch was supported by notable non-governmental organizations and government agencies, including the Lagos State Ministry of Youth and Social Development, Our Daily Bread Ministries, Bible Society of Nigeria, Nigeria Youth Works Association, and Commonwealth Alliance of Youth Workers Association. Other notable dignitaries and speakers during the summit were: Dr. Steve Van Horn, President of International Training and Equipping Ministries (ITEM) USA; Dr. Ranti Samuel, Senior Lecturer at Lagos State University; Dr. (Mrs.) Priscillia Omotosho, National Women Coordinator Anchor International Care and Humanitarian Initiative; Pastor (Mrs.) Moji Abiodun, Wife of the Pastor in Charge of Lagos Province 72 of the Redeemed Christian Church of God and Very Rev. Bukola Adeleke, Special Adviser on Religion Affairs (Christian) to Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwolu-olu