Let us start by acknowledging the resourcefulness of Dele Momodu, one of our 2023 aspiring presidential candidates. Dele Momodu publishes the Ovation newsmagazine that operates at the level of society and therefore mirrors society by celebrating human vanity in its true colour. Publishing this genre of popular newsmagazine has brought him great fortunes. It is not impossible that Mark  Zuckerberg, the promoter of Facebook and photo-sharing Instagram he acquired for $1b in 2012 but today contributes about $20b to Facebook annual revenue, copied one or two things from our own resourceful Dele Momodu. Having made friends with ‘the owners of society’ and other men of ‘timber and calibre’  whose vanity he  has over the years exploited to build up  great fortunes,  the pursuit of political power  becomes a natural urge. In 2011 he had offered himself for service as president on the platform of National Conscience Party of Nigeria (NCP). According to him, he has spent the last 12 years since his last disastrous outing perfecting a new strategy before throwing his hat in the ring two Mondays ago. To launch himself to the consciousness of other Nigerians not covered by his social media network, he chose Arise Television Morning Ride, a less hostile territory owned by a ThisDay Group and whose anchor, Reuben Abati he admitted has always been his friend.  But it will appear such long nurtured relationship did not stop Reuben Abati who ‘jolificates’ even while addressing serious issues and ever combative Rufai Oseni, who carries cynicism on his face like an armour whenever people cannot see what he thinks he sees, and Tundun Abiola who keeps the balance, from throwing some tepid punches that surprisingly knocked out Dele Momodu. What was he going to do differently from his failed 2011 outing and how did he hope to outwit PDP juggernauts eyeing the same position? He would demonstrate to the party that he could win the election. His proof:  millions of his foot soldiers that his intra-party opponents can cross-check on his phone. These youths who according to him, ‘earnestly want Momodu’ want old politicians to go and rest having done their best like Buhari. What is the most important problem facing Nigeria today – he was asked? For him, it is absence of unity. And the cure: bringing joy and hope to the people. As someone with an Edo father and Osun mother, a former Private Secretary at 23 to Akin Omoboriowo, (who escaped in a booth of a car from Ondo State over alleged election rigging), as a former  Private Secretary to the late Ooni of Ife at 26, and as the chief promoter  of Olu Falae (of no alternative to SAP fame) at 30,  thinks he is now ready to face the challenges of managing  a nation as complex as Nigeria. - Advertisement - Beyond rhetoric, what specific policies will he deploy to engender national unity bearing in mind the current experience of President Biden of US who despite spending 35 years in the US Senate and eight years as vice president has been unable to change the minds of far right-wing elements in the US?  For him, that is very simple because he has studied Abiola’s 1993 successful outing.  It is going to be a wholesale adoption of his 1993 ‘hope’ mantra. ‘When people have hope, they will make sacrifices’. Asked for his specific policies on the economy since hope will not reverse 18% inflation rate, more than 40% unemployment rate and high debt service rate; he insisted the first thing is hope. The atmosphere in Nigeria, he says, is fouled up with investors trying to take their money away. Beside hope, he will have a star-studded cabinet composed of our brightest brains.   Igbo and Fulani zero-sum struggle for power     Nigeria’s hypocritical leaders     #Northisbleeding protest and conspiracy of leaders   Rufai didn’t bother to remind him that Babangida’s star-studded cabinet with IMF egg-heads from World Bank school ended up with the ‘sapping’ of our strong naira under Chu Okongwu and Olu Falae. Obasanjo also carried out the same experiment with World Bank and IMF star-studded experts of Breton-Wood institution. Alas their leading light, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, today remembered more for his crusade for mega banks that concentrated wealth in the hand of a few parasitic bankers and Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, an apostle of ‘tax waivers’ for imported goods, have spent considerable time after leaving office trying to convince Nigerians how each of them, by their wrong-headed policies set the stage for the nation’s current economic travails. On his shifting loyalty between Buhari’s APC and Atiku’s PDP, he said, in a democracy, we cannot predict the colour of a new government taking over from the old. Nigerians, according to him, thought they had seen the worst in Jonathan and PDP until Buhari and his APC came. Momodu was given an opportunity to articulate the problem of Nigeria and proffer solutions. From the apparent vacant expressions on the faces of Momodu’s unfriendly family members at the end of the interview, it was difficult to know their verdict on the level of Momodu’s preparedness for the task ahead. However, as if to reassure us of their neutrality, they provided some relief with their choice of ex- governor of Akwa- Ibom State Obong Victor Atta, speaking immediately after Momodu’s self-promotion on the issue of resource control following exchange of letters between ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo and elder statesman Chief Edwin Clark. Victor Atta started his clinical dissection of Nigerian problem by pointing out the reasons why the so-called owners of Nigeria especially Obasanjo should get off our back. For him, Obasanjo is a dictator with total disdain for democracy and federalism. He accused him of sitting on Lagos State LGA funds in spite of judicial pronouncements;  assembling few state legislators in Abuja to impeach properly elected state governors, changing senate presidents at will  and taking the oil wells that rightly belonged to Akwa- Ibom State and distributing them to Rivers and Cross Rivers states. The way forward: After messing up Nigerian for 66 years, Nigeria can undo the evil the self-serving owners of Nigeria including Gowon, Obasanjo, Babangida, Theophilus Danjuma,  Aliyu Gusau and Abdul Salami Abubakar did by reverting back to Nigerian republican constitution of 1963 and modify it to suit the present circumstances. The lesson from Victor Atta’s intervention is that our angry youths who have become captives of smart social media manipulators and war lords must take time to read and understand the nature of our problem instead of using today’s hostile environment as an excuse. Awolowo, who wrote his masterpiece ‘The Path to Nigeria Freedom’ never had money to finish primary school or acquire formal secondary school education. Tony Enahoro who had a secondary school education as a son of a secondary school teacher went on to become an editor of a national newspaper at 22 and ended up as one of the best parliamentarians Nigeria has ever produced. The environment during the imperial reign when these pathfinders and their colleagues worked hard to lay solid foundation for a more egalitarian society was not any less toxic or unfriendly then than today. Obong Victor Atta has just demonstrated the limit of social media. It is therefore worth reminding our youths who read neither newspaper nor books that they cannot give what they don’t have. If I were therefore to make a choice between Dele Momodu who speaks only the language of his millions of social media foot soldiers and EndSARS Lekki warriors and Obong Victor Atta, who insisted sovereignty is by subscription, I will settle for the latter.