Bayelsa Governor Douye Diri has said that no stone will be left unturned to ensure the release of his Trade and Investment Commissioner, Federal Otokito, who was kidnapped a few days ago. Diri called for immediate and unconditional release by his abductors, stressing Bayelsa laws against kidnapping would be followed to the letter against them. Otokito was kidnapped last Thursday from his residence in Otuokpoti, his hometown in Ogbia Local Government Area of the state. Speaking on Monday at the 12th Kolokuma-Opokuma Thanksgiving Day in Sampou, his community, Diri insisted that the State Government would not pay a dime as a ransom for the commissioner’s release. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted Diri as calling on youths to shun kidnapping, which he said was counter-productive to the state and their wellbeing. - Advertisement - He said: “I left Yenagoa for Abuja and within the period, one of my cabinet members was kidnapped. A lot of people expected me to make statements but I am not a man of too many words. “I advise those who settle scores by kidnapping and criminality that there are laws of Bayelsa State against kidnapping. Let me call on those that kidnapped my Commissioner of Trade and Investment to immediately release him without any conditions. “I have been on it from the beginning till now and I will ensure that he is released unhurt. I advise all others involved in that criminal, ungodly and inhumane act to have a change of mind and leave that illegitimate business.”   AFCON 2021: Okoye, Iwobi get death threats over Super Eagles…     Diri rules out payment of ransom for kidnapped…     Call me Charlie Nwangbafor or Mr Governor, not His…   Diri also cautioned those heating up the state politically due to their ambition to tread carefully as his government would not condone political thuggery and such nefarious acts. He stressed the ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party(PDP) in the State had a structure that must be followed strictly through nominations and elections when the time is right and warned anyone with a negative agenda to have a rethink. He restated his call on his appointees that have political ambitions to resign their appointments. He also called on politicians to change their old ways of playing God, mudslinging and thuggery, stressing that whoever God destined to occupy a position would eventually emerge no matter whose ox is gored. The Governor thanked organisers of the annual KOLGA Thanksgiving Day, particularly the visioner, Apostle David Zilly-Aggrey. In his sermon, Apostle David Zilly-Aggrey said God was still in the business of using mortals to bring His plans to pass and that this can be achieved if the people drew near to Him in prayers and thanksgiving. Apostle Zilly-Aggrey, who is also President of the Royal House of Grace Church International, noted that the annual KOLGA Thanksgiving Day was established by God and could not be changed. He admonished the people to realise that every God-induced victory was not for an individual but for all.