Gov. Mai Mala Buni of Yobe has cautioned politicians not to see the 2023 general elections as a do-or-die affair. Buni, also National Chairman, APC Caretaker and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the maiden National Progressives Women Conference. He specifically charged women to preach the doctrine of peaceful elections across the country ahead of the 2023 general elections. “You should enlighten your spouses, children, brothers, in-laws, neighbours and the larger society that we must not see the election as a do-or-die affair. “We should promote peaceful elections and service delivery against personal gains,” he said. - Advertisement - Buni wished the women fruitful deliberations and assured that the APC would continue to support them. He expressed confidence that the conference would unveil ideas that would improve the fortunes of the APC and support the government of President Muhammadu Buhari in its commitment to improve the lives of Nigerians. He noted that women no doubt constituted a large proportion of Nigeria’s population, adding that their roles in nation-building, political and socio-economic development of the country could not be over-emphasised. “Today, Nigeria proudly parades a good number of women at the Federal and State levels, as well as in political offices serving with excellence. “At the home front, you define the future of the country through great values and support to your spouses which helps in shaping the society and modelling the present and future of the country. “Politically, women have always played key roles in our electioneering process and administration.   ‘Tinubu has the credentials to rebuild Nigeria’     INEC to release 2023 polls timetable after amended Electoral…     Tinubu’s networth, bullion van and other matters   “You remain the best and most reliable mobilisers of support to any political party and its candidates. You have always been there on queue on election days,” Buni said. He added that it was in realisation of these great roles of women, that the APC had as a matter of deliberate policy reserved some space to carry the women along at all levels. He recalled that while the party under his leadership conducted membership registration and revalidation exercise, it found it expedient to constitute a special committee on women and youth before the commencement of the exercise. He said the roles women played, made the membership registration and revalidation exercise a huge success. “Today, APC parades over 41 million registered members, asserting our position as Africa’s largest political party and of course, Nigeria’s leading political party. “With this, we are confident of winning the 2023 general with huge success,” he said. He expressed gratitude to the party’s women for their support before, during and after the exercise. He said the party was looking forward to more support from the women during its Feb. 26, National Convention and during the 2023 general elections. He said as the most women-friendly party in the country, the APC shall reciprocate the kind gesture of women by supporting them and youths in their political aspirations to enable them realise their political dreams. “We look forward to having more women contesting in the forthcoming National Convention of the party and the 2023 general elections. “Now, as we approach the convention and move closer to the next general election, l wish to remind you of your progressive role to supporting progressive minded leaders,” Buni stressed.   (NAN)