The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over the detention of its Publicity Secretary in Ebonyi State, Chika Nwoba. It claimed Nwoba was abduced on Sunday but was rescued by the police who subsequently detained him and let the assailants go. Chairman of the party, Chief Tochukwu Okorie, told The Nation that the abduction took place along the Enugu-Abakaliki expresseway. According to him, Nwoba was in the company of the party’s Deputy Chairman Ifeanyi Nworie when he was intercepted and taken away. He explained that after the abduction, Mr Nworie notified the Officer in Charge of Anti-kidnapping, Ebonyi State Police Command of the incident. - Advertisement - He said the officers and men of the Command swung into action and intercepted the criminals (at Ahia-Ofu) and rescued the victim. He expressed dismay that rather than arrest the abductors, the police let them go and instead took Nwoba into custody. He alleged that the perpetrators were never of the Ebubeagu Security outfit, Ebonyi State chapter. Our correspondent could not immediately verify the claim or ascertain the identity of those involved at of the time of this report. Nworie said: “The abductors were intercepted by the anti-kidnapping team and rather than arrest the abductors who they meet on ground, they took Nwoba into custody and allowed the criminals to go scot-free.   Ekiti 2022: Fayose, Olujimi camps reconcile     Labour begins mass mobilisation for subsidy removal protests     NMA accuses JOHESU of ’emotional blackmail’   “The Publicity Secretary is not being allowed to see anybody at the Police Station. What is he being suspected of? “Anybody not supporting this administration is an endangered species, including the PDP. “Chika Nwoba published a photograph of a member of Ebubeagu carrying AK 47. Chika Nwoba has been in hiding until today. “We call on the Attorney-General of the Federation, National Security Adviser, IGP to take notice of what is happening in Ebonyi State. Nobody is safe unless you are a member of APC.” He accused the Ebonyi State Police Command of detaining the victim for no just cause. “The police is keeping him in custody so that they can arraign him in a kangaroo court. “The abductee’s phone is still with the abductors. “He was beaten mercilessly by his abductors. “Why would the police release the abductors and arrest the victim?” Police spokesperson, Loveth Odah, said she was not aware of the incident. Security consultant to the state government, Stanley Emegha, said to be in charge of Ebubeagu in the state, could not be reached for comments at of the time of filing this report.