The Nigerian community in South Africa is bereaved again, following the killing of a fellow compatriot. The victim, Olusola Solarin, was killed on December 12, bringing the number of Nigerians murdered in that country since 2019 to 127. Thirteen of the victims were killed by members of the South African police. In a statement e-mailed to NAN in Abuja on Saturday, the Nigeria Union South Africa (NUSA), described Solarin as a brilliant, hardworking, motivator and community leader, who has fallen victim to the orgy of violence and criminality in South Africa. The statement, jointly signed by the President of NUSA, Mr Collins Mgbo, and Secretary-General, Mr Nimram Durven Longbap-Longs, described Solarin as a businessman who had a chain of businesses, including pharmaceuticals, clothes and shoes outlets. - Advertisement - According to the unionists, Solarin has since been buried at Makun community in Sagamu, near Abeokuta in Ogun State on January 3.   I left service without a query, invitation from ICPC, EFCC,…     Rabe Nasir: Masari appoints interim commissioner for…     Lalong greets Pauline Tallen at 63   Solarin, an alumnus of University of Lagos, was said to have met his fate after supplying goods to his customers outside Johannesburg, the business capital and was returning to his base when he was waylaid. He was said to have been murdered by his assailants because he tried to prevent them from collecting the money he was paid by customers. In the union’s condolence message to Solarin’s widow named Doris, who is also the Vice-President and Head of Programmes of NUSA, the union said that the Nigerian community in South Africa would miss Solarin dearly. The union members also noted that their solace was in God, knowing full well that Solarin had run his race and his reward awaits him at the bosom of God. “I have never seen a man with such a heart of gold. I’ve never seen a man so hardworking that with so little he built so much for his family within a reasonable time of his life. Life isn’t fair enough to allow him to taste the fruits of his labour. “I am pushed to ask: `God why’ but if I do, of what benefit is it? Will he be brought back to life?’’ Mgbo wrote in his tribute.