In this piece, the Publicity Secretary of the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), AbdulAzeez Olatunde x-rays the performance of Governor Seyi Makinde-led Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) administration in the last 31 months, saying the government has performed abysmally, compared to its counterparts elsewhere in the country Like many other governors elsewhere in the country, Oyo State’s Governor Seyi Makinde assumed office on May 29, 2019. A year and five months to the end of his tenure of four years, how has he fared as governor? In other not to be seen as comparing him with the immediate past government, which spent eight years (or 96 months) in power, we would be taking a look at first-term governors like him. In order not to have a lengthy appraisal, let us restrict ourselves to just two states: Borno in the Northeast and Cross River in South-south. They are all within the same age bracket. Makinde is 54 years old, while his Borno State counterpart, Governor Babagana Zulum is 52 years and Cross River’s Governor Ben Ayade is 53. Makinde and Zulum are in their first term, while Ayade is in his second term. Incidentally, both Zulum and Ayade are professors, while Makinde is an engineer by profession. Within 31 months, Zulum may be excused if he cites the activities of Boko Haram insurgents as an alibi for not performing optimally. But, he recently hosted President Muhammadu Buhari to commission a long list of projects he started. As of the last count, he has executed 556 projects, including hospitals with the latest diagnostic equipment and classrooms furnished with state of the art instructional materials. - Advertisement - Let’s go to Cross River State, where Ayade has tackled youth unemployment with the establishment of a chicken farm where about 24,000 chickens are slaughtered daily with an automated processing plant. Members of the House of Representatives committee on agriculture, which visited the farm recently, applauded the governor’s effort, dubbing it “a real empowerment opportunity for the youth of Cross River State and by extension Nigeria, unlike lip service paid to employment and empowerment elsewhere. The Cross River State chicken farm has, as a value chain, a maize farm and a fishmeal processing outfit to process the poultry feeds. These are all quality employment and empowerment opportunities for young graduates. Ayade has also established a cocoa plantation and a chocolate processing factory, as well as a rice planting village with processing plants, all on gigantic scales. Now, let’s come to Oyo State.  Governor Makinde has destroyed Lekan Salami Stadium, Adamasingba, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital; even though he wasted a whopping N5. 5bn loans to renovate the sporting facility. The project brought disgrace to Oyo State on the commissioning day, with waterlogged pitch. Now that it is not raining, the “refurbished pitch” is like “Sahara Desert”. The fans that were in the stadium on Sunday, December 26, 2021, will tell you their bitterness as to how the turf almost caused defeat to 3SC because the playing surface is just not ideal for football any longer. The 31 months old government in Oyo State, having realised its folly in the reversal of the policy of the immediate past government on the school governing board model, has just made a U-turn, by finally embracing the policy, which also offers a financial grant to schools. This is quite commendable though.   How PDP can produce acceptable presidential candidate, by…     The rocket attack on Maiduguri too close for comfort, says…     Kwara APC crisis ‘family feud’- Reconciliation…   Why would the government not reverse itself, when schools were unable to print exam questions but rather chose to be writing questions on blackboards? Worse still, the state has now resorted to giving publicity to the pupils receiving report cards, because parents could not evaluate the performances of their children and wards via report cards for several terms under the administration. The Makinde administration assumed office on May 29, 2019, and by September 2019 when the schools resumed for a new session, they started distributing the textbooks printed by the previous government of Senator Abiola Ajimobi and we challenged them to show the world the receipt of the printer that printed the textbooks for them. To date, they failed to produce the receipt. Again, the Makinde-led government could not produce another set of textbooks the following session. A government that had the “magic” of producing textbooks less than three months of assumption of office cannot replicate such 28 months after. The government claimed to have procured fire-fighting vehicles from Turkey, but for over one year the vehicles are yet to be deployed. The “Ajumose” buses that have been in use for some time are due for replacement, but they are still plying the streets. The governor claimed to have procured some additional buses. But, they are only seen when his party, the PDP, has an engagement outside the state. The past government-provided solar-powered streetlights, but Governor Seyi Makinde (GSM) chose the “incorruptible” way of replacing them with diesel-powered streetlights. If there is one sector the people of Oyo State are anxiously praying for the fast-tracking of the terminal date of this government, it is the security sector. When Makinde chose to celebrate his birthday in Saki, Oke Ogun, what followed is the mayhem of maiming and killings. In 2020, there was a sordid killing of officers of the Nigeria Police serving in the state. The officers were killed, roasted and disgracefully cannibalised, with wanton destruction of police stations across the state with their logistics vehicles. Can the people of Oyo State forget the wanton overnight destruction of Igangan Town, in the Ibarapa axis of Oyo State on the dawn of June 6, 2021? Governor Makinde had assured residents that it would never happen again. But, it reoccurred within 10 days, on June 16, 2021. Can the telephone vendors and shopping complex owners at Iwo Road interchange forever forget their losses to the power-drunk park managers, which resulted in the untimely death of one Rahman whose wife had just been put to bed in the United Kingdom then (June 2021) and was just lucky to be given entry visa to the UK to join his wife? But, his life was cut short in the fracas between Iwo Road phone vendors and shop owners against Makinde’s park managers. Sources had it that Rahman was a graduate of Lead City University, Ibadan. His corpse was taken to the governor’s office by the concerned sympathisers. Again, can the Bodija market people, Ojoo market whose buildings were demolished in the early morning commando-style ever forget the incident? Ditto, BCOS staff whose quarters were just sold overnight to developers by the GSM government. Can residents of Moniya in Akinyele Local Government Area forget in a hurry months of siege and the security lapses which necessitated them losing their breadwinners and loved ones?