Thirty four-year-old Buari Olalekan Oluwasegun is one of the leading music video directors in Nigeria. Widely known as Unlimited LA, this award-winning cinematographer has worked with several Nigerian music stars and rising stars from P-Square to Olamide, Phyno, Timaya, Sean Tizzle and Small Doctor. In this interview with SAMPSON UNAMKA, he opens up on his career, his personality and wish to shoot a music video for famous American music star, Chris Brown. YOU’VE not been in the country for a while, did you relocate to the US? No, America is my second home, so I’m always in and out but I’m still here. I didn’t move out finally, I’m a patriotic Nigerian you know I’m here. You have been around for a while, what has kept you going without blemish? Well, because I grew under the umbrella of DJ Tee, one of the people that started music video’s in Nigeria and I’ve been around for a bit. I’ve been around when the whole industry started like since 2005 when D’banj came with ‘Tongolo,’ you know, so I know how to behave myself that’s all I’ll say. - Advertisement - You shoot music video for music acts and that becomes their property, do you create your own content? I mean its a structure that I’ve been saying that we need to, you know still put together because I don’t own content of music video. I don’t even own the creative rights to it and that’s a structure that we’ve not gotten to yet and I know that in a couple of years we will get there. So, do you have any young director under your tutelage? I have a whole lot of people under me, people that you know, people that you don’t know always behind the scenes. I have over 40 people, 40 employed people, 40 and growing you know from the likes of Bash, Abula, Aramide, everybody. I make sure I make all my crew members as independent as possible so that they will be able to employ more people under them. I mean, let me tell you this for a fact now, in any music video been shot in Nigeria, one or two of my crew members would be on set if it’s not me directing. Do you decline video shoots because of a song? I don’t refuse. The only time I get to refuse is if the budget is not right,  but I mean, I run a company, I have like in-house directors if I’m not interested, somebody will be interested in my company so I don’t reject videos. Okay so AFRIMA, tell us about your view on AFRIMA, how do you see the award, how has it impacted creators? AFRIMA, for one I would say in Africa, is the biggest because I like what they are doing because, they are appreciating African talents and African creatives. I mean we don’t have a lot of it so for Afrimma to be here I really appreciate it and I love what they are doing. Okay, so how does Unlimited LA unwind? I’m a very conservative person, I’m always indoors, I got my video games. I got the whole editing gadgets in my place, so I live in my studio, I don’t really have anywhere else to go, I wake up in the morning, I take a step, I’m already in my studio, I don’t go out, you rarely find me outside. You are big on social media, what’s your perspective about Nigerians and the way we use social media? I was talking to somebody that as a Nigerian, I think we are blinded by the bridge of social media, people always think social media ends on Instablog or Tundeednut, you know and there is a whole lot of things. I learned a whole lot of things from the internet. Things like what? My work. There’s a new camera out, if it’s not in Nigeria yet, I’m already online checking it out you know, so for me to be online, I take social media as my playground because I don’t go out a lot, I don’t socialise that much, social media is my playground. I just say anything funny I say it, anything weird I’ll say it, anything controversial I’ll post it, you know, just to engage people and that’s all.   Side chicks, major reason most men are still married –…     Bobrisky postpones housewarming over ‘aso-ebi design’…     Youths unprepared for governance, says Ali Baba    A lot of people actually bring their personal lives to social media. What’s your take on that especially estranged couples who wash their dirty linens on social media? I wouldn’t say people bring their personal life on social media, I think people post what they want you to see on social media, I mean If I want to make you feel I wear a white shirt all the time, anytime I wear a white shirt I will post it and when I’m not wearing the white shirt, I probably won’t post it, so people post what they want you to see not their personal life. What’s next for Unlimited LA after all the accomplishments? I’m still very much doing music videos. I want to do a couple of films, you know because the industry now is up to that level that we’ve been waiting for, so I’ll probably put out one or two films and get to employ more people. So what’s the secret behind your consistency all these years? I mean I just employ a whole lot of people, if you come to my company I always employ people all the time, throw people in a different department so I think that adds to my consistency. Has there ever been any time you have been short of concepts or creative ideas? The way my company is built, I’m not just a creative head, I’m not just a director, I have a whole lot of people working as creatives and directors, so I’ve never had that time. What is that one music video that challenged you most in since you have started filming music videos? It’s going to be one of the classics. The music video for Sean Tizzle’s Sho Lee. What made it challenging? It was supposed to be a disaster, they’re scenes we were shooting on that video and we had like police arresting people because we overstayed our time at the location. So, a couple of scenes in that video I was shooting behind me, the police were arresting people but I still pulled through. So what’s that music video that surprised your expectation? It will be Small Doctor’s Penalty because it was supposed to be a free slash viral video because I just finished shooting two videos and Small Doctor came through and I said let’s shoot, so we just shot the video and it was topping charts all over Africa. Do you shoot videos based on friendship or is it strictly business for you? Two things, I shoot videos based on the song. I must like the song and the budget has to be good. What if the artist is your friend and he doesn’t have enough money or doesn’t have money at all to shoot the video and he wants you to shoot? At least every year, I shoot two free videos for people. Every year, I do it. Like a new artist, so if he can fall into that category, I’ll do it. Okay, so who’s that one artist you look forward to shooting a video for, maybe outside Nigeria or in Nigeria? Okay, I’ve always wanted to shoot for Chris Brown, he’s one artist that I know that oh! maybe the day I shoot for Chris brown, I’ll put a camera down that okay I am not directing music video anymore and I’ll just jump into movies.