Sterling Bank Plc has collaborated with the Lagos State Port Health Authority and the Federal Ministry of Aviation to upgrade the facilities at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) arrival terminals D and E with the installation of free Wi-Fi connection and additional air conditioning units for arriving passengers. Divisional Head, Health and Education Sectors, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Obinna Ukachukwu said the installations were to welcome arriving travellers comfortably and allow passengers easily book the necessary COVID-19 tests on arrival from the comfort of their devices. This was in conjunction with the Lagos State Port Health Authority, Lagos State Ministry of Health and the Federal Ministry of Aviation. He said the collaboration was another evidence of the bank’s role in the nation’s efforts to combat the scourge of the coronavirus pandemic by making it easy for inbound passengers to connect to tech-focused solutions needed to book tests upon arrival and also to keep the economy open. According to him, health is the first of the five sectors where the bank is concentrating investments under its HEART’s of Sterling programme since 2018. The other sectors are education, agriculture, renewable energy and transportation. The bank is also active in supporting the tourism sector.   Startups get $2.5b funding in five years     ‘Animal diseases stunting sector’s growth’     Metering firm trains 2,000   - Advertisement - Ukachukwu said multiple projects and investments have been made by the bank at various times in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic because of its commitment to the prioritisation of health among its social investment programmes. Commissioner for Health, Lagos State, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said the collaboration would go a long way in improving the booking experience for post arrival testing and improve the state’s overall test numbers by simultaneously providing arriving passengers fast connection to book tests and address the delays such passengers used to encounter upon entry at the airport. He called on other private sector operators to collaborate with the Federal and state governments to  tame the COVID-19 pandemic. Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Rabiu Yadudu, also welcomed the development as a step in the right direction as Nigeria’s international travel sector recovers from the impact of the coronavirus. He lauded the efforts of port health authorities and the private sector in creating a standard that ensures passengers arrive into the country in relative comfort and can gain access to qualitative testing facilities on demand and help in managing the pandemic.