Veteran actor Bob-Manuel Udokwu has argued that African deities are demons. He also noted the deities are powerful which is why the westerners are scampering to return them after many decades of carting them away. The actor voiced this in an interview with BBC Igbo while explaining how modern religion has led to the disintegration of the African culture. According to Udokwu, the infiltration of modern religion demonised the existence of herbalists who in time past were often consulted to cure various ailments like diarrhea, insanity and malaria. “As white people came to our land, they took away our artefacts, deities, insignia, and other valuables. If you look up the news, you find that they’re returning them because these statues are tormenting them,” he said. - Advertisement - “The white people brought modern Christianity but included the part where we’re being made to pray in the name of some of their saints and adherents who have died. These are dead people we never got to know. “If you pray in the name of white saints, make sure you include those of your home country. “If your father is dead, know that he has joined the saints and ancestors that would do intercessory prayers for you wherever God is.   Mercy Aigbe’s ex shares old photo with her new boo     Resist distractions, Obi Cubana counsels youths     Life would have been easier if I wasn’t gay – Temmy…   “It doesn’t amount to worshiping deities. And even worshiping African deities is nothing bad.” Udokwu enjoined Africans, especially the easterners to properly sieve traditions and customs and preserve the acceptable ones. Adding they should not all be disposed of in a bid to comply with modern religion. He continued: “There are some customs that are not acceptable. Let’s stop those. And some have indeed ceased to exist. Let’s not dispose of both the baby and the bathwater. “Before the whites came, we had herbalists who treat various ailments. All of them were categorised as native doctors and spiritualists. The whites came and made us believe that native doctors are a bad omen. “Today, where are those traditionalists who cure insanity, iba, diarrhea before white people came? Open your eyes. The 54-year-old thespian said: “I’m educated. I agree that sick people should use the hospital but let’s give what’s to Caesar to him and what’s to God to him. Breaking kola is no different from the Holy Communion we take in church. “The white people who told us these things are demonic are taking back their words because our deities they stole are tormenting them.”