Segun Adenuga, a veteran sports journalist and sports administrator whose career has spanned almost 60 years since he started as a freelance journalist in 1963. The former Stationary Stores of Lagos General manager, who celebrated his 80th anniversary on Monday , talks to OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA about his journey through Sports Journalism among sundry issues. Segun Adenuga was born in Lagos in the then British Protectorate of Nigeria on 17th January 1942. He is from Owu of Ijebu ethnic stock in present day Ogun state. He recalled his time growing up on Lagos Island, precisely the Bamgbose-Igbosere axis on the Island. “I was born in Lagos but my parents hailed from Owu-Ijebu; it is a town on the outskirts of Ijebu-Ode close to Isonyin,” the lively Adenuga revealed. “But I grew up in Lagos Island, and spent most of my youth years around Igbosere-Bamgbose Street on the Island. “I attended St David School at Lafiaji, Lagos and Olu-Iwa College in Ijebu Ode. Olu-Iwa College merged with Ijebu-Ode Secondary Commercial School to become Adeola Odutola College in 1964. - Advertisement - “Growing up then was always fun and it was there I got interested in Sport as we had boxing clubs in almost every street and we could watch football matches at the King George V Stadium, later known as Onikan Stadium (renamed The Mobolaji Johnson Arena) which was close by. “My career in journalism started around 1962-1963 when I got a job as a freelancer at a local paper in Lagos. In 1971 was freelancing for a provincial paper called the Mid-West Echo based in Benin. “ In 1973, I joined the Nigeria Standard Newspaper based in Jos in then Benue-Plateau State, where I was their Sports correspondent. “I was there for three years before I joined Punch Newspaper as a pioneer editorial staff when the paper established their daily operations after years of being a weekly paper. “In fact, I was the first person who wrote the first sports story published in the Punch as a daily newspaper, when I was working with Owolabi Ilori as the Sports Editor then. “The present Publisher of Vanguard, Sam Amuka, was the man in charge of Punch then. “I was one of the first journalists on ground when personnel from the Nigerian Army invaded Fela’s commune called Kalakuta Republic on February 18, 1977. I was on an assignment to cover a football game at the National Stadium in Surulere when I heard about the assault on Fela’s compound by a battalion of soldiers. “Getting there, I met former Nigerian boxer, Obisia Nwakpa for the first time at Fela’s house that day who advised me to watch from a distance. I had to use the phone from a nearby hotel (as phones where scare at the time) opposite M.K.O Abiola’s office at Jibowu to call my office and the assistant editor Tayo Kehinde who instructed me with four or five other colleagues including the news editor Segun Odusanya, an half-caste of Rivers and Scottish extraction Roy Graham and Yomi Ajetunmobi. “I was still around when Fela was arrested around six. Fela’s mother was not thrown from the third floor as the popular myth says, instead she came out from the ground floor and hid in nearby Okesuna Street.   Nadal relishes exciting tennis career     Qatar 2022: 1.2 million tickets sold in 24 hours     Golden Jubilee Polo Tourney: Fallen heroes honoured in Port…   “Punch initially contemplated whether to publish the story or not as they were afraid of backlash from the military government, especially as it just started daily operations a few months ago ; but decided to go ahead and damn the consequences. That story made Punch a very popular paper to this day.” “I later became the Deputy Sports Editor of the Herald, Sports Editor of Democratic Newspaper of Kaduna and later the Associate Editor of the paper under the late Abba Kyari who was the editor.” Pa Adenuga is well known as a go to authority in the history of not just football in West Africa but also boxing. Incidentally the Octogenarian was born on the same day as Mohammed Ali, who is regarded as one of the greatest boxers to enter the ring. Adenuga recalled he was one of the few Nigerians that gave Ali (then known as Cassius Clay) a chance when he fought Sonny Liston, the World Heavyweight Champion, for the first time in 1964. He said: “I was one of the few Nigerians that gave Mohammed Ali a chance against the much larger, heavier Sonny Liston. Liston was regarded by many then as the most intimidating fighter of his day because his heavy muscles and ferocious demeanour and so they thought that Cassius Clay (Ali), who only claim to fame was winning the Olympics heavyweight gold medal in Rome four years prior was going to be no match for him. “In fact, Sonny boasted that the organisers should bring a hearse to convey Clay’s body to the morgue once he (Liston) was finished with him. “Well the rest is history, Clay shocked the world and repeated that win in a more convincing manner to start his journey as a legend in boxing.” “I told him that when we met years later when we became acquaintances although I did not mention to him the fact that we were born on the same day.” Meanwhile, the former team manager, Stationery Stores FC of Lagos believed the club is the best team that Nigerian football ever had. “This club played entertaining football and the first 11 of the Nigerian national team in the 1968 Mexico City Olympic football event, where Nigeria played a 3-3 draw with mighty Brazil, had 9 Stationery Stores players, including Sam Opone and Peter Fregene.” “I am grateful to have been part of the management team when Stores won their only league in 1992 and their fourth FA cup in 1990.” A veteran of many FIFA World Cup, Olympics and Africa Games tournaments, Pa Adenuga has travelled extensively over the world as a journalist. He boasts of travelling over 43 out of 54 countries in Africa, including all 16 West African countries. He has also toured all six continents in the World, including covering the 1988 FA Cup in Wembley, the 1988 Seoul Olympics and has visited the iconic Maracana Stadium in Brazil and the Azteca Stadium in Mexico. Married for over 50 years and blessed with children and many grandchildren, Pa Adenuga said he does not regret his journey as a journalist, adding that although he is not a rich man, he is contented with lifetime’s experiences and memories.