Police in Anambra State have declared 21 persons wanted over the alleged murder of Chief Ajieh Nwanasor and Ikenna Ugochukwu as well as the abduction of the traditional ruler of Ogwu-Aniocha community in Ogbaru Local Government Area, Igwe Oliver Chike Nnaji. The 71-year-old monarch was allegedly abducted from his palace on November 15, 2021, by a suspected gang who planned to control the resources of the community. The Police had assured that no stone would be left unturned towards the rescue of the monarch. But in a statement on Wednesday by Police spokesperson, Ikenga Tochukwu, the Command listed the names of the suspects in their wanted list to include Okwudili Ogana, Chidi Ekpendu, Chukwunonso Udom, Amaechi Akachukwu and Emmanuel Ejiofor. He said others are Christian Udeze Chikezie Onwuka aka Osy Torture, Iweka Odogwu, Chimezie Okonkwo aka Danger, Onochie Nwabugwu aka Young PG, Anayo Ubadi aka Agunechimba, Chibueze Egwenu and Charles Obi. - Advertisement - “The rest are Aboy Udom, Chinedu Collins Nwonani, Onyebuchi Umuna aka Omeke, Ifeanyi Mbanugo aka Acid, Sunday Osadebe, Nduba Chibuzor, Amechi Adama and Azuakonam Anyakodia,” he added.   Over 33,000 sign petition to stop foreign institutions from…     Sammie Okposo to perform at Tope Alabi’s concert amid…     Air Peace deploys two new aircraft on Anambra route   Ikenga urged the general public to report to the nearest Police Station in case if any of the names and pictures attached in the statement are seen around. The statement partly reads, “The Anambra State Police Command wishes to declare below persons WANTED in the ongoing investigation of the alleged murder of Chief Ajieh Anthony Nwanasor, Ikenna Ugochukwu and abduction of the traditional HRH Igwe Oliver Chike Nnaji ( Ezechukwukwadolu the III) of Ogwu-Aniocha community Ogbaru Local Government Area. “Therefore, the Command urges the general public to report to the nearest Police Station in case any of the names and pictures attached below are seen around. “Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police CP Echeng Echeng assures Ndi Anambra and the good people Ogwu-Aniocha that the Command shall leave no stone unturned in the ongoing investigation. “He also encourages citizens/individuals to call the Anambra State Police Command on 07039194332 or 08039334002 if you have any information that can aid the investigation. Confidentiality is guaranteed.”