Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists killed four persons and abducted 24 during the recent attack on Chibok communities in Borno State. The chairman of Chibok Local Government Council, Umar Ibrahim, stated this during a sympathy meeting to the families of the abductees by Governor Babagana Zulum. He said: “In addition to the 24 people abducted, three persons were killed by the terrorists during separate attacks on three communities.” The chairman stated 110 buildings made up of 73 houses, 33 shops and four churches were burnt with eight vehicles and three tricycles during the attack. Zulum, who was in Chibok on Monday, invited family members from the three communities of Kawtakare, Korohuma and Pemi all in Chibok Local Government where they met at the local government lodge in Chibok town. - Advertisement - The Nation checks revealed that 22 women and two men abducted were kidnapped by Boko Haram/ISWAP during the attack.   Mercy Aigbe’s ex-husband, Lanre Gentry breaks silence     Hanifa: Kano revokes operational licences of private schools     SAN, 6 lawyers face sanctions over conflicting court orders   “We are here in Chibok to commiserate with you, immediate families of our sisters and brothers abducted as well as four of our brothers killed by the Boko Haram terrorists in these unfortunate incidents. We share your pain and we pray this act will not happen again,” Zulum said. The Governor took turns to meet with heads of security agencies in the area as a way of understanding their challenges and proffering proper ways to secure the communities. The Governor observed that four local government areas: Biu, Askira, Chibok and Damboa were faced with serial attacks from Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists in recent times, assuring that his administration will not relent in providing additional support to security operatives to contain the challenges. Zulum directed that an assessment report containing all destructions perpetrated by the terrorists in the three communities be submitted to him. He commended the chairman of Chibok Local Government for his responsive leadership.