New jobs are on the way for Nigerians in the new year, according to President Muhammadu Buhari. The President, in his New Year message, said his administration would deploy ICT (Information and Communications Technology) platforms for the purpose of job creation and also ensure the diversification of the economy to support other emerging sectors. Senate President Ahmad Lawan asked Nigerians to continue having faith in the  country and its democratic institutions while National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, said that given the way Nigerians fought to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, there is no doubt that they can equally “stand up to problems that seek to shackle us.” There were similar goodwill messages from other political leaders. Buhari hailed Nigerians for their resilience in facing “significant challenges that occurred as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the efforts to restore the global economy and social order.” - Advertisement - On the security challenge, he promised that government would not relent in tackling the problem citing the “number of insurgents and bandits who have willingly surrendered to our security forces and continue to do so through various channels and the Safe Corridor created for that purpose.” “The persistent insecurity in certain parts of the country may have threatened to unravel the incremental gains achieved in the real sectors of the economy and in the administration’s overall objective to position the nation on the irreversible trajectory of sustainable growth and progress, but I assure you that we will remain resolute in our commitments and shall continue to press ahead with our programmes and plans,” he said. He added: “The path to nationhood is often fraught with unpredictable difficulties and challenges, and most tried and tested nations have often prevailed through dogged determination, resilience, concerted commitment to unity and the conviction that the whole of the nation, standing together against all odds, is by far greater and would ultimately be more prosperous and viable than the sum of its distinguishable parts. “Government, however, realises that victory on the battlefield is just one aspect of sustainable victory. We know that to fully win this war, we must also win the peace and real security lies in winning the hearts and minds of the affected citizens. “To this end, working with our international partners and neighbouring countries, we would be deploying multi-faceted solutions that will be targeted at addressing human security at the grassroots, before it leads to insecurity.” On the economy, Buhari said the 4.03% growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the third quarter of 2021 is indicative of the recovery being recorded in the economy and the confidence that is being shown through the policies the government has put in place after the outbreak of the pandemic. “We may also recall that this recent growth is closely followed by the 5.1% (year on year) growth in real terms recorded by Nigeria in Quarter 2 of 2021. This growth was one of the best recorded by any nation across Sub-Saharan Africa. The 5.1% growth at that time was and remains the highest growth recorded by the Nigerian economy since 2014,” he said. “Despite the challenges we have faced as a nation, the good news is that we have so far recorded four consecutive quarters of growth after the negative growth rates recorded in Quarter 2 and Quarter 3 of 2020 due to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.” We shouldn’t lose faith in Nigeria, democracy, says  Lawan In a similar new year message, Senate President Ahmad Lawan said Nigerians should not lose faith in the  country and its democratic institutions. “The current challenges will be overcome and become mere footnotes in our glorious national history,” he said Describing 2021 as a challenging year for people all over the world, the Senate President said: “It is praiseworthy that beyond the challenges, we can see the rays of a bright future from the new year. “As your elected representatives, our new year pledge is to continue to pursue our common desire of a just, peaceful and prosperous country. “We promise to continue to discharge this responsibility without fear or malice, confident that by working in harmony, Nigerians will build the great country that is their abiding dream and manifest destiny.” Lawan spoke of the determination of the National Assembly to “deliver an Electoral Act that stands the test of time in safeguarding democracy and the electoral process in Nigeria.” He added: “We are also looking forward to receiving the report of our Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution upon our resumption from recess. We believe that the outcome of this very important exercise will promote unity, stability and peaceful coexistence in our country. “The Electoral Act amendment bill and review of the 1999 Constitution will be topmost on our agenda as we reconvene for Legislative business in the new year.” Omo-Agege challenges Nigerians on nation building in 2022 Deputy President of the Senate Ovie Omo-Agege urged Nigerians to use the New Year to renew their commitment to nation building. The Delta Central lawmaker said though the outgone year 2021 was challenging, complicated by the surge of Coronavirus, he was optimistic that the new year 2022 would be a year of recovery. He called on Nigerians to continue to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety guidelines in order to be insulated from the pandemic. On the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, which President Muhammadu Buhari vetoed, the Deputy President of the Senate assured Nigerians that legislators would consult widely with their constituents before the National Assembly resumes on January 18, 2022. He said: “Stakeholders agree that the 2010 Electoral Act is no longer in tune with current realities, hence the need for new legal framework for our elections. “Consultations with our constituents will start immediately after the New Year festivities to feel their pulse on the President’s decision to decline assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill and chart a way forward. “We assure Nigerians that within the first week of resumption, we will come up with a workable solution to resolve the impasse. “We can’t throw away the baby with the bath water. Without a doubt, the amended bill has so many innovations that would improve our electoral fortunes in line with best democratic practices globally.” Reps Minority Caucus says enough of borrowing Minority Caucus in the House of Representatives told the Federal Government to stop what it called reckless accumulation of debts, and borrowing spree which have placed a huge economic burden on the  nation. The Caucus in a statement by its leader, Ndudi Elumelu, said government should take urgent steps in the new year to tackle poverty, unemployment, high costs and infrastructural retrogression by growing the productive sector and allowing hard working and creative Nigerians, especially the youths to meaningfully engage. The Minority Caucus also said the government should end its lip service and adopt proactive measures to decisively tackle escalating acts of terrorism in the country, saying “our citizens have suffered a lot and the New Year should usher in a new lease of life”.   Buhari rejects NASS’ insertion of 6,576 projects in…     Disquiet in Ondo over assassination of Owo high chief     Buhari to Nigerians: future will be written in gold   It said further that the government should be remorseful for its failures, use the New Year for deeper introspection, change its corrupt ways and focus on the wellbeing of the people ahead of its exit in 2023. Mark preaches unity Former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark, pleaded with Nigerians to harp on those things that bring peace and unity to Nigeria in the new year rather than ruminating on issues that tend to undermine the cohesion of the country. Mark said Nigeria has gone through turbulent times in the recent past; a situation he said must of a necessity be reversed for good. “The grim reality is that the harsh economy, insecurity in the land and political crises are taking a huge toll on the citizens. The deterioration is unacceptable and cannot continue,” he stated. Senator Mark added: “We must avoid those fault lines and work towards cementing the fragmented culture and tradition of brotherhood in the coming years”. Ekweremadu charges FG to tackle insecurity Former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu, urged the Federal Government to rescue Nigerians from insecurity by prioritising the decentralisation of policing, starting with state police in the New Year. Ekweremadu regretted that a vast nation like Nigeria that should thrive on the strengths of agriculture and industrialisation was being overrun by multifarious criminal cartels, which have been exploiting the country’s hugely unpoliced territories. According to him, the much needed development, good governance, and credible 2023 elections would rely overwhelmingly on security of the lives and properties of Nigerians. The lawmaker noted that whereas more political leaders were coming to terms with the imperativeness of state police, the political will was still gravely lacking. Kalu cautions against hate speech Former Governor of Abia State and Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr. Orji Kalu, said Nigerians should  be steadfast, patriotic and optimistic in the new year. The former Governor insisted that leaders at all levels of government must ensure the welfare of the people is a top priority on their agenda. He added that the government and the governed must play complementary roles in building a prosperous, united and indivisible Nigeria. Kalu made these remarks at his Igbere country home during the distribution of end of year gifts to his constituents as part of his annual end of year activities, according to a statement by his media office, in Abuja. Equity, justice, fairness will guarantee unity, says Nnamani A former Governor of Enugu State, Senator Chimaroke Nnamani, said that a deliberate effort to promote equity, justice and fairness in the allocation and management of national resources would guarantee peace and unity among the diverse segments of the federation. Nnamani (Enugu East Senatorial District) said perceived injustices in the country could be reversed if political leaders would make equity, justice and fairness the cardinal principle of governance. He urged leaders at all levels to make conscious efforts to contain the escalating insecurity and restiveness in the land by doing the right thing. Sylva: Let’s keep hope alive Minister of State Petroleum Resources Chief Timipre Sylva predicted that 2022 would be better than 2021 in the nation’s socio-political environment and therefore, urged Nigerians to keep hope of a better Nigeria alive in the new year. “2022 is going to be a good year for Nigeria. Things have started shaping up and with our collective support and prayers, we will achieve the Nigeria of our dream. This is not the time to despair but to rekindle our hope of a great and prosperous Nigeria,” Sylva said. “We need to keep hope alive and dream big in 2022. The outgoing year was a challenging one especially with the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said adding that despite the challenges that characterised the year, “the government of President Buhari was able to make some remarkable achievements in the different sectors of the nation’s economy.” There’s hope in 2022, says Ortom Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has praised residents  of the state and Nigerians generally for their resilience in the face of daunting security and economic challenges in 2021. “The year 2021 was no doubt challenging. But I’m happy our people rose to the occasion. The lessons of the past year will serve as a useful instrument that will guide us to fruition in the years ahead,” he said. Governor Ortom was pleased to note that Benue people have stood by him through thick and thin, promising that the interest, welfare and wellbeing of Benue people remains his firm commitment, mission and purpose throughout the days of his administration. As a government, Governor Ortom promised that he will continue to implement policies, programmes and projects that have direct and positive impact on the citizens, adding, “this new year will restore hope and confidence in our land.” Southern Senators predict year of abundance for Nigerians The Southern Senators Forum declared 2022 as a year of abundance and prosperity for Nigerians Chairman of the Forum, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, who made this prediction in a statement on the occasion of the new year, urged all Nigerians to continue to have faith in God and be rest assured that whatever that is currently difficult at present will definitely be solved. He said Nigerians could only savour the expected economic prosperity and gains when unity is guaranteed and security of lives and property is assured for rapid investment. He added that God does not create human beings for hardship because when God created man and woman in the Garden of Eden, they were created in the midst of abundance. The governorship aspirant of the APC in Ekiti State, said, “I am confident that in the new year, there will be prosperity and abundance for Nigerians. The issue of insecurity in the country and unemployment among our youths will be a thing of the past in this new year. “I am imploring Nigerians to continue to have faith in God and be rest assured that whatever that is currently difficult at present moment will be resolved. “God did not create human beings to suffer, when God created the first man and woman, they were created in the midst of abundance. Therefore, I am rest assured that all our challenges will be tackled in this New year by Almighty God.”