Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, former Senate President David Mark and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila yesterday expressed sadness over the death of former Head of Interim National Government (ING), Chief Ernest Adegunle Shonekan. The former Chairman of Nigeria’s largest conglomerate, the United Africa Company (UAC) of Nigeria, passed on yesterday in Lagos. He was 85. Atiku said Shonekan died at a time when the country would need his skills and global connections in finding solutions to many of the country’s intractable challenges. Describing the death as saddening, Atiku said as a politician or a boardroom guru, the late Shonekan possessed a unique skill of bringing stability to a tumultuous situation. - Advertisement - “That obviously was the consideration that made him become Head of the Interim National Government, following the crises that greeted the events after the June 12, 1993 presidential election. “Although his reign as Head of State was interim, Chief Shonekan’s contribution to the peace and development of Nigeria in those days and later years, remain enduring. “My condolences go to his immediate family, the people and government of Ogun State and the entire nation for the loss of a man of industry and intellect, who lived a life of service to the country and humanity. It is my prayer that God almighty receives his soul in a peaceful repose,” Atiku said. Lawan, according to a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, condoled with Shonekan’s family, the government and people of Ogun State over the death of the former Nigerian leader.   Why businesses are shrinking, by World Bank     Governors condole with Abiodun, Ogun over ex-ING head’s…     Flags fly at half-mast for ex-Head of State Shonekan   “My condolences go to the family of Chief Shonekan, the government and people of Ogun State and entire Nigeria over this great loss. “Chief Shonekan was a lawyer, business captain, boardroom guru and statesman. But he will be most remembered for heeding the nation’s call to duty at a very turbulent period in the history of Nigeria. “Chief Shonekan’s services as Chairman of the Transitional Council and later as Head of the Interim National Government were selfless and contributed greatly to saving the Nigerian ship from hitting the rock,” Lawan said. In a statement by his media aide, Lanre Lasisi, Speaker Gbajabiamila said Shonekan’s death has created a vacuum among the league of elder statesmen in the country. The Speaker prayed that the Almighty God would find a peaceful resting place for the late head of interim government. He sent his condolences to the Shonekan family and all Nigerians, especially the people and government of Lagos State. Reacting through a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser, Paul Mumeh, Senator Mark recalled that the late Shonekan was appointed Head of ING during the critical period of national challenges to pilot the affairs of the nation. He noted the finesse, humane and due process that the late Shonekan brought to bear during his short-lived tenure as Interim Head of State for the smooth administration of the country. The former Senate President also recalled the entrepreneurial accomplishments of the late Shonekan as the Chairman of the United Africa Company (UAC) Nigeria before he was appointed Head of the ING. Mark said the late Shonekan would be remembered for his meritorious and selfless services to the nation, especially during critical times.