An Abuja-based Fertility Specialist, Dr Ekinyi Ochete, has identified and listed the benefits of traditional medicine and acupuncture in tackling sub-fertility issues, saying “the option can completely rebalance the body system.” She told newsmen in Abuja on Thursday that traditional medicines could solve many health problems, including infertility, saying “this means that people would experience improvement in their general health, energy and emotions.” Traditional medicine comprises medical aspects of traditional knowledge that developed over generations within the folk beliefs of various societies before the era of modern medicine. It is the sum total of knowledge, skills and practices based on the theories, beliefs, and experiences indigenous to different cultures that are used to maintain health, as well as to prevent, diagnose, improve or treat physical and mental illnesses. The fertility specialist noted that another benefit was that traditional medical treatment, including acupuncture, was absolutely complementary to Western treatments. - Advertisement - She explained that “the two medicines can work well together to help you have a healthy little baby.” According to her, the majority of sub-fertility causes are non-structural, although doctors will point out structural reasons such as endometriosis, fibroid or polycystic ovarian syndrome. She noted that “the fact is that these conditions are symptom imbalances in the body and are reversible using acupuncture and herbs. “As long as these conditions are treated quickly enough, they are unlikely to leave any structural problem that would cause infertility. Most causes of sub-fertility are actually treatable and reversible conditions,” she added.   Lassa kills 26 in three weeks- NCDC     CONHESS: You’re people’s Gov, health unions hail AbdulRasaq     One psychiatric doctor attends to 50 patients daily as…   Ochete said that based on cultures and geographical regions, various kinds of herbal remedies evolved around the world, noting that certain kinds of natural remedies could be used to fight or prevent specific ailments. The specialist, who said that traditional medicines derived from plants, animals, metals and minerals were integral part of culture and geographical environment, added that if herbal resources were appropriately exploited, they could effectively be used to treat many ailments. She said “diseases have been leading causes of morbidity/mortality around the world, associated with heavy economic burden among people. “In spite of current advances in science and medicine, diseases still remain serious threat to public health in both developed and developing countries, urban and rural areas.” Ochete, therefore, added that most herbal remedies were considered safe and well tolerated “because they have been successfully used for thousands of years as foods to promote health and as medicines to treat diseases. “Traditional medicines and herbal products are widely available to consumers and have become increasingly popular throughout the world, not just in Nigeria. “Herbal products have continued to play crucial roles in the healthcare system of human societies, not to mention that secondary metabolites of plants are economically important as drugs, fragrances, pigments, food additives and pesticides.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in recent years, increasing number of people have been choosing herbal medicines or products to improve their health conditions, either alone or in combination with others. According to the World Health Organisation, 75 per cent of the world’s population are using herbs for basic healthcare needs and that since the dawn of mankind, the use of herbs/plants offered effective medicines for the treatment of illnesses. Moreover, many conventional pharmaceutical drugs are also derived from both nature and traditional remedies, distributed around the world.   (NAN)