It will be a massive showdown in Lagos on Friday night as UFC Welterweight Champion, Kamaru Usman, in partnership with 5five 4four Limite, kicks off the first Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) tournament in Nigeria. It is tagged ‘Face-off Fight Night’. The fight exhibition will feature MMA fighters from Nigeria and Africa. The action gets underway at 7 p.m. at the Grand Africa Ballroom, Lagos Continental Hotel, Lagos. Speaking on the partnership, Usman said MMA was borne out by the passion to support and encourage African youths in becoming world champions. - Advertisement - “It’s not quite often that someone gets to a position of power and they want to help, but the difficult aspect is how to help., and how I can create opportunities for more youths like myself.   PMB and the futurologists, by Femi Adesina     Expect surprises at 2021 AFCON, Rohr roars     Okocha offers Eagles tips to stop Salah   “Luckily, I was able to run into these amazing partners who had a similar vision,” Usman aka ‘The Nigerian Nightmare’ said. “We want to be able to change the way things are right now. We are not only creating those opportunities, but we want to do it for future generations to come. “We have big plans to continue all this and we want to put it in a place of creating infrastructure to build things that are not only going to attract tourists to our great country but things that are going to bring economic stability to all of Nigeria and to eventually all of Africa.” Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Sola Aiyepeku, said Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu understands the power of sports and the impact on the Nation’s development. “Mr Governor loves sports and he understands the power of sports, the influence and the impact it can make on our environment. “The Lagos State Government is interested, just as we are interested in so many other martial arts therefore we are coming together to ensure that the job is done and the plan which is to ensure that this full foundation is properly laid so that we can build a tall skyscraper that would last forever, is executed successfully.” According to him, there is a plan to establish an MMA Federation in Lagos State, which will be the first in Nigeria.”