When you find yourself as an aide to an average Nigerian politician, there are rules you have to obey if you do not want to get booted out within the twinkling of an eye. Principles are nothing. Obey your principal. Your boss’s happiness supersedes every other thing. Be ready to tell lies and sing, more appropriately praise-sing. Loyalty is 100 per cent and disagreeing with your principal’s point of view on issues amounts to disloyalty. There is something you must take as a Biblical injunction; your principal’s enemies are your enemies. You must inherit them. Give them a bloody nose. There is no limitation to the inherited enemies. A familial relationship means nothing here. If your father opposes your principal, oppose your father, if your mother speaks ill of your principal, chastise her, and if your wife despises your principal, divorce her. You must see no evil, hear no evil and say no evil as far as your boss is concerned. If you don’t get this, forget about it. Celebrate his achievements like they are personal to you. Mourn his failures as though they are yours. Follow his steps as though they are the oxygen that supplies you with life. You must always remember and act as though recruiting you was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Always remember that. It is true that looking power in the face helps leaders to be better leaders. But, old boy, remember always that this is Nigeria and politicians are gods, small gods with big egos— egos that must be fanned and air-conditioned by sycophancy.  Tell him his agbada is powerful. Praise his pair of shoes. Hail his cap. Don’t forget to commend his strides, real or imagined. If you are the type who feels politicians with big houses, plenty of cars and other luxuries of life are wasteful, you must perish this though and never express it. Praise his taste. Admire his choices. Respect his positions. Pay attention to your principal’s idiosyncrasies. If he is the type who likes small girls, those fine girls who like to flaunt flesh, then you have to know where and how to source them. There is, however, a caveat: When you supply him babes, never let it be known to his wife that you play this important role. Remember madam’s words can be law. So, balance the pendulum. - Advertisement - If your boss is the type who likes listening to his own voice, you better be ready to listen to him talk and talk and talk without interrupting him. Part of you will like to be tired. Kill that part. Kill it dead like that insecticide advert said. And when he asks for your opinion, give an opinion akin to the one he has expressed on the issue. It is no time to be sanctimonious and blabbing about some nonsense principle. You have no principle other than that of your principal.   National Convention: APC stakeholders reject February date     Northeast APC lawmakers pass confidence vote in Buni’s…     I will sign death warrant on convicted kidnappers, says…   Always mention to him what a privilege it is working with him. Tell him that working with him is like going through training you were never offered in the university. In fact, liken what you have learnt from him to what you would have learnt at a business school or an executive MBA. There are times your principal will get angry, abuse you, call you names and remind you how useless you are, this is not a time to say anything other than sorry sir. You must not make the mistake of complaining in the presence of fellow aides. One of them or more than one of them will tell him to increase their ratings with him. Even when you do not complain, a fellow aide can lie against you to improve their rating. You worsen your case when you now give them a tool to finish you. Your ranting can be recorded and played back to him. It is a dog-eat-dog setting. If you have a wife and children and they live in a town different from you, do not prioritise them over your boss by announcing to him every second that you want to go and see your family. Leave your family. Send them money. Speak with them on phone. Let the boss feel he owns you. That way you gain more ranks. Leave seeing your family to when the boss travels out of town or country without you or when he willingly asks you to go spend time with your family. It is very essential that you must be in the good books of your principal’s wife. Help her even when she needs no help. Carry her bag. Clean her mess. But, never divulge information about your principal’s extra-curricular activities to her. Your phone must be reachable at all times. It is a sin punishable by sack if you cannot be reached when the boss needs you. You must know how to rig an election, snatch ballot boxes or pay to buy votes. If you cannot do a combination of this, at least know how to do one so that you can win your polling booth and unit for him on election day. It is a cardinal sin for your principal to lose in your unit and your ward. Know this and know peace. But when you get tired of the shenanigans that working with an average Nigerian politician entails and you want to quit, please, quit from afar and go afar after doing this. The secrets in your hands can mark you out as a person of interest. Remember life has no duplicate.