The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, has expressed doubts over President Muhammadu Buhari’s assurances of his resolve to tackle insecurity. The cleric spoke in his homily delivered at St. Andrew’s Parish, Orozo, Abuja. He called on Nigerians to be united no matter the situation. His words: “Only yesterday (Saturday), the Armed Forces Remembrance Day was well celebrated. We join millions of Nigerians to appreciate the sacrifices of our fallen and living heroes. We must continue to pray for the departed ones, expressing solidarity and showing kindness to the veterans and survivors, while urging the government to pay particular attention to the welfare of the men and women who have made selfless contributions to the search for durable peace for all Nigerians. “Unfortunately, we have become too uncertain about many things; unsure each day about what will become of our people if they go to the farms or streams, what may befall villagers at night, or even in broad daylight in the cities, where people get abducted in exchange for raw cash. “In Nigeria, we seem to transit from one major national challenge to another. We witness the criminal activities and mindless killings such as the recent attacks in Zamfara State, and efforts by terrorists to establish themselves as a government within a government, yet, the assurances of political leaders and security operatives always leave more to be desired.   Gunmen abduct 15 in Niger     Soot: Wike’s allegations trigger probes in Police,…     Nasarawa Police arrest man for allegedly raping 80-year-old…   - Advertisement - “Many families too are quickly running out of the wine of gladness as they are threatened by moral and social vices, economic hardship; arising from poor and corrupt governance. As Jesus filled the empty water jars with water turned into wine, we all had to beg God to fill our hearts and the hearts of others around us with genuine love. Through the powerful intercession of Mary our Mother, may we experience, especially in 2022, an abundance of joy, love and peace in our families, parishes, our nation Nigeria and the world at large. “We must accept each other as God’s special gifts to be loved, respected and appreciated. Together, with the help of God, we can record many more successes and ascend to greater heights. “As the year 2022 is already speeding away, let us invite Mary our mother to intercede for us as she did for the couple of Cana, but we must be ready to take her advice: “Do whatever He tells you!” By doing so our water will turn into wine; our sorrows will be transformed into joys and our despair will be renewed in great hope.”