No fewer than 15 million Nigerians have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccines, according to the national daily call-in data from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). The agency explained that 10,813,596 of the total eligible persons targetted for COVID-19 vaccination were reached with the first dose. Also, 4,590,263 were reached with the second dose (fully vaccinated). In total, 15,403,859 persons have been vaccinated with at least one dose of the life-saving COVID-19 vaccine. It was also gathered that 81,284 people across the country have received their COVID-19 booster doses. However, five states are yet to begin the administration of the doses. They include: Abia, Kogi, Kwara, Niger and Sokoto. - Advertisement - On December 10, 2021, the Federal Government started the administration of COVID-19 booster doses to give Nigerians extra-protection against COVID-19, especially against the Omicron variant. However, only eligible Nigerians can get the COVID-19 booster doses. They include persons who are 18 years and above, and those who must have received their second dose of AstraZeneca, Pfizer Bio-N-Tech or Moderna at least 6 months after their second dose. For Johnson & Johnson booster doses, a time interval of two months or more is required. The NPHCDA noted that Nasarawa State has vaccinated the most population in the country, at 45.88 per cent. It is closely followed by Jigawa at 39.44 per cent, Ogun at 18.17 per cent, Oyo at 14.73 per cent, and Zamfara at 13.27 per cent. Sadly, Ebonyi, Sokoto, Abia, Imo, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa are the least performing states in terms of vaccinating their people. The agency said: “Meet our top five performing governors and their states on the COVID-19 mass vaccination campaign in Nigeria. Nasarawa State continues its winning streak in 2022. Kano joins the top 10 performing states. Adamawa, Enugu, FCT, Kano and Kebbi have leaped by at least two steps in the first four days of 2022.” In related development, latest COVID-19 data from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) showed that as of January 3, 2022, 670 confirmed COVID-19 cases were reported, with six deaths. In total, 244,120 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed, with 216,180 discharged, and sadly, 3,045 deaths recorded. Investigation by The Nation showed that in three days, between January 1 to 3, 2022, 14 people have died from COVID-19. Low hospitalisations and death rates from Omicron in South Africa cannot be assumed in other countries, a senior official at the World Health Organisation has said. Dr. Abdi Mahamud, Covid-19 incident manager at the UN health agency, gave the warning as authorities and governments around the world try different measures to contain the spread of the highly transmissible variant. Mahamud said a “decoupling” of cases and deaths in South Africa “cannot be extrapolated from South Africa to other countries, because each country is unique”. A total of 128 countries now have confirmed Omicron cases, although the actual number could be higher. In France, officials intend to introduce a law by mid-January that would block unvaccinated people from hospitality venues, with some receiving death threats over the plans. France already has a health pass which people can use to show proof of vaccination, a negative test or their recovery from the virus, in order to access some services. However, a stricter one could be introduced by the end of the week. Leaders around the world are grappling with how to limit the spread of Covid-19 while avoiding the need for further lockdowns. On Tuesday Germany relaxed restrictions on travel from the UK, South Africa and seven other southern African countries following the emergence of Omicron. These nations are now downgraded to Germany’s list of “high-risk areas”, which means those who arrive from them who are not fully vaccinated or recently recovered have to self-isolate for 10 days, which can be cut to five with a negative test. Germany’s Robert Koch Institute said yesterday that 30,561 new coronavirus cases were reported in the previous 24 hours, over 9,000 more than a week earlier. The official infection rate was 239.9 new cases per 100,000 residents over the past week, and the real rate is believed to be two or three times higher. In Spain, officials said schools and universities would return to classes next week with pandemic protocols in place, including face masks and hand sanitising.   Police arrest impersonator of Akwa Ibom Commissioner     Fed Govt set to gazette order classifying gunmen terrorists     Olubadan-in-Council to meet over succession as palace…   Sweden has set a new record for daily cases with 11,507 on 30 December. King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia are among those who have tested positive, and are self-isolating at home with mild symptoms. They are both fully vaccinated with three jabs, and said they “feel well under the circumstances”, according to a statement from the royal household. Israel’s Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said early data on a fourth vaccine shot – a second booster – shows it safely brings about a fivefold increase in antibodies. Israel has become the world’s first country to offer a fourth dose of the Pfizer vaccine to those aged 60 and over, those with weakened immune systems, and medical workers. In the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration authorised a third dose of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine for children aged 12 to 15 and narrowed the interval for booster shot eligibility to five months from six. As infections surged in the U.S. by more than one million in a single day, a South Florida maternity unit was among the latest emergency and medical services forced to close, sending women elsewhere to give birth. But, an epidemiologist, Dr. Adeola Oludare, said yesterday that the new Omicron variant is spreading faster than other variants of COVID-19. Oludare told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja that COVID-19 cases were on a steep rise around the globe ever since the Omicron variant was discovered. She noted that the infection was not just getting detected in the unvaccinated, but was also affecting those that had been vaccinated. “In spite of the booster dose in countries like U.S., UK, and even Nigeria, COVID-19 cases are surging. “Though Nigeria is not doing well with its diagnosis, if we choose to test our population, we should be working with communities, where the virus is coming from. “Yes we are a big nation; yes we have all it takes to test our population. How were we able to test the over 4,000 people? “We can use the same method to test in that manner, like other countries are doing,” she advised. According to her, many Nigerians are back to their offices, with some still working from home after the Christmas break. “COVID-19 has given us an opportunity to embrace new working practices and has highlighted the advantages of flexible working conditions, and preventing more people from getting infected. Oludare said if infected Nigerians had high virus loads, there was greater likelihood they would pass it on to others, especially the unvaccinated. She added that vaccinated people, if infected, were more likely to have mild symptoms, if any. Dozy Mmobuosi Foundation has pledged commitment to support production and delivery of the vaccine in Nigeria. A statement that the foundation issued yesterday to The Nation, quoted the Founder and CEO of Tingo Inc. and Tingo International Holdings, Dozy Mmobuosi, as saying: “With less than five per cent of the population fully vaccinated, Nigeria needs a coordinated plan and all the help it could get to have as many people vaccinated as possible.” Mmobuosi said this at the launch of his foundation, stating that the foundation is exploring how it could work towards supporting vaccine production and distribution in the country. Mmobuosi believes contributing his quota to increase vaccination in the country would be of great importance to Nigeria’s health system. The Dozy Mmobuosi Foundation was established on January 1, 2022 with fanfare and it celebrated the festive season with children in some low-income communities in Lagos. Children at the parties were also showered with gifts, toys among others.