The Federal Government has promised to use the 0.25 per cent levy on profit before tax (PBT) to fund the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI). The funding, the government said, would be for Research and Development (R&D), technology and innovation to transform the national economy. NASENI Executive Vice Chairman (EVC)/Chief Executive (CE) Prof. Mohammed Haruna said the new Nigeria Financial Law would affirm 0.25 per cent levy on commercial companies to fund NASENI’s R&D. Haruna said the National Assembly, once more, demonstrated through legislation its resolve to support all new socio-economic efforts in Nigeria based on continuous deployment and use of knowledge, research, science and technology innovation to positively turn around the nation’s economy. He added that the latest Act by the National Assembly was its recent move to restore all statutory funds due to NASENI, as contained in the Nigeria Financial Act 2021, which was newly signed into law by the President.   Expert: CBN policies can’t rescue naira     Currency risk threatens 5G roll-out     Nigerian equities upbeat with N602b gains amid global lull   - Advertisement - The agency’s Deputy Director of Information, Olusegun Ayeoyenikan, announced this in a statement. The statement said: “The EVC, while thanking both His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, and the leadership of the National Assembly, said this latest move by the Federal Government is an indication that Nigeria is on the path to greatness and soon to be numbered amongst the comity of nations that are using investments in research and development (R&D), technology and innovation to transform their national economies. “The new Financial Act 2021, as amended, was passed into law by the National Assembly recently wherein the lawmakers upheld provision of 0.25 per cent levy on profit before tax of commercial companies to be credited to NASENI in support of its R&D’s mandate. This is patriotism at work. “Of note, this is not the first time the lawmakers had demonstrated great act of patriotism and vision for the future of the nation. “Recall that in September 2020, through its Senate Committee on Finance and Review of Public Expenditures, the National Assembly directed the Accountant General of the Federation and all other concerned agencies of the Federal Government, including the FIRS, to release all statutory funds due to NASENI because of obvious values which the agency was already adding to the socio-economic transformation of the country with its coming up with world class designs and fabrication of machines, equipment, including successful research and development activities of various technology devices to transform the nation’s industrial sector and competitiveness. “The Senate Committee Chairman Solomon Adeola said the committee was aware of huge potentials for financial returns on investments in technology innovations by NASENI and the ability of the agency to alleviate poverty and avert future economic challenges and, hence, the committee directed the Accountant General of the Federation to release the 1 per cent Federation Account statutory fund to the agency…”