OIL pollution has rendered almost all natural water bodies in the Niger Delta area of the South-South region useless. While it is common sight to see oil sludge floating in water, some water bodies are entirely covered by crude oil or residues from refined petroleum products. Communities are living in abject poverty as unemployment continues to rise because creeks, water channels, rivulets, swamps, rivers and streams which hitherto sustained them economically have been contaminated by oil. Recently, the OML 29 Well 1 platform, operated in Opu Nembe, Bayelsa State, by an indigenous oil firm, Aiteo Exploration and Production Company Limited, spilled crude and gas continuously into the Santa Barbara River for one month. The spill, which according to the company started on November 5, 2021, polluted the Santa Barbara River and other connecting water bodies criss-crossing many communities in other states such as Rivers and Delta. In fact, the Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri, who visited the site claimed that about two million barrels of Bonny Light crude spilled into the Santa Barbra River and Nembe Creeks from the facility describing it as the worst he had seen in his lifetime. Morris Alagoa, an environmental activist and representative of the Environmental Rights Action (ERA) described the situation as grievous. Alagoa, who has so far spent decades researching into oil pollution of the environment, says no water body escapes the impact of oil contamination in the region. - Advertisement - “Not just known water bodies, creeks and water channels are contaminated too. You hardly see any lake, ocean or swamp in their natural form any more. It has been history of consistent degradation of water in the Niger Delta,” he said. Fyneface Dumnamene, the Executive Director, Youths and Environmental Advocacy (YEAC), affirms that the pollution of water bodies remains a matter of urgent attention. “The issue of water pollution in the Niger Delta is very massive and people are dying in their numbers but nobody is talking about it. Almost every community in the Niger Delta is suffering from this state of affairs”, Dumnamene said. He listed some of the communities, kingdoms and villages living with polluted water bodies as the Gbaramatu Kingdom in Delta State; Goi Community in Gokhana, Rivers State, where he said many people fled because of polluted water bodies, and Bodo community also in Rivers State, where he says no water body is safe, among others. He said: “There is another community called Busu community. That community is in Khana Local Government Area in Rivers State. Nobody lives there anymore as a result of oil pollution of water bodies and the entire environment. Another community people have evacuated because of oil exploration and water pollution is Boele in Ken Khana in Khana. “Go to Akwa Ibom State, Ibeno and other communities around the Niger Delta, their water bodies are already contaminated. What about Bille in Degema Local Government of Rivers State? Which do you want me to mention? “In fact, no water body in the South-South and the Niger Delta is spared of oil pollution. Gradually we see a system whereby the water bodies in the Niger Delta is being replaced with crude oil and hydrocarbon. When you go on the waterways, you will see all the trees and mangroves dying and you can see the impact on the trees.” In Bonaaben community, the river that empties into the Bonny Ocean is in a sorry state. The river, which hitherto served the entire community, has been devastated by oil pollution. No sign of life in the water. Only oil slick floats in the water, which oozes crude odour.  The Chairman of Bonaaben Community, Chief Vincent Lole, says they began to notice oil slicks in the water in 2008. “The river was complete in its own blossom. Mangrove was everywhere. But the whole thing has withered because of oil pollution. In 2008, when the major oil spill started, we began to notice changes in the water body. The pollution killed everything”, he recalls. In Ekerikana community in Ama, Okirika Local Government Area, Rivers State, a river that used to sustain the lives of the people in the area is completely poisoned by effluent from the Port Harcourt Refinery owned by the Federal Government. Though compromised community leadership refuses to speak on the devastation, claiming it has understanding with the company, residents decry the degradation of their river by the effluent. The water body in the community is totally polluted emitting awful smell. “The river is now useless. We depended on it before but it serves no purpose now”, an elderly woman, who craves anonymity to avoid witch- hunt from the community leaders says. Nenibarini Zabbey, a professor of Bio-Monitoring and Restoration Ecology in the Department of Fisheries, University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT), says the South-South Niger Delta has the most degraded water bodies globally. Zabbey, who is also the Coordinator of the Centre for Environment, Human Rights and Development (CEHRD), recalls that the recent study of global oil impact on mangroves shows that 87% of the problem is taking place in the Niger Delta. He said: “It is difficult to see pristine water systems. Every water body is polluted with different concentration of oil. “There are only few remote water bodies that can still near pristine. Oil pollution is massive in Niger Delta. We have 2000 legacy sites contaminated with oil. “The UNEP study on Ogoni, a fragment of the Niger Delta, has demonstrated the level of contamination. It is massive.” Pollution increases poverty, worsens living condition Oil pollution of water bodies accounts for high rate of poverty and spiralling unemployment in the South-South Niger Delta. Experts argue that before such degradation, the people depended on water bodies for their livelihood, transportation and culture. Therefore, their pollution has caused untold hardship to the people, who are desperately seeking difficult alternatives for survival. Zabbey observes that South-South Niger Delta people have fishing and farming as their major occupations. They rely on water bodies for subsistent and commercial fishing. He said: “Water bodies provide ecosystem goods and services. Water is used to process food like cassava. For any organism to function, it needs water. In terms of cultural life, the people of the South-South have strong affinity with water. “In some places, if you are sick, they take you to water bodies to bathe. We have documented the impact of water pollution on women. In some culture, a lady that is ready for marriage must observe a cleansing bath in a water body.” he says. Fyneface likens water to the blood that flows in a human body. “For us, the water bodies are as important as blood vessels in the human body. The water bodies give us our name: Niger Delta. It is what gave us the name Rivers State. It is what gives us the identity we have as a people. “The water flows in the vein and the body of the people. If the water dries up or is polluted, then we are no more. “The water bodies are so important. They help us to trade with our neighbours like Cameroon, and other riverine communities. The water body is the lubricant of our economic life.” Fyneface recalls that many houses in the region were built by their forefathers through proceeds from water bodies. He said their forefathers exchanged water resources with other valuables like money brought to them by the Europeans. He observed: “But today, those things are no longer in place because of oil pollution. This degradation has also increased poverty and unemployment because it has denied people their major sources of livelihood.” For the people of Bonaaben and Ekerikana communi ties, the water bodies in their domains were sources of livelihood, quality drinking water, pools for bathing, means of transportation among other uses. The Chairman of Bonaaben community, Chief Vincent Lole, says before the menace of oil pollution, they were happy people who depended on sea foods for survival. He laments that the pollution stripped them of their local market, where people from other communities came to buy their sea foods. He said: “We were a happy group of people depending on sea foods. We even exported them to other communities. “There was a market in our community that people from different parts came to on a specific market day. But with the advent of pollution, everything was destroyed. “We also got drinking water from this river. There was a natural spring under the river that provided cool water. “It was also a means of transport linking other riverine communities like the Bolo, the Bonny and the Okirika. But all that is gone. ” How multinationals, local folks fuel oil pollution of water bodies Experts identify two major sources of oil pollution of water bodies as the operations of multinationals and activities of local folks. The representative of ERA, Alagoa Morris, says multinationals through their explorative and exploitative activities mess up bodies of water with crude oil.  Alagoa observed that most times, obsolete equipment operated by local and multinational companies fail and spill their contents in water bodies. He further says that cases of sabotage from community folks, who tamper with oil equipment within their domains, lead to such pollution. Alagoa’s report of a 2015 spillage from Shell’s Seibou Deep in Bayelsa State shows how a single operational incident can contaminate chains of near and remote water bodies. The spill from the ruptured wellhead spread through tidal currents into Ogboibiri River and other waterbodies in communities like Keme-Ebiama, Apoi, Kokologbene, Gbaruan, Ukubie and Lobia. In July, 2020, the Environmental Right Action (ERA), through its representative, Alagoa Morris, documented a massive oil spill from Agip’s Tebidaba/Clough Creek pipeline in Ikebiri, Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. On the incident’s impact on water bodies, the report says: “Due to delayed response, crude oil has continued to spread in the swamp and rivers, destroying flora and fauna and denying locals of their means of livelihood and even life. The oil spill has not only denied natives of their means of livelihood, it has rendered them hungry and they are allegedly contending with different life threatening illnesses.”   All Progressives Congress and the self-inflicted political…     2023 Presidency: Northern Elders list conditions for backing…     Makinde lauds Tinubu for displaying political maturity   Morris juxtaposes spills that occur on body of waters with those that happen on land, saying: “The difference lies in the fact that oil spills on moving bodies of water spreads and flows along with whichever direction the current is headed. “This also happens when the spill on land spreads and gets into any moving body of water such as swamp, lake, rivulet, creek, rivers, sea/ocean, among others. “One of the reason spills spread easily on water is that apart from the influence from the current, there are no topography issues when it comes to water in most cases. “Unlike land where the spread would be influenced by topography, it spreads very easily on water. And unless steps are taken promptly to contain the spill, the spill could travel as far as the water current carries it.” Prof. Zabbey says oil pollution is caused by many human and industrial activities. “Oil production activities take place within this water rich region. Some are right in the heart of mangroves. Some are in estuaries in the creeks. “Because of poor maintenance culture and insecurity, most of the facilities rupture and release oil into the environment and most of the environment are tidal. “Once oil gets into such tidal water environment, it gets spread from one place to the other. It keeps spreading the oil into water bodies in areas that are far aloof from the source of oil spill,” he said. He names other sources of oil pollution as explosion of oil facilities, leakage of wellheads, pipeline rupture and loading accident. He, however, observes a growing criminal trend of artisanal refineries popularly called local refineries or “Kpo Fire” in Ijaw parlance as another phenomenon polluting water bodies. He says oil theft carried out by youth gangs, who tap into pipelines to get oil for various uses is another factor. “In the process of tapping into the pipelines, the oil which moves under high pressure spills into the environment. Because it is an illegal activity, after taking the quantum they need, they abandon the pipeline and scamper and the oil will be oozing into the environment and get spread by tidal current,” he said. The professor also blames security operatives who intercept oil thieves along waterways and set their illegally acquired petroleum products on fire for contributing in polluting water bodies. Fyneface insists oil multinationals are primary contributors to the pollution for failing to maintain globally accepted operational standard and putting modalities in place to protect their pipelines. He, however, said the youths, who engage in local refining and oil theft are also not helping water bodies. Even the Chief of Bonaaben Community pointed accusing fingers at the oil multinationals and activities of illegal refineries for polluting their rivers. Pollution causes sicknesses Lack of alternatives and poverty compel people to fall back on oil polluted water bodies in their domains for survival. Chief Lole of Bonaaben community says his area was replete with many health challenges. He said: “We have had many health challenges. There was a man, who was then a living corpse for depending on our polluted river. He later died. We notice people developing cancer symptoms and intestinal infections because of the source of the water we take. The fish we occasionally get from our river is poisoned but people still consume them and that is why most people are sick.” One of the leaders of Ekerikana community where the Port Harcourt Refinery discharges effluents into their river says most skin discolouration and pigmentation is caused by polluted water. He says even the underground water in the community emits oil odour and becomes harmful when used domestically. Fyneface of YEAC says illnesses are common because the people still depend on the water bodies. He says: “People drink water from the polluted source; people fish from there, eat and some ferment their cassava in some places in such areas. “And the little fish they are able to catch and eat becomes a very big problem for them because they eat poison. You can imagine when you soak your cassava in contaminated water; what you take home is complete poison.” A medical doctor, Famba Daniel, says the use of oil polluted water bodies has diverse negative health effects. Daniel, who is the Secretary of Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) Rivers State Chapter, advises people to stay away from such polluted water. Daniel said: “Water that is contaminated with oil when taken or used has diverse medical implications. Such a person will likely come down with neurological diseases. It will manifest with severe headache and others. It will sometimes manifest as skin disease. It causes gastroenteritis and might even lead to death. “It is advised that people should not take water that is contaminated with oil. People should take water that is clean and free of oil and any other form of contamination. “If you cannot buy water that is already refined, people can actually boil water, filter and drink, although this is not applicable to water that is polluted with oil. “When you see somebody that has gastroenteritis, the person vomits, purges. I have seen a patient that has this. “It is advisable that people should not use or drink water that is contaminated with oil. It has diverse medical effects. “It is also an opportunity to call on the government to locate such communities and provide potable water.” Regulations and way forward Experts say there is no law specifically enacted to protect water bodies from oil pollution. Such protection exists in the general legislation designed to preserve the Nigerian environment. However, in 2006, the Federal Government established the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) Act as an institutional framework to coordinate the implementation of the National Oil Spill Contigency Plan (NOSCP). The establishment of NOSCP is in accordance with the International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation (OPRC 90) to which Nigeria is a signatory. The Zonal Director of NOSDRA in Rivers State, Ime Ekanem, who directed a senior personnel of the agency to speak on protection of water bodies, says there are no known specific laws enacted to guide only water bodies in the country. “But there are laws that protect the environment with the water bodies inclusive. We have the Environmental Guidelines and Standards for the Petroleum Industry Act, (EGASPIA). This law protects the environment. “The NOSDRA Act is also designed to protect the environment. We also have regulations like SI25 which is for Waste Management Regulations and SI26 for Oil Spill Remediation, Damage Assessment regulations,” he said. He insists the country is not in short supply of laws, but implementation has been a major problem. He says when a spill occurs, it should not last more than 30 days before it will be reported and cleaned. “But most spills are not reported. That is the worst reason we are having oil polluted waters.  When they are reported we ensure that they are cleaned. “Why they are not being reported these days is because most of the actions causing the spills are from activities of oil thieves and antisana oil refiners. We sanction any company that fails to report spills on their facility or clean up spills. “We are carrying out sensitization to the people advising them against actions that are causing spills into the environment. We do that alongside non-governmental organisations (NGOs). “We have done that in over 30 communities in Ogoni. We have worked with NGOs like Stakeholders Democratic Network (SDN), Centre for Environment, Human Rights and Development, Gas Alert, among others.” Fyneface of YEAC noted that if many existing environmental laws are properly implemented, they will have positive impact on water bodies. He says many of the laws have been collapsed into the new Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). He said: “If the laws we have on environment are implemented, they will go a long way to address these issues. Our problem in Nigeria is not the law, it is the implementation of the law. “The country’s 1999 Constitution alone is sufficient if they can obey its provisions in relation to environmental issues. Our problem is implementation, not the law.” Fyneface says to tackle the problem going forward, there is a need to enact specific laws to protect the water bodies because of their importance. He calls for diligent enforcement of existing environmental laws. He calls on the people to get involved in the fight against such pollution by discouraging artisanal refining of crude oil. He says the government can stop illegal refineries by establishing modular refineries to employ jobless youths. Most importantly, he says: “We have also proposed Presidential Artisanal Crude Oil Refining Development Initiative (PACORD). The initiative is to polish what the locals are currently doing and make it more environmentally-friendly. This will go a long way to protect water bodies from oil pollution. “On the part of the multinational companies, they must carry out their oil drilling activities to be in line with best international practices. When they fail to do so they are not helping the environment. “The government regulatory agencies must live up to their responsibilities and if they lack the resources government should properly fund them. If the water bodies are not restored all of us are in danger including those, who are part of the whole process”. Prof Zabbey believes that collective endeavour is needed to stop oil pollution of water bodies. He asks oil companies to regularly check and maintain their pipelines to prevent rupturing. He says companies should deploy sophisticated technologies such as automatic leak detection devices to promptly contain oil spills. “Laws should be stringently enforced by responsible agencies. We are pushing for the amendment of the NOSDRA Act 2006 to give the agency financial power to manage oil spills in the country. We are currently operating a system whereby the body that is supposed to detect and respond to oil spill is grossly underequipped and grossly underfunded”.