Super Eagles interim head coach, Austin Eguavoen has warned that he won’t be making massive change in the squad that defeated Egypt and Sudan at the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. Eguavoen named unchanged starting 11 in his opening two games but despite assurances that he would make one or two changes to enable others that have not tasted action to have their chance, the coach assured that the Eagles would show the same zeal they displayed in the two previous matches. “It is the third game in the group and we are not going to take our foot off the pedal. We keep respecting all our opponents and we are going to approach this game with the same enthusiasm like we did in the first two games,” Eguavoen told journalists. “Yes, it is always good to qualify and we have done that. Except a few changes tomorrow (today) because everybody that is here has come to play. We know their chance will come. Don’t expect massive change but maybe one or two.   Branding: NFF assures Coca-Cola on partnership rights     UEFA hails returnee Osimhen     Nigeria vs. Guinea Bissau: Fit again Awaziem ready for…   “It is expected that you don’t expect the game to go on smoothly for 90 minutes. There will be ups and downs. Our concern is we are creating a lot chances but putting them away is a little bit of concern. However, we have worked on that and we hope they improve on that,” he said. - Advertisement - Meanwhile, Eguavoen who took charge of the team after the exit of German Rohr has declared his interest in continuing as the handler of the team if the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) offers him the job permanently. “I don’t think anybody is the best in the world. You are only good enough for that job at that point in time,” Eguavoen said. “If they give me the opportunity to continue as a coach of the team why not? I am very happy with my position as the Technical Director of NFF If they ask me for it maybe. When we get to the bridge we will know how to cross it,” he added.