There was a new twist in the faceoff between residents of Magodo Brooks Estate and the Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu on Tuesday. Following a letter of apology written by the Chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT), Magodo Brooks Residents Association (MABRA) Ayodele Lawson to Odumosu, some executive members of the association have resigned in protest. In the January 3 letter, addressed to the CP on behalf of the residents, Lawson “tendered an unreserved apologies for the improper conducts of our security men towards you on the 1st of January, 2022 at the Estate gate”. According to Lawson, the conduct of the security men was highly regretted. “I hereby wish to assure you that such a misconduct will never happen again. - Advertisement - “I thank you for your anticipated acceptance of our apologies and your assurances of settling the matter,” Lawson wrote. Sources said the letter infuriated some members of the executive who felt the BoT chairman did not carry them along before writing the apology letter.   Magodo residents protest presence of over 50 policemen     JUST IN: Four killed in foiled Osun jailbreak     Olubadan: Why Lekan Balogun should apologise, by Baale   It was learnt that the Chairman, Vice Chairman Dipo Ajayi, Assistant General Secretary and Publicity/Social Secretary of the association have resigned. According to a source, the Chairman of MABRA said the BoT Chairman wrote a personal letter. “He did not inform any member of the exco on this. “I, as the Chairman, disassociate myself from this. “Even though absent on this physically, I was in tune with what is on ground. I take a honourable exit. Thanks all,” the MABRA Chairman was quoted as saying. The source said the Publicity/Social Secretary denied knowledge of the apology letter. Ajayi was said to have insisted that the apology letter was not part of the outcome of their meeting. “I hereby resign as the Vice Chairman of Magodo Brooks as this is a clear case of putting the interest of an individual or individuals over and above that of the association,” Ajayi was quoted as saying.