In an ironic twist of fate, two of the abducted Chibok school girls, Joy Bishara and Lydia Pogu, who had the courage to take a leap of faith as 276 of them journeyed through the forest on the night of their abduction on April 14, 2014, have graduated with honours from Southern University in the United States. One graduated with a degree in Social Work while the other earned a degree in Legal Studies – both ironically graduated on April 30, 2021, a month that signifies a lot in their young lives. As victims of the insurgent group in Northern Nigeria whose mantra is, “western education is forbidden”, their academic achievements in America defies the insurgents’ puerile rhetoric and crass hypocrisy about education, given that most of them have some form of western education and have been employing technology and the internet in their terrorist actions. However, these two girls are not the only escapees who have been doing well academically, especially in the United States where EMC, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), founded by Mr. and Mrs Gadzama and headed in the US by the indomitable Emmanuel Ogebe has been very actively involved in fighting not only for the Chibok victims but is known to have lived his life fighting for justice and  equity for the girl-child and minority groups in Northern Nigeria. Some of them have graduated either from high school or college. Mr. Ogebe has worked so hard to fix these girls in foster homes and getting them scholarships. We commend their humanitarian efforts, persistence in a charity work that has exposed him in particular to all forms of danger and harassment by some past Nigerian governments that even led to his going on exile to the United States. These girls’ success is heartwarming. We equally commend the girls who have remained committed to education that they were seeking before the abduction. To have even attempted to escape at the risk of death shows the indomitable human survivalist spirit. They literally took a leap of faith and, as Joy narrated, they chose to jump to death than be taken by their abductors; their courage is a lesson for humanity. The American Embassy in Nigeria acted with utmost human spirit in promptly processing their visas and for funding the foster parenting system that provided home away from home for the girls. - Advertisement - The academic achievements of the girls is again evidence of a determination to defy the odds. Joy had in an interview with the GMC TV  network expressed her joy at graduating from college after being told she could never make it academically, “It was exciting to walk on that stage after being told you can’t do it” she said. That determination is inspirational. As they say, ‘heaven helps those who help themselves’; first they had the intuition to jump down from the truck, now they have achieved success and defied the Boko Haram rhetoric. The success of these Chibok escapees almost a decade after the global embarrassment for the Nigerian security situation says a lot about the education and security system in the country. There have been more abductions across the country, but more so of pupils and students, some of who have died in the process. Leah Sharibu is still being held years after her mates were released. The abductions of students has dire consequences for a country with the global record of the highest number of out-of-school children at more than 13 million children.   Christopher Alao-Akala (1950-2022)     Ransom reality     Leah Sharibu as symbol   Being the poverty capital of the world has a strong correlation with the literacy level of citizens in a 21st century world where ideas and technology rule. Nigerian governments at all levels seem not to realise the nexus between education and development. The Northern region has always felt the impact of  low literacy rates, especially of the girl-child. The Chibok incident and subsequent killings and abductions only worsen matters because any good parent in the present circumstance would prefer a living illiterate child to one killed or abducted from school. Some of the Chibok girls were released by their abductors some years back and there are equally reports that some had escaped, based on personal efforts. There seems to be no follow-ups on their welfare beyond the temporary media glitz of picture taking with some government officials. We wonder if they are getting the medical and social welfare therapies they deserve to help them lead a seemingly normal life. If another country like the United States can be so benevolent to our citizens, what are we doing to our own on our soil? Mr. and Mrs Gadzama must not only be commended for assisting the less fortunate amongst us. The government must look beyond politicians and business people when it comes to national honours and awards. This would not be a favour for their selfless sacrifices for humanity but a sign of gratitude for their humanitarian works. That is a way of encouraging citizens to be humanely active in fostering human flourishing. The scholarships that some of the Chibok survivors are enjoying in the US from individuals and colleges is equally a lesson in funding education by those who value the human community. It is a different ballgame in Nigeria where governments are either not interested or even the little scholarships available are often not well funded or awarded on nepotistic basis. In some ways, most students access these international scholarships and ultimately the Nigerian nation becomes a loser as most of those who found the scholarships very reliving of economic and social burdens often never come back to the country. The American Volunteer Education Adviser, Deanna, who helped with the scholarships for the Chibok girls must be commended by Nigeria. Her work as a volunteer is a lesson in humanitarian service. It is an international public relations disaster that in all the works of EMC, there are no records of either state or federal input, or even appreciation for the jobs being done for Nigerian citizens. It says more than we can imagine about the value the country places on each citizen, especially the girl-child; and given the girl-child literacy level in the North, the picture gets clearer about the underdevelopment in the region. We commend the good-spirited Nigerians for their work through the NGO, the American government, the foster parents, all schools that offered all the Chibok girls scholarship, and the media that has kept faith and keeps documenting their progress. We just want to know the fate of the remaining abducted students of Chibok and all those pupils and students still in captivity. What actions have been taken to address school and public security beyond political rhetorics and physical renovations of the school? The world keeps watching.