Kano State’s population  has shown that the state is a critical stakeholder in increasing insurance penetration and growth, the Commissioner for Insurance/Chief Executive Officer, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Olorundare Sunday Thomas has said. Thomas, who spoke during a meeting with top government functionaries in Kano on the implementation of compulsory insurances in the state, said it is on this premise that they urged the  government to set the pace for the north to embrace insurance, especially Takaful Insurance (otherwise known as Islamic Insurance) as an alternative to the conventional insurance to cater for sentiments of religion and tradition. The partnership, he said, is an opportunity to assist the people when they needed it most and for the financial services sector to also increase financial inclusion which is one of the cardinal thrust that has been a forefront policy of the Federal Government for a sustainable  development and lifting families out of abject poverty. He lauded Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for aligning with their objective to boost insurance penetration in the north. The commission has three agenda in Kano. They are: to build a regional office; domesticate the laws on compulsory insurances; and set up a  committee on the implementation of the compulsory insurances. - Advertisement - Thomas said the Insurance Act 2003 and other relevant Laws of the Federal Republic made six products insurances mandatory. He said: “The six compulsory insurances are third-party motor insurance in respect of mechanically propelled vehicles that ply the public roads; all buildings under construction that are more than two floors; public, buildings, including schools, offices, hotels, hospitals, shopping malls etc.; professional indemnity for medical practitioners and hospitals; and group life insurance cover by employers for employees where there are more than three persons; and annuity for retirees as provided under the Pension Reform Act 2014”. He stated that the compulsory insurance would enhance the development of insurance culture. He further said the commission is monitoring Nano, Micro, Small Enterprises (NMSMEs) after  its workshop in Kano and the interest generated.   FBN General, supermarket partner     AIICO explores East, West African markets     African Alliance pays N475m claims   “The implementation of motor vehicle third party insurance and other compulsory insurances as contained in the terms of reference of the committee with the state government is indeed a welcome development and it is expected to change the narratives by moving Kano State from its 11th position in the gross premium ranking to be among the first three states in the federation. “Kano State is a commercial centre with huge population and business potential, the adoption and enforcement of the compulsory insurances will, no doubt, have a multiplier effect on insurance premium, employment opportunities, the standard of living of the people and the internally generated revenue of the state. It is my belief that the committee will work out a fashionable mechanism that will ensure the state to be a role model to other states in the country in the area of insurance penetration. “I urge the committee to also look into the recurrent fire inferno in different markets across the state which have been causing so much economic havoc on our traders and the government. One of the cardinal objectives of insurance is to protect insurance service consumers against such disasters by creating the needed awareness that will forestall occurrence and where the unexpected happens compensation will be paid to victims to minimise its impact. Having the markets and goods insured is going to ensure stability and comfort for our people and also save the government some cost that ordinarily would have gone in compensating traders.” The commissioner listed some of the benefits of insurance to include creation of a source of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) for Kano; reduction in government’s exposure in event of disaster that may affect the citizens of the state by shifting the burden to the risk-bearers (insurance companies); financial compensation to citizens who may lose their properties or become disabled in event of occurrence of insured accidents/disasters etc; Provision of assistance on Fire-Fighting Equipment for the State Fire Service; Job/employment opportunities for citizens of the state; and Free Risk Management Education and Enlightment programs for the citizens of the state” He assured the government and people of Kano State that with introduction of Islamic insurance (Takaful) and Microinsurance for small businesses, the state as a commercial nerve will not be let down by the insurance industry, we need you as much as you need us. We must let everyone around us know that insurance is something you buy when you seem not to need it because it will be too late to buy when the unforeseen occurs and you may regret not buying it. “It also imperative for the government to always factor insurance whenever it is considering disbursement of funds either to farmers or traders in its poverty alleviation programs etc. it is only with insurance that the government can guarantee business sustainability and revolving of funds for the future thus providing a safety net for the NMSMEs against unforeseen circumstances while securing millions of jobs and wealth creation. “There is need for the joint committee to consider the issue of collapsed buildings that have continued to be one of the problems in our big and major cities. The state agencies that approve and monitor construction should be given mandate to look into this matter and collaborate with other agencies like the Town Plannning Authority, Fire Service, Police etc and relevant professional associations like COREN some of which should also be co-opted into the Committee. This will ensure that provisions of the law regarding the insurance of public buildings against 3rd party liability and all buildings under construction that are above 2 floors are strictly adhered to.” With what I have seen and the interest shown by the state government, I know that the state will lead by example by ensuring that it adequately protects its assets and liabilities by effecting appropriate insurance cover, he added.