Adebayo Ridwan Abidemi popularly known as BaeU Barbie, Isbae U or just BaeU by teeming fans, is under fire for allegedly demanding sex from ladies before featuring them in his skits. On Sunday, Isbae U became a subject of discussion, topping social media trends especially on Twitter with over 10,000 tweets. A popular gossip mill on Instagram received and posted screenshots of evidence from the ladies who spoke about their various encounters with the skit maker. The Nation cannot independently verify all of these claims as at time of report. The Instagram sensation, who is making waves in the entertainment industry with his very comic skits, started off his career in 2017. - Advertisement - He had his education at Igbogbi Secondary School, and bagged a National Diploma from Yaba College of Technology. Checks by The Nation across his social media platforms especially Instagram, show that he was yet to respond to the allegations or comment on the matter as at time of report. But many Nigerians have taken to social media to react over the trending allegations.   BREAKING: Asari Dokubo attacks Nnmadi Kanu, IPOB again     I’ll challenge Ekiti APC Gov primary in Court-…     18 klled, several abducted as terrorists sack Niger…   They advised him to clear the air as regards the controversial allegations. Reacting, Dami Adenuga @DAMIADENUGA said: “Bae U has been accused of inappropriate and unprofessional behaviour, he was accused of asking a woman to sleep with him before allowing her feature in his comedy skit.” Razak Adeniyi @RazaqDesigner said: “He asked for sex to feature you in his skit. It’s your choice to agree or decline.” @__izuchukwu argued: So bae u asks for sex in exchange for a role (haven’t seen any instances of rape) All these girls had two options: 1. Kindly refuse, 2. 2. Accept the terms, 3. Most of them accepted and now they’re blaming him for what exactly? @letveeplay posited that: “They’re not blaming him, they are calling him out. Just as he can demand for sex from them, they can call him out on it too. It is not commendable that you chat up girls, offer to do a skit with them and then tell them they must sleep with him first. It is wrong. @phamography_ said: “Listen, what Bae U did is absurd and morally wrong. I’m in no support of such. However, he hasn’t committed any crime.” @drpenking said: “Imagine how Bae U girlfriend will feel about realizing that she is dating a video call preeq after probably boasting to all her friends that she got the best guy in the world, popular and all. May we not date somebody that will turn us into a National embarrassment” @ireunusal advised: This Bae U and Mason Greenwood matter are synonymous, and its talking about the weakness of a man when it comes to “SEX” men should learn to control their urges, incase u never know, women can finish your career in life if u can’t control ur sexual urge as a man, Caution Kings!