Nigerians need to heave a sigh of relief next year, if the highly troubled and most populous black nation-state in the world triumphs over its self-inflicted problems. Having endured multiple hardship for long, President Muhammadu Buhari needs to work harder on all sectors to erase the impression that, after all, his government came, saw and could not conquer. Many of the challenges which appeared to have defied solutions will be carried over to the new year. The subsisting problems are those articulated by the President during the 2015 and 2019 polls. These are economic challenges, soaring unemployment, corruption and worsening insecurity. Many citizens are not looking at the achievements of the government because of the negative impact of what it is yet to achieve. While the administration has fought the infrastructure battle through road construction and rail system revitalisation, the people are concerned about lack of safety on the roads and the rails. In May 2023, President Buhari’s tenure will expire. The question is: can he accomplish in 17 months what he had tried to do but without success in six and a half years? As the year preceding the 2023 general election, 2022 will be a critical prelude to another epic presidential contest. It is also an off-season election year in the two Southwest states of Osun and Ekiti where the two major parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), are competing for power. - Advertisement - The greatest challenge, as Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed admitted two days ago in Lagos at a media briefing, is security. Boko Haram insurgents are constantly on the prowl, challenging government to a duel. Although herder/farmer clashes seem to have reduced, kidnapping for ransom and killings have not abated. No geo-political zone is insulated from the assaults. There is fear of free movement. The victims have bitter tales to tell. At every opportunity, the Federal Government has been restating its commitment to the anti-terror war. The Armed Forces have fought the war gallantly. Many of their officers and men have paid the supreme price. Their dependents and loved ones bear the greater brunt. President Buhari’s administration has invested so much on weaponry. The fighting men remain motivated. But how effective is the supervision of the war efforts to enable the nation get the desired results? It is not a conventional battle, but it is dragging for too long. There is no respite yet. If huge resources have been committed to the war, there is need to beam the searchlight on how the resources are applied to get better results. Besides security, government should pay more attention to the economy. While the government has often said that the economy is growing, it has not positively impacted the standard of living of the average Nigerian. There is no miracle that can happen in a mono-product economy like Nigeria, which produces crude oil for export, only to use the proceeds to buy refined product from the buyers of the crude. Unless the refineries get on their feet and run smoothly again to produce finished petroleum products for domestic consumption, there would be no maximum gain from Nigeria’s status as the sixth largest oil producer in the world. How can Nigeria also survive as a nation of imports, or a dumping ground? How productive is the country beyond its reliance on the oil sector that is seen as both a blessing and a curse? Is diversification not a viable option? The refocused attention on agriculture and solid mineral development needs to be sustained. Also, the key to mass unemployment may not be dolling out N5,000 as casual empowerment and creation of temporary menial jobs on construction sites, but the resuscitation of the moribund manufacturing sector. This means that government should be prepared to provide an atmosphere that is conducive for business operations. Electricity supply should be stable and expanded. Outages have done incalculable damage to business growth across the country. If President Buhari can resolve this problem once and for all, Nigerians will heave a sigh of relief. Unemployment is a time bomb. Universities, polytechnics and colleges are turning out increasing numbers of graduates who become idle afterwards. Without jobs, they certainly face a bleak future and chaotic life. There may be a correlation between unemployment and high crime rate that has been ignored. Ministers of government should work harder next year so that many on-going developmental projects can be completed. That should their new year resolution. The ravaging pandemic does not appear to be waning. It is expected that the awareness and sensitisation of the public would continue. Health has an important role to play in nation-building. The pestilence is still raging. But prevention remains a better option than cure. Politics is in the air; 2022 is a year for many to display their ambitions. It will also be a year of deft moves by politicians. Gradually, the political class will begin to court the masses, who they have dumped since 2019, ahead of 2023. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will roll its sleeves in preparation for the big task ahead. Osun and Ekiti will be aglow with political activities. In the two states, APC and PDP will be locked in a battle of supremacy. Though both parties are divided and their chieftains are at loggerheads, yet the contest will be tough. In Osun, Governor Gboyega Oyetola is nursing a second term ambition. Ordinarily, the APC continuity agenda should have been a smooth sail. But the chapter is battling internal strife. The ruling party is at war with itself. This has implications for the proposed shadow poll.   2023 polls won’t hold if killings, kidnappings persist…     Buhari to Nigerians: future will be written in gold     I’ll run for Ebonyi governorship, Senator Ogba…   There are two camps fighting for the soul of Osun APC, led by Governor Oyetola and Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola. So soon, the progressives in Osun have for gotten that power did not shift to them on a platter of gold. The memory of the titanic struggle for political control, which produced many casualties, is fading. The cracks on the wall are worrisome. After holding power for almost 12 years, the progressives are failing to put their house in order. During the last state congresses, there were parallel outings in the state. So far, reconciliation has proved abortive. There are fears that Osun APC may play into the hands of the opposition, unless the gladiators sheathe their swords and swallow their pride. Will the Aregbesola camp sponsor an aspirant for the governorship primary? Can the two sides still reconcile? Neither is Osun PDP enjoying relative peace. It is as divided as the ruling party. Its problem is the lack of a rallying point, an effective leadership that can galvanise and chart a new and proper direction. During the week, the party’s officers were suspended, an indication of a brewing crisis in the fold. Apart from dancing Senator Ademola Adeleke and Ogunbiyi, some other governorship aspirants are warming up within the party. Why the Osun poll is important is because the two parties desire to use it as the baseline for future electoral victories. If Osun APC retains the state, it will abort the PDP’s bid to bounce back. It means the opposition will be in the cold for 16 years, at least. Before Osun, Ekiti governorship election will hold across 16 pre-existing councils. The two main parties are leaving nothing to chance in the Fountain of Knowledge. Both parties have been alternating governance in the state. Governor Kayode Fayemi will not be on the ballot. He is bowing out in October. Itching to succeed him are former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Biodun Oyebanji, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, Femi Bamisile, among others. Already, the camp of the governor has endorsed Oyebanji for the position. There is a crisis in Ekiti APC, which is also battling with parallel state executives. Ekiti PDP is also scheming, although it is polarised. The two factions revolve around two popular chieftains: former Governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi. The Fayose camp is sponsoring former party Chairman Bisi Kolawole for governor. Olujimi has also put herself forward. The third most important contender is former Governor Segun Oni. Reconciliation is still work in progress in Ekiti PDP. If the party bounces back in Ekiti, there will be fear in Osun APC. But Ekiti APC would not want to be caught off guard. There are fears that primaries in Ekiti and Osun APC and PDP may create tension on the platforms. Indeed, the performance of INEC in the two states will shape public confidence about its readiness for the 2023 electioneering. Next year, APC is expected to hold its national convention, at last. The tentative time is February though there is no definite date yet. The guidelines are not ready. The party has to confront its fear of convention, which has been postponed thrice. The national congress is non-negotiable. Its delay lacks justification because the party’s constitution makes a strong case for it. Party members are already murmuring about the sit-tight caretaker, led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni. Two critical decisions would be taken at the convention. Delegates are expected to select members of National Working Committee (NWC). Aspirants for the party’s national chairman include Tanko Almakura, Abdullahi Adamu, Saliu Mustapha, George Akume, Danjuma Goje, Ali Modu Sheriff, and Sani Musa. The aspirants give the impression that the position has been zoned to the North as the aspirants are from the region. APC is not categorical yet on zoning or rotational presidency. But party leaders have never denied the zoning agreement between Northern and Southern leaders of the party. This dates back to 2014 when the party was being formed by leaders of defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), the PDP, the rested All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The momentum has been sustained by the unprecedented alliance between the anti-mainstream Southwest and the politically conscious far North. Presidential aspirants on the platform of APC will start unfolding their intention in the first quarter of this year. Many groups are urging the eminent politician and APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to run. SWAGA has traversed the nooks and crannies of the Southwest to canvass support for him. The former governor of Lagos has not given a definite answer. Some groups also seem to be drumming support for Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Many factors will shape the pressure. The PDP is also bracing for its presidential primary, having successfully conducted a national convention, unlike APC, which has been procrastinating. The PDP Chairman is from Benue, Northcentral. There are insinuations that he may resign his position, if a presidential candidate is picked from the North. PDP presidential aspirants from the North include former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed, former Senate President Anyim Pius Anyim and Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike. The PDP Governors’ Forum is a very influential bloc in the opposition party. But its rank is divided by ambition. Unless the governors team up and sponsor a consensus candidate in the new year, the pendulum of victory at the presidential primary may swing towards Atiku who has a structure and a huge war chest. The emergence of APC and PDP presidential standard bearers will herald a big battle in 2023.