Leaders of Ogoni ethnic nationality in Rivers State have warned people against blaming the disunity in their area on the state Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike. The Concerned Ogoni Leaders (COL), who spoke  in Port Harcourt, on Friday said Wike was known for  working for the development of Ogoni communities and providing political support for Ogoni people. The Convener of COL, Mr. Leloonu Nwibubasa, said Ogoni would not keep quiet in a defining moment of its history and that of the state. He said Wike had demonstrated verifiable evidence of productive friendship and love for the Ogoni people like no other. Nwibubasa, who is a former Commissioner for Empowerment and Employment Generation in the state, said it was the right of every one irrespective of ethnicity to vie for the governorship office of the state. - Advertisement - He wondered while  people  singing ethnic songs and begging for power and position had forgotten the best way to attain. He said the landmark projects like the dualised Saakpenwa-Bori-kono Road was a good example of Wike’s love for the Ogoni people.   Burkina Faso coup: ECOWAS to engage with coupists on way…     APC group pushes for Al-Makura’s chairmanship bid     U.S., religious leaders boost anti-corruption war with…   He said: “A governor that has committed almost N30bn to a singular road project in Ogoni cannot be said to hate Ogoni people rather should be commended as a true leader, friend and brother of the Ogonis. ”Considering the above, it will be entirely wrong for any person or group of persons to say that Governor Wike does not love Ogoni. ”Talking about disunity among our leaders, it is baseless to point accusing fingers at the governor as fueling disunity among Ogoni leaders rather the governor has been the sincere rallying point of our political leaders. ”We therefore advise all our political leaders to close ranks to work together to achieve the desire of the Ogonis to produce the next Governor of Rivers State.” He recalled that the governor advised political leaders in the state to declare their interest to contest for the office of the governor in 2023, adding that having given the directive he should not be expected to impose any candidate based on ethnic consideration. He said: “Our duty therefore as patriotic Ogonis is to take our best products to the political arena of choice. Rally the support of others and advance compelling reasons for these capacity leaders to be given a chance to maintain and promote the enduring legacies of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. ”Blaming Governor Wike for not supporting a candidate from Ogoni when the political timing is not even ripe is rather hasty. We should as a people unite around the firm and bold declaration of the governor on the 14th of May 2021 at the Grand civic reception for the governor in Bori” that the Ogonis will no longer play second fiddle.”