The Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh. Lukman, has urged the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to use its proposed February national convention to review its manifesto, ahead of the 2023 general election. The APC chieftain counselled the Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party to achieve this feat to enable the party continue to set the needed political agenda for the country. These suggestions were contained In a statement yesterday in Abuja, titled: Issues for successful APC National Convention, he said: “As a party preparing for its national convention in February 2022, we must appeal to APC leaders to include the debate about what needs to be done by all APC government to mobilise the support of Nigerians to bring to an immediate end the current national security challenge in the country. “Recommendations that emerge from the convention should guide the process of reviewing the APC manifesto. Unlike other parties, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), APC must continue to set the needed political agenda to drive the process of mobilising Nigerians for change.” - Advertisement - “As a party envisioned to be socially democratic, in addition to the challenge of insecurity facing the country, the issue of massive mobilisation of financial investments towards the development of education and health sectors in Nigeria must also be debated at the convention. “Having demonstrated political commitment towards infrastructural development in the country, which has led to the revival of rail transportation and reconstruction of road networks in the country, APC must initiate the rebirth of public education and public health in the country through similar massive investment to build new schools and hospitals, rehabilitate old ones, mass recruitment of teachers and provision of teaching materials. “These are not issues that can be achieved, based on the current budgeting structure in the country, at all levels. “As we say goodbye to 2021, therefore, APC leaders must focus the planning for its February national convention towards mobilising the support of Nigerians to contribute in every way necessary, including making personal sacrifices, to create the new Nigeria every citizen desires.   Bandits release two more Baptist students     Bandits kill 7, abduct 18 in attacks on Kaduna villages     Six Afaraukwu inmates regain freedom   “The new Nigeria citizens desire will be a product of collective responsibility, shared values and sacrifices and, therefore, guaranteed security and abundant wealth. Successive failure will be practically about how many sacrifices APC leaders can convince Nigerians to make. “Once the debate at APC convention in February is limited to those who emerge as leaders of the party without addressing these fundamental issues, the ability of APC to mobilise Nigerians to build a new Nigeria would have been sacrificed. “APC leaders have since 2013 demonstrated the capacity to mobilise Nigerians based on clear political agreements. The February 2022 national convention should not be an exception.” Lukman noted that with the 2023 elections about a year away, political parties and leaders must begin to effectively respond to all challenges without politicising them. “The reality is that, left alone, it will be reduced to partisan choices based on the contest of personalities. Nigerians must take steps to ensure that partisan choices come with all important agreements to guarantee the right initiatives from the government to address all the national security challenges facing Nigeria. “Specifically, the right initiatives should be about combined economic choices which Nigerians must accept to guarantee adequate security of lives and property in the country. “Nigerians must break away from all the fallacies that deceptively guarantee certain levels of consumption habits in the country at the expense of productive activities. “The ability of the government to succeed in resolving the current national security challenge will be dependent on the capacity of Nigerians to support the government to mobilise all the financial resources required to recruit, train, fund and provide arms to all Nigerian security services. “How many sacrifices Nigerians at all levels are ready to make will determine how quickly the government can succeed? “As a party, APC needs to do everything necessary to refocus national debates towards strengthening the initiatives of President Buhari led government to produce the desired outcome of securing the country,” Lukman added.