After reading this column last Sunday, a gentleman, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, called me to discuss the article. His first impression, however, was that I was treating craw craw, leaving leprosy safely alone by zero-ing in on APC in Osun and Ekiti states. Asked why he thought so, he told me that APC was in far greater jeopardy at the National level than it is in any state of the federation. Probed further as to what he really meant, he replied that the  Supreme Court minority decision by Justices Mary Peter-Odili, Justice Ejembi Eko and Justice Muhammed Saulawa in the PDP case against the victory of Governor Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu in the 2021 Ondo state governorship election, is a burden on the  party’s ability to contest in future elections as long as the Governor Mai Mala Buni Interim committee remains in office. According to him, the party should have listened to, and profit, from the advice proffered by Festus Keyamo, himself a top chieftain of the party, and a Senior Advocate of Nigeria to boot. Further  expressing his fears,  he wagered that as long as the Apex court has not specifically pronounced on any given matter, anything can happen. Reading the minority judgment, Justice Odili said:”I do not agree with the majority judgment”. The APC, by Article 17(4) of its constitution has provided for how its affairs should be managed and what offices its memebrs could occupy at a time. “This Article draws strength from Section 183 of the 1999 Constitution. Therefore, when the second respondent (APC) put up a person not qualified to author its nomination by virtue of the provision of Article 1z(4) of its constitution and Section183 of the 1999 Constitution to do so, that document has no validity, and thereby void”. Relying on the judgment, Keyamo expressed fears that the party may be hurt if care is not taken.  According to him:”The little technical point that saved Governor Akeredolu was that Jegede failed to join Mai Mala Buni in the suit.”  ”Jegede was challenging the competence of Buni as a sitting governor to run the affairs of the APC as chairman of the caretaker committee. He contends that this is against Section 183 of the 1999 Constitution, which states that a sitting governor shall not, during the period when he holds office, hold any other executive office or paid employment in any capacity whatsoever. In other words, had Buni been joined in the suit, the story may have been different today as we would have lost Ondo State to the PDP.” He then warned: “Any other person affected by the actions of the Buni-led Committee will henceforth, not fail to join him in any subsequent case in court. These include any subsequent election matter in any part of this country and all the APC congresses that are about to hold. The Supreme Court has just weaponised all those that would be aggrieved by the APC Congresses to proceed to court to challenge the competence of the Buni-led CECPC to organise the Congresses and National convention”. - Advertisement - Ordinarily one would have thought that this was already enough a burden for any serious party to bear in mind, going into not only the 2023 Presidential election, but also some critical state elections whose results would have significant consequences, going forward. One would also have thought that APC would have learnt enough lessons from what happened in Rivers and Zamfara states during the 2019 elections when the party ended up having not a single elected official in either the executive or the legislature in eiher state simply because some overbearing party big wigs considered themselves bigger than the party, and wanted everything done their own way. As you read this, these individuals are yet to have a change of heart, confirming the saying that he who the gods will destroy, they first make mad; madness in this instance meaning doing the same thing over and over, expecting to have a different result. Back then to APC at it’s all important National level where a few governors now completely dictate its affairs even though they make showy pilgrimages, in flowing babarigas, of going  to the Villa, supposedly seeking presidential approval for matters which have presumably been long concluded behind closed doors. If you doubt this, you must be ready to give Nigerians a single instance when the President has refused anything they took to him. You can, of course, not deceive all the people all the time. If governance, for instance, defeating terrorists, or restoring security to the polity,  is not the easiest thing anywhere in the world, judging by the experience of  countries that have spent decades fighting it without success, should administering  a political party, by any means, become robotic science, as it has since assumed in the APC with even its once cohesive Governor’s forum now no longer ad idem, not to talk of  some members  heading to court?   Ekiti ‘22: In order not to snatch defeat from the jaws of…     Nigeria: In all circumstances we must thank God     APC and restructuring   Without the slightest doubt, the tenure of the  Adams Oshiomhole- led National Executive committee, when it got dissolved, had obviously passed its sell by date, given the protracted internal crisis which had its beginnings in a well laid out domestic plot which nearly consumed the party itself  –  a consequence, in itself,  of the fallacy of a President, or governor, ever believing that a particular contestant would watch over his back after he’d left office. Setting up  a Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee for the party, though seemingly logical, it was inferior to the advice of the former National Legal Adviser of the party, Babatunde Ogala (SAN), that the  dissolved National Working Committee (NWC) should be reinstated without the former National Chairman, as his suspension followed due process. Failure to do that is why he still holds that “the congresses conducted by the party remain a nullity in the eyes of the law and should, therefore, be cancelled. Obviously for the cabal at work that NEC ‘rump’ would not have served their purpose. They immediately showed their hands in the choice of Governor Mai Mala Buni, the ‘wrongest’ person conceivable, given the way Boko Haram and bandits were, and are still, ravaging his Yobe state. Any rational being should have expected that, like Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state,  spending a day outside Yobe state where he is an elected governor, would be too much of a luxury for Governor Buni. I am, indeed, still surprised that given President Muhammadu Buhari’s utmost concern with insecurity, he still managed to approve this literal deployment of the governor of a state which is in the very epicentre of terrorism. It is absolutely inconceivable and only God knows what he must have been told to sway him. Apparently those who zero-ed in on Governor Buni must have been counting on his deep knowledge of the party, being a past  National Secretary, who they must believe would  be able to use that knowledge to deftly manipulate the workings of the interim committee. This is probably why the  committee has not been short of  copiously adding to its original mandate. A good example of this is the nationwide APC membership registration, revalidation and updating exercise. The exercise, which started February 9, was  twice extended and even though Nigerians were told it was to be used for the now ‘never never’ convention, no statement has yet been released by the committee concerning its status apart from a nebulous statement by Secretary,Senator John Akpanudoedehe to the effect that APC membership is now 40M; no breakdowns, no nothing. Many Nigerians believe, not without cogent reasons, that all these are merely intended to waste time, as they work to an intended goal. But the committee has been hard at work in areas that matter to those who originated it . First was their initial attempt to find a way of retaining the presidency in the North after President Buhari’ s tenure.  Sensing the massive deleterious consequences such could have for a country where separatist agitations have never been more fierce, they let go and went searching for the shortest route to have it return to the North. You will not but wonder what they take Nigerians for. That is how they settled for former President Goodluck Jonathan who can only legally serve for a term of four years. But this is  a  man they branded clueless and booted out of office a few years ago, to now come back for a 4 year stop gap after which the North takes over. So smart, isnt it? Pray, which oxford or Harvard University did President Jonathan attend between 2015 and now to have now become ‘clue- full’? Unfortunately, power being such an afrodisiac, one hears that President Jonathan is already running round, briefing the Villa, and assembling his agents, getting  ready for his campaign. We wish him well. But people who understand the goings on  much better than I have put it more romantically. Let us listen to Farouq Kperogi in his article titled: “Why the 2023 Presidential Race Will Be a Shot in the Dark”.  Therein, he  explains the various permutations and candidates being considered by the ‘cabal’, which I must say he did not specifically identify as the APC Interim Committee but which we can safely assume since their goals are the same. He wrote: “Their strategies and choices keep evolving like a kaleidoscope. At some point, they wanted to perpetrate one of their own in power, which would mean ditching the informal but nonetheless politically potent power sharing arrangement between the North and the South.” ”They realized that such a move is not only politically risky but is also fraught with the sort of danger that might dissolve the Nigerian union if it succeeded.” ”Then they toyed with the idea of supporting a “weak” candidate from the South-South,  whom a northern PDP candidate— with whom they’d strike a deal— can easily defeat.” ”At some point”, he continues,  “I heard that the cabal settled on PDP’s Atiku Abubakar. But it appears that they later chickened out perhaps because they can’t trust Atiku or because Atiku won’t commit to their terms.” ”Then came the Goodluck Jonathan card. I’ve confirmed from people who should know that indeed the Buhari cabal had settled on supporting Jonathan as APC’s candidate—with one of the members of the cabal, as his running mate.” “As of a few days ago, the cabal, fearful of untoward backlash from the southwest if they support Jonathan to win APC’s nomination (recall that the Southwest helped them upstage the same Jonathan in 2015) has backtracked and is restrategizing”. …”Where this gets even more intriguing is that the cabal is NOT nearly as influential and powerful as it once was when it was led by the late Abba Kyari. It’s now easily vanquishable. Here’s why.””So, don’t dismiss anyone’s ambition just yet. And don’t be overconfident about anyone’s–or any political party’s– chances. This is probably the most variegated, endlessly changing patterning of political variables in Nigeria’s recent political history.” My advice to the APC interim committee is that it must not see itself as a siamese twin of the cabal allegedly working from the Villa, even though their goals may be the same because while the shadowy Villa cabal has absolutely nothing to lose, any disrespect to non- Northern members of APC could very well be the party’s death knell. The long delayed party convention should hold now. Enough of the joke.