AIICO Insurance Plc is set to explore opportunities across East and West Africa and maximise gains from a new concept known as embedded Insurance, its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Babatunde Fajemirokun, has said. Fajemirokun, who spoke with reporters in Lagos, said with N62 billion gross written premium in 2020, which was the highest in the  sector, AIICO is not resting. He said they had revised their vision and that the company’s board had given the management the approval to look beyond Nigeria insurance space and explore opportunities across Sub-Saharan Africa. He said: “Despite that Nigeria has one of the lowest penetration rate in Africa, we still believe that in terms of our business models to improve the level of diversification, is important to look outside. “We still very much at preliminary stages, but we are reviewing other markets to see the opportunities for us to expand into those markets but we have not concluded yet.   LCCI to governments: patronise insurers     Insurance industry achieves minimal result in 2021     Linkage Assurance partners LAMATA on road maintenance   - Advertisement - “Our view is that when we look at some of these other digital places that have come into Nigeria in digital banking at various other segments, one of the reasons why they are getting the valuations that they are getting is because is it an African thing. Africa is diversifying the business sufficiently to be able to command a premium on the value of the shares. “If you look at markets such as Kenya and other markets in east Africa there is a lot of innovation going on in those markets. Kenya, for instance, has one of biggest in terms of digital instruments. It will be good to explore some of those types of opportunities in those markets,” he posited. He said the firm is looking at East Africa, West Africa not really the North, adding that there are interesting opportunities that the firm is looking to explore within those markets. Divisional Head, Shared Services, AIICO Insurance, Olusanjo Shodimu, said the firm is also enlarging it frontiers in the retail market space through embedded underwriting. “We have adopted two approaches to managing micro insurance. What we are doing is seeking partnership by identifying people operating within the space of business we want to do. There is a new concept called embedded insurance, that is partnering people with large customer base and putting insurance on their platforms,” he said.