The police in Edo State have rescued two male kidnap victims in Edo State. They are Akintoye Babatunde and Kabiru Abdullahi. Edo police command, through its spokesman, Bello Kontongs, a Superintendent of Police (SP), yesterday disclosed that operatives of the command, acting on credible information that 10 armed men suspected to be kidnappers, emerged from the forest in Ewohimi along Ubiaja Road in Edo Central Senatorial District and opened fire on a Toyota Sienna vehicle with registration number AKD 499 YE and carried five passengers en route to Asaba from Abuja. The car driven by Akintoye Babatunde belongs to a private company. Kontongs said: “On receipt of the information, the Divisional Police Officer, (DPO) Ewohimi, CSP Gideon Azuonwu, immediately mobilised his team of police operatives/Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) to the scene and recovered the vehicle to the station. “The team of operatives thereafter embarked on forest combing, in the process, they rescued the duo of Babatunde and Abdullahi unhurt. Bush combing is still on, in an effort to rescue the other victims and arrest the fleeing hoodlums.” The police spokesman also stated that Edo Commissioner of Police, Phillip Ogbadu, thanked the police operatives for their prompt response that led to the rescue of the two victims. - Advertisement - Kontongs noted that Ogbadu charged the personnel of the Edo police command to follow the criminals to their hideouts ensure they rescued the remaining victims and arrest the criminals while assuring of his commitment to a crime-free state.   Hanifa: Minister praises Kano’s effort     ‘Nobody can destroy Tinubu’     Delta police nab six kidnap, robbery suspects   In another development, the Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Edo State Henry Benamaisia, has revealed that 149 people died in two 235 road accidents that occurred in the Southsouth state last year. He disclosed this yesterday in Benin-City during an interactive session with reporters. Benamaisia said: “I am confirming that 1,434 passengers were involved in the 235 crashes in Edo State. Out of this number, 149 people died, while 521 people were injured. “There is a decrease of 13.9 per cent in the number of people killed last year, as against the year 2020 in which 176 people died. Also, 432 vehicles were involved in the accidents that occurred across Edo State last year. “The road accidents that occurred last year could be attributed to overspeeding, route violation, dangerous driving, drunk driving and failure to obey road signs, among other traffic violations.” The sector commander advised motorists and other road users to always obey traffic rules in order to stay alive. He also assured the public that the FRSC would not tolerate indiscipline on Edo’s roads this year. We are targeting the reduction of road crashes to the barest.