Can the Eagles defence line hold hot striker Mohamed Salah as Nigeria faces Egypt in an Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) Group D game today? Set for the 30,000-capacity Stade Roumdé Adjia Stadium in the northern Cameroonian town of Garoua, the match promises to be a fascinating encounter, given the pedigree of both sides in continental football. Egypt remains the most successful team with seven titles under their belt as compared to Nigeria’s three titles following successes at the 1980, 1994 and 2013 editions. Both teams are familiar foes at the AFCON, with the Pharaohs hammering the Eagles 6-3 in Nigeria’s first-ever appearance at the competition (in Ghana in 1963). The Pharaohs came from behind to tame the Eagles 3-1 in the city of Benguela (Angola) in 2010. In all other confrontations at AFCON, the Eagles have had the upper hand. Yet, Super Eagles caretaker coach Austin Eguavoen said there would be nothing cagey about the game in the sunny atmosphere of Stade Roumdé Adjia. - Advertisement - ”I look forward to an interesting game between two ambitious teams,” the 1994 AFCON winner said ahead of today’s tricky encounter. “As I said a couple of weeks ago, we will take it one match at a time. For now, we see the clash with Egypt and all our plan is how to earn the three points.   Tinubu: my presidential ambition a lifelong dream     How PDP can produce acceptable presidential candidate, by…     Troops foil attack, kill five terrorists in Kaduna   “The Egyptians are a strong team and will come with a lot of confidence and steam, but we will also be going to the field with a lot of confidence and steam. It is going to be an interesting evening,” he added. The Nigerian side is without top marksman Victor Osimhen and 2019 AFCON top scorer Odion Ighalo, who was held back by his Saudi Arabia club. However, the absence of the stars create opportunities for a number of young guns to make hay at Africa’s grand house-party. Former U17 star Taiwo Awoniyi is expected to lead the line and reproduce some of his potency from which German Bundesliga club Union Berlin is benefitting, with Leicester City’s Kelechi Iheanacho and Czech Republic -based Peter Olayinka also on the line. Skipper Ahmed Musa and Samuel Chukwueze hit target in the training match with Cameroonian top club, Cotonsport  Garoua on Friday, and there are also Greece-based Henry Onyekuru and former Olympics star Sadiq Umar as possibilities in the frontline. Wilfred Ndidi will still marshal the midfield and former U17 World Cup-winning captain Kelechi Nwakali is expected to step up to the plate and show muscle in the playmaker’s role. Italy-based right back Tyrone Ebuehi will probably start while Chidozie Awaziem and Kenneth Omeruo hold sway in central, and Portugal –based Zaidu Sanusi will contend with the left back role with the versatile Olaoluwa Aina. Egypt depends heavily on Liverpool ace Salah, recently shortlisted for the FIFA Best Player award. Victory in today’s encounter will be confidence boost for the Super Eagles ahead of other Group D ties against Sudan (January 15) and Guinea Bissau (January 19).