States are to get N61.2 billion survival pill soon, the Federal Government said yesterday through the Minister of State for Industry, Trade and Investment, Ambassador Mariam Katagum. Each of the 36 states will access a minimum of N1.7 billion in the various schemes being implemented with the N75 billion Survival Fund. The minister dropped the hint in her presentation during a virtual meeting of the Committee on the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP), chaired by Vice President Professor Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Ambassador Katagum, who was one of the ministers and heads of federal department and agencies who presented reports at the meeting, also explained that Lagos, Abia and Kano States had already crossed the bar, with Lagos reaching over N2.5 billion and Kano over N2 billion. No state so far has received anything less than N1b. - Advertisement - Details of what transpired at the meeting were contained in a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande. The statement reads: “In the presentation on the Survival Fund made by the In the presentation on the Survival Fund made by the Industry, Trade and Investment Minister of State, Ambassador Mariam Katagum, she disclosed that while all States of the Federation have received varying levels of the N75 billion Survival Fund with its different schemes, eventually each State would soon receive a minimum of N1.7 billion cumulative from all the schemes.” The statement also said that no fewer than 2.1 million jobs have been either created or saved by through the implementation of the ESP instituted by the Muhammadu Buhari administration to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. President Buhari had in June 2020 mandated Prof Osinbajo, in his capacity as chair of the Economic Sustainability Committee, to coordinate the implementation of the ESP. Highlights of the presentations by MDAs include the approval of N10 billion by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) to fund the deployment and local assembly of 200,000 (off-grid) Solar Homes Systems under the “Solar Power Naija” partnership between both the NSIA and Rural Electrification Agency (REA). In his presentation, the Minister of State, Budget & National Planning, Clem Agba, disclosed that while about 1.3 million jobs were retained through the MSME and payroll support, 774,000 jobs were created from the Special Public Works Programme and 26,021 jobs from roads construction /rehabilitation. The committee heard that over 1.1 million Nigerians have benefitted from the different schemes under the ESP MSME Survival Fund.   Insecurity pushing up costs of farm produce, say agric…     Nigeria faces testy tie against Egypt in AFCON     Tinubu: my presidential ambition a lifelong dream   A breakdown showed there are 459,334 beneficiaries under the Payroll Support Scheme; 307,687 beneficiaries from the Artisan & Transport Scheme. Similarly, 82,491 Nigerians have so far benefited from the General MSME Grants Scheme and another 17,468 from the Guaranteed Off-takers’ Scheme. Some 250,000 business names were registered free under the Survival Fund’s CAC Formalisation Support Scheme. Under the Solar Power Naija programme, the Managing Director/CEO of Rural Electrification Agency (REA), Ahmad Salihijo, briefed the Committee that another 60,000 SHS would be delivered in the first quarter of this year under the NDPHC-A-solar partnership, with at least 10,000 units to be assembled locally. This is besides the 200,000 solar connections to be funded by NSIA. The ESP Solar Naija programme is designed to provide electricity access to 5 million households, and will serve about 25 million Nigerians in rural areas and under-served urban communities nationwide. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, said that the Rapid Response Register (RRR) component under the ESP has since commenced. She said that 374,759 beneficiaries have been paid, adding that additional 391,185 others have been cleared for payment. The RRR is designed as an intervention to cushion the economic shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic on urban poor Nigerians currently not benefitting from the Cash Transfer Programme. Regarding the progress of the Export Expansion Facility Programme (EEFP) component of the ESP, 281 companies have benefitted from the COVID-grant relief, while 1,105 companies are beneficiaries under the Export Development Fund (EDF), among other milestones. The EDF, as a statutory provision of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), is being activated for the first time under the ESP. Also as part of the ESP, 100 MSMEs exporters have been listed on Amazon, the world’s largest e-commerce platform. The NEPC, under the ESP, also trained 4500 farmers & exporters on food safety and international standards, while 700 of them have now received international certification which only less than 50 had in Nigeria before now. Besides, eight new Domestic Export Warehouses are being built in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Kaduna and Abuja to ease the supply chain constraints for exporters.