Nigerian stockbrokers have called on the United Nations (UN) to lead concerted discussions with the World Bank and other high-income countries to consider writing off sovereign debts of emerging and developing countries (EMDE) like Nigeria as a way to achieving sustainable solution to their worsened debt crises. In a review and preview titled “The Nigerian Economic Review 2021 and Outlook for 2022”, Chairman, Research and Technical Committee of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Akeem Oyewale, who presented the report on behalf of the institute, said debt write-off , access to vaccines, political stability and key economic reforms are long-term sustainable solutions to lifting up emerging and developing countries, which poor economic conditions have been worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the institute, creditor nations and multilateral agencies need to take a more sympathetic look at the debt problems of the emerging and developing economies because while debt restructuring was welcome, many of these debts will have to be outrightly repudiated to give effective succour to the debtors. “We appeal to the United Nations, World Bank and the various developed and high-income countries of the world to give a more benevolent consideration to countries of the emerging and developing economy (EMDE)  bloc, including Nigeria, and grant them greater access to COVID -19 vaccines and palliatives. They should also consider writing off a significant portion of the countries’ sovereign debts as a sustainable solution to their worsened debt issues arising from COVID-19,” Oyewale said. According to the institute, while inequality, unevenness and imbalance have been ever-present themes in global economic discourse throughout history, those issues became more obvious than ever in 2021. - Advertisement - “It was the consensus of economic analysts, going into 2021, that reactions to the COVID-10 pandemic, especially with regard to application of vaccines, would define the shape of the various sovereign economies during the year. That indeed was the case. “While the developed countries started vaccinating their citizens in December 2020, the AstraZeneca / Oxford vaccine that was shipped to Nigeria was administered to its first beneficiary in March 2021; a time gap of over three months. “Consequently, while 75 per cent of the population of high-income countries have so far been vaccinated against COVID-19, only seven per cent of the low income countries’ have,” Oyewale said. According to the World Bank, extreme poverty rose in 2020 for the first time in 20 years, with about 100 million people now living on less than $1.90 a day. Following the unevenness in vaccine distribution, there has been a noticeable gap in economic recovery between high income countries and the low-and-middle income ones. The World Bank has estimated that the global economy closed 2021 with the strongest post-recession pace in 80 years, an expansion of 5.6 per cent. However, within that overall cheerful scenario, the low income countries experienced a far less aggregate growth rate of 2.9 per cent which was their slowest in 20 years, excluding the COVID-19 influenced 2020. According to the institute, the huge disparity between the two categories of economies was attributed in significant measure to the slow pace of vaccination in the low income bloc.   Nigerian Breweries allots 78.9m shares     UK’s leading trade training body expands into Africa     Champion Breweries: Minority shareholders protest Heineken’s…   The report further noted that while the high income countries started to recoup their income losses of 2020, the low income countries continued to lose income in 2021 because most have not yet addressed the economic fundamentals. Besides, international trade has been significantly disrupted to the advantage of the developed countries but the detriment of the poorer ones which depend substantially on trade to sustain their economies. Low and middle income countries had made significant progress in growing their share of global exports in the two decades prior to COVID. “As would be expected, the delayed recovery and disruption in trade have exacerbated the debt situation for the poorer countries. So, while there are positive signs of recovery in Europe and North America, the poorer countries in Africa and Latin America will have to contend with shrinking national income, debt overdose, and social crisis caused by long closure of schools and unemployment,” the report stated. In a comprehensive report, Oyewale identified the key drivers of the Nigerian  capital market in 2021 and the factors that will shape the economy this year with recommendations on how to put the economy on sound footing. According to him, factors that will shape the economy this year include preparation for 2023 general election, government’s management of Omicron and COVID 19 effects, implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) and National Development Plan, 2021- 2025 and financing of 2022 budget. He said the biggest risk factor for the Nigerian economy in 2022 is the electioneering process leading up to the 2023 general elections as the financial markets may be at the receiving end of investors’ ‘wait and see’ attitude. “The Federal Government, the Independent National Electoral Commission and the various political parties should act with spirit of fairness and tolerance; eschewing any act that may lead to violence in the run up to the 2023 general elections. The philosophy of building a private sector-led economy as enshrined in the National Development Plan should be strictly adhered to,” Oyewale said. He advised that the commercialisation of the NNPC should be followed up with the public listing of its shares in the stock market, thus giving the average Nigerian citizen the opportunity of being a part-owner of one of the country’s commanding heights. “In order to sustain the upbeat tempo of activity in the capital market, the CBN and banks in the country should take a more liberal position in granting trading facilities to securities dealing firms in the country. “Further on market liquidity, pension Funds and other institutional investors in the country should significantly increase their investment in the equity market to create the much needed stability and galvanise further investment. “Finally we call on the National Assembly to expedite passage of critical capital market Bills currently before them, to enhance market development and bring our market to par with the developed world,” Oyewale said. He noted that events such as the demutualisation of the defunct Nigerian Stock Exchange to NGX Group and its listing on the market, 575 million ordinary shares offer for sale of MTN Communications Nigeria and regulatory action on FBN Holding were major catalysts for the market in 2021.