Despite increased government attention, the pace of the sector’s growth has been considerably slow. Nigerians are expecting a thriving agricultural sector capable of addressing poverty, food insecurity and creating livelihood opportunities. DANIEL ESSIET reports. THE economy did not grow remarkably in the outgone year, influenced by unstable exchange rate and high inflation. This is despite improved tax collection and increased revenues. Even with oil revenues picking up, the economy experienced a crushing contraction following the coronavirus  outbreak. While the agricultural and food sector holds the potential to become the driving force behind economic development, its performance is expected to be boosted by highly-productive and technologically advanced agribusinesses. Stakeholders expect the  government to address and overcome several challenges in the sector, including low agricultural productivity, susceptibility to weather shocks, poor management of land, water, and soils, and high losses. The sector was hurt by several shocks such as sporadic flooding, Boko Haram insurgency, and conflicts between herdsmen and local farmers. - Advertisement - According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), food inflation has been on the rise, attributed to insecurity. Currently,  smallholder farmers  are scared of going to their farms due to kidnappings and killings. Analysts expect the government to tackle the challenges that bedeviled the sector last year in 2022. For them, except there is a response to banditry in the North, food security will be negatively impacted. Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones (SAPZs) The first phase of Special Agro-Industrial Processing Zones (SAPZs) will be implemented in seven states  — Cross River, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Kwara, Ogun, and Oyo) and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) this year. It will support inclusive and sustainable agro-industrial development. Dairy  One area which needs attention is the dairy market with a potential of $6.5 billion. In  February 2020, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) launched a programme to conserve foreign exchange and encourage local production of milk and dairy products. It is hoped that the programme will enhance the production of milk and milk derivatives.   Transforming cattle farming through ranching     A taste of Lagos     Insecurity triggers food scarcity, poverty, displacement   It remains to be seen FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria, Chi Limited, TG Arla Dairy Products Limited, Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Nestle Nigeria Plc, and Integrated Dairies Limited exempted and approved by CBN, following  the  policy, to import milk and dairy products have keyed into the Federal Government’s backward integration programme as the solution to increase dairy productivity. Fisheries The International Year of Artisanal Fisheries and Aquaculture declared by the UN for 2022 is going to provide Nigeria and the rest of the world an opportunity to respond to the needs and problems faced by artisanal fishing, which constitutes a crucial source of employment, livelihood, food and nutrition for millions of families and coastal communities. Better protection against climate risks Given the effects of climate change there is unusually dry weather in the North and frigid overnight temperatures. Hence, farmers are looking for agricultural insurance with affordable premiums to reduce the shocks they experienced last year. Crop breeding  The industry expects organisations such as the International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) and other research institutes to support the government and farmers in the bid to  prioritise crops and increase yields through the introduction of high-yielding varieties, and increasing the genetic potential of various varieties in the next few years. Experts want more  focus on growing rice and other staples this year. Investment flow Stakeholders are looking forward to increased investments across the agro-business value chain, if the sector’s potential is to be fully realised. Nigeria has strong potential for agricultural growth.  So far, products such as grains, fruits, livestock, fisheries and forestry are doing well due to fertile soils. The expectations are that the sector will be given enough incentives to export more products; the government needs to open the sector to inputs and capital goods for production to guarantee competitiveness and specialisation. Digital agriculture  Over the past five years, funding in agritech startups has been rising. Since the food sector holds the potential to grow the economy, innovations are needed that can kick-start production and productivity. Like other sectors, more startups will emerge in the sector to play a major role in transforming the industry to better meet needs. Afrimash Company Limited, an online platform that connects farmers to quality inputs from verified suppliers across various value chains, will expand its operations this year.