Posters of Mallam Saliu Mustapha, who is contesting for the post of National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), have surfaced in some parts of Lagos. Barring any last-minute development, the APC is slated to hold its national convention in February for the election of new members of the National Working Committee (NWC). Mustapha is a former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). The gladiators jostling for the party’s highest office include Sunny Moniedafe, Senator George Akume, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, former Minister of Aviation, Mallam Isa Yuguda; former governors of Zamfara and Borno states, Abdulaziz Yari and Ali Modu Sherrif. Others are Senator Sani Mohammed Musa, Mallam Saliu Mustapha and young Minna-based politician and rights activist, Mohammadu Saidu Estu. - Advertisement - Mustapha, who is from Kwara State, is known to be one of Buhari’s strong allies since the days of CPC. The posters were seen by our correspondent around Ikeja, Oshodi, Maryland areas of Lagos. ‘Why I want to be the next APC Chairman’ Mustapha said his objective is to lead the party to a new era of sustained victories, progressive policies, dignified politics and national development. Declaring his intention to run for the office of the APC National Chairman, he said the party needed to consolidate its message and find the best way to build on the success stories of this administration, which are numerous inspite of the challenges. He said: “I have the privilege of being one of the senior figures in the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) who pull through the merger with the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) to form the party that ended Peoples Democratic Party’s sixteen year long hold on power at the centre.   Insecurity in Imo politically-motivated -Eze Imo     National Assembly and challenges of lawmaking in 2021     Gang-up against Tinubu will fail, says lawmaker   “So, how were we able to achieve this momentous feat? “We focused on politics with a heart, with the people in mind, from the rural areas to the metropolis, from the grassroots to the urban centres. “We embodied the hopes of a better country and better politics in 2015 with the Change mandate, and not surprising the people showed their trust and belief by electing us for a second term in office in 2019. “We also brought more states under the APC banner as our message of progressive change caught the imagination and hopes of the people! “I must commend the valiant efforts of our party leadership and all previous executives for laying a proper foundation that could easily be built on but first we must put our house in order. “The core of my message today is that the time has come for our great party to embrace the future and optimize its mandate and potentials. We have succeeded in righting the course of the nation through the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “But what happens at the end of the eight-year tenure of President Buhari ? Where do we go from here especially as our great leader would not be on the ballot in 2023? “As one who has grown within the political system, a bridge between the past and the future, I have the distinct advantage of unbiased perspective. I have seen the issues, I have identified the winning formula. “I will fortify our wins and reduce opportunities for corrosive developments. I will lead from the front by providing firm, inclusive, proactive, disciplined, fair and transparent leadership as APC chairman. “The proposed party governance approach under my stewardship will ensure that members are recognized and acknowledged. Programmes and plans of the party will be inclusive, strategically crafted, robustly debated and judiciously implemented. “Ladies and gentlemen, even families have disagreements and there is bound to be friction but I will ensure that proper and transparent conflict resolution frameworks are in place.”