The entertainment industry has quite a number of celebrities with traditional titles and the number is only increasing. Perhaps, this is because some of them have done well in being the best ambassadors of their states or essentially in light of the fact that the position likewise helps to bring their communities to the spotlight. - Advertisement - The former Big Brother Naija housemate and winner of the 2020 season took his fans and followers on social media by surprise after sharing the news that he had bagged a title in Ogun state. The Onipokia of Ipokia, Oba Yisa Adesola Olaniyan, installed Laycon as the Akeweje of Ipokia kingdom in 2020. The actor and filmmaker had initially been appointed as the King-elect of Uba Land, Imobi Kingdom. However, he was confirmed as the king after a consultation was made with the Ifa oracle to confirm his status as the one true king. The actor bagged a traditional title Ikuku of Amumara town, Mbaise, Imo state. The actor shared the good news with his fans and followers in September 2020.   Five habits of billionaires you should emulate     A goat’s bleating made my birth easy, Bella Shmurda speaks…     I want the homeless to model my clothes – Kanye West   Popular actress Genevieve Nnaji received the title of Eze Ada 1 of Amuzu Nweafor in her home town in Mbaise, Imo State. Genevieve has starred in movies like Most Wanted, ije, last party, Ijele, mark of the beast, etc. Actor and lawyer, Kanayo O. Kanayo bagged a chieftaincy title; ‘Ihe Mbaise Ji Ka Mba’, in his hometown of Mbaise, Imo state. Tuface was honoured with the “Tafidan Kudendan of Kudendan” by the His Royal Highness Galadima of Kudendan Chiefdom. The title translates to “Ambassador of Peace”. Actress Chika Ike was given the title of Akwa Ugo 1 of Amoli Kingdom of Enugu State by the traditional ruler of Amoli kingdom for her contribution to the growth and development of Igbo culture. Chike Ike has starred in movies like paradise, mirror of beauty, to love a stranger, girl cot reloaded, etc. The Big Brother Naija season 6 winner was conferred the title of Ozopuru Ini Ego 1 of Udi Kingdom in Enugu State.