The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has denied reports that its district manager Mr Jerry Ochei and some staff of the corporation molested an intending passenger at the Mobolaji Johnson Station, Ebute-Meta, of the Lagos-Ibadan Train Service (LITS). A statement by the District’s Public Relations Officer, Dr Khadijat Aroyewun-Adekomaiya, described as “malicious, false and unfounded” the report, which she described as an attempt to misrepresent the corporation’s position. According to her, the intending passenger had insisted on flouting the rule against the wearing of nose masks, which was mandated by the Federal Government as part of the preventive protocols on COVID-19. The statement said the passenger had tried to enter the ticket hall of the station without the use of the mandatory nose mask and had refused bluntly to yield when he was advised to use the nose mask.   Niger Governor blames communities for terrorist attacks     JAMB introduces two additional subjects to UTME     Fruit seller raped to death in Ondo   She stated: “The Railway District Manager (RDM) on noticing that the said person was exchanging words with the NRC staff who manned the entrance to the ticket hall. He (RDM) walked to the door and enquired what the problem was and after listening to both sides, he advised the intending ‘passenger’ to step aside, finish consuming his “milo sachet”, since that was his reason for insisting on not using the nose mask at that moment, and thereafter use his nose mask before accessing the ticket hall. In response to this simple advice by the RDM, the intending ‘passenger’ became angry and insisted that he must access the waiting hall without wearing a nose mask. - Advertisement - “Members of NRC staff on duty and other intending passengers who were waiting to buy tickets reiterated that the use of nose masks in public places was mandated by the Federal Government to curb further spread of COVID- 19, but the intending ‘passenger’ refused all entreaties.” The statement added that there was no iota of truth in the claims that the policemen on duty resulted in assaulting the passenger, adding that claims of physical abuse by policemen on duty, “is untrue and fabricated.” The law enforcement agents were civil and professional in their interaction with him. The statement added that just as it did in the case of the intending passenger, the corporation would continue to stick by the rules and would not sell tickets to any passenger who refuses to abide by the terms and conditions regarding the use of the Lagos-Ibadan Train Service (LITS), as such is intended to protect the interest of the organization and the lives of the public. The statement also denied reports that it has started collecting the sum of N1, 000 from passengers as parking fees at the station. The statement added that passengers are constantly advised not to park their cars at the facility as the ‘Park and ride services are not yet available at any of the stations on the corridor.