Since the launch of its Firstmonie Agent Credit, First Bank of Nigeria Limited has sustained economic empowerment of its Firstmonie Agents. The bank has loaned over N100 billion to the agents. The guideline for accessing the loan requires that an agent can access up to N1 million facility from the bank, provided such customer achieves 25 per cent of daily average credit turnover. The bank has consistently reinforced its determination to increase lending to the economy, provide bridge finance to its agents for sustainable business growth and support the Central Bank of Nigeria’s financial inclusion policy implementation. COLLINS NWEZE writes One factor that extensively promotes business growth and supports advancement of economies is giving businesses easy access to credit. Banks and other financial institutions with foresight and commitment to customers’s business growth always take major steps to ensure that their customers have easy access to loans. One of such banks ensuring such business growth is First Bank of Nigeria Limited. Through a specialised window initiative known as Firstmonie Agent Credit, the bank has loaned over N100 billion to its Agents as a way of supporting their businesses and reinforcing its commitment to Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) financial inclusion policy. Financial inclusion is a state where financial services are delivered by a range of providers, mostly the private sector, to reach everyone who could use them. Specifically, it means a financial system that serves as many people as possible in a country. - Advertisement - It is a strong lever for bridging income inequality, combating poverty and preserving social harmony. It is also an individual’s ability to access and transact businesses through the financial system using technology or other methods provided by the financial institution. The CBN has promoted efforts to drive financial inclusion in Nigeria by championing the development and implementation of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy led by the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele. Firstmonie Agent Credit is a digital lending solution designed to provide bridge finance to help the bank’s agents to solve liquidity challenges resulting from depleted account balances, even when the agents have physical cash at hand. Through this scheme,  an agent can access the fund, pending cash lodgment at the bank’s nearest branch. Also, over 86,300 Firstmonie agents, spread across 772 local government areas in Nigeria can access up to N1 million loan facilities, as First Bank of Nigeria sustains the initiative created to promote the business activities of its foremost agent banking platform – Firstmonie agents. A report on the Firstmonie Agent Credit with its location in every neighbourhood, Firstmonie Agents have been integral to filling the financial exclusion gap, providing convenient banking services that are easily accessible, thereby saving time and travel costs for individuals in the suburbs and remote environments that have no access to financial services, said First Bank in a statement. The bank’s financial inclusion activities, the statement noted, is in line with the mandate of the CBN plan to ensure the availability of affordable financial products and services to all individuals and groups of people in the country; irrespective of location, literacy levels, familiarity with technology and accessibility to modern infrastructural facilities. The Firstmonie Agent channel is among the bank’s many initiatives to expand financial access in the country. “The roles played by our Firstmonie Agents in promoting businesses across the nooks and crannies of the country cannot be over-emphasised as they have continued to set the pace in extending financial inclusion to communities with little or no access to financial services,” Group Executive, e-Business & Retail Products, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Chuma Ezirim said. “With our Firstmonie Agents in every neighbourhood, several communities have witnessed a surge in business and financial activities, which is contributory to national growth and development. We commend our Agents and are delighted to support them with credit facilities, which they can access 24 hours a day in less than two minutes,” he said while appreciating the work done by the agents. Speaking at the Firstmonie Agent Banking National Awards in Lagos, FirstBank’s Chief Executive Officer, Adesola Adeduntan explained that through Firstmonie, the bank has remained at the forefront of driving nation-wide inclusion, given our belief that access to financial services is part of lifting people out of poverty and fostering collective national economic development. Adeduntan said: “The key strength of the bank’s services is to look at the gaps in the society and develop products and services that address the gap. As an integral part of our strategy, we believe in working with the CBN to improve financial inclusion index of the country. We would, at FirstBank, assist Nigeria to address poverty and hunger, thereby promoting security of life and property. Because when people are gainfully employed, the implication is that they will think less of crime.” As at December 9, 2021 , the number of Firstmonie Agents stood at 150,023, the number of on-boarded Firstmonie Agents, stood at 63,684. The spread of Firstmonie Agents across the country shows they are present in 772 out of the 774 local government areas in Nigeria. The transaction volume and value by the agents since inception stood at 817.7 million worth N17.51 trillion while transaction volume and value by the agents, stood at  345 million and N8 trillion.   Enhancing financial inclusion FirstBank has been at the forefront of promoting financial inclusion in the country, impacting Nigerians, regardless of their locations nationwide. The bank currently has over 120,000 Firstmonie Agents spread across 772 Local Government Areas in Nigeria. The Agent Credit scheme was created by the banking giant to promote and expand the business activities of its foremost agent banking platform – Firstmonie Agents – whilst putting them at an advantage to positively impact their immediate environment. Firstmonie Agents have been integral to bridging the financial exclusion gap, providing convenient banking services that are easily accessible, thereby saving time and travel costs for individuals in the suburbs and remote environments that have no access to financial services.   CITN: states have potential to generate adequate revenue     ABCON to CBN: allow BDCs to access forex from autonomous…     Foundation gives N5m items to the less- privileged   The bank’s financial inclusion activities are in line with the mandate of the CBN to ensure the availability of affordable financial products and services to all individuals and groups of people in the country, irrespective of location, literacy levels, familiarity with technology and accessibility to modern infrastructural facilities. The Firstmonie Agent channel is amongst the bank’s many initiatives to expand financial access in the country. Group Head, Marketing & Corporate Communications, Folake Ani-Mumuney, said the bank’s  key goal is to continue to deliver financial services to the underserved and unbanked populations, employing modern technology for processing real-time transactions and in doing so, contribute to building capacities and learning new skills in information technology, cash management and relationship management for our FirstMonie agents. “We encourage our Firstmonie Agents to keep being exemplary in setting the pace to promote financial inclusion as we collectively work towards the continuous growth and development of the national economy,” she said. Ani-Mumuney, said the bank has, through the First-monie initiative, empowered communities by connecting them to the financial system. She said the bank will continue to support Firstmonie agents. According toher, customers’ expectations are changing and that it’s the bank’s duty as a customer-focused bank to ensure that customers are provided with the means to carry out banking through channels of their choice. FirstBank has also recognised the opportunities for inclusive growth and influence of financial technology not just in banking but also business operations across industries. One of the Firstmonie agents, Akintola Nurudeen said he has been with Firstmonie since inception of the scheme. He described the experience as life-changing. “I have been able to build trust of the communities around me as many workers in my area have forgotten the last time they visited any bank branch for basic banking services. I am a proud employer and as a result, my members of staff are well paid and comfortable. “Firstmonie has created an enabling opportunity for dwellers of my immediate community and neighbouring towns to carry out banking transactions with less time, money, resources and risks as people don’t have to waste time embarking on long journeys to the city, added to the dangers of being robbed on the highway,’’ he said. FirstBank has also partnered National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). The deal seeks to leverage the human traffic and commercial activities at various motor parks across the country to ease access to financial services. Also, FirstBank also  partnership with Azuri Technologies Limited, an off-grid power distribution firm to make access to off-grid power easy, especially in rural communities, as well as other institutions, that seek to provide resources to cushion the effects of economic and social shocks on low income individuals. Under this deal, FirstBank and Azuri will co-brand and co-market Azuri’s solar home television product. The pay-as-you-go customers will also pay for their solar photovoltaic (PV) system via FirstBank’s Firstmonie agents and mobile payment solution, thereby deepening financial inclusion.   Understanding Firstmonie Agent Credit According to FirstBank,  the maximum tenor for weekday loan is 24 hours, while weekend/public holiday is maximum of 72 hours or the next working day. The interest rate on the loan is 0.3 per cent flat on the principal amount while there is insurance fee of N1,000 per annum which covers death and permanent disability. Once the conditions are met, the loan will be disbursed to the borrower’s account under one minute. The prospective borrower  can apply using his/her Firstmonie App but must have been an Active Agent for a minimum of three months to qualify for the loan. However, a prospective borrower cannot access loan if his/her account balance is in debit, or such customer has existing facilities or access loan on any other stores if the first loan was not completely paid. First Bank of Nigeria Limited (FirstBank) is the premier Bank in West Africa and the leading financial inclusion services provider in Nigeria for over 127 years. With over 750 business locations and over 120,000 Banking Agents spread across 99 per cent of the 774 Local Government Areas in Nigeria, FirstBank provides a comprehensive range of retail and corporate financial services to serve its over 30 million customers. The bank has international presence through its subsidiaries, FBN Bank (UK) Limited in London and Paris, FBNBank in the Republic of Congo, Ghana, The Gambia, Guinea, Sierra-Leone and Senegal, as well as a Representative Office in Beijing. The bank has been handy at promoting digital payment in the country and has issued over 10 million cards, the first bank to achieve such a milestone in the country. FirstBank’s cashless transaction drive extends to having more than 12 million people on its USSD Quick Banking service through the nationally renowned *894# Banking code and over 4.5 million people on FirstMobile platform. Overall, the Firstmonie service provides financial/banking solutions to rural and semi-urban locations across the country. Such solutions include account opening, cash deposit, cash withdrawals, airtime purchase, and bill payments. Through this channel, the bank is committed to providing convenient services that engender and provides ease of access to banking products, thereby saving time and travel costs for users of the network.