President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday vowed to hunt down and eliminate terrorists, including those who committed mass killings in Zamfara State during the week. He said the ongoing offensive against criminals will get more intense. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President, who was outraged by the mindless massacre, described the Zamfara killings as an act of desperation by a routed band of criminals currently under heavy military attack. The President assured Nigerians, especially those living in communities that have recently suffered terrorist attacks, that bandits will soon be history. Buhari said: “The latest attack on innocent people by the bandits is an act of desperation by mass murderers, now under relentless pressure from our military forces who are well equipped to effectively confront these enemies of humanity. - Advertisement -   Cross River communities where girls are used as collateral,…     Two die in Edo accident, drink-laden bus set ablaze     How my friend and I celebrated Christmas in kidnappers’ den…   “In keeping with my commitment to tackle the monster of terrorism head on, let me reassure these besieged communities and other Nigerians that this government will not abandon them to their fate because we are more than ever determined to get rid of these outlaws. “These criminals will be history because we are not going to relent in our current military operations to get rid of these thugs who have been terrorising innocent people. “We are fiercely determined to smoke out and destroy these outlaws who have no regard for the sanctity of life.” The President sympathised with the survivors and families of the victims. “The Army and the Air Force are working together to get rid of these callous criminals as they acquire more equipment to track down and eliminate criminal gangs that are subjecting innocent people to the reign of terror, including illegal imposition of taxes on the communities under siege,” the statement added. Some reports said at least 200 people were murdered and villages razed during the attacks.