Ahead of the governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun States, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, examines the issues and forces that will determine the outcome of the gubernatorial contest in the two states. The last few weeks have been intriguing in Ekiti and Osun States as the process leading to the gubernatorial elections in the two states started oficially.  Last June, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), announced dates for the off-cycle elections. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, Saturday, June 18, 2022 has been slated for Ekiti, while the Osun Statecontest will be held on Saturday, July 16, 2022. The commission also announced that it has fixed January 4 to 29, 2022 for political parties in Ekiti to conduct gubernatorial primary elections and resolve disputes that arise from them, while those in Osun have between February 16 to March 12, 2022 to do the same. Consequently, the stage is set for another round of epic battles between the dominant parties in the two states, the All Progressives Congress (APC), which is ruling in both states, and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which has vowed to take them back in 2022. There are a dozen other parties preparing to join the contest but their chances are nor rated highly.   - Advertisement - 2023 undercurrents As INEC and politicians in the two states prepare for the elections, certain undercurrents look set to determine the final outcomes. From all indications, the battle is not anyone’s to lose yet. However, each passing day reveals evidence that the final outcomes may follow some existential extrapolations. Come June 18, 2022, the electorate in Ekiti will go to the polls to elect a governor to pilot the affairs of the state for the next four years. Given the current look of things, pundits say they will either elect the candidate of the ruling APC to succeed Governor Kayode Fayemi, who is rounding off his second term in office, or opt for whoever the PDP throws into the race. In Osun, the scenario is a bit different as incumbent Governor Gboyega Oyetola of the APC, is running on his record in the last almost four years. “With or without Oyetola, the guber race in Osun is between the APC and the PDP. It will be fierce, almost a repeat of the 2018 election that saw APC running away with victory after a second ballot,” an analyst predicted. For the two rival political parties, the elections are not just about the governorship seats at stake. There is the 2023 general election to consider as politicians in the Southwest prepare for the guber polls in the two states and this will impact greatly on the exercise. Currently, the APC, with governors in five out of the six states in the zone is favoured. To remain in pole position ahead of the 2023 elections, the party must retain the two states. But the opposition PDP is desirous of taking over in the zone and winning the two states will put it in an advantageous position as 2023 beckons. This scenario explains why it is a fight to finish in both states for APC and PDP. Also, the widely speculated presidential ambition of Fayemi is causing ripples within the ranks and files of the APC in the state. The party under the leadership of Paul Omotosho recently endorsed the governor for the presidential race, but many chieftains of the party across the state dismissed the endorsement, insisting that the APC chairman spoke for only himself. Similarly, PDP leaders in the state are currently divided in their support for different presidential aspirants and interest groups ahead of the 2023 election. It is also being alleged that the desire of a prominent leader of the party in the state to seek the Vice Presidential slot on the party’s ticket is at the root of the current crisis within the party.   Internal wranglings Not surprisingly, the two leading political parties are battling internal upheavals in both states where elections are slated to hold next year. And analysts are strongly of the opinions that the ability and speed with which the APC and the PDP resolve the crises currently tearing their ranks apart in Ekiti and Osun ahead of the gubernatorial elections, will determine who carries the day in both states. In Ekiti, both the APC and the PDP are at present plagued by factions and internal wrangling in a bid to take over the soul of the two parties. In the ruling party, an aggrieved group which feel its members are being marginalised, continue to accuse Fayemi of hijacking the party ahead of the governorship election. Many pundits claim the feud is a lingering fall-out of the governorship primaries in 2018. The situation is such that the APC is divided down the line into groups loyal, one to the governor and the other to some party leaders led by former minister Dayo Adeyeye. The anti-Fayemi group has, apart from holding parallel ward and local government congresses, challenged the congresses that produced the current party executive committees at all levels. The situation led to the suspension of some APC bigwigs in the state, among them Political Adviser to the President, Babafemi Ojudu, and counter suspension of Fayemi and the APC state executive headed by Paul Omotoso. Though the national leadership of the party waded into the matter, the crisis has refused to go away. With the election fast approaching and the groups refusing to sheath their swords, fears abound that parallel primary elections may be held, leading to legal issues that may affect the chances of the ruling party. “What we are seeing today in Ekiti APC portrays a very bad omen for our party, but we will salvage the situation so that we can rescue whatever that remains for the benefit of all of us. There are divisions everywhere. I have decided not to contest this election, so that I can assume a leadership position mediating among aspirants,” Ojudu told The Nation. For the PDP, the fierce rivalry between former governor Ayodele Fayose and his erstwhile deputy, Senator Biodun Olujimi, has split the party in two. This led to the conduct of parallel congresses at the ward, council and state levels, and the emergence of parallel executive committees at all levels with loyalty to the two camps. In spite of moves by the national leadership to douse the tension by promptly recognizing the executive of the faction loyal to Fayose as authentic, Olujimi’s supporters are still carrying on as a parallel group and vowing to clinch the PDP gubernatorial ticket. Observers of the politics of the state fear that with the exit of Prince Uche Secondus as national chairman, the Ekiti PDP primary election may end up in litigation as the Fayose faction will resist any attempt to outwit it. Already, the Olujimi faction has approached a Federal High Court to seek among others, an interim order of the court restraining the national party from recognising the list from the ‘purported’ congresses of the Fayose faction. In spite of the recognition of the Fayose group’s congresses during the pendency of the suit, the case is now at the Appeal Court. This is fuelling fears that the two groups may, by their actions or inaction, cost the PDP victory in the election. Former governor and chieftain of the PDP, Chief Segun Oni, recently called on members and leaders to resolve all grievances for the party to stand a chance of defeating the APC at the election. The situation in Osun state is similar for the two leading political parties. But while there is no peace in Osun APC at the moment, analysts say Governor Oyetola looks good to clinch the ticket of his party on Saturday, January 22. “This is because there appear to be no visible challengers within the party. His opponents appear comfortable with ensuring he loses the general election,” Fola Jinadu of Osun Coalition for Democracy (OCFD), said on Thursday. However, the tussle between the camp of the former governor and Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola and that of the governor is a source of concern for party members across the state. The Osun Progressives (TOP), a group of Aregbesola’s loyalists, has vowed to stop Oyetola’s reelection at all cost. Efforts by party leaders to stem the crisis have failed woefully with the gladiators expanding the coast of the political war by the day. Both factions elected new party executives at different locations in the state during the APC nationwide congresses. Gboyega Famodun was re-elected as the state chairman of the party as the Ilerioluwa Group held its congress at the Osogbo City Stadium, while Alao Olabisi was elected as the secretary. The Osun Progressives, on the other hand, held its parallel congress at the Onward area of Osogbo. Rasaq Salinsile was elected as the chairman of the faction with Adelani Baderinwa as secretary. Determined to make things difficult for Oyetola, loyalists of Aregbesola dragged the leadership of the party to the Federal High Court sitting in Osogbo. The faction claimed it sought court intervention owing to the manner the congresses in the state were held. They challenged the legality of the congress presided over by the committee.   2023: Unveiling contenders and pretenders for…     2022: Can APC survive predictions of its imminent demise?     2022: PDP battles uncertain future   Consequently, there are fears that litigation may mar the chances of the ruling party. But the camp of the governor says there is little or nothing to fear. Remi Omowaiye, Commissioner for Works and close ally of the governor, assured that in spite of the lingering crisis, the party will win in 2022. “We are a family and at the appropriate time, we will all put the interest of the party over and above all other interests and grievances so as to win the election,” he said. Last month, chairman of the PDP in Osun State, Sunday Bisi, stated that the party was united ahead of the 2020 poll. “We had a successful convention in Abuja and all of us were together. We are now one big united family in PDP in Osun. There is no rift in our party now, all those things have been settled and they are gone,” he said. But feelers suggest that a fresh crisis is brewing and PDP may soon return to its troubled days. With former governorship candidate, Senator Ademola Adeleke, leading five other aspirants who are vying for the governorship ticket, allegations and counter allegations are flying around again. Others who have collected expression of interest and nomination forms are Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, Sanya Omirin, Prince Dotun Babayemi, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade and Dele Adeleke, Senator Adeleke’s nephew. Earlier this week, the party had, as part of its efforts to reposition itself ahead of the 2022 contest, named Wale Ojo as Acting Chairman. The appointment was based on the ratification of a resolution by some PDP stakeholders in the state. It was intended to fill the vacuum created by the exit of Soji Adagunodo, who recently assumed the office of the Vice-Chairman, Southwest Zone. Ojo, a former senator representing Osun East Senatorial district, reportedly belongs to the Adagunodo faction. His appointment was reportedly validated by all the local government areas in the state, as well as the verdict of an Osun State High Court, which recognised and affirmed the actions of the outgoing chairman. But signs that the party is not about to know peace soon emerged when another faction announced the suspension of Ojo and some others on Thursday. Expectedly, the development has thrown the party into a fresh crisis that is capable of truncating its plan to oust the ruling party from Government House. The Nation gathered that the current crisis within the party has to do with an alleged agreement by party leaders to field Senator Adeleke as consensus candidate. While some party leaders are insisting on the agreement, others are calling for a primary election to determine the candidate of the party. The looming crisis is worsened by the growing numbers of aspirants on the platform of the party. Zoning as factor In both states, especially in Ekiti, the issue of zoning has remained on the front burner ahead of the gubernatorial elections. Last week, a member of the House of Representatives and governorship aspirant, Hon. Femi Bamisile, warned it would be a dangerous mistake for the APC to ignore the ‘deafening’ calls by members from the south senatorial district to zone the ticket to the area. He is not alone in the call for zoning. Across party divides, the agitation has been rife. Speaking on the agitations, National Treasurer of the PDP, Wale Aribisala, said: “Everybody is free to agitate for his senatorial district. But I believe that it is the best that should win in the primaries. Ekiti is a homogeneous state, we are all Ekiti. All we need now in Ekiti is good governance. Forget whether you are from South, Central or North senatorial district – that does not matter now. What we need in Ekiti now, especially considering the present poor state of things, is the person that can do the job.” APC chieftain, Kayode Ojo, also advised agitators for zoning to drop the idea. He said at no time did politicians in the state agree on zoning governorship seat to any senatorial district in the state. “There was no time politicians from any part of the state were denied of contesting for the governorship election, but Ekiti people have been deciding who would govern them. Everybody is going to go to the polls and Ekiti people will choose who they want. We are one family in Ekiti as we speak the same dialect,” he said. In Osun, there are pockets of agitators urging the political parties to cede their tickets to Osun West. But the opposition to the agitation has been fierce too. One major group opposed to the call for zoning insists Oyetola must be allowed to enjoy a second term. Even PDP members from the governor’s senatorial district are opposed to the call for zoning and may vote against PDP unless its candidate is from their zone,” a party source said. “Interestingly, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has in the last three years proved that one must not necessarily have his own at the helms to get the government’s presence infrastructure-wise and in all spheres. What you need is a leader, who would see the entire State as his constituency, make sure that development touches every part of Osun,” Ismail Omipidan, Chief Press Secretary to Oyetola said while insisting that the agitation for zoning is not a serious threat in Osun. As plausible and sympathetic as the zoning mantra seems to be, the argument that political delineation shouldn’t be allowed to divide the states is also holding water across the state. No doubt, the consideration for and against zoning will play vital role in determining the outcome of the next guber election in the state. The endorsement card Amidst growing allegations that Fayemi has endorsed the Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebanji, from Ikogosi in Ekiti Central, as his choice for the APC ticket, while his predecessor Fayose has already openly backed Bisi Kolawole, also from the Central for the PDP ticket, tongues are wagging over the propriety of such endorsement and this may affect how the people will vote during the elections. In the same vein, the endorsement of Gboyega Oyetola by Osun APC Elders (Agba Osun) and the Famodun-led state leadership of the party are also being discussed with chieftains of TOP accusing elders and leaders of the ruling party of attempting to force the governor on the party as candidate. But the governor’s men claim the endorsements were inevitable, given Oyetola’s performance in office. His supporters say only the governor can guarantee victory for APC. But three prominent leaders of the state have vowed to work together to stop the governor’s re-election. Former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf, former Speaker of the Osun State House of Assembly, Najeem Salam and former Secretary to Osun State Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, jointly declared that APC cannot win the 2022 governorship election if it fields the incumbent. Of course, the alleged anointing of a candidate in Ekiti by Fayemi has been denied, but it was said to have rattled many officials and an uneasy calm now reigns in the government circles in the state. The alleged endorsement has heated up the polity and set some of the appointees of the governor who are eyeing his seat against each other. Chief of Staff (CoS) to the Governor, Biodun Omoleye, had to call an emergency conference where he specifically debunked the alleged anointing of the SSG or any other person. “You might be hearing around that the governor has chosen someone as his successor. This is not true. The governor has not spoken in this regards. He is focused at completing his tenure well and he will not be distracted by rumours. The governor is the leader of the party and he is the one in charge,” he was reported to have said. But many pundits insist the issue of endorsement may come back to haunt the parties and their eventual candidates after the primary elections. Direct or indirect primary? In both Ekiti and Osun, the mode of primary election used to nominate the gubernatorial candidate will impact the outcome of the polls. No doubt, the battle against the imposition of unpopular candidates will be carried into the process leading to the primary elections, especially with allegations of planned imposition already rife. With some aspirants already clamouring for direct mode of election as against consensus or indirect being preferred by others, a showdown looms when PDP and APC commence the processes to select their flag-bearers. A governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Bamidele Faparusi, has told the APC to make the state a testing ground for the conduct of credible direct primary in the country. Faparusi, who resigned barely a week ago as the Ekiti State Commissioner for Public Utilities, described direct primary as the most credible and reliable way of electing a candidate of any party and an opportunity to give power back to the ordinary Nigerians. He made the call following insinuations that the party in the state is considering consensus mode of primary election. In Osun, members of TOP are warning against any plan by the party to nominate Governor Oyetola as the consensus candidate of the party. According to a chieftain of the group, it is not true that the governor is in the race for the APC ticket unopposed. “Just wait and see what happens next. He is not unopposed. There are APC chieftains ready to slug it out with him for the ticket. We just want to warn that no other mode of primary election other than direct primary will be acceptable to us,” he said..