Ekuma Jeremiah Iziogo, the young man who came to the limelight in a viral video where he was captured giving inmates in Lagos money, has explained why he dropped out of university. Jeremiah, who was recently videoed in traffic with a crate of bottled water on his head while handing out cash to inmates in a Correctional Service vehicle along Ajah axis, Lagos State disclosed he was a law student in Ebonyi State University before he dropped out. Speaking in an interview with BBC Pidgin, the 26-year-old ‘humanitarian’ said he couldn’t continue with his tertiary education because it became difficult to pay his school fees. This, he explained, made him relocate to Lagos to continue hustling and selling virtually everything hoping to realise his dream of becoming a lawyer someday. He said: “I am Ekuma Jeremiah Iziogo. I am 26 years old. I used to be a student of Ebonyi State University, faculty of law but dropped out due to lack of money. - Advertisement - “Before coming to Lagos, I resided in Port Harcourt. There I was indifferent hustles. I sold cookies, chin-chin, charge, rat poison. “There was virtually nothing I didn’t sell. Until I was able to save up some money and bought Jamb form, wrote it, passed and gained admission into the University.   Obi Cubana meets Lagos hawker, restates scholarship offer     Toyin Abraham: I won’t allow people talk down on my…     Nigerian artistes with prominent parents   “Along the way, things became even more difficult to the point that I couldn’t pay my school fees. At that point, I had to drop out of school. “However, I vowed not to return to Port-Harcourt because some of my friends helped me with funds during my matriculation and others were already calling me a lawyer. Thus, I felt returning back will be a shameful thing. So I decided to come to Lagos instead. Continuing, he noted even though he didn’t think he would have to return back to school so soon but seeing the money currently in his account, he would have to map out realistic plans to ensure the optimal utilisation of the funds so as to avoid going back to the trenches. He added: “As I dropped out of school, I didn’t think I’ll have to return back so soon. I never had any prior plans but with the money in my account currently, I will have to sit down and think carefully so that I don’t squander all of it and end up back on the street once again. “If anyone desires to confirm if truly I dropped out of school, they can go to Ebonyi State University or they can call me and ask for my file and I will present them with the original copies of my documents. And if it turns out to be a lie, they can go ahead and arrest me.”