Popular business magnate Obi Cubana has hammered on the importance of forgiveness. The 46-year-old socialite, in his lengthy address, admitted forgiveness is an integral part of human existence especially as it concerns one’s relationship with others. He said people are bound to hurt each other but everyone must imbibe the act of forgiving the other their wrongs. This, he noted, is for the entire good of the ‘offended’ and not necessarily for the ‘offender’. The socialite also stated unforgiveness brings with it a whole lot more baggage to the lives of people than they ever bargained for. - Advertisement - He wrote: “Good morning my fellow Nigerian Youths. Today let’s talk about FORGIVENESS!! “Forgiveness is the act of pardoning an offender. A lot has been said about forgiveness & it’s a topic that cannot be exhausted on one post. Forgiveness is actually an important part of our life. “In every human relationship, forgiveness is needed because we were not born perfect. People are bound to hurt us once in a while & you are bound to hurt people as well whether knowingly or not. This is just something we can’t run away from in relationships but what makes the difference is how we react. “When someone hurts us, we want them to suffer as we did & if that doesn’t happen, we withhold forgiveness. “The cost of unforgiveness is very high. Unforgiveness they say is like drinking poison & waiting for the other person to die. It dries you up & hinders your growth. It robs you of your peace, joy & brings sickness to your body. “Unforgiveness blocks your blessing & keeps your prayers unanswered. It leads to bitterness & anger which can spread like cancer to attack every area of our lives.   Samklef blames Nollywood for rise in ritual killings     My godfather richest black man, not you, DJ Cuppy tells…     Adekunle Gold sets to release another single   “Forgiveness is not really for the other person but for you. In the Bible, Jesus said we should forgive 70 times 7. This can only take divine help but we were told to do so. “Pls note that forgiveness doesn’t exonerate the person but this is the gift you give to yourself. Don’t let Unforgiveness control you rather be in control & LET GO! “The level of hatred amongst “friends and family “ is at alarming levels these days, but always forgive, ignore and move on! “Avoid discussing your friends/family/relationship/associate with people. Remember; a listening ear is a running mouth!!! Try to resolve matters with the person involved. “Not forgiving is like carrying a heavy load/burden and it will slow you down! People have hurt their dependants, people have hurt their benefactors. But at the end of the day, what heals you is forgiveness!!! “No matter how hard it may seem, let’s learn to forgive so that we can be able to live our lives to the fullest. “Forgive someone today!!! Love and light always. #mondaywisdombyobicubana #forgiveness #Okpataozueora1.” In recent events, the billionaire mogul, in an Instagram live with popular On-Air Personality, Daddy Freeze, narrated his ordeals with the anti-drug agency. He was reportedly grilled by operatives of the agency on Thursday, January 13, 2022, for over four hours over alleged drug ties before he was granted bail and asked to return at a future date. It was reportedly alleged that suspicious payments were made into Cubana’s account by three convicted drug dealers from Malaysia, Nigeria, and India. During the Instagram live chat, the Cubana Group CEO noted he is facing challenges not as a form of witch-hunting but a growth process. He said anything related to drugs and narcotics is ‘repulsive’ and something he’ll never be a part of.