Stakeholders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have urged governors elected on the platform of the party to immediate sack the Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh. Lukman. The APC stakeholders, under the aegis of the All Progressives Congress Youth Development and Solidarity Forum (APC-YDSF), said they were ready to stage a nationwide protest if Lukman is allowed to continue as DG, PGF. They alleged that  the PGF  is an agent of a few selfish interests in the party and the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Lukman denied the allegations, saying that he is loyal to the platform Their call came on the heels of an open letter by the DG and sent to party leaders, which were reportedly promoted in the media. - Advertisement - To them, the move could destabilise APC. They spoke as the party said it was poised to deal with erring party members found to be working against its interest.   Fed Govt employs two physically-challenged ex-corps members     ‘Driving after abusing substance can land you in…     24,000 terrorists surrender to troops in eight months   The group, in a statement by its Secretary General, Tobias Ogbeh, noted that what Lukman had done was to provide reference materials for “a contrived PDP to win the 2023 general election”. APC-YDSF said: “We find it most unfortunate that the DG decided to exploit the timing of our great party’s national convention to ply his poisonous ware by pretending to make a legitimate intervention. “It is ironic that Lukman was unable to conceal the agenda he has for truncating the successes recorded by the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), which even he admitted has done a great job in stabilising the APC. “As our forum struggles to come to terms with the reality that the man who administers the umbrella body of APC governors is a mole within the party and is being used by some forces to destroy our organisation from inside, we find it pertinent to alert stakeholders to the dangers that the DG’s continued occupation of that office poses to the success of the APC in the months ahead.” Also, a group within the APC, Progressive Initiative for Change and Development, urged the leadership of the party to ensure that all crises in the party are resolved before the party holds its national convention. The group’s National Coordinator, Chief Donatus Okereke, told reporters in Abuja that the party was not ready for a national convention with the crises engulfing some state chapters. He urged the national leaders of the party to ensure “proper and thorough reconciliation” before any national convention is staged.