Unusual crowd of All Progressives Congress (APC) members of Kwara north extraction have converged on Bode-Saadu, Moro local government area of the state to call on Governor AbdulRaman Abdulrazaq to contest the 2023 governorship elections in the state. Kwara North Senatorial district has five local government areas. The councils are Moro, Edu, Patigi, Kaiama and Baruten. The pack of the politicians was led by Kwara House of Assembly Speaker Yakubu Danladi Salihu, Senator representing the district Sadiq Umar and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Prof Maman Shaaba Jubril. Other dignitaries at the event were the lawmakers representing all the local governments at the National Assembly, Commissioners, Transition Implementation Committee (TIC) Chairmen, party leaders. All the speakers at the event declared their support for the second term agenda of Governor AbdulRazaq. - Advertisement - They all lauded the giant strides of the Governor in the last three years, noting that the zone has never had it good until he assumed office. In his remarks, Salihu described the programme as a stakeholders’ engagement aimed at appreciating the efforts of the Governor in delivering the dividends of democracy to the people.   Ondo monarch’s wife trains 50 teachers     INEC warns parties against conducting primaries outside…     Good governance key to sustainable development, says Oyetola   Read Also: Abdulrazaq swears-in five new commissioners “There are agitation going on by some association of politicians who have failed Kwara North in the past to take us back more and more. “Our people are saying no, we want to move forward and by his grace we will continue to move forward,” he said The speaker urged the people to reject the opposition’s agenda of zoning their governorship ticket to the Kwara North. While appealing to the governor AbdulRazaq to declare his ambition for second term, he urged members of the party to get their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) as the potent weapon to commensurate the positive impacts of the present administration on the Senatorial district. He assured the people that the Senatorial District will continue to witness more developments in all sectors as embedded in the 2022 Budget presented to the State Assembly. Also speaking Senator Umar, said the masses are satisfied with the performance of the Governor and would leave no stone unturned in the bid to return him back to office. Party stakeholders who spoke on behalf of the local governments applauded the Governor for his people oriented programmes which they said have changed the narratives of how the district was neglected during the 16 years ruling of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state.