BUA Foods Plc plans to leverage opportunities provided by its listing on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) to grow a viable food production and exporting business that would improve national food sufficiency and help in generating much-needed foreign exchange (forex). Speaking yesterday at a facts behind the listing and closing gong ceremony held virtually at the NGX,  Chairman, BUA Group Plc, Abdul Samad Rabiu, said the BUA Foods would tap into opportunities in the capital market to grow its business. Rabiu, who was represented by Group Executive Director, BUA Foods Plc, Alhaji Kabiru Rabiu, said with the listing of the food business on the NGX, there is high hope for Nigeria in terms of building capacity for food sufficiency. He noted that the population of Nigeria is over 200 million and the national food production capacity is still not enough to meet current demands, leaving room for significant expansion for local food production companies. “However, with the listing of our food business on the NGX, there is high hope for Nigeria in terms of building capacity for food sufficiency. We are, therefore, positioning our brand to take advantage of export opportunities through our strategically located plants from which foreign exchange can be generated both for the company and economy. - Advertisement - “As a listed company, BUA Group has benefitted first-hand from NGX’s efforts to chart a path for the sustainable development of the Nigerian economy. It has, therefore, been exciting for BUA Foods to go through a similar journey and we are confident that by leveraging the collaborative approach prevalent in the market, the entire group of companies will be equipped to increasingly deliver value to its shareholders  We certainly look forward to benefitting from the new opportunities that have opened up to as on the platform of the Exchange,” Rabiu said.   How Nigerian economy may turn out in 2022, by FXTM     Sukuk issuances to hit $150b in 2022     Nigeria, global regulators roll out good practices on…   Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX) , Mr. Temi Popoola, commended BUA Foods for taking the bold step to join its subsidiary company, BUA Cement, as a publicly-listed company on the Exchange. According to him, the listing of BUA Foods on the Exchange reaffirmed the confidence that leading Nigerian corporates have in NGX as the partner of choice for raising capital and enabling sustainable growth and development. He commended the efforts made by the management of BUA Foods towards this listing and the roles played by all the professional parties to this transaction including; Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited, Rand Merchant Bank Nigeria Limited, UCML Capital Limited, APT Securities Limited and CardinalStone Securities Limited. “At NGX, this milestone transaction is in line with our strategic objectives to improve listings and enhance investors’ participation in our market. As a multi-asset Exchange, NGX is strategically positioned to be the preferred listing and investment destination connecting Nigeria, Africa and the world. “I must, therefore, encourage capital market players and enthusiasts at home and abroad to pay closer attention to the plethora of opportunities available in our market both to list securities and make the most of their investments,” Popoola said It is noteworthy that the listing of BUA Foods’ shares has added N720 billion to the market capitalisation of NGX, further boosting liquidity in the Nigerian capital market and providing opportunities for wealth creation. Following the admission of BUA Foods’ shares on the main board of the Exchange on Wednesday, January 05 2022, the company has experienced an upward trend in share price, market capitalisation along with trading.