The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has stressed the need to enthrone a paperless and cost-effective operations by adopting digitalisation. In this report, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA writes on the measures by the management and board of the agency to create a fully-digital port. Will the management and board of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) be able to digitalise the port riddled with corruption? What measures have they put in place to reduce human contact and stem the  cycle of corruption within the economic system of the port? How can the going stop many people from entering the seaports in this era of digitalisation? These are the questions begging for answere from the Acting Managing Director of NPA, Mr. Mohammed Bello-Koko, other agencies, stakeholders, operators, security, government agencies and other port users. Importers and stakeholders who spoke with The Nation said high levels of human intervention at every point of the port service value chain makes operations at the docks inefficient and susceptible to corruption. If inefficiency and corruption are to be mitigated at the ports by the NPA, “technology needs to be deployed as a tool of first choice,” said a maritime lawyer, Dr. Dipo Alaka. - Advertisement - He said NPA must put in place sufficient systemic technology to boost efficiency and counter corruption at the ports.   What Bello-Koko said Speaking at the just-concluded 41st Ports Management Association of West and Central Africa (PMAWCA) Annual Council Meeting and the 16th Roundtable Conference of Managing Directors of PMAWCA, in Douala, Cameroon, Bello-Koko said deliberate measures and investments were being put in place for the creation of a fully-digital ecosystem across seaports by the year 2025. The theme of the conference was “Digitalised Port as a model of Port Efficiency.” In his presentation on NPA’s “Digitalisation Roadmap and Current Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Implementation Status”, Bello-Koko, who was represented by the Executive Director, Engineering and Technical Services, Prof. Idris Abubakar, told delegates from other African countries that a lot of work had gone into the smart port transformation agenda of the authority, and it was aimed at the enthronement of a paperless, time-saving and cost-efficient port operations in Nigeria.   What NPA has done   The NPA chief deployed a main computer system in 1975 to improve its payroll management, billing, statistical and accounting systems.  Available records also show that from 1992, the deployment of personal computers was done at each port to ease data management, but information sharing was difficult as there was no connectivity between the ports. “In 2011, the authority reviewed its ICT strategy in line with its new role as a landlord, which followed the concession of port terminals in 2006. The primary focus of the new strategy is on enterprise computing and heavy dependence on network infrastructure, along with a centralised and shared database. “The adoption by NPA of a phased ICT deployment is geared towards achieving a fully integrated port operating system; to foster relationship with all internal and external stakeholders, to streamline NPA’s internal business processes; to make use of high-end smart technologies; as well as to record, monitor and utilise data for better decision making. “A five-year plan is now being implemented by the authority for the attainment of a fully-digitalised port system in Nigeria. So far, the authority has deployed a portfolio of systems and infrastructure towards the actualisation of its ICT objectives. These include Oracle Enterprise Business Suite for financial and human resources planning; Billing/Revenue and Invoice Management System (RIMS) to fast-track billing processing; Customer Portal/electronic Ship Entry Notice (eSEN)/Manifest Upload for shipping traffic management. “Others include Hyperion Budgeting for management of annual budget; Command, Control, Communication and Intelligence System (3Ci) for maritime domain awareness and management of vessel calls; Truck Call Up and Gate Access Control for the control and schedule of trucks to the ports as well as managing truck traffic around the port corridor. “At NPA, our goal is to leverage technology to close the gap between us and major international ports. A digitalised seaport helps in making better informed operational decisions, increased efficiency, improve collaboration among stakeholders, lower port costs and ultimately help to meet the ever increasing customer expectations in a timely manner,” Bello-Koko said.   What is digitalisation? Digital technologies help to change a business model and provide new revenue and value-producing opportunities. For ports to cope with changes in the global economy, meet growing demand and an increase in throughput of cargo, the ports and their stakeholders will have to strike new agreements on collaboration and standardisation on big data, which, in turn, will make port computerisation easier to achieve. Digitalisation, in the container handling context, is considered as a matter of the logistic chain, cloud and big data. While these are, undoubtedly, key aspects in digitalisation of container shipping, the system also transforms the processes and workers’roles within terminals, which has an impact on terminals’productivity. Digitalisation of quay operations impacts positively on processes and roles and contributes to increased productivity.   Expectations Digitalisation is expected to cut the cost of doing business, corruption and sanitise the port environment. Before now, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Technical Unit on Governance and Anti-corruption Reform (TUGAR), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and the Maritime Anti-corruption Network (MACN) had assessed maritime operations to proffer solutions to the highly corrupt business environment. This led to the introduction of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPS) and a Grievance Reporting Mechanism (GRM) to uphold the standards set by the SOPS and a web portal to administer the complaint collection and communication under the management and coordination of NSC as a one-stop shop to resolve grievances and to increase the levels of accountability of port officials in their adherence to SOPS.   Collaboration for economic growth     How security agents aid, abet rice smuggling     Making bonded terminals work better     Importers and a non-contact port An importer, Mr. Kehinde Adegbite, said the port could be contactless with the use of computers. Adegbite noted that a non-contact port was the solution to many problems in the system. He listed these as delays, which lead to demurrage, diversion of money, corruption and revenue leakages. He kicked against a situation where many people would converge on the seaports to transact businesses that could be done from the comfort of their homes and offices. Human contact, in this era of global digitalisation, Adegbite said, is dangerous because it is non-efficient, causes delays and breeds corruption at the ports. He said digitilisation would make our ports more competitive, noting that the country had competitors in West and Central Africa sub-regions.   Score cards Investigation has shown that PTML has reached 92 per cent, and in Port Harcourt, Intels, BUA and Wact are having over 75 per cent digitalisation each. “Where the ports are having problems is on reforms and claims processes, which is mostly manual, but we have some that scored 50 per cent. “Also, the integration of systems because anybody can be online, but there is a need to integrate with the banks, for example, and even the Nigeria Customs Services, “ said a clearing agent, Mr Segun Ogunsanu He said digitalisation would promote cleanliness in the port environment as well as tackle illegal trading. “Most of the ports in the world are digitised. Nigeria cannot be an exception and that is why we have to support the current move by the board and management of NPA. We cannot have a multitude of people going into the ports every day; human contact in the ports is very dangerous. It is anti-efficiency and once there is human contact, there will be corruption and then delay. “Some people don’t even have any business at the port, but you see them there.What are they doing? Even we the clearing agents have no reason to be at the port every time.    Suggestions “But the NPA needs to be working with shipping companies and terminal operators to ensure that they make the deadline it sets for them next year. Although, it may not be feasible to attain 90 per cent digitilisation in the next one year, if the 2025 is the target set by the NPA, 70 to 80 per cent must be achievable by 2022,  so that we can have our ports digitalised  as quickly as possible,” Ogunsanu said.   Problems An expert, Mr. Kunle Ajayi, listed the problems in the reforms and claims processes, which he said, are mostly manual.   Views of the President of PMAWCA: No wonder, the  President of PMAWCA and Director-General of Ghana Ports and Habours Authority, GPHA, Mr. Michael  Luguje, while delivering a welcome address, described the conference theme Digitalised Port as a model of Port Efficiency, “as very relevant because, more than ever, the COVID-19 pandemic has taught humanity that we live in a very fragile world. He added that within a space of time, the dynamics with regards to world trade and our ways of life could change dramatically. “The impact of COVID-19 pandemic cannot be swept under the carpet so easily. Countries are now rebuilding again after many years of economic progress has been wiped off. As leaders in the maritime field entrusted with the responsibilities of facilitating trade and economic progress for our respective countries, we are here to have serious discussions on how we can continue to adjust in the face of this unwavering virus and how to plan and operate our ports to meet future challenges. ‘’The main aim is to explore diverse ways of using less to achieve more through the use of smart technologies,” he said. The PMAWCA 41st Council Meeting was declared open by Cameroon’s Minister of Transport, Mr. Massena Ngalle Bibehe. The Roundtable Conference was chaired by the Director-General, Port of  Douala, Mr. Cyrus Ngo’o. The event attracted heads of PMAWCA member ports and sister organisations which included International Association for Ports and Harbours IAPH, International Maritime Organisation IMO, Maritime Organisation for West and Central Africa MOWCA, Union of African Shippers Council and the Abuja MoU.