An Upper Area Court in Zuba, Abuja yesterday admitted aphrodisiac seller Hauwa Muhammad a.k.a. Jaruma to N500,000 bail. The police charged Jaruma with false news publication, intimidation and defamation of character. In his ruling, the judge, Ismailia Abdullahi, ordered the defendant to produce one surety in like sum. Abdullahi ordered that the surety must be a GL12 civil servant in the FCT and must reside within the court’s jurisdiction. ”The essence of bail is not to terminate the matter but to allow the defendant prepare for her trial,” he said - Advertisement - He adjourned the matter until Feb 23, for hearing. The judge also advised all parties that are involved in the case to maintain peace. Defence Counsel, Dr Olu Kayode, had earlier presented a written application for the defendant’s bail to the court.   Ekiti 2022: No aspirant boycotted APC primaries, says Badaru     Why I’ve ventured into partisan politics –…     Family retrieves corpse of murdered OAU MBA student from…   The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge against her but was remanded in custody at the Suleja Correction Centre Jan. 24 NAN report that earlier, the Prosecution Counsel, Mr Edward Inegbenoise and Chinedu Ogada, had told the court that the complainant, Chief Ned Nwoko, reported the matter through a written petition from his Lawyer to FCT Police Command for proper investigation on January 20. Inegbenoise said that the defendant used various social media platforms, particularly her Instagram handle to publish falsehood against Nwoko and his wife, Princess Regina, to members of the public. He told the court that the defendant gave the false news in order to incite public hatred against Nwoko and his wife to damage their reputation. Inegbenoise alleged that the defendant, through her Instagram handle, published that she gave N10 million to princess Regina Daniels to advertise her illicit product, known as Kayanmata. The prosecutor further said that the defendant published that the complainant and his wife criminally collected her money but failed to deliver the purported contract which never existed. Inegbenoise, also alleged that the defendant use the product to corrupt public morality through social media advertisement and other unwholesome activities. He informed the court that the offence contravened the provisions of sections 392, 393, 397 and 418 of the penal code.