Many have argued money, power and fame can indeed intoxicate. With the recent video of the fast-emerging singer Portable vowing to sleep with people’s wives, one may become incapacitated in arguing against the claim further. The “Zazoo” crooner was seen in a viral while in his Range Rover in between two guys who hailed him as he spoke in Yoruba. He said he would return a “favour” done to him when he was still in penury. He claimed a rich man slept with his ‘wife’ when he was broke. - Advertisement - But now that fortune and fame have smiled on him, he will make sure to do the same to other people’s wives. He warned broke guys to stay away as he is on the loose. “If you don’t have money, cry, near the wall”, he said. Dr Zeh continued: “When I was broke a rich man used money to sleep with my wife. “Now that I have money, I will use it to sleep with peoples wives.” His pledge has elicited heated reactions from social media users. Many said he was actually saying a fact. Some said he was already being intoxicated by money and fame.   Stop calling grown men ‘baby’, BBN Tochi tells ladies     Bovi: I’ll be marking my birthday weekly     Silence has a golden voice, says Actor Ugezu   Others simply made light of the video. abdulrahman.babalola said: “I pray we don’t go broke, portable is spitting #Fact.” helen0.1 wrote: “Na wetin you wan use your money do? Ok continue.” chiomavictoriapeter stated: “The real definition of “When money controls The owner.” oloricali quizzed: “This guy doesn’t speak English???” dubem_nmeka said: “Lol his fame life span is very short.” peejay231___ wrote: “Sha no go near magnet with Weytin u pack put for neck.” hardebaryor_yrn stated: “The guy no dey calm down. Fame wey neva reach 1 month,u wan dey sleep with people wife. Okay…continue.” justyemi_ asked: “Who go sleep with this one bayi?” official_miracle_hyp said: “Una over hype his song zazuu that why he get mouth.” iam___dara wrote: “Shey all this people wey portable Dey with no fit tell him say he no need all this kind thing . Some people go just Dey push person sha.” ekua_paula_cardi_b stated: “Guy release another banger before we get tired of you, werey,” officialbbkay asked: “Wetin him pack for neck??”