The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWA) Authority of Heads of State and Government, on Friday resolved to engage with the leaders of the junta that recently seized authority in Burkina Faso. To this end, the ECOWAS body has agreed to send high-powered military and diplomatic emissaries to Ouagadougou, the capital of the country, on Saturday (today) for situation assessments of developments in the country. Nigeria’s Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, who disclosed this to journalists after an emergency virtual meeting of the ECOWAS apex decision-making body, said President Muhammadu Buhari, is in support of the decisions taken. According to the Minister, Nigeria is fully in support of the ECOWAS demand for an immediate return to constitutional rule, release of the incarcerated President Roch Marc Kabore and total cooperation with the regional body in the process of sorting out the current situation. - Advertisement - Onyema said “the position is, of course, we condemn the coup and asking for immediate return to constitutional order, the release of the President and anybody else who’s being detained and to cooperate with ECOWAS and to be part of ECOWAS decisions.” Asked what President Buhari told the ECOWAS meeting, Onyema said “he said he was in support of the decisions that were taken at this summit. They condemned the coup. They demanded immediate release of the President, who is being detained, and an immediate process of return to constitutional order. “A decision that the Chiefs of Defense Staff of ECOWAS Member States should head tomorrow to Burkina Faso to assess the situation from a strategic also military angle, and to be followed immediately by a visit of a team of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of ECOWAS countries, again, to assess the situation and then report to a meeting of the Heads of States, and then a definitive decision will be taken as to how to proceed. ECOWAS is going to have to engage with the junta. Well, you have to”, he said. Asked what might happen if the demands are not met, the Minister said “that’ll now be for the summit meeting, that’s what I was saying, to now take a definitive decision because they would have had the benefit of the input of the Chiefs of Defense Staff, the benefit of the input of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, who would have gone there, and then they will be in a position to now take an informed and definitive decision,” he said. Meanwhile, the junta leader, Lieutenant Colonel Paul-Henri Damiba has not been specific on when to return the country to democratic rule. Damiba in his first speech since the military toppled the civilian government only  promised a return to the normal constitutional order “when the conditions are right”. Damiba led a mutiny that ousted President Roch Kaboré on Monday.   APC group pushes for Al-Makura’s chairmanship bid     U.S., religious leaders boost anti-corruption war with…     TETFund to Polytechnics: Prioritise industrial training for…   He blamed the president for failing to contain violence by Islamist militants. He made his first national speech since taking power on the eve of an emergency summit of West African leaders, called in response to the coup. Wearing a red beret and army fatigues in his national address on Thursday evening, Lt-Col Damiba, 41, said: “When the conditions are right, according to the deadline that our people will define in all sovereignty, I commit to a return to a normal constitutional order.” He said he will meet representatives of various sections of society to agree on a roadmap for reform. He added that Burkina Faso needed international partners “more than ever,” following condemnation of the coup. “I call on the international community to support our country so it can exit this crisis as soon as possible.” He did not specify which part of the international community he wanted support from – the coup comes at a time when Russia is competing with France to help West African countries tackle a growing Islamist insurgency. France has thousands of troops in West Africa helping its former colonies Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger tackle jihadist forces. The Burkina Faso military announced that it had seized power on state television on Monday because of the deteriorating security situation. In his speech, Lt-Col Damiba said the fight against jihadists would be his priority and promised to recapture rural areas, allowing the 1.5 million people who had fled their homes to return. Before seizing power, he had been at the forefront of the fight against Islamist militants and wrote a book on the topic last year. Similar troubles in neighbouring Mali led to a military coup in May 2021 – one that was broadly welcomed by the public.