The 2022 Ford Mustang Mach-E is classified as an all-electric SUV, but in reality, it lies somewhere between sport utility vehicle (SUV) and wagon. It seats five people and is available in four trim levels: Select, Premium, California Route 1 and GT. Most offer different battery and electric motor configurations that further influence power outputs and the EPA-estimated range one can drive on a full battery charge. The Mustang Mach-E is a handsome and sporty all-electric luxury SUV. While it’s not mechanically related to the standard Ford Mustang, it draws plenty of influence from Ford’s icon when it comes to design and feel. It’s not the fastest EV around, and there are others that offer more range. But we think it offers a great combination of both performance and range, especially when you add in the well-appointed cabin and excellent in-car tech. For 2022, Mach-E’s usable battery capacity has gone up slightly across all trims. The EPA rating hasn’t changed as of yet, but if we use last year’s model as a guide, it stands to reason that the 2022 Mach-E will likely have a better real-world range. Other notable changes this year include the addition of all-wheel drive to the California edition and the Ice White Appearance package for those who like a triple-white colour motif. The Mach-E’s rivals are capable and plentiful. The Tesla Model Y is the most notable competitor, with nearly identical dimensions inside and out. The Y offers more EPA-estimated range than the Mach-E. And its interior design is boring compared to the Ford’s. Other luxuries EVs in this class include the Audi e-tron and Jaguar I-Pace, though one thinks the Mustang Mach-E is a better value than both of those models. All-electric sedans with similar pricing include the Tesla Model 3 and Polestar 2, but they can’t quite match Mach-E’s interior/cargo space. With engaging driving performance, no tailpipe emissions and over-the-air software updates on a huge center touchscreen, the Mach-E drives and looks like a car of the future. The Mach-E may be a wagon-like SUV, but it delivers the speed and agility auto lovers would expect of anything wearing a Mustang badge. - Advertisement - Ford tuned the handling dynamics to make even this all-wheel-drive SUV feel more like a rear-wheel-drive sports sedan. Around turns, it’s playful and engaging. Drivers will feel a lot of body movement in transitions, but it’s composed and stable. In typical driving, the Mach-E delivers a buttery smooth experience. The regenerative braking effect works well and allows for one-pedal driving, which means you can slow down to a complete stop just by taking your foot off the accelerator. It is preferable doing this than using the brake pedal; it’s a little vague and grabby, making it hard to stop smoothly in typical driving. Ford can improve the tuning with a future over-the-air software update. Highlights include a suspension that excels at soaking up large bumps in the road, a cabin that’s well insulated against wind and ambient noise, and an excellent and easy-to-use climate control system. The available seat and steering wheel heaters get toasty pretty quick, though we’d welcome the option of seat ventilation for warmer climates.   Bolt’s Driver League Challenge car winners emerge     Kia partners Fixit45 on auto parts, aftersales services     Tesla hikes self-driving package cost   The seats are pretty comfortable, with padding that feels as soft and cushy as memory foam but breathes better. But the seats lack a few key adjustments, such as a lower thigh cushion extender for longer-legged drivers. There’s very little lateral support holding you in place. Unfortunately, seats with more adjustments are not available. Ford’s latest Sync 4 infotainment system, specifically the one designed for Mach-E’s 15.5-inch central touchscreen, is one of the new favourites. Menus are easy to navigate, and there’s a handy shortcut bar that’s continually updated based on the last functions used. And unlike the Tesla Model Y, the Mach-E also has a 10.2-inch digital drive cluster that displays pertinent info that’s right in the driver’s line of sight. The front seats don’t offer as many adjustments as drivers might find in a typical luxury sedan, but most drivers should be able to settle into a seating position they like. In back, there’s ample space for adults. Despite the Mach-E’s fastback roofline, visibility is surprisingly decent, and climbing into and out of the cabin takes little effort. The Mach-E’s push-button door releases are pretty cool and work well. The Mach-E nails its interior tech with big 15.5-inch center touchscreen that’s supported by physical controls, such a volume knob. Unlike the Model Y, Apple CarPlay and Android Auto smartphone integration is present and also wireless (though you can still connect through USB cord). Ford’s onboard navigation system is responsive and cleanly designed, but not so overly minimalistic like some competitor systems. The Premium trim includes an excellent 10-speaker Bang & Olufsen sound system that creates a rich sound environment, with access to AM/FM and XM satellite radio. It also included a comprehensive suite of advanced driver aids including adaptive cruise control, lane centering, blind-spot monitoring and 360-degree cameras. It was an early production prototype, so a few of the aids were unavailable. The Mach-E’s hatch-style trunk helps maximise cargo space. Ford says there are 29 cubic feet of space behind the rear seats. That’s not as generous as the Model Y, especially underfloor. There is, however, a very clever flexible cargo cover that attaches to the rear hatch and swings up out of the way or can be removed . Adding to the Mach-E’s cargo capacity are the split rear seats that fold. The front trunk is a bit small but has a drain hole, allowing you to use it as an ice-filled cooler that can be drained later. Upfront, a two-tiered console offers plenty of storage options for your personal items and makes the front cabin look more spacious. The side door pockets are a decent width but short on height. A wireless charging pad ahead of the cupholders looks like it will accommodate two phones, but it’s really only big enough for one. The range estimate for an all-wheel-drive Mach-E with the extended-range battery is 270 miles with an efficiency of 37 kWh of battery power used per 100 miles. Both of those figures are average for a luxury EV.