I usually have a good laugh when I read the curriculum vitae of many applicants these days. In many cases, the professional summary, critical skills and others, which are now common features of CVs, are similar. They are copied from existing templates provided by human resources experts and job solutions specialists who train people on how to write CVs and apply for jobs. Some applicants don’t know how to adjust the samples to fit their personality, skills and the job they are applying for. What they do is that they end up claiming to be what they are not and don’t have the capacity to prove it when asked to do so, besides the false claim about ages and documents some present to make them suitable for the vacancies. If only some of the applicants know what the real meaning of some of the words they use to describe themselves are, they will not use them, even if they want to impress the interviewers. Some can’t even convincingly articulate the attributes they ascribe to themselves. They assume that they can just claim to be what the employers’ desire or what they wish to be and they will not be taken to task on them. You claim to have excellent communication skills but you are not communicating well enough at the interview. You claim to have analytical and critical thinking skills but your response to questions on your view on some issues are shallow. How can someone claim to be passionate about a profession but has not done anything to show it while waiting to be employed. - Advertisement - Job seekers need to realise that it’s not what they have on paper as their attributes and qualifications that matter, but what they can showcase and explain articulately at interviews.   AFCON 2022 LIVE UPDATE     Olubadan: 11 Ibadan kingmakers to meet again Tuesday     Osinbajo off to Ghana for ECOWAS debate on Mali   Anyone can claim to be anything in the CV but the true test of what you are will be apparent when you seat before the panel of interviewers trying to your true worth. Even your body language can reveal your true personality no matter how you try to mask it. There is also now better ways for background checks of claims on CVs, including your social media engagements. You can claim to be someone who respect other people’s opinion and a team player, respectful in your CV, but your social media rants will give you out when they are checked. While it may be necessary to project yourself as suitable for the job you applying for, don’t exaggerate your capacity. Employers know all the tricks about false claims and know how to match claims with actual capacity and ability. Being what you claim on paper requires knowing the skills employers want and having them through necessary training beyond what they are taught in class or outdated knowledge. Even if you don’t have the required years of experience, your response to questions can reveal how intelligent you are and capable for the position you are being interviewed for. Employment support companies should not only help applicants to write their CVs and profiles, but also need to adequately train them to have necessary capacity.