Fiery Catholic priest and founder of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has relived how he objected to becoming a priest in his early life. The cleric said he was dragged into priesthood by Heaven at a time he was running away from it. According to him, since his priestly ordination, he had continued to be a magnet of souls, a development he said is an answer to his personal prayers. Mbaka also said that he spent a total of N1.253 billion on charity works in 2021. The cleric, who said he borrowed the money, added that all that he does in the Adoration Ministry Enugu is always tailored towards charity. - Advertisement - These remarks were contained in Mbaka’s 2022 New Year message to the members of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria (AMEN). He said: “It may interest you to know that in the beginning of this just concluded year, I borrowed N850 million. I also borrowed N403 million. “This was not part of the projects we are doing here. It was only for charity. “There’s nothing we do here that is not tailored towards charity. We need more money to continue a lot of projects we have at hand. “So, when people talk about Mbaka this, Mbaka that, I don’t understand that. It’s because they don’t know me. “All these people, talking about Mbaka, have never visited this Ministry to know what we do. If they come, they would see for themselves and stop the unnecessary criticism. I cannot be listening to someone who does not understand me”.   Capital importation hits $1.7b, says NBS     Ijaw youths warn against reopening of Dowen College     N369b Second Niger Bridge is Buhari’s biggest capital…   He told his members to be vigilant and not to be bothered about the threat of shutting down the ministry, as according to him, “No human being can close this Ministry. “But, it is important to tell them that there’s a division of labour. If you are a goal keeper, allow me the player to play the ball. You can’t be a goal keeper and a striker at the same time. “They should leave me. They are not my creator. It is God who created and called me not them. “There are people who forced themselves into this priesthood and there are those called to be priests. Read Also: Mbaka gifts ‘Akanchawa’ singer Gozie new Lexus “I never wanted to be a priest. Heaven dragged me into this priesthood when I was running away from it. So, no mortal can force me out of it. “And since I was ordained a priest, I have never experienced greater joy. I have been a happy man all through. “Whatever one prays is what is granted him. My own prayer was that I shall be a magnet of souls. “I only think about your goodness. Whoever is maltreating the masses is attacking me. “So, whenever I fight for the masses, the story will be that Mbaka is playing politics. “Of course, I’m not playing politics. Am I a member of APC, PDP or APGA?”