Organisers of music reality show, Nigerian Idol, have announced that N100 million worth of prizes is up for grabs in the seventh edition which premieres on Sunday, February 6, 2022 on DStv and GOtv. This includes a recording deal, brand new SUV, cash prizes, and other attractive prizes from the headline sponsor, Bigi, Nigeria’s leading and favourite range of carbonated soft drinks with 13 variants from the stable of Rite Foods Limited. After virtual and live auditions, which recorded over 10, 000 entries for the music reality show across Nigeria, Season 7 premieres on the screen with refreshingly thrilling and rousing musical moments for lovers and fans of the show. Bigi returned as the headline sponsor for the second time. The Bigi brand, a truly world-class and proudly Nigerian brand will journey with all participating contestants as well as fans as the show goes live. Speaking on the sponsorship, Assistant Brand Manager, Beverage and Bakery, Rite Foods Limited, Boluwatife Adedugbe, espoused her company’s commitment to talent promotion and growth of the entertainment industry by discovering and rewarding music talents in Nigeria.   Private sector critical to AfCFTA, says minister     Cedar Advisory Partners becomes largest shareholder in Union…     Capital market begins full implementation of dual filing…   - Advertisement - “The Bigi brand is here for the second time to ensure that this season produces a crop of fresh talents who will be well-grounded to conquer both the local and global music scene. “This is in line with Rite Foods’ commitment to promoting young talents and boosting the entertainment sector. We can’t wait to go with all contestants and viewers on this refreshing music journey,” she stated. Ms. Adedugbe further reiterated the company’s unwavering effort to make the partnership with the Nigerian Idol platform a worthy one by helping to amplify the show and provide the much-needed engagement necessary to thrill, excite and refresh viewers throughout the season. She also stressed that the music platform will give the Bigi brand the space required to connect with its consumers who are great lovers of music. “Music is a language which the Bigi brand explores to connect with the hearts and minds of consumers. As such, the Nigerian Idol platform is an excellent platform for Bigi, a proudly Nigerian brand, to connect aggressively with its consumers. With all 13 variants, there is a Bigi for every moment of the show – as a fan, viewer, or contestant,” she added.