A socio-political group, the Yoruba Ronu Group (YRG), has called on all Yorubas home and abroad to support the presidential ambition of former Lagos Governor Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The group described Tinubu as the best hand presentable for the position of a President going by the present situation in the country. It said its support for Tinubu was because of his values and track record as a promoter of men. President of the YRG, Prince Diran Iyantan, spoke in a statement after an enlarged meeting of the group in Akure Prince Iyantan explained that the endorsement of Tinubu’s candidacy was devoid of any partisan or political attachment. - Advertisement - Iyantan stated that Tinubu would build on the existing infrastructure and the legacies of President Muhamadu Buhari. According to him: “We enjoin all well-meaning Yoruba sons and daughters to throw their weight behind him, as well. He is the best choice coming from south western Nigeria to aspire to the prestigeous position under discussion.   PDP Governors meet to review 2023 takeover bid     UPDATED: Everton sack Benitez as coach     Abducted four FULafia students regain freedom   ” He will improve on the security status of the country. He would make the economy thrive. He will bring back the unity of the country which we lost at the point of the civil war. “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a dogged fighter who, in the past, has fought, tenaciously, to restore sanity to the polity of the country when no other person in the military or in politics could do it, . “A man like him deserves the support of every Nigerian in APC, in any other political party or in the private sector in the country. Tinubu is a product of God’s magnanimity to mankind in this generation. “We hope that the records available to Nigerians in respect of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, particularly, his tenacity to face uphill tasks and accomplish desired goals will be the required mouth-piece to annunce him as one that will, undoubtedly, lead Nigeria to the Uhuru that Nigerians have sought after since the 60s. “This is the time to look back and to look forward, as well; to bring out from our achive what is good and join it with what is good at present to drive for what will be good for us in future. “We are full of hope for the said future because of what will be attainable going by the goodwill of Asiwaju and his concern for a colourful vision of Nigeria. There has been serious elation shown by the people of the South West and all over the country for Asiwaju’s declaration.”