Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has said that the former Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), late Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya, was impactful in the state’s politics. Sanwo-Olu said this in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, on Tuesday in Lagos. He praised Adeniran-Ogunsanya’s contribution to governance, growth and development during her tenure as the scribe of the state. Adeniran-Ogunsanya, the daughter of prominent Ikorodu born politician and associate of the late Nnamdi Azikiwe, Prince Adeniran Ogunsanya, died after a brief illness on Tuesday at 74. She was the Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG) during the first term in office of former governor, Babatunde Fashola between 2007 and 2011. - Advertisement - The governor commended the late politician and businesswoman for her impactful roles in Lagos politics, especially in Ikorodu division.   NiMet predicts 3-day haziness from Wednesday     FAAN, Customs in twitter spat over security breach in Lagos…     UPDATED: NLC suspends proposed nationwide protest over…   Sanwo-Olu commiserated with leaders and the entire people of Ikorodu on the demise of their illustrious daughter. ”On behalf of the government and the people of Lagos State, I want to express my sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and political associates of the late Secretary to the Lagos State Government (SSG), Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya. ”The death of Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya is a big loss to Lagos State. She made a lot of positive impacts and contributions during her lifetime to the growth and development of Lagos State as SSG. ”She also made significant impact in Lagos politics when as member of the ruling party, especially in Ikorodu. ”I pray that God will grant Princess Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya eternal rest and give the immediate family, friends, political associates and the people of Ikorodu the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” Sanwo-Olu said. (NAN)