Out for the eagled-eye auditors in the Office of the Acting Auditor-General of the Federation, Mr Adolphus Aghugu, the fact that over N14.7 billion being proceeds of the privatisation of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) are still allegedly hidden in commercial banks, would have remained unknown to the Nigerian public. An audit query to this effect was contained in the “Auditor-General of the Federation’s Annual Report on Non-Compliance/Internal Control Weaknesses Issues of Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the Year Ended 31st December, 2019″. The Auditor-General presented the report to the clerk to the National Assembly, Mr Ojo Amos, on September 15, 2021, enabling the Public Accounts Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives to commence investigation of the queries. The report notes that while the privatisation of the PHCN had been concluded since 2013, the funds in question were still in the commercial banks as at December 31, 2016. By that time, the funds ought to have been remitted to the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Privatisation Proceeds Accounts. The audit report pointedly accused the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) as being responsible for the infraction, which is not out of place since BPE is statutorily responsible for handling all privatisation exercises. It certainly cannot be that no officials of the BPE was aware of the existence of these shadowy accounts. Could the accounts have been shrouded in secrecy so as to perpetrate financial crimes and enable officials to line their pockets illegally? This is one of the questions that only an open and transparent probe of the accounts can help proffer answers to. It becomes even more worrisome when the audit query states that “The issue has been communicated to the bureau via a letter with reference no. OAU GF/RESAD/05/2016/17 dated 19th April, 2018, and no response has been received”. The report is quite right to point out the implications of government agencies operating these kinds of shadowy, hidden accounts. It states that “Unauthorised funds kept in commercial banks may be diverted for other purposes thereby leading to loss of revenue available for government programmes”. It is precisely to block opportunities for fraud associated with government agencies opening several accounts in diverse banks, making it difficult to track government funds that the Treasury Single Account (TSA) was introduced. The auditor-general’s report thus directed that “The DG of the BPE is required to recover the sum of N14, 720, 396, 432.43 being proceeds of the PHCN privatisation and remit same to my office for audit confirmation”.   Alarming food imports     Hard tackle on Mali     Ernest Shonekan (1936 – 2022)   Surprisingly, the BPE, which did not deem it fit to respond to the auditor-general’s audit query, defended itself in a written submission to the requisite committees of the National Assembly. It stated that the two separate sums of N3.231 billion allegedly held in Fidelity Bank and N18.199 billion held in Stanbic Bank “were unaudited bank balances that were actually no longer in existence as of the date of the audited financial statements”. It explained further that its dollar- denominated funds in Access Bank and FCMB could not be transferred immediately due to non-existence of designated US dollars TSA for dollar balances. It submits that the correct balance in the Access Bank account was NIL as the bank had transferred $34.1 million to the CBN domiciliary account. As for the FCMB account, the BPE averred that the balance in it as at 31/12/2016 was $36, 053. 15 following transfer of $65, 088, 198 .353. It further explained that “The residual balance remained until 18/9/2017 due to inability of the bank to remit as required under the TSA policy owing to initial unavailability of designated TSA for US dollar balances as required under the newly introduced policy”. The big question is why didn’t the BPE make these explanations and clarifications available to the auditor-general’s office once it received the audit query. Its submissions certainly need to be scrutinised, especially as these alleged hidden accounts raise, once again, questions as to the transparency of the PHCN privatisation process. - Advertisement - It is important to know who signed the mandate to open the accounts. Have interest payments been made on these accounts, and if so, to whom? Why are we just hearing about these hidden accounts now when they were supposedly opened in 2016? This is certainly a fallout of the political/bureaucratic corruption associated with the PHCN privatisation process, a situation which has made the unbundling of the former electricity behemoth and the emergence of private sector-owned distribution and generating companies of little effect on the country’s power supply capacity.