Chief Whip of the Senate, Orji Uzor Kalu, on Friday met with Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. Ikpeazu received Kalu at his Umuobiakwa country home in Obinngwa Local Government Area of Abia, according to a statement by Kalu’s media office in Abuja. The statement added that Ikpeazu alongside his aides and personal staff who were already waiting for Kalu’s coming, received the Senate’s Chief Whip who arrived at the Governor’s mansion at exactly 1:32pm. The statement reads in part: “Kalu who was accompanied by his retinue of aides and security staff disembarked from his official SUV and advanced to exchange greetings with the Abia Governor who was beaming with smiles on sighting the Senate Chief Whip. “Immediately after their cordial greetings, Ikpeazu led Orji Kalu and his personal aides straight to his lounge. - Advertisement - “Shortly after another another brief episode of pleasantries, the duo proceeded with the exemption of their aides into the inner room for a private meeting. “The visit of the former Governor Orji Kalu who is regarded as the father of Abia politics comes just a week after the Abia State visited President Muhammadu Buhari on December 30th last year which fueled speculations that he intends to join the All Progressives Congress (APC).   Anambra Correctional Centre inmates to sit for WAEC, others     BREAKING: Aggrieved APC members ask court to stop convention     2023: Feb 18 presidential poll date sacrosanct, says INEC   “Also recall that photos on social media of Ikpeazu with President Buhari heightened various reactions. “Many believe the visit is connected with his rumoured intention to leave the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Furthermore, the unexpected visit also comes less than a week after the Peoples Democratic Party stakeholders in Arochukwu local government council, affirmed Orji Kalu’s political supremacy, declaring the former governor as their leader and father of Abia politics. “According to records during his tenure as Governor, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu introduced the current Abia Governor to politics, who prior to his becoming Governor was a lecturer at the Institute of Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu, after which Kalu appointed him as his Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Education, followed by other subsequent appointments. “Also, Ikpeazu’s predecessor, Theodore Orji, a native of Umuahia Ibeku, was drafted into politics by Orji Kalu as his Chief of Staff when Kalu was Governor of the state. “TA Orji remained in the position throughout Kalu’s eight years in office. Orji Kalu ensured that TA Orji succeeded him in 2007 and also governed the state for eight years, which ended in 2015. “Additionally, Senator representing Abia South and 2023 governorship hopeful, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, was also brought into politics by Orji Kalu as his Deputy during his governorship tenure in 1999.”