Residents of Ogun State who desire to own homes now have an opportunity to do so with the signing of partnership agreement between First City Monument Bank (FCMB),  Group Plc and Ogun State Government. The partnership will provide affordable mortgage loans to subscribers of low-cost schemes. FCMB, the retail and commercial banking subsidiary of the group, will disburse the loans. This was disclosed during a working visit by the management of FCMB Group led by Mr Ladi Balogun, the Group Chief Executive, to the   Ogun State Governor, Dr Dapo Abiodun, in Abeokuta. During the visit, Balogun reiterated the commitment of the FCMB Group and its subsidiaries to supporting initiatives that would ensure sustainable development and welfare of people, businesses and government. “We are ready to support the state government’s development agenda to ensure improved quality of life for the people by helping them to own homes. FCMB will always be there to fulfil its promise of helping customers achieve their aspirations,” Balogun said.   Ex-LCCI DG flays tax appeal tribunal     Govt. urged to disburse agric funds directly to farmers     Ecobank earmarks N100b special fund for MSMEs   - Advertisement - While appreciating the state’s infrastructure developmental strides, Balogun assured that FCMB would collaborate with Ogun State to improve the quality of life of her people and businesses. Abiodun called for a more robust relationship between the state and the FCMB Group. He affirmed his administration’s commitment to elevating the quality of life of the people of Ogun. “In the last 30 months, we built over 1,000 homes with more required to help the state fulfil its housing goals. People are buying them faster than we are building them. They are either paid in full or paid in part, and those are areas that you could work with us. Ogun State Government is for progressive public-private partnership in the areas of financing, management and concession,” Abiodun said.   He encouraged FCMB to adopt a primary health centre for rehabilitation and provision of equipment as well as a school through the adopt-a-school programme put in place by his administration.