The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, yesterday, underscored the place of the private sector as key driver of economies within the continent and beyond, saying “there can’t be AfCFTA without the full participation of the private sector.” Speaking at the occasion of the ‘Lighting of the Africa Trade Torch’ held virtually on Thursday, January 20, to celebrate the commencement of trading activities under the AfCFTA, Adebayo said the private sector has the sole power to operationalise the agreement. The Lighting of the Africa Trade Torch was organised by the Pan-African Manufacturers Association (PAMA). PAMA aims to encourage cooperation between African manufacturers such that there can be market transformation in order to grow Small and Medium Enterprise (SMEs) and subsequently create value chains to achieve Africa’s industrialisation agenda. The Minister described the conceptualization of the Lighting of the Africa Trade Torch as “most appropriate.” - Advertisement - He, however, said the effects of the AfCFTA on economic and social transformation depend on the degree to which the private sector can seize the opportunities the agreement provides. He noted that one of the opportunities is the chance to make African economies more competitive and enable development and elevation of regional value chains with focus on SMEs. Citing a report by PWC, Adebayo said, for instance, that SMEs in Nigeria contribute about 48 per cent of national Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which has been consistent in the last five years. “They also account for about 96 per cent of businesses and 84 per cent of employment opportunities within the country,” he added. The Minister also said another survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN) show that the Nigerian SME sector is strategically positioned to absorb up to 80 per cent of jobs.   Bigi okays N100m for Nigerian Idol season 7     Cedar Advisory Partners becomes largest shareholder in Union…     Capital market begins full implementation of dual filing…   SMEs, the survey added, also improve per capita income, increase value addition to raw material supply, improve export earnings and enhance capacity utilization in certain key industries. “Accordingly, I would like to call on the Nigerian private sector to fully key into the AfCFTA and also lend their support to the work that is being done by the African Business Council,” Adebayo said. While noting that the private sector is the engine of African economy, he appealed to Governments to assume the important role of promoting trade development. “For the private sector to succeed, we need entrepreneurial states with governments that would assume regulatory, coordinating and catalytic roles. African governments should be the lead risk takers in terms of investing in large-scale innovations and technology that would drive economic success,” the Minister stated. According to him, with Governments at the driver’s seat and the private sector as the engine, “AfCFTA can set Africa on the path towards economic and social transformation, build an Africa of the 21st Century that would take its rightful place in global value chains and thus create “the Africa We want”. In his remarks, the Interim Chairman PAMA, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, said the Lighting of the Africa Trade Torch was a testament of the continent’s potential and its collective determination to promote and trigger engagement in intra-Africa trade and cross-border value chains. Ahmed said the Association shall serve as a central continental body that would engage the African Uion and other continental bodies on behalf of African manufacturers on matters concerning the growth and development of their industry. He, therefore, assured African manufacturers that with PAMA, there would be an increase in intra-Africa trade through the creation of competitive and comparative advantages for different markets. “Furthermore, I would like to reassure the African Business Council of PAMA’s commitment to advancing and prospering the efforts of the AfCFTA in order to build high quality continental value chains,” Ahmed said. He applauded the efforts the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), which, he said, led to the birth of PAMA. “Since the inception of PAMA, MAN has taken the lead role in ensuring the ascent of the Association to a continental platform, a feat that has not been easy,” he stated.