The Rivers State Executive Council has approved N8.2bn for the construction of the 10th flyover initiated by Governor Nyesom Wike. Speaking on Thursday after the council meeting presided over by Wike at the Government House, Port Harcourt, the Commissioner for Works, Elloka Tasie-Amadi, said the flyover would be sited at Rumuokwurushi -Elimgbu axis in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state. Tasie-Amadi said the project scheduled for completion within 12 months would benefit various sectors of the economy and members of the public particularly real estate developers. He said: “The total length is 840 meters comprising 526.5meters bridge and 313 meters of the transition zone to the bridge. The width is 17.6meters in dual carriage configuration and it will feature service lanes, middle terms, pedestal crossing, streets and traffic lights”. Commissioner for Finance, Isaac Kamalu, said the council gave approval for Rivers to access its share of the Healthcare Support Credit Facility Fund established by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). - Advertisement - He explained that the CBN floated the fund during the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic to cushion the impact of Covid-19 on both national and sub-national economies.   Man sentenced to life imprisonment for impregnating daughter     Idumota mayhem: Court remands Kunle Poly, two others for 30…     PHOTOS: One dead, 25 buildings razed in Delta gas tanker…   Kamalu said the council wants the State to participate and has therefore approved that it access the N2. 5billion Healthcare Support Credit Facility Fund from the CBN. He said: “The N2.5bn is structured into two components. N2bn will be for healthcare infrastructure support and N500million as revolving credit for medical consumables.” Kamalu said that Rivers State Government intended to use the fund to establish a world-class Radiotherapy Center and Department at the Dr. Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Treatment and Diagnostic Center in Port Harcourt. He said part of the money would also be channeled to the upgrading of healthcare facilities at the Prof. Kesley Harrison Hospital and the Dental and Maxillofacial Hospital in Port Harcourt. He said: “As you are aware, the facility has been utilised by virtually all the States and Rivers State is among the few that are yet to utilise the facility. “So, the government has, in its wisdom, thought it necessary that this facility should be accessed so that members of the public, as well as those living in the state, can utilise the outcome of this in terms of medical service provision.” Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim said that the approval by the council had given impetus for an expansion of existing healthcare facilities and revamp of moribund ones that will further serve the healthcare needs of Rivers people.