Canada- based Nigerian, Dewunmi Yemi is set to hold a free webinar to provide Africans with the knowledge needed to relocate to Canada permanently as well as getting their Canadian dream jobs in 2022. The free webinar was designed to educate and prepare people who are seeking to study, live and work in Canada with the easiest and most reliable way to immigrate without writing the IELTS exam or paying exuberant fees to Travel agents. Speaking on the motive behind the free training, Yemi who relocated to Canada successfully with his family years ago said that his bad experiences with travel agents in the past motivated him to show youths the best way to travel in and out of Canada successfully. “My passion to help people relocate to Canada started due to the bad experiences I have had with travel agents which a lot of people are battling with. People would take the right and definite steps if they only knew what to do. A lot of people have had their application messed up, earning a five-year ban from entering Canada because they don’t have the right guidance. These and many other reasons are why I have decided to bear the light showing people the right and easier pathway to take in relocating to Canada,” he said. When asked why he is an advocate of Canadian immigration, Yemi explained that the opportunities in Canada are limitless. - Advertisement - He said: “The economy of Canada is a thriving one and the country is ranked no 1 on the list of the best places to live in the world. Getting an education in Canada means having international exposure which will have an impact on your professional experience when it comes to taking up a professional job in Canada.   Oldest UNILAG PhD graduate hopes to make three-wheelers…     FUT Minna to graduate 58 with First Class     Focus on skills, Tetfund urges polytechnics   “Canada is a country to be, it is a land of immense opportunities. Many Nigerians are breaking barriers here due to the several amazing opportunities they have access to. Success is easier attained when you are in the right environment, and Canada is such a country that provides you the perfect platform where your wildest imagination of success can be achieved. You can become whatever you desire once you are ready to put in the work. “That is why I am a firm believer in Canadian immigration. It is the right move for anyone who wants a better life either alone or as a family. Getting an education in Canada might be all that you would ever need to change your life and that of your family for the better. “You don’t need to go through the pain of wasting huge funds on travel agents or writing the English proficiency exam, IELTS for you to relocate successfully to Canada,” Yemi added. Shedding more insights on the free webinar, the Canada based Nigerian said “Quite a number of people are thinking of giving up on their relocation dream to Canada because it’s either they have been dealt a heavy blow by fake travel agents or they are not clear on the right pathway to take, and this is one of the reasons why this class is so vital. It will put to rest lots of questions surrounding your Canada relocation dream. All your fears and questions will receive definite answers and direction in the class. “This class is in no way limited by age, the class is for anyone who is ready to take the bull by the horn in fulfilling their relocation dream to Canada, you will also learn how to relocate with your family, get accommodation and even land a lucrative job. This is called ‘hold-nothing-back’ free training.” Dewunmi Yemi popularly known as DY is an emigration expert with many years of practical teachings on Canadian immigration, and has fostered many successful relocations to Canada.