Ezinne Dora Kayode, wife and agent of Shakhtar Donetsk striker Olarenwaju Kayode has dedicated the ‘Outstanding Female Football Agent’ award to his supportive husband and children. Dora was decorated with the special award during the 2021 Diamond Special Recognition Awards Worldwide organised by Bustline Media International owned by U.K based actress and entrepreneur, Yetunde Oduwole. The award project goes around the world to applaud charitable individuals and groups who support and empower their various communities towards sustainability. Dora, who is the first female FA licensed football agent in Nigeria, was specially recognised for the role he played in transforming the career of her husband who once signed a slave contract with another agent. She dedicates the award to her husband and three boys. “To my family that has been with me always, I want to make history as a football agent. It is a big motivation seeing you all support and cheer me up always.”   JIMMY ABDOU: Meet Comoros’ legendary player who’s among…     AHMED MUSA: Retirement can wait till after World Cup…     AFCON: Recovering Mane set to return against E/Guinea   “My goal is to be like FA agents Colleen Howe, Lonnie Murray and Rachel Anderson who represent Julian Dicks, Michael Hughes and more than forty football players.” - Advertisement - Aside from being a football agent, Dora Kayode is a renowned Lawyer and a real estate developer who has developed and invested in a lot of properties in Lagos and beyond. “As a Lawyer, I decided to study the rule of football and combine it with fundamental human rights to ensure that my clients get the better of any contract,” she said. That the Federal Government Girls’ College, Umuahia and the Law degree holder from Madonna University Okija in Anambra state clinched the Female Football Agent of 2021 prize didn’t come as a surprise due accomplishment. “I helped free Kayode from the bondage of slave contracts, which remains the bane of most African players. Unfortunately for footballers, most of them are not really enlightened, and I am sorry to say this. They need people who can tell them the truth, educate them on their rights. And I’m always ready to do this,” she added.