The House of Representatives has urged Inspector General of Police (IGP) Usman Alkali Baba to investigate alleged attacks and killings by the Ebubeagu security outfit in Ebonyi State. The House also urged the office of National Security and Intelligence to probe the authorisation of various weapons, such as pump action guns, AK-47s and other automatic weapons which the group uses in the state. It advised the committees on Police Affairs, National Security and Intelligence to ensure compliance. The resolutions followed the adoption of a motion of urgent importance on the need to check the deteriorating security situation in Ebonyi State moved by five members from the state. They are: Iduma Igariwey, Ogbaga Sylvester, Chukwuma Nwazunku, Edwin Anayo and Makwe Livinus. - Advertisement - The House said if the activities of Ebubeagu were left unchecked, they would lead to massive loss of lives and proliferation of weapons.   Festschrift: Tinubu, Afe Babalola, others laud Akinfeleye’s…     PDP, APC bicker over Ebubeagu, declaration of ex-lawmaker…     Don’t abandon power shift to South, Ohanaeze cautions   Read Also: Umahi, Ebubeagu, the rest of Ebonyians It noted that the security situation in Ebonyi State appeared to have worsened with the government’s introduction of Ebubeagu, which they likened to a militia group. The lawmakers expressed concern that members of the militia group use AK-47, pump action guns, axes and machetes and other dangerous weapons without any professional training. The House expressed concern that members of the militia lack rules of engagement and have become willing tools for nefarious activities, such as illegal arrests, assaults, torture and assassinations. The lawmakers also expressed concern that the group allegedly has detention facilities where they keep their victims for torture. The House said it was cognisant that the activities of the group were gravely interfering with and jeopardising operational activities of national security agencies, such as the police and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). It expressed worry that unless federal authorities took urgent steps, there might be complete breakdown of law and order in Ebonyi State as armed Ebubeagu members continue their reign of terror on the citizenry while individuals and communities might prepare to defend themselves through reprisals.