The South-South Emerging Leaders’ Forum (SELF) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sustain his anti-corruption policy by supporting a corruption-free aspirant among all the contenders for national chairmanship of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The forum said the enduring legacies Buhari can bequeath after his tenure should be his successor and leaders of the party that are not indicted by anti-corruption agencies. The national coordinator of the forum, Barrister Preye Wilson in a statement in Abuja on Sunday also counselled Northern political elites not to support any corrupt person as Buhari’s successor. Barrister Wilson said his forum has taken it upon itself to help the President identify credible national chairmanship candidates among the eleven aspirants jostling to lead the ruling party. The statement declared that Senator Sani Musa (Niger East) is trusted as a corruption-free national chairmanship candidate. - Advertisement -   Delta 2023: Zoning and the Ijaws’ guber quest     Uzodimma: Two years of firm hands on the plough     Enugu: PDP and Ekweremadu’s rescue mission   The group urged the President and APC leaders to reward the lawmaker not only for his contributions but as a good ambassador of the ruling party and the anti-corruption stance of the Buhari-led administration. “As a forum, we are mindful of what becomes the anti-corruption fight of Buhari’s administration after the President might have left in 2023. ” We are also mindful of legacies our amiable President will leave behind in terms of a successor and those who lead the ruling party. “It is a known fact that corruption is contagious and it spreads like a virus that must be avoided. Its spread faster than cancer, if a corrupt or any indicted person is allowed to lead the ruling party one wonder how it will be easy to lead an anti-corruption campaign henceforth. “It is a fact that all the contenders are qualified to be APC national chairman in terms of their political experiences but integrity should be the yardstick and not how long one has been in politics or positions such individuals have held in the past. “We have, however painstakingly studied the records of all the prominent eleven aspirants that are jostling for the position of APC national chairman and we can only beat our chests for the Senator representing Niger East at the Red Chamber, Muhammed Sani Musa, aka 313. “We, therefore, challenge other reputable organisations like ours to cross-check this fact and also do their separate due diligence in terms of corruption records of all those currently seeking endorsement to lead the APC.”