The Interim Administrator of Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (rtd), speaks on a number of key issues, including his plans to sustain the peace in the Niger Delta. MIKE ODIEGWU was there. Amnesty and a wrong impression about the Niger Delta A First, let me admit that there are people who believe that the amnesty programme has outlived its time and usefulness. It has the longest record for an amnesty programme; ordinarily, an Amnesty Programme such as this should not last longer than five to six, a maximum of seven years. This programme has been on for 11 years plus. The commitment I made when I assumed office as the Interim Administrator was to examine what has been done, how well it has been done and what needs to be done to achieve the prime objective of the Programme. I make my recommendations to my superiors based on these parameters. I am not a decision-maker; I help my superiors make informed decisions. I, therefore, have a responsibility to speak to the facts. I earlier mentioned that 8,000 people have not been trained at all; we are still in the process of clearly identifying those who were trained and not empowered and for that matter, what that empowerment meant in the context of the contracts that were awarded then as opposed to what our current vision of ‘Train, Employ And Mentor’ empowerment model aims to achieve. Ultimately, my interpretation of my mission is to contribute to ensuring that, there is lasting peace in the Niger Delta; anything that detracts from that, does not fulfil the mission. And so, I am not going to tell anybody that the Programme is going to be scrapped tomorrow, that is not my decision to make, my job is to assess what has been done, how well it has been done and what needs to be done. There are several options contemplated. - Advertisement - One of the options we are recommending is changing the current programme to Niger Delta Stabilisation Programme that aims to principally dry up the pipeline that leads to militancy. The reality is that whether this programme ends or not we cannot run away from the fact that militancy has existed from generation to generation in the Niger Delta over the issues of lack of development in the region. But the gospel we are preaching is that be that as it may, resorting to violence, primarily hurts the Niger Delta and de-markets the region. Thus, the need for a new approach that relies on tools like negotiation, lobbying, building bridges etc, in the spirit of give and take. But it’s easier said than done. There is a young population that can easily, if not properly guided, metamorphose into the next set of militants. We want to design a project, a special youth programme that not only addresses those issues but provides a pathway to self-actualization based on knowing how societies work. It’s imperative that we develop our youths to imbibe soft skills.   Plans for ex-agitators in the New Year Principally, we want them to be trained, employed and mentored but this will start with about 8,000 delegates who have never been trained at all. The second group of people will be those who have been trained but not empowered. To aid that process, some of the contracts that were awarded are being reviewed, especially the ones that have not been executed up to 50%. We are working with the vendors to ensure that they adjust their contracts to reflect our current vision to train, employ and mentor our delegates. We are ready to partner with anyone who is ready to align with our vision especially if they meet our viability criteria. Ultimately, what we want to achieve is that these ex-agitators are given the training they need to either become entrepreneurs or acquire the qualification they need to compete in the job market successfully. For the economy at large, we want to encourage them to think about shared prosperity. Where there is prosperity or what is called human security, the urge for violent agitations will be reduced to the minimum because their sources of livelihood are protected. That’s the whole idea.   Findings on assumption of office If I had not been a soldier who had faced tough challenges in the past, I probably would have chickened out, because to say the least, the place was very dysfunctional. I inherited a debt of N71.4bn and a fractured logistics process that was evident everywhere; there were goods lying around in the rain because they were procured without due needs analysis. It was very disheartening. To compound it all, there was a dichotomy between the Reintegration consultants who are principally the main drivers of the Programme and the civil servants who are supposed to support them. This lack of staff harmony is still evident though to a less degree now. We are addressing this through a complete top to bottom reorganisation. There was a trust deficit between the ex-agitator community and the students; oftentimes they had to block roads for their stipends or In-training allowances to be paid. So, one of the first things I did was to say, hey, this thing is not rocket science, you know you must pay people every month, let’s challenge ourselves to date. Many people thought that I was walking on thin ice and said that payment on the 25th of every month was not possible. However, by the grace of God, we have been able to do that. Most times, these payments are made before the 25th of the month.   Military: Leah Sharibu, others will be rescued     Clark to Buhari: majority of Nigerians believe in state…     EFCC recovered N152b, $386m last year   The Minister of Finance and the Accountant-General of the Federation have been very supportive in processing our finances and in ensuring that there are no bottlenecks concerning our releases. My immediate superior, the National Security Adviser has gone above and beyond the call of duty, to enable us to overcome the challenges I mentioned earlier. We are also mindful not to bend the structure so hard so we don’t break it in the course of trying to fix it. I insist on all concerned to understand that they have a part to play. This is a collective responsibility because the image of PAP is not the image of Dikio, but that of everybody associated with the Programme and peace in the Niger Delta region.   The reputation of PAP We have different motivations in life. I come from a background where failure is not an option, so I don’t make excuses. People just want you to level with them and the few occasions when, for instance, we were not able to pay as promised on the 25th, we proactively let the ex-agitators know ahead of time that the stipends won’t come as expected, but it will come not long after the expected date. So, these are the kind of things that have built the kind of confidence that we have enjoyed so far. I was trained as an officer to face challenges with the clear objective to win; I keep that in focus all the time.   Legacy I don’t claim to have a magic wand but I believe strongly that my appointment was divine and all along I have had destiny helpers assisting me. With the support of the people of the region, we will be able to make a mark that cannot be erased. I am in that stage of life where I intend to leave a legacy of righting some of the administrative wrongs in this special agency created to address some of the challenges in the Niger Delta region. Ultimately, I want to contribute to making the Niger Delta the best place to live and do business in Nigeria.   PAP’s training centres across the region We know that only one was completed; that is the Vocational Training Centre (VTC) at Boro Town, in Bayelsa State. Unfortunately, that facility was turned into a store which should not have been. The goods stored there were later looted and subsequently, the facility was vandalized and stripped. It was primitively looted. The next that came close to that is the VTC in Agadagba in Ondo State. That facility has fantastic classrooms with the best technical equipment you can find anywhere, but the shortcoming of that facility is that it has no hostel to accommodate the students. The training facility in Bomadi, Delta State is close to completion. The VTCs in Gelegele, Edo State and Harry’s Town in Rivers State are just at their foundation level. What we intend to do is to send a quantity surveyor around these locations to do a detailed assessment of what it will take to bring them up to speed. When these projects are completed, we would recommend that they be used for the Niger Delta Stabilisation Programme, for training youths in the demographic age group of 12-18. Additionally, completing them has the advantage of pointing to the Federal Government’s presence, because some of the sentiments that are often the rallying point of discontentment are the talk about the lack of Federal Government presence in several communities. Many people have also suggested that the Federal Government can donate them to some of the training schools in the region, but by and large, I think it is important that these projects are not abandoned, especially because so much money has been spent already.