Governors  yesterday commiserated with the people of Oyo State on the demise of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Ajeogunguniso I. Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Dapo Abiodun condoled with Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and the people of Ibadan on the passage of the frontline monarch. Oba Adetunji joined his ancestors on Sunday and was buried same day according to Islamic rites. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, Governor Sanwo-Olu described Oba Salisu’s passage as a great loss to the people of Ibadan and traditional institution in Oyo State. The statement reads: “On behalf of the government and people of Lagos, I commiserate with my brother, Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and the people of the ancient city of Ibadan, the deceased’s family, friends and associates on the transition of the 41st Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji. - Advertisement - “The death of Oba Adetunji is a great loss to the people of Ibadan and he will be greatly missed. He made lots of positive impact during his lifetime, contributing meaningfully to the growth and development of Ibadan, Oyo State and Nigeria as a philanthropist, foremost music promoter and later as a traditional ruler. “Oba Adetunji, as a first-class traditional ruler, left a lasting legacy that the people of Ibadan will continue to cherish. I pray that Almighty God be pleased with his soul, grant the family and the people of Ibadan the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” In a statement in Asaba, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika, Governor Okowa noted that the late nonagenarian monarch was a courageous leader who was committed to the development of his kingdom and beyond. He said: “On behalf of the government and people of Delta State, I commiserate with the government and people of Oyo State, the immediate family of the Olubadan, the Olubadan-in-Council, as well as the Oyo State Traditional Council on the passing of Oba Saliu Adetunji, the 41st Olubadan of Ibadan land. “The late monarch’s five-year reign recorded remarkable peace and infrastructural development in his domain.   Anyim, North’s elders, others condole with Kano     Buhari, governors, others mourn Bashir Tofa     Mother, children missing as herdsmen in army uniform invade…   “He will be remembered for his contributions to the peace, unity and development of his kingdom and the entire Oyo State.” The governor urged the family of the late royal father, friends, associates and the people of Ibadan to take solace in the knowledge that the monarch lived an exemplary life deserving honour and celebration. Okowa prayed that the Almighty God would grant the soul of the departed monarch eternal rest. In a statement in Poert Harcourt, the state capital, by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, Governor Wike said Oba Adetunji was indisputably a remarkable leader who devoted his life to the betterment of the people of Oyo State and the country. He said: “There is no doubt that the Olubadan’s wisdom and devotion were an enduring source of strength and comfort for the Oyo State government, Council of Obas and Chiefs. “On behalf of the government and good people of Rivers State, I wish to convey to his family and Government of Oyo State, our deepest sympathy at this sad time.” Governor Abiodun, in a statement in Abeokuta, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, described Olubadan’s death as a great loss not only to Ibadan land but Yoruba land. He noted that the late Oba Adetunji was an embodiment of peace as his reign witnessed great development of his domain. The governor said the late monarch used his wealth and wisdom to bear while on the throne, regretting that he would be sorely missed. Governor Abiodun urged the people of Ibadan land to take solace in the fact that the late monarch’s reign was peaceful and progressive. He prayed Allah to grant Oba Adetunji Al-Jannah Fir’daous.