Host nation Cameroon get the ball rolling in the quarter-finals of the Africa Cup of Nations when they lock horns with Gambia at the Douala Stadium today. Gambia have enjoyed a sensational debut at the tournament, claiming three wins and keeping three clean sheets from their four games and will look to cause another major upset. Despite being the lowest-ranked side in the Africa Cup of Nations, Gambia find themselves in contention for a place in the semi-finals after a superb run so far. The Scorpions, who are making their first appearance at the tournament, kicked off their campaign with a 1-0 victory over Mauritania on January 12, before holding out for an impressive 1-1 draw with Mali four days later. Tom Saintfiet’s men wrapped up the group stages in style as they stunned Tunisia to a 1-0 victory at the Limbe Omnisport Stadium last Thursday courtesy of a 93rd-minute winner from Ablie Jallow.   Haaland: the story of my soccer life     NFF may dump Peseiro for Eguavoen     Ex-Barça midfielder Ilaix Moriba makes Valencia move   - Advertisement - Gambia carried on their habit of causing upsets into the knockout stages of the tournament as they put on a sensational show of class to grind out a 1-0 victory over Guinea in Kouekong last time out. Read Also: Covid: Comoros without goalkeeper for Cameroon In what was their third 1-0 victory at the competition, Bologna forward Musa Barrow came up trumps for the Stade Omnisports de Bafoussam when he struck the winner in the 71st minute to send Guinea crashing out of the tournament. Meanwhile, just three games away from conquering the continent, Cameroon will feel delighted by their performance on home soil and confident in their chances of going all the way. Meanwhile,fresh off the back of eliminating tournament favourites Nigeria, Tunisia square off against Burkina Faso for a place in the semi-finals of the Africa Cup of Nations at the Roumde Adjia Stadium in today’s quarter-final match. This will be the first meeting between the sides since they both squared off at this stage of the tournament back in 2017, when the Stallions claimed a comfortable 2-0 victory before falling short to Egypt in the last four.