In his characteristic of brutal frankness, the Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum told the Nigerian Military that the recent rocket attack on Maiduguri, by the suspected Boko Haram/ISWAP terror group was too close for comfort. Governor Zulum who for some time now has be praising the military for successes being record in the terror war however, this time pointed out that the latest rocket attack at the state capital as well recent abductions by the terrorists and insurgents were very worrisome. Zulum who was speaking in Maiduguri when he visited the 1,000 units housing estate where the devastating rocket occurred on the fateful Saturday morning declared, “It is very sad and unfortunate that this kind of attack and others are happening at this time. It seems the insurgents came very close to Maiduguri. Our military have to wake up and ensure adequate surveillance. This is something we should be able to avert. For the insurgents to have come so close to fire rockets, I think there is something wrong that we have to check “We have to fortify Maiduguri as we will continue to do around other cities and various towns across the state. The rocket rocked a house in the estate causing serious damage and pandemonium around the Maiduguri International Airport, and nearby Njimtilo and Shuwari Villages. Though no life was lost but the heavy unexpected sound of the rocket was a sad reminder that Boko Haram/ISWAP are locking very close. Zulum commiserated with those affected by the unfortunate incident adding, that the Government would take measure to avert future occurrence. To this end, he said that a small committee to assess damages inflicted as well advise the government on future preventive steps would be set up.   Uneasy calm in APC governors’ camp over convention     NLC mobilises for protests against hike in petrol price     Marwa in the eye of people   - Advertisement - According to some security experts, the rocket launched was aimed at the destruction of Maiduguri airport strategically located in the terror war against Boko Haram and its allies. Besides, they argued that the terrorists as well the insurgents still want to register themselves a force to be reckoned with though, their influence is dwindling. The security experts are however unanimous that is a high time the Nigerian Military engage the terrorists on the offensive in the light of the successes being recorded with a view to frustrating and eroding their confidence, thereby forcing them on the retreat and possible surrender. They warned that the terror war should be fought from both rear and front pointing out that nothing should be taken for granted bearing in mind that to dine with the devil, a longer spoon is needed. According to the security experts to allow a breathing space for the Boko Haram/ISWAP is a call for them to regroup and come back more forceful. It would be recalled that during the latest visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Maiduguri, the state capital experienced similar rocket attack from the nearby villages. The sudden on the prowl attacks and abduction by the terror groups especially, in Borno which for some time now has been witnessing peace and tranquility is disturbing and debilitating to taste. Governor Zulum’s assertion that this is too close for comfort and worrisome is a view shared by many. According to an observer, “We were already sleeping with our eyes closed especially, in Maiduguri when all of sudden and from nowhere the GBURUM! And DUM! DUM!! erupted again!! Where do we go from here?” the observed asked. It would be remembered that on several occasions, Governor Zulum has expressed serious reservation with the creation of super camps by the military, an outfit in which hitherto camps are merged into bigger ones leaving some town and villages unprotected. This, explained Governor Zulum made some towns and villages more vulnerable. The Governor for example, cited Auno a village town about fifteen kilometres from Maiduguri which has been area of a several attacks and destruction by Boko Haram. In addition, he has consistently called for increase of military patrols along major roads especially Maiduguri – Damaturu Road where abductions has been prevalent. With constant military patrols and military presence in towns and villages, synergy among members of the security agencies and cooperation between the military and the civil populace, the movement of the insurgents and terrorists could be effectively monitored and attacks drastically reduced.