Manhood is the new fiend. Hence most societal problems are attributed to degenerate maleness. For instance, the manifestation of the boychild money ritualists, from the Bayelsa trio (all 15-year-olds) and Owolabi Adeeko who killed his 22-year-old girlfriend, Favour Daley-Oladele, for money-making ritual, have been blamed on poverty and the lack of a positive male role model in their lives. Adeeko told the police in Ogun State how he killed Daley-Oladele, a final year Theatre Arts student of the Lagos State University, by using a pestle to crush her head. Thereafter, her organs were harvested for a ‘get-rich-quick’ money-making concoction by his accomplice pastor, Segun Philip. The deceased’s trunk was opened up to remove her heart, which was cooked for her boyfriend, Adeeko, and his mother to eat, as part of the money-making ritual. From teenage boys and young men’s frantic lunge for sudden wealth via money rituals, to their complicity in terrorism, gender based violence, armed robbery, kidnap for ransom, Nigeria careens to the shove of dissembling manhood. By the latter’s flaws, we experience a fatal forming of maleness and society. Popular culture’s celebration of grotesque and increasingly infantilised versions of masculinity aggravates the malady- from Nollywood’s neurotic man-boys to the bestial and slacker dudes of feminist-misandrist literature. Partnership and parenthood, responsibility and security, are projected as stultifying rather than instrumental to adult blooming. The gender wars aggravate this trend, thriving on the insecurities that drive the sexes apart. - Advertisement - The stakes are too high to ignore. If we care about our society,we must pay equal attention to both girls and boys, women and men. The ruckus of degenerate manhood, misandry and toxic feminism, however, furnish a popular culture that offers young boys a dumbed-down version of manhood and a rhetoric around fatherhood largely predicated on the father’s dispensability and his absence. Fatherhood is redefined in the public mind as an experience of failure rather than success; absence rather than involvement. In the same breadth masculinity gets redefined as being embarrassingly brutish, effeminate, homosexual, brash, and incurably dumb. Boys are in trouble; due to the lack of positive male role models in their lives, they get what they can from the streets, television, anti-male movies, and video games. All they need is someone whose exemplary footsteps they could follow but the society provides them only men they could dumb down to. A recent analysis of 2, 000 mass media portrayals of men and male identities, found that men were depicted mostly as villains, aggressors, perverts, and philanderers. From this stock-pile of anti-heroes, the boy-child is expected to navigate for a good male identity. Promoting the image of men as juvenile, mean, and stupid is cynical and exploitative, which makes the tide of inverse sexism that has swamped out television screens and the pages of literature even more appalling. In modern Nigeria, boys and young men suffer a dire lack of role models, especially if they are raised in a single-parent home. The situation is worsened by the lack of positive role models in extended family and government, and the perpetuation of overwhelmingly negative images of men by the media and feminist scholarly research. Ultimately such portrayals lead to negative social costs for society in areas such as male health, rising suicide rates, and family disintegration. This is a precarious age for the boychild. He is taught to repudiate positive patriarchal notions of manhood and imbibe virulence as the cornerstone of his becoming. The college gender gap is another worrisome development; it must  be acknowledged that while Nigerian males are projected to hold statistical edge over females in school enrollment rates, they do not hold a productive edge over females. There are more females contributing more meaningfully at work. More females are graduating Masters and Ph.Ds. A cursory look through postgraduate statistics and LinkedIn is instructive. The academia shies from the issue, bound by the gag of gender politics and the politically-correct notion that males enjoy higher school enrolment, are more financially stable, and better placed in business and politics. Consequently, several boys are denied push from high school to college.   The monsters we made (2)     The monsters we made (1)     Shooting pebbles at bandit storms   I have seen more boys drop out of school to become internet scammers (Yahoo Boys) disguised as bitcoin traders, forex specialists, I.T gurus, to mention a few. Many of them are casualties of dysfunctional families and the changing dynamics of the new global economy. The economy has become less friendly to men. This is a global problem, however. Jacqueline King, of the American Council on Education in her group’s study of lower-income adults in college, discovered that men had a harder time committing to school. They tended to start out behind academically, and many felt intimidated by the schoolwork. They reported feeling isolated and were much worse at seeking out fellow students, study groups, or counselors to help them adjust. Mothers going back to school, however, described themselves as good role models for their children. Fathers worried that they were abrogating their responsibilities as breadwinner, explained Hanna Rosin. At the backdrop of these realities, the “protector” and “provider” theories of manhood and fatherhood are continually dismissed as credulous and crude, in a modern world where conservative ideals of masculinity are maligned and fiercely rebuffed. On the flipside, the matriarchy enjoys patronage in crusader art and pedagogy. This slanted social complex has been adduced to a toxic leftist orientation. The situation is aggravated by lack of adequate attention to the Nigerian male at the policy level. Responding to my query on the issue, a staff of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) told me recently, that his organisation ignores Nigerian boys and adult males in its intervention programmes because the government has failed to make provisions for them at the policy level. “There are no provisions for funding male-oriented intervention programmes because the Nigerian government and local NGOs do not consider boys and men worthy recipients of any form of intervention,” he said. It is pleasing to see girls and young women flourish and succeed. But it is wrong to neglect boys, leaving them to grow up embittered and miseducated. This is surely recipe for disaster, the kind that is happening in real time. Aside from the teen boy and young adult male’s fancy for quick money via money ritual, a tragic manifestation presents via Boko Haram and armed bandits’ replenishment of their ranks with a steady stream of boy combatants, moving child abductees cum stone-cold killers through neighbourhoods and forests, using military trucks and passenger vans to boot camps holding more than 1,000 boys on the watch of adolescent trainers. There is a reason the “money ritual,” and Boko Haram and armed bandits’ creed of diabolism and violence is resonant among misled and brainwashed minors. The exasperating nature of their lusts, the grievances articulated, dysfunctional families and pervasiveness of poverty amplify the boys’ rationale for embracing a creed of cruelty and carnage. A history of corruption and neglect at the federal, state, and local levels of government, among others, is a major source of widespread dissatisfaction towards politicians, the legal system, and law enforcement. More worrisome is the teenage cult, Awawa’s incursion into primary schools. Just recently, 12 pupils of the Egan Community School, between the ages of 6 and 16, were reportedly initiated into Awawa, in Alimoso area of Lagos. These days, in the far north, it is normal to see 10-year-old boys romanticise raiding villages, killing traditional chiefs and taking over their wives and daughters. This is how fragile the situation is.