The Doctors Nigeria led by the Executive Producer, Dr. Adebayo Osholowu, has announced its partnership with The Landmark Lagos to support the Lagos State Government with COVID-19 vaccination via mobile vaccination clinic on Victoria Island. Osholowu, who spoke to newsmen recently also noted that the first season of the TV show, The Doctors, will be held in Nigeria.   Sean Dampte waxes stronger as Hide Your Girls release draws…     Cheque switches to Afropop after meeting Wizkid     D’Banj, Simi speak on new roles as Nigerian Idol Judges   He said, “The Doctors does three things. It is an entertainment show that makes Nigerians laugh, makes them cry by sharing inspiring stories, and teaches them something about their health. It’s been showing on free to air and paid television since April of last year and it started in the coronavirus era every week 1.8 million people tune in week in week out to watch The Doctors but we are also listening to them and a lot of them have been asking for help what can we do to help them with their health problems and coronavirus is what everybody is afraid of and we tried many things but now we realise that with the government taking delivery of 40 million vaccines and only 7.7 million people of ours which is 2.2 percent of our population vaccinated more people need to get vaccinated so we listen and a lot of people don’t want to get vaccinated on the street for a different reason because of the myths so we taught what can we do, we wanted to take the vaccine to entertainment centres and the Landmark has shown leadership by being the first to bring the Covid vaccine to the Landmark Lagos ,” said Adebayo. Over the past ten days we’ve met 20,000 people an average of 10,000 people a day and today we vaccinated number 201, we just have 230 than the national average so more people are getting vaccinated here because we are answering their questions and also we are bringing it to them where they like to live and enjoy and it is all under the patronage of the Landmark. It’s been very exciting for me and as you can see people just buy their ticket and they look and they say oh let me get the vaccine so it is very simple, entertaining, engaging and it’s helping our people. Continuing he said “The booster isn’t on the bus for several reasons one of them is storage, the booster by the government policy is Pfizer which needs to be stored by minus 18 degrees which means you need dry eyes and you need to sustain that so we can’t sustain that on the bus also they need to be a validation, photo validation for Pfizer, we also can’t do that because we don’t have validators on the bus. So it is not just about giving the shots, it is by actually getting validated and getting a certificate that you can use to get into venues and to travel”, he said.