The Federal Government yesterday said it never urged governors to enforce compulsory COVID-19 vaccination for workers at the local and state government levels. But it promised to continually encourage Nigerians to get vaccinated against the disease, especially with the increasing infections and deaths from the Omicron variant. It also stressed that getting vaccinated not only protects a person but also ensures that their loved ones are shielded from the disease. The Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib, stated this while speaking with The Nation yesterday in Abuja in reaction to a publication that the government urged governors to “enforce” COVID-19 vaccination in their states. The agency in its latest advisory said: “It is strongly recommended you get vaccinated against COVID-19 to stop the spread of the virus. When you get vaccinated, you protect yourself, your family, friends, and community against the disease. Vaccination with COVID-19 vaccine or any other vaccine is not mandatory in Nigeria.   Man loses three children to midnight fire     Zamfara killings: Buhari committed to crushing banditry,…     Fed Govt accuses politician of fueling boundary disputes   - Advertisement - “However, evidence of vaccination against some diseases, such as Yellow Fever and recently COVID-19, is required for entry into some countries.” The agency listed some states that have made significant progress in vaccinating its population and those lagging behind. The NPHCDA’s data further showed that Nasarawa is still the leading state in terms of COVID-19 vaccination at 62.96 per cent of target population for vaccination. Other states include: Jigawa, 51.50 per cent; Ogun, 19.88 per cent; Oyo, 16.55 per cent; and Zamfara, 16.01 per cent. “Meet our top five performing governors and their states on the COVID-19 mass vaccination campaign in Nigeria. “Jigawa has joined Nasarawa to vaccinate over 50 per cent of their eligible population in the mass vaccination campaign. Anambra and Enugu have moved from being in the worst performing states to 29th and 31st positions respectively. Kebbi leaped by three steps in the last one week,” it said in its latest data.