For an administration that have, all too often, preferred the bubble of exaggerated self-assessment to the living reality that have come to define the lot of the ordinary citizen, it must have come something of a relief for its army of critics that Channel Television’s Seun Okinbaloye reeled out the stats that a somewhat startled President Muhammadu Buhari could only muffle a feeble dissension. And so it went: Okinbaloye:  “When you took over in 2015, our debt stock at the time was about 12 trillion, now it’s about 32 trillion…Inflation rate was about 9%, it’s now sitting at about 15%; unemployment rate was about 9.2%, it’s now at about 32.2%; exchange (rate) was about N197 to a dollar, now it’s way over 400 naira to a dollar. Now people would look back and say before you took over some of these indicators were fair, and now the figures are not friendly at all.” PMB: “Well, I am not sure how correct your calculations are, but all I know is that we have to allow people have access to the farm. We just have to go back to the land.” As they say – facts can prove stubborn sometimes. Which is it must have come to those expecting a robust rebuttal from the president – the same man who in another breathe tagged the opposition PDP as ‘failure’, as something of a disappointment – or an anti-climax!  So much for reeling off tangent on a subject that, among others, constitute the main issue of the moment and one that would willy-nilly define this presidency. - Advertisement - Of course, it might sound somewhat ‘extremist’ to describe the number one citizen as the administration’s de-marketer-in-chief; there is no doubt, a lot that could be said of his grasp of the fundaments of policy that cannot but leave the ordinary folk bewildered. And that is not to say that most Nigerians do not already know where the president stands on major issues of the day.  Or his capacity, which for good measure, has proven to be somewhat overrated. Whether it is pastoralism where the presidents insists on the rights of the herders to open grazing or the good old enterprise of tilling the soil which his administration continues to push for the same old antediluvian tools of the trade, or the security arena where the president, a brass hat, is fixated on the unilineal model of command and control, what Nigerians have come to see is a leader stuck on models utterly mechanistic and outmoded; a model so unsuited to the nation’s constantly evolving dynamics that one could not but wonder about a presidency caught in some time warp. One often pities our dear president though if not entirely his administration for a chunk of the mess that is not entirely of their making. Picture of the Jonathan years as the years of the locust; surely, Nigerians remember an administration that had so much money it could indulge in all manner of frivolities that added nothing of real value to their lives; an era when more revenue inflow meant net zero savings, less accretion and more debts to pay. As if one needed reminding of the so-called ‘strategic alliance’ – that barely-disguised Ponzi scheme supervised by the national oil corporation under which some juicy oil blocs were alienated to private interests under some dubious partnership. Recall a country so utterly bled that even votes meant for the military in war-time went into the private accounts of officials the consequence of which the ordinarily formidable Nigerian military was reduced by to a platoon of cowboys by the Boko Haram.   When enough is enough!     Not a heroic moment!     Oromoni: many unanswered questions   An electricity sector parceled out to friends and cronies in the guise of privatization; a petroleum sector so crippled, hobbled and deliberated subverted until it became a joke to describe it as an industry. Of course, the less that is said of the nation’s four refineries the better; here, successive PDP administrations seems to have done far better in making them deliver tonnes of money to the pockets of corrupt officials than they have of white products. Well, it’s been nearly seven years since! The years of supposed broom revolution whose drum majors although promised a different course but which has since turned out to be more of the same. Where do we begin from? The refineries? Surely, if we concede to the president, his typically statist predilection; in other words, his desire to retain the control of the refineries in government hands, that the same president, a former (or current) petroleum minister that once pooh-poohed the idea of subsidy did practically nothing to push in the direction in the whole of a whole term and a half can only be described in the realm of the stasis for which the administration is renown. And the consequence – a continuing regime of fuel import bill and its subsidy correlate under which the economy reels. Or the power sector where the country continues to punch far below its weight? Could the administration claim to have done anything differently to excite Nigerians? What about unemployment – that is easily the corollary to the current insecurity? It is simply scary! And the state of insecurity?  Today, if the traditional centre of insurgency, the Northeast is less of a nut to crack, it is only because the war has not only mutated, but has found a new theatre in the Northwest and North-central. For while Nigeria might not have the flag of the Boko Haram foisted in part of the country, were Nigerians asked to choose between the sheer carnage routinely unleased by terrorists in the Northwest and North-central from their various forest bases where they are camped and those of the Boko Haram, it seems highly unlikely that they will have any to choose from. Of course, as it is in the Southeast where anarchy – from the reign of the unknown gunmen – reigns; so it is to a lesser extent in the Southwest with menace of criminal herders and kidnappers. All of the above is hardly about denying the administration credit where it is due. Surely, there can be no denying those visible achievements either in the road or the railway sector even if the constant refrain about doing more with less is, to put it mildly, debatable. In any case, the obverse side of the equation is the humongous debt that the administration has contracted of which increasing number of Nigerians have expressed not a little worry. As many have reasoned and rightly in my view; what Nigeria has is not so much a debt problem as it is a revenue one. Defining the problem as one of debt, I will add, misses the point in a country where the tax to GDP ratio is among the lowest in the world. Here is the deal: had those officials in the administration spent a fraction of their energy, or better still, applied their minds, to addressing the tax to GDP gap as they have done in their endless shuttles across the globe in the name of shopping for loans, we might in fact be talking not only of a fundamentally new approach to doing things but a sustainable public finance strategy in the long run. In all, it is in a sense, more of the same. But what do I know since the president apparently thinks that all of these do not matter.