Dogged by a festering crisis amidst prophecies that its end is imminent, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) must conjure some magic formula to stay afloat. In this report, Assistant Editor, ‘Dare Odufowokan, examines the prospects of the troubled political party in a pivotal year. In the last 20 months, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has grappled with a lingering crisis that seems not about to end.  The party slid into confusion in June last year when the Court of Appeal upheld the suspension of then National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. He was earlier suspended by the party in Edo State in what was part of his battle with the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. An Abuja high court, in March, 2020, also ruled that his suspension was legal and ordered Oshiomhole to stop parading himself as national chairman. The suspension was initially lifted after the appellate court granted a stay of execution of the high court’s order. On June 15th, 2020, the Appeal Court, however, sealed Oshiomhole’s fate when it ruled that his suspension was valid and stripped him of all entitlements to the office. A few days later, the party appointed Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, as chairman of its caretaker committee. Buni’s appointment came after APC dissolved the national working committee following a week of confusion over who should lead the party after Oshiomhole’s exit. Speaking after his emergence as chairman of the caretaker committee, Buni assured APC members of the justice in managing the crisis in the party. - Advertisement - But after almost two years in the saddle, Buni has been unable to end the tension within the party. Rather, his stay in office as Caretaker Chairman is now a major cause of disaffection with many chieftains accusing him of sitting tight and habouring sinister plans ahead of the 2023 general elections. Already, scores of litigation now trail both the party registration exercise and the nationwide congresses conducted by his caretaker committee. In addition, there are crises in at least 15 state chapters of the party. In Cross River, Rivers, Kano, Bauchi, Imo, Enugu, Plateau, Zamfara, Kwara, Gombe, Ogun, Osun, Oyo, Ekiti and Taraba States, chieftains are at war with one another over the control. Reconciliation efforts by the Buni caretaker committee have failed to resolve the issues. More worrisome is the fact that there are not less than a dozen cases in various courts now challenging the eligibility of the party leadership. Of the five pending cases, the opposition PDP and the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) initiated one each while three were initiated by members of the ruling party. This is in clear violation of an earlier directive that no party member should drag the APC to court. Pundits say the verdict on all the cases could haunt the party in future. After what many party chieftains described as overstay, the Buni caretaker committee announced that it will conduct elective convention in February. But party members led by some young Turks are insisting the Yobe governor and his team leave office immediately as February is too far away. This development has led to another crisis with some members dragging the party to court.   Doomsday prophecies From within and outside its fold, predictions about its imminent pop up daily. New National Chairman of PDP, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, on assuming office pointedly predicted that the APC will collapse by March/April 2023. Describing the ruling party as “a contraption,” he said: “By March/April 2023, there will be no APC in Nigeria. APC is a contraption, a contraption to win power, but they have no programme or any ideological position on what to do with power. Therefore, we will be coming back in every state and at the federal level to take over power with a coherent programme of action, and with which we will implement workable policies as we were doing before.” Similarly, Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal has predicted that the ruling APC will collapse and pave way for the PDP to offer Nigerians the much-needed leadership. He said the ruling party had since lost focus and the confidence of Nigerians for not been able to deliver its mandate as promised. From within the party, pioneer national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), Senator Rufai Hanga stated that the party right now is ‘technically non-existent’. Former Abia State governor, Orji Uzor Kalu, has also warned that unless urgent action is taken, APC may be heading for the rocks. With some economists saying the economy is daily getting smaller than what it was in 2015, critics say Nigerians may out of frustration, reject the APC soon.   2022: PDP battles uncertain future     Despite challenges, we’re committed to better Bayelsa,…     The economy: boom or bust in 2022?   “This will put the final nail in the coffin of the ruling party. Protests like the #EndSARS protest, which is an offshoot of years of bottled-up anger over the unfortunate state of affairs in the country, will increase and the party will become unpopular,” Anslem Okoro, an analyst added.   Not so bad But some pundits disagree with those predicting the demise of APC. According to Dr. Roland Okpue, Country Representative of Democracy Africa (DA), the PDP as the leading opposition party, has failed to threaten the ruling APC in any way. He said: “It’s not enough to look at how troubled APC is and predict its end. It is more important to examine the available options. In the current situation, APC is not threatened at all by the PDP that has failed to provide opposition to the ruling party as required for the good of democracy. “It is unfortunate that the electorate is left with no concrete option. The APC may not be healthy, but its chances are very bright given the absence of a virile opposition party. The PDP is still remembered for its misrule by the people. And when it had the chance to act as a strong opposition party, it was bedeviled with crises upon crises for many years. The people will not just dump the APC. They will first consider what the alternative is,” he said signaling hope for the ruling party. Similarly, Ahmed Dahiru of the Centre for Good Governance (CGG) said it is not out of place to still predict victory for APC in 2023 in spite of all its failings. “In my opinion, the APC is benefiting from the absence of strong democratic values in our country. The party is waxing stronger by the day, not because it has lived up to expectations, but because there are no serious challengers offering the people what they desire. It is a case of making do with what is available. “At least eight federal lawmakers of the PDP have dumped the opposition party for the APC not long ago. Last June, Peter Nwaoboshi, senator representing Delta north, also joined the APC from the PDP. The PDP also lost two of its governors, Ben Ayade of Cross River and Bello Matawalle of Zamfara, to the same ruling party in May and June, last year. That is not a party that is about to die in my opinion,” he said. Hope Uzodimma, governor of Imo, says there is no reason to fear for the future of APC since the present administration is “performing well”. According to him, the APC has also witnessed a significant increase in its membership in recent times. “What is the prevailing situation that will make APC collapse? Is it that you don’t know that 22 states in the country belong to APC?” the governor asked. “Is it that you don’t know that out of the 774 local government areas in the country, that the APC is controlling the majority? Have you not seen the number of people decamping into the APC?”   What must be done? But former Zamfara State Governor, Abdulaziz Yari, insists that the party’s future depends on how the power rotation deal by political elite is treated. To Senator Ita Enang, presidential adviser on Niger Delta Affairs, the survival of the party depends on how quickly it gets rid of the Mai Mala Buni caretaker led committee. He fears the APC risks losing its presidential bid in 2023 because the party doesn’t have an executive known to law to field candidates for elections. Director General of Progressives Governors’ Forum, Dr. Saliu Lukman says APC needs to take hard decisions to survive. “It is about taking hard decisions. That is what is required to preserve the party. Those hard decisions would be liked by some sections of the party and some would definitely get angry. But, at the end, the party needs those hard decisions to survive. Inability to take those hard decisions creates problems whereby the party will start disintegrating,” he said. Sounding optimistic about the survival of the party, Okpue however cautioned the ruling APC to deepen internal democracy and improve on its conflict resolution methods if it desires to stay around for much longer. “The party is threatened by itself. Today, the strong opposition you see to the APC across the country are dissenting voices within the APC itself. And that is not good enough. A house divided against itself cannot stand for long. “It is important for the party to address the many grievances within its ranks. The number of aggrieved people that are remaining in the party and grumbling should be reduced to the barest minimum to avoid an implosion. That is the most dangerous type of disintegration or collapse; from within. If this is done, and with the PDP too weakened and distrusted to be taken serious by Nigeirans, the only thing left for APC to do is to choose a popular and worthy presidential candidate in 2023,” he said.