Burkina Faso was, last week, the latest African country to embrace coup d’etat as a means of rectifying poor governance. Chad (strictly speaking a member of the Economic Community of Central African States, but shares border with Nigeria), Mali and Guinea had gone down that chute in 2020 and last year when soldiers shot their way into office. Chad got away with its coup because the change seamlessly accompanied the assassination of President Idriss Deby Itno when he visited the war front, and partly because his successor was his son Deby Itno Junior. ECOWAS leaders have tried to deal with their three renegade countries as best as they could, but have met with qualified success. Mali, the most recalcitrant, has lashed out at everyone – ECOWAS, France and the European Takuba task force set up to help the country combat Islamic State and Al Qaeda militants. Mali has instead invited Russian military advisers and mercenaries to do the job, while it called the bluff of every other country and power bloc. On the many occasions this column addressed the Chad and West African coup crises, it had decried the mealy-mouthed approach of ECOWAS leaders in condemning the coups, not to talk of the long ropes they gave the coupists to make amend. The column warned that if regional leaders continued to pussyfoot over the coups, other ambitious soldiers would not only be encouraged to organise coups, they would also be emboldened to defy sanctions and every other diplomatic actions the bloc might propose or impose. The warning has proved prescient. Worse, ECOWAS leaders have been befuddled by the massive civil society support the coupists have received in their unconstitutional efforts to revivify their weak and stuttering governments. Clearly, constitutional rule has remained incapacitated and unattractive in the region. No country has proved to be an inspiration, and Nigeria, which was supposed to be an example of how a democracy should function, has proved spectacularly inept, unmanageable and unwieldy. The region has a population of over 350 million people, more than two-thirds of whom are Nigerians. The continuing failure of West Africa, not to say its indolence and inability to delink itself from its colonial past, is a reflection of the impotence of Nigeria. Nigeria’s democracy itself teeters on the brink, with the country ravaged by insurgents and bandit terrorists on the one hand and the failure of its leaders to proactively address diverse and crippling challenges. The unfurling of coups in the region may continue for a while longer, not only because forceful change of government appears attractive, but also because West African leaders have no practical answers to the coup crisis or possess the acumen to arrest poor governance. West Africa’s civil society has enthusiastically welcomed the coups, insisting that overthrowing incompetent elected governments had become a duty. There behaviour is probably due to their limited understanding of how democracy works, and its limitations, and because poverty, a byproduct of poor governance and meddlesomeness of foreign powers, particularly France in its continuing expropriation of Francophone West African countries, remain debilitating. Forced to choose between the stalling or even death of democracy and their economic wellbeing, the people have repeatedly opted to sacrifice ideas and idealism. ECOWAS has handled the affairs of the region with embarrassing tameness and lack of surefootedness. Most of those whose democracies are surviving today are, strictly speaking, not better than those who have now lost theirs. Until there is a marked difference and significant improvement in the practice of democracy between military dictatorships and elected governments, the attraction for coups might continue to percolate. More importantly, Nigeria with a population of more than 200m people owes the region a duty to clean up its act. It often defied ECOWAS court rulings, truncated its own practice of democracy by undermining the rule of law, and offered its people appallingly low quality of leadership that birthed insurgencies and banditry on a scale that beggars belief. Even its elections are disgraceful and shambolic. Until it shows leadership by example and produces the zeal to make black people all over the world proud, and until it becomes an ambitious country of decent people and exemplary leaders, it is unlikely West Africa will make progress, let alone develop its democracies and dissuade its soldiers from forcibly overthrowing elected governments.   All Nigerians regret voting for Buhari – BNSG     North must produce Buhari’s successor, says Bala…     Amid probe, Abba Kyari makes first public appearance at IGP…   - Advertisement - Probably the most convincing argument any high-ranking member of the PDP has made so far on the presidential zoning brouhaha is that the opposition party would not be bound by the mechanistic strictures that compel the ruling party to zone or rotate the presidency. He is right. Having had a northerner as president for eight years, the APC will be reluctant to push the aspiration and candidacy of another northerner. It would not make sense. There would be no way to defend such callousness. However, as sound and logical as the PDP position is, they may soon find out how interconnected the country is, an interconnection that strangely transcends tribes, parties, and sometimes religion. For reasons partly coincidental, most of the well-known presidential aspirants on the PDP platform are northerners. Former vice president Atiku Abubakar, former Kano governor Rabiu Kwankwaso, former senate president Bukola Saraki, serving Bauchi governor Bala Mohammed and serving Sokoto governor Aminu Tambuwal, all northerners, have indicated interest in running for president. Contradistinctively, nearly all the major APC aspirants for the highest office in the land are southerners. This seemingly natural dichotomy may be more intuitive than calculated. The APC can’t defend the retention of the presidency in the North; but the PDP, whose last president was from the South, can. But that is where the dichotomy ends. While it is not clear what the final positions of the parties would be when they hold their presidential primaries before the year runs out, they may discover before the next poll what the prevailing national sentiment concerning the highest office sounds like. Once discovered, that sentiment will probably impel the parties into fine-tuning their perspectives and choices and give them the boldness to judge which party and candidate are likely to win the presidency. Months before the 2015 presidential poll, it seemed all but clear who between Goodluck Jonathan and Muhammadu Buhari would win. That vague sense of who the winner would be in turn triggered Dr Jonathan’s futile desperation and challenger Buhari’s confidence. Would the country pass through the same furnace again? In the months ahead, the PDP may increasingly feel being boxed into a corner. Everything about the party reeks of a northern candidate for the 2023 poll. But if the prevailing sentiment of the country shows a repudiation of another northern president, the PDP would discover its elbow room completely constricted. What the country thinks of another northern president? It is not certain yet; but Nigerian voters might be influenced by the fear of keeping the presidency in the North for another eight years, and if care is not taken, ad infinitum.