The England-based trio of Kelechi Iheanacho, Alex Iwobi and Wilfred Ndidi were amongst nine players who arrived at the Super Eagles Bolton White Hotel camp on Tuesday in Abuja ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the other players who arrived in the early hours of Tuesday morning include three other English-based players, namely: Frank Onyeka (Brentford FC, England); William Ekong (Watford FC, England) and Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England). Others include; Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy) and Kelechi Nwakali (SD Huesca, Spain). NAN also reports that Interim coach, Augustine Eguavoen was only able to train with 14 players on Monday at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, prior to the arrival of the nine players which brought the total number of players in camp to 23. No fewer than five players are still been expected including, Jamilu Collins (SC Padeborn 07, Germany); Tyrone Ebuehi (Venezia FC, Italy); Joseph Aribo (Glasgow Rangers, Scotland); Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal FC, Spain) and Odion Ighalo (Al-Shabab Riyadh, Saudi Arabia). - Advertisement - The week-long camp which opened on Dec. 29, 2021 will end on Tuesday (today) with the team expected to depart for Garoua, Cameroon on Wednesday, six days before their opening Group D fixture against seven-time champions Egypt. The 33rd edition of the AFCON will hold in Cameroon from Jan. 9 to Feb. 6, 2022.   Super Eagles get Sudan warning     Fans fault Joshua on link with Mayweather     Costa Rica 2022: Danjuma invites Demehin, 25 others for…   Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (AC Omonia, Cyprus); John Noble (Enyimba FC); Daniel Akpeyi (Kaizer Chiefs, South Africa); Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam, The Netherlands) Defenders: Chidozie Awaziem (Alanyaspor FC, Turkey); Kenneth Omeruo (CD Leganes, Spain); Oluwasemilogo Ajayi (West Bromwich Albion, England); William Ekong (Watford FC, England); Olaoluwa Aina (Torino FC, Italy); Zaidu Sanusi (FC Porto, Portugal); Olisa Ndah (Orlando Pirates, South Africa) Midfielders: Frank Onyeka (Brentford FC, England); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Chidera Ejuke (CSKA Moscow, Russia); Kelechi Nwakali (SD Huesca, Spain) Forwards: Ahmed Musa (Fatih Karagumruk, Turkey); Henry Onyekuru (Olympiacos FC, Greece); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England); Moses Simon (FC Nantes, France); Sadiq Umar (UD Almeria, Spain); Taiwo Awoniyi (Union Berlin, Germany); Alex Iwobi (Everton FC, England); Peter Olayinka (SK Slavia Praha, Czech Republic).   (NAN)