Controversy over the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2010 will end soon, it was learnt yesterday. The National Assembly will before Saturday send an amended version of the proposed law to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent. The reworked bill by the Senate and House of Representatives will be passed today. Senate President Ahmad Lawan disclosed this after meeting behind closed doors with Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The President had in December refused to assent to the bill, citing the direct primary provided for political party primaries to select candidates for elections as his core reason. - Advertisement - Buhari’s rejection of the bill triggered varied reactions by stakeholders, including some National Assembly members, political parties and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). While some, such as the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), called on the Senators and House members to override the President’s veto, others advised them to simply rework the contentious clauses in the bill and resend it to the President for his assent ahead of the 2023 elections. Many Nigerians were keen to see whether the lawmakers would have the courage to override the President. Responding to a question by State House reporters on when the reworked bill would be sent to Buhari, Lawan said the grey areas had been attended to. He said: “By the grace of God, tomorrow (today) both chambers, that is the Senate and the House of Representatives, will pass the bill and I hope that before the end of the week, the bill could be sent back to Mr. President for his assent. “But one thing I’m sure, by the grace of God, is we are passing the bill, the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2010, tomorrow(today), Wednesday, the 19, in both chambers. “We are happy that at the end of the day, we have been able to narrow down our differences and arrived at a very patriotic resolution that our country must have a new electoral law that will guide the 2023 general election and Nigeria would have everything to benefit from this law. “For us in the ninth Assembly, the Electoral Act Amendment Bill is one of the major legislative agenda that we wanted to deal with and to the glory of God Almighty Allah, by tomorrow (today), we will be able to pass that bill for Mr. President for his assent. “I hope that the cleaning process will not take more than a day, but if it does, then, it has to be early next week, but I’m very optimistic that there is not much to clean because normally, when we pass a bill like this, it goes to the Legislative Drafting Unit of the National Assembly. “So, what you have in the National Assembly, as passed, is not the final document that comes to the President. “I know that many people were saying there were so many flaws in the bill that was brought to Mr. President. Maybe, what they had was the bill passed in the Senate or in the House, not the one that was cleaned up.” Before meeting with Buhari, Lawan had while welcoming his colleagues from the Yuletide break, listed the need to rejig the controversial bill and the ongoing review of the 1999 Constitution as the major planks of the Senate’s Legislature Agenda. After his welcome remarks, the Senate dissolved into an executive session that lasted for about two hours.   Nigeria on food sufficiency path, says Buhari     How governors foiled plot to scuttle APC convention     Who is afraid of Tinubu?   At the end of the session, Lawan said the Senate postponed discussions on the consideration of the response of Mr. President on the bill “to enable us to consult with our counterparts in the House of Representatives and also consult with our constituents.” He recalled that “having consulted, the Senate will expeditiously look into the issues raised by the President.” Lawan promised that the Senate would “continue to provide the support that Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) needs for successful elections across the country.” In the House, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila assured Nigerians of a credible electoral law. He also disclosed that the first set of amendments to the 1999 Constitution would be tabled before members for concurrence before the end of February. Gbajabiamila said: “We have a lot still left to do in a very brief time. Principal amongst these priorities is the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill. First, let me express my profound gratitude to all of you for your work to pass this most critical legislation. “I want to commend you all for the work done. Unfortunately, that bill did not receive presidential assent, and it is unlikely that it will in its current form. “Now, we have to choose between sticking to our guns regarding the provision to mandate direct primary elections for political parties or reworking that provision to save the rest of the bill. “Let it be clear to all that our only objective in introducing that provision was to strengthen the foundations of our democracy so that it works for all of our nation’s people. “The process by which political parties nominate candidates for election is essential, perhaps, even just as important as the general election itself. “Therefore, the House will reintroduce the amendment tomorrow(today). And we will work quickly to address the mitigating concerns, pass the bill and send it back to the President for assent.” “We have less than thirteen months to the next general election, so time is of the essence. “A credible electoral law is what the people want. It is what the people deserve, and we must give it to them. “The Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill includes many other provisions that will serve our democracy well, and we cannot throw away the baby with the bathwater.” Some CSOs had earlier yesterday advised the National Assembly to rework and re-transmit the bill to Buhari by Friday They argued that a new electoral law would facilitate early preparations for the 2023 general election and minimise legal uncertainties that make the electoral process susceptible to manipulation. The CSOs include Yiaga Africa, International Press Centre (IPC), Centre for Citizens with Disability (CCD), The Albino Foundation, CLEEN Foundation, Institute for Media and Society (IMS), Nigerian Women Trust Fund (NWTF) and Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ). Others are Partners for Electoral Reform (PER), Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC), Nigeria Network of Non-Governmental Organisations (NNNGO) and Inclusive Friends Association (IFA). Executive Director, Yiaga Africa, Samson Itodo, who spoke for the CSOs, said that the President should upon receipt of the re-transmitted bill assent to it within a week.