Ansu Fati will not need to undergo surgery after suffering another injury setback at Barcelona with the Liga giants revealing that a “conservative” rehabilitation programme will be followed. The 19-year-old forward was forced out of a meeting with Athletic Club on January 20 in tears after picking up another untimely knock. It was later revealed that he had suffered a hamstring problem, but that issue is not as bad as first feared and the highly-rated Spain international will be eased back to full fitness. Barca have said in a statement on the club’s official website: “The first team player Ansu Fati will follow a conservative recovery plan for the injury to the proximal tendon in his left hamstring. His recovery will dictate his return.” The talented teenager has endured a wretched run of misfortune on the injury front over recent years. - Advertisement - Knee issues followed him around at one stage, with a serious ailment picked up in November 2020 leaving him sidelined for the best part of 12 months.   Juventus agree €75m Vlahovic transfer as Arsenal miss out     AFCON: Lagos State viewing centres remain open — LSSC DG     Eight sacked EPL managers in 2021-22 season   Barca were eager to avoid rushing him back, having been forced to send a hot prospect under the knife, but were delighted to see him slot straight into the fold upon his return. Fati opened his 2021-22 campaign with a goal off the bench in a meeting with Levante on September 26. Another minor knee complaint kept him out of two games in late October but he returned with a bang again – with a new contract under his belt – as two goals were recorded in as many games. Fati was then forced back into the treatment room after picking up a hamstring injury in early November, with 11 games missed on that occasion. He had hoped to leave those troubles behind him, but a familiar problem has struck him down once more and means that he will play no part in Barca’s upcoming schedule. That fixture list includes a meeting with Atletico Madrid on February 6, a derby date with Espanyol a week later and a heavyweight Europa League last-16 tie with Napoli. Goal