No fewer than 11 persons have been confirmed killed and several other left with bullet wounds when gunmen launched an attack on two communities of Kurmin Masara area of Zangon Kataf local government area in Kaduna State. Kaduna Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the attack on Sunday, revealed identities of the eleven villagers killed in the attack. Sources from the area had earlier said Kurmin Masara and Zaman Dabo villages came under attack in the early hours of Sunday by gunmen who killed 16 people and set almost 40 houses ablaze. A villager said the attackers stormed the community around 3am and raided house to house unleashing mayhem. The villager said: “As l am talking to you, we are yet to ascertain the actual number of those killed and those injured by the attackers until we go round the community that is when we will know who and who is around and those actually killed but so far I can confirm about sixteen dead bodies. - Advertisement - “During the attack I find somewhere to hide myself, I tried calling the security but there was no response. “A small boy of about 5-6 years was shot during the attack and was being taken to the base to take permission to take the boy to the hospital. “On their way, the shot the two women with the boy and the other two women behind ran and hide themselves. From Zamaru Kataf to Bakin Kogi, once it is 6:30pm no vehicle can pass there. “This early morning (Sunday), when we discovered the people killed at Kurmin Masara and Zaman Dabo and almost 40 houses where burnt, most of those killed were burnt in their houses as the people were fast asleep as at the time the gunmen came to the community,” he explained. “Peoples houses, properties and food stuffs that were burnt to ashes is unquantifiable presently, we pray this continued attack and killings will come to an end because innocent people are just be killed with reckless abandon,” he said.   Man arrested after Man Utd suspend Mason Greenwood     God, not prophecies will determine my successor –…     Ekiti 2022: Fayose, Ayu sold out PDP to APC, Oni alleges   Read Also: Gunmen sack two Niger communities, abduct 100 Aruwan, in a statement, said: “Security forces have reported to the Kaduna State Government that Kurmin Masara general area of Zangon Kataf LGA was attacked in the early hours of today. “According to the reports, troops of the Nigerian Air Force Special Forces who responded to distress calls from the area also fell into an ambush as they mobilized to the scene of the attack. “The troops cleared the ambush and reached the general area, along with troops of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH). “As of 4:30PM, eleven residents were confirmed killed, and some inflicted with gunshot injuries. “The victims confirmed killed are listed as follows: Elizabeth Ayuba, Veronica Auta, Bege Daniel, Kephas Waje, Promise Jacob, Damaris istifanus, Hauwa Joshua, Dogara Gambo, Lidia Ishaya,Michael Achi and Gabriel Michael. “Over thirty houses and properties were burnt in the attack. “The injured were evacuated for treatment. Search-and-rescue operations and pursuit of the attackers are in progress on different fronts. “The Government of Kaduna State will make public further details as soon as they are received from security forces. “Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i, who has been in touch with the security forces and is receiving hourly briefings, expressed sadness at this report of the latest in a series of attacks in the area. “He prayed for the repose of all those killed and conveyed his condolences to their families. He further wished the injured a speedy recovery,” Aruwan said.