There comes a time in the affairs of men, when they can comfortably say enough is enough, enough of the shenanigans and let’s take the bull by the horn and do what is right, for our generation and those yet unborn. The political tempo is undoubtedly on the rise as the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and its stakeholders continue the horse trading on who occupies the Independence Layout seat of power in Enugu State. Over the years, the party has had the misfortune of allowing a few serving Chief Executives of the State to choose from the comfort of their homes who their replacements would be and everyone thereafter kowtows. It never augurs well, as it breeds disaffection, hatred, divisions and against the tenets of participatory democracy. Indeed, the peoples’ voice and collective choice mean nothing to the emperors at Government House, all they are interested in, is to foist on the people, at most times mediocre successors, who would have no say of theirs. Governance ought not to be a tea party or assemblage of whiskey and brandy faithful and cronies, but a most serious business, one thought, out through and through, planned with the new entrant, having desired to make a difference by putting on table exceptional programs of action . It is not for the Lilly levered, nor is it for hallelujah chorus groups. One’s face don’t need to be admired or where he is coming from the criterion, but consideration must be his or her ability to deliver. Is the person experienced, professional competent, good natured and has he a pedigree of performance from past political or other assignments accomplished to wit. Senator Ike Ekweremadu, three – time Deputy President of Senate , Speaker of ECOWAS Parliament back to back and  the only Member from Nigeria on the International Parliament of Peace and  Tolerance based in Malta, one who continues to touch the lives of the people of the 17 Local Governments of Enugu State, through his well articulated Educational Foundation by awarding scholarships to students to study both overseas and at home, seems very prepared and experienced enough to turn Enugu State around. - Advertisement - Having been a former Chairman of Aninri Local Government, Chief of Staff and Secretary to Enugu State Government, a most exalted position that had afforded him opportunity to be in the inner and technical operations room of government, he no doubt, has an intimidating profile and resume, to bring smiles and assurance to the electorate who would be in no qualms that they have given the mandate to one who would deliver. After all the  PDP party’s slogan trumpets that power belongs to the people and if it so resides with the electorate, concerted efforts must be made to respect their views and positions on such sensitive issues than being clobbered into a a frightened state because of executive powers and perhaps fear of intimidation and ostracisation.   Benue 2023: I’m the most suitable for this time…     2023: Six PDP Govs, Ayu, Saraki, Obi endorse…     Okotie-Eboh: 56 years after   Any positive and progressive looking party , must go into political contest, with their best and indeed their very best first eleven, so to say, and Senator Ekweremadu fits the bidding. There is no gain – saying that Enugu State, stands to benefit by having such a towering and political technocrat as the next Governor of the state, come 2023. The last Christmas get together,  he had with a cross section of the political class, stakeholders, academia, youths and women in Enugu signalled a return to egalitarianism, justice, fair play and a more serious politicking of ideas than pugnacious and belligerent outbursts. He had said he would tackle headlong the present near division and acrimonious positions being adopted by building what he termed a City State than a fractured state , where brothers and sisters of same state would no longer dream of dangling cutlasses because of political power. He paid glowing tribute to former Governor of the state, Barrister Sullivan Chime, for stamping out completely banditry, thuggery and hooliganism. He would ensure insecurity is tackled headlong. Days of gestapo, brigandage and Machiavellian descent to anarchy including encouraging those nefarious activities, should be gone for good. No one in his right mind, would allow such rape of democracy and oddities to rear their ugly heads again in Enugu State. A man who unmistakably says he would use creative thinking to reposition Enugu through industrialisation, economic rebirth, harnessing the tourism potentials and making the state which prides itself as pioneering Nollywood, by building a Film Village to attract the necessary foreign exchange amongst other richly endowed resources of the state, cannot be one that should not earn the respect and nod of the party as Party Primaries are about to begin earnestly. Senator Ekweremadu has paid his dues, a darling of PDP at very crucial stage when at the national level the party suffered a disfunction, disjointed and things were crumbling, he stood and be counted as he took head on the cracked party and restored it to normalcy. The story of PDP winning Edo State, cannot be complete, without sizeable chapters devoted to his political engineering with some key senior party members. Since he will be offering a selfless service, let the Enugu State PDP, do needful as Senator Ekweremadu is undoubtedly the man for the job.