Students and workers at Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), have decried the epileptic power supply on and off-campus. Nevertheless, they call on authorities in the institution and electricity distribution companies (discos) to address the issue. OLAITAN BABATUNDE (FUOYE) reports. Power supply  is nothing to write home about in the country. Therefore, people rely on generator as their major  source of power. Uninterrupted electricity is essential in schools,homes, factories and the likes. Essentially on  and  off campus, regular electricity supply affords students opportunity to read and engage in proper research. But when power supply is erratic or non existent, they go through nightmare studying effectively. At Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), which has been in existence since 2011, power supply is problematic, despite being one of the highest paying institutions in the Southwest. The state of electricity in Oye is terrible, both off campus and on campus. Sadly, the school relies on generator to power lecture theatres,offices and all. - Advertisement - CAMPUS LIFE learnt that there are inadequate transformers in Oye and it’s really affecting the distribution of electricity. In an interview with CAMPUS LIFE, Students Union President, Salahudeen Teslim said the SUG executives were  working towards engaging  concerned stakeholders through peaceful demonstration and dialogue to ensure uninterrupted electricity. “Our day-to-day operations require   stable power supply. But poor power supply  affects our academic life except for students who have  alternatives. As a union, we’re working round the clock to ensure that we leave the situation better than we met it. “I am very much optimistic that the outcome would be commensurate to the sacrifices of our heroes whom were victims of the September 9 struggle in Oye-Ekiti, over this same electricity issue,” he said. He added that though the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abayomi Sunday Fasina, is very much concerned about the situation,a permanent solution is required. “The situation in Oye is  survival, only for the fittest. However, we’re trying to adapt, though, this might be too demanding and burdensome for our fresh students,” he said. Victor Osunrayi, a 400-Level Mass Communication student, said: “Electricity in FUOYE isn’t the kind of electricity we do have back in our homes. It’s pretty poor!  It has affected academics in terms of students struggling to charge their devices (phone, laptops, rechargeable lamps etc) and this would affect how  they read and do their assignments.’’ While calling for more transformers,he noted  that students  rely on their friends who switch on their generator around 8pm to 10pm. Awe Oluwapelumi,a 300-Level Political Science student  said power supply in Oye is the worst in the  Southwest. He said: “I have visited Abeokuta, Lagos and Ibadan. When there’s power supply in Oye, there are some places in the community where people cannot even charge their   mobile phones because  of low current. And it seems  community leaders are not making any attempt to make it better. On the  average, we have seven days of electricity supply in one month which is very bad in an area being inhabited by students.” He also stated that this has contributed to how students procrastinate when it comes to reading and that most times they exhaust their allowance on fuel. He advised community leaders to collaborate with the discos  on ways to make the electricity supply stable to some extent. On efforts by management to address the situation, he said: “I don’t think the school management has been doing anything to improve this situation. Even the street lights that were meant to be functional on campus are neglected.The school has been in existence for close to 11 years now, but it is still battling with epileptic electricity supply. “Power bank has become everyone’s best friend  because  hardly will you see a FUOYE student without it.We also use torch  to read. Imagine finding it difficult to learn and at the same time going through the stress of charging your gadget everytime.” Fasipe Akintayo, a 300-Level student, said poor electricity has affected students’ productivity. He lamented that  students read at POS centres and warned those who read  beside generating sets to desist because  the fume is dangerous to health. He, however, urged  management to seek   assistance from the government, although the school is trying to fix solar panel on  the  premises. “Government should pay more attention to electricity in Oye considering that students learn there. Rural electrification and developing an alternative like solar or renewable energy should be considered” he said. Ibitola Oluwaseun, a 300-Level History and International Relations student, urged the  Federal Government to improve electricity in the community.   Gbajabiamila to deliver UNILAG convocation lecture     ‘I didn’t know I would be overall best’     IBBUL student develops App   His words: “Federal Government should  at least install more power plants for the use of students and community at large. “The school can only make this possible by urging   Federal Government  to  intervene. Though the school is trying it’s   best by stationing  generators  in different faculties and administrative offices,  more effort is required.” Another student, Jimoh Adesope, said: “Poor electricity is affecting almost everyone  because learning is now digital. Class updates, information and even notes are sent on Whatsapp and other social media platforms  like Telegram and the likes. You have to walk miles and expose yourself to bodily harm and harsh weather to get your electrical gadgets charged. “Several promises by the school and union  haven’t brought the desired results.” Olajimi Temitope, a 300-Level Accounting student, said: “It is the norm when there’s no power supply and the low current is ineffective in charging phones. “Students stay out in the cold to charge and those that cannot cope with the weather are at  risk of not doing their assignment which is part of their continuous assessment. “Though the school is trying its best, it should consider using  money spent on diesel  to develop  infrastructure on  campus.” President, Mass Communication Students, Babatunde Oladayo, while bemoaning the state of electricity, said:” I have been  in Oye for over four years and sometimes for over three weeks there  may not be  light. “Electricity is imperative in a student area for the purpose of charging gadgets that would be used in school. Without power, it becomes difficult to do assignment and research work . ” In FUOYE, lecturers do not sell handouts, rather they give materials to  students to study more. The materials are  mostly in soft copies. Without electricity, it becomes difficult to read on the phone. Cafe centres also increase the price of printing because they have to fuel their generators and the price of fuel is also on the high side.Also, students  pay to charge their gadgets,” he said. Olawunmi Tosin, a 400-Level student, called for distribution of enough transformers capable of serving the community. He also stressed the need for  proper management of electrical devices by the power authority. “It seems management is not taking the issue seriously. The 2019 protests that took place in Oye community was  as a result of the inability of the school  to address the situation. This  prompted the SUG excecutives to take it upon themselves. This issue has affected students so much. Phones and laptops have been stolen because students rely on generators to power them. ‘’Reading  is done with lamps and it has  proved ineffective over the years,” he said.   Workers bemoan poor electricity Dr Abari Ogah, a lecturer in  Mass Communication Department, said: “For public electricity, I will say zero per cent as there is none as we speak (though work is on going on that so I heard). But for the school electricity system, I will say is 30 per cent, which is  still below average. “As a lecturer, electricity is needed for everything but for now we depend on one source which is from the faculty, that is the generator powering the building which was bad for a long time even during the last exams.  It has actually affected time for research, time to prepare lectures and even time to do other administrative duties requiring you to use  a laptop etc. ‘’Furthermore, apart from providing power generating plants to various faculties and units, the management is working assiduously to improve power on campus,” he said. Dr Uzor Umenyilora of the Media Department said:  “Sometimes there’s no electricity supply for over two weeks and the school switches off the generator around 4pm, which makes it difficult for lecturers to  have four to six classes. “For students that stay off campus, it becomes hard for them. As a lecturer, it gets difficult because it is almost impossible to pump water,iron clothes and even do research. He advised management to  meet with  community leaders about the electricity on campus,for supply of transformer and others.   Management committed to tackling issue Mufutau Adesina Ibrahim, the Acting Registrar, FUOYE, said: “As you are aware, provision of electricity is a general problem in the country.The issue of welfare of staff and students is paramount on the agenda of the administration under the leadership of Prof Abayomi Sunday Fasina, the Vice-Chancellor.Therefore, the university  is making frantic efforts in providing electricity on our campuses. “Management has made necessary arrangements for regular supply of electricity on campuses.The students will start to witness improved electricity supply starting from this week. Alternatively, management has placed generators and solar in strategic offices, and hostels to serve as alternative power supply. ‘’We are also discussing with some contractors on the possibility of having power generating plant on campus.If this is finalised, the host communities will also benefit from it.’’