The Federal Government now gives priority to local contractors, manufacturers and professionals in terms of procurement. Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu stated this yesterday in Abuja, at the validation workshop on the draft revised 2022 National Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) policy. He said all the policies set up by the present administration have assisted the nation in moving from depending entirely on commodities to depending on knowledge that is innovation- driven. He said the validation workshop would help to critically examine the document, and prepare a final Revised 2022 National Science, Technology and Innovation Policy that will be sent to the Federal Executive Council for its consideration and approval. Onu also stated, “The journey to revise the National Science, Technology and Innovation Policy started in 2019. A number of committees were setup, including an Inter-Ministerial Committee. We thank the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) for their contribution. We also had a Task Team, comprising of some of our best intellectuals taken from our leading Academies to look at the document.   NIPOST enhances operations with electronic banking     Lagos plans to grow N1b agric revenue     Dangote Cement mops up N35.1b shares   - Advertisement - Read Also: Dangote Cement mops up N35.1b shares “We thank all the stakeholders including our Universities, Polytechnics, State Governments, Research Institutes, industrial laboratories, and the Organised Private Sector (OPS) who have made very useful contributions as inputs in preparing the document that is now before you. This Validation Workshop will help us to critically examine this document, and prepare a final Revised 2022 National Science, Technology and Innovation Policy that will be sent to the Federal Executive Council for its consideration and approval. “I am happy that the Federal Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (FMSTI) now has additional five policies approved by the Federal Executive Council. These additional policies, all include: the Science, Technology and Innovation Roadmap (2017-2030); the National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria; the Presidential Executive Order No. 5; the Leather and Leather Products Policy; the Methanol Fuel Production Technology Policy. “All these policies have helped the nation to move our economy from depending entirely on commodities to depend on knowledge, that is innovation driven. Our professionals, contractors and manufacturers are given preference in procurement by the Federal Government. Gradually, many Nigerians are buying made in Nigeria products. Our economy is now diversified and we are all working very hard to deepen the diversification. Nigeria is changing in a positive way. Good things are happening in Nigeria.”