Oil prices steadily rose this week, hitting an all-time high of $89.05 per barrel, thus making it the highest since 2014. Stakeholders and analysts predict that the commodity may reach the $100 mark in no distant time. What could be responsible for the soaring oil price? What are its implications and how prepared is Nigeria for this price regime? MUYIWA LUCAS asks This week is perhaps shaping what the future of crude oil price for the year. In the last four days of the week, crude oil price in the international market space has been on a steady increase. For instance, the commodity’s price as at yesterday, stood at $89.35 per barrel. Brent crude futures were up 81 cents, or 0.9 percent to $88.32 a barrel- making it the fourth day in succession. The benchmark contract earlier touched $89.05, its highest since October 13, 2014; while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures climbed 97 cents, or 1.14 percent to $86.40 a barrel. WTI earlier jumped to $87.08, its highest since October 9, 2014. Following this development, officials of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) are convinced that a $100 per barrel oil price is possible in the next few months. Although the current oil price increases may not deliver the same sort of revenues recorded by the country in 2014, yet, there are still gains to be made by the country from its export of the commodity; hence, government is expected to cash in on this window. This position is further buttressed going by available data from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which revealed that the country earned about $11.3 billion or N4.69 trillion (using CBN forex official rate of N415.3 / dollar) from crude oil and gas exports in the third quarter of 2021. This was at a time international oil price averaged $75 per barrel. - Advertisement - Yet, it appears to be all rosy for oil producing nations if going by a recent Goldman Sachs report that oil price of $100 per barrel by the end of this year and $105 per barrel in 2023 is anything to go about. This week’s oil price rise is said to have been influenced following a fire on a pipeline from Iraq to Turkey which stopped flows, increasing concerns about an already tight short term supply outlook. Added to this is the unplanned outages in Libya, Ecuador, and Kazakhstan, coupled with downgrades to US, Russia, and Brazil forecasts, which together resulted in one million bpd lower supply this month than previously forecasted. Also, security concerns involving Russia, the world’s second-largest oil producer and the UAE, OPEC’s third-largest producer, are adding to supply fears. Meanwhile OPEC, Russia and other producers known as OPEC+ are struggling to hit their monthly output increase target of 400,000 barrels per day (bpd).   Output OPEC, in its December 2021 monthly report, disclosed that Nigeria, including Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Venezuela boosted its oil output between October and November, with their average crude oil production increasing by 3.83 percent from 1.228 million bp/d to 1.275 million bp/d. In a similar vein, as contained in its “Crude Oil and Condensate Production 2021,” the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NUPRC), the total volume of crude oil and condensate the country produced in 2021 was 17,686,919 barrels. The report said the total volume was oil produced from crude oil, blended condensate and un-blended condensate in the year under review. A breakdown of the production showed that in January, the production was 1,711,467barrels; February it was 1,760,934 barrels; and in March it was 1,748,474 barrels. Also in April, Nigeria produced 1,687,044 barrels, in May 1,659,293 barrels and 1,639,403 in June; in July was 1,639,665 barrels, in August 1,530,210 barrels, and 1,532989 barrels in September. Still, 1,525,263 barrels was produced in October; 1,541,901 barrels and 1,471, 210 barrels per day in November and December. Production terminals and streams that generated these data. According to the data, the production was from such the terminals and streams like Bonny; Brass; Qua Iboe; Forcados; Escravos; Odudu;  and Tulja Okwubome; Okoro; Otakpipo; Anitan; Okono; Yoho; Okwori; Ebok; Bongs; Erha; Usan; Egina; Abo; Pennington; Ugo Ocha; Sea Eagle; Anyala Madi; Agbami; Akpo; and Ajakpa Tulja-Okwubome.   Capacity Impressive as this output and production may appear, it is still a far cry from OPEC’s allocated quota to the country. Therefore,  the country’s inability to meet her 1.6 million barrels per day crude oil production OPEC quota in the last five months will remain a huge albatross from benefitting maximally from the rising oil price. This is because the more output a nation is able to sell, the higher the revenue.   Otubu is EKEDP new chair     Again, I.E. and magical bills     The Kaduna Declaration   This shortfall in output may not be unconnected with such factors as the  cost of restarting fields and pipeline and other oil installation vandalism in the Niger Delta. OPEC and its allies, which has since been regulating oil producing countries daily production quota allocated Nigeria 1.6mb/d after the body agreed to raise production capacity by 400,000b/day, to avoid market glut. Available oil production statistics from OPEC showed that Nigeria produced 1.23mb/day in August, after hitting 1.32mb/day in July. Infrastructural and technical challenges have remained a bane for the country’s capacity as these have continued to lead to shut-ins in operations. In addition to the above problems, there have also been instances of community workers’ protests, which incessantly disrupt operations, leading to severe losses. For instance, in last August, sources maintained that the Nigerian NNPC and its partners lost 6.035 million barrels of crude oil to emergency shutdowns. Presenting its report to the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC), in August, the corporation reported that there were 32 of such incidents throughout its facilities in the country, leading to shut-ins. A breakdown of the losses, according to insider sources, showed that the highest combined shortage of 1.62 million barrels was from Qua Iboe, with 200,000 barrels due to production shut-in arising from flare management and low well head pressure. Still on Qua Iboe, a further 530,000 barrels were lost to shut-ins following tank top concerns, 650,000 barrels as a result of production cut-back as directed by the then Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) as well as a loss of 240,000 barrels due to a gas leak on one of the assets. This was followed by losses from the Forcados facility, which shed 200,000 barrels, 84,000 barrels, 30, 000 barrels and 80,000 barrels respectively on different days, with reasons ranging from leak repairs, tank top issues, a fire incident and declaration of a force majeure. Forcados continued its shut-ins, shedding an additional 405,000 barrels of crude oil at the Uzere/Afisere/Kokori axis following a shutdown as a result of protests by community workers as well as a loss of 80, 000 barrels due to a fire incident. In the same vein, Anyala Madu shed 105,000 barrels, Bonny suffered total shut-ins of 335,000 barrels, Ugo Ocha lost 30,000, Okono’s shutdown led to loss of 96,000 barrels, while Sea Eagle lost 750,000 barrels. The Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, however attributed Nigeria’s production struggles to technical problems from re-tapping reservoirs that had been shuttered to comply with the stringent OPEC+ cuts. He assured that output could rebound to around 1.7 million bpd by November and two million bpd by the end of the year. This did not materialise. “We had some issues from shutting down the reservoirs. When you shut down a reservoir, to restart it, sometimes there are challenges,” he said.   Experts speak An industry expert, and former head of British funded Facility for Oil Sector Transparency and Reform (FOSTER), Mr. Henry Adigun, noted that the huge cost of restarting a field, instability in fiscal terms and vandalism were responsible for the country’s low production level in the past. “The challenge is that if you shutdown most of the operations, restarting them is not straight forward. Our rig count was five a few months. A lot of factors affect rig count. One is price of oil in the market. When oil price is not very good and you shutdown, it takes a lot of cost to recover. If you look at the cost and it doesn’t look good on your balance sheet then you don’t recover. “The other issue is the damage and vandalism that is going on around. The level of vandalism is very high and it is under-reported. Agip, Shell and some other companies have suffered serious damages in their areas, limiting their ability to contribute to production, this has led to shutdowns,” he stated. Still, Olumide Adesina, an analyst at Quantum Economics, is convinced that until certain measures are put in place, meeting the production quota may remain a challenge. “Nigeria’s quest for over two million barrels per day would remain an illusion unless the Petroleum Industry Law is implemented quickly. Until we are able to show the world we are serious about attracting investment, only then will the world take us seriously. An uncertain environment will not attract investors. Investments are necessary to boost reserves and production. These investments will not be made in the current economic climate,” he warned. Opeoluwa Dapo-Thomas, an international markets analyst agreed.  He said that Nigeria’s production lapses or quota deficit is a technical one. “Restarting reservoirs is a pretty challenging process especially as some of our infrastructures are antiquated. Our key Nigerian crudes, Forcados, Bonny Light, Escravos and Qua Iboe have faced operational challenges in recent memory. If I can add, do we still have a threat of militancy and vandalism? I’ll be lying if I say the threats have completely evaporated. These are the issues,” he noted.