Over four million five hundred thousand eligible persons across the country have been fully vaccinated against the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Federal Government. According to data from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), as of December 31, 2021, 10,457,893 of total eligible persons targeted for COVID-19 vaccination were reached with first dose, while 4,515,006 of total eligible persons were targeted for COVID-19 vaccination reached with second dose (fully vaccinated). The Agency noted that Nasarawa, Jigawa, Ogun, Oyo and Delta States continue to lead in vaccination drive, as they have vaccinated their people more than any other state. Sadly, Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo, Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa are the least performing states in terms of vaccinating their people. The Federal Government however continues to urge citizens to adhere strictly to the non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) of regular hand washing with soap in running water, sanitising with alcohol based sanitisers, wearing of face masks, practicing social distancing, and avoiding large gatherings, especially in the light of the Omicron COVID-19 variant driving the recent surge in confirmed cases.   Tony Kabaka: No permanent friend, foes in politics     Mbaka: I saw Buhari in vision but didn’t ask Nigerians…     MC Oluomo: From unionist to monarch?   Recall that on December 10, 2021, the Federal Government began the administration of COVID-19 vaccine booster doses to protect Nigerians from the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, especially the new Omicron variant. It stated that evidence has shown that the booster dose further increases protection against the virus. However, eligibility for the booster dose includes being 18 years and above, fully vaccinated with either two doses of AstraZeneca, Moderna or Pfizer Bio-N-Tech or a single dose of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine. Also, the time interval before the booster dose is at least six months for these vaccines, except the Johnson and Johnson which is at least two months.As of December 31, 2021, a total of 242,341 COVID-19 cases were confirmed, with 214,296 discharged, and sadly, 3,031 deaths recorded.