Biodun Oyebanji is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State. He spoke with RASAQ IBRAHIM about his ambition, chances and other partisan issues. What informed your decision to throw your hat into the ring? If I may use your language, I threw my hat into the ring because I saw an opportunity to impact my people positively and contribute my quota towards the development of Ekiti and our people. With the experience garnered over the years, in academia, the private sector and in public service. I have been involved in the government of Ekiti State holding different positions for 11 out of the 25 years of the state’s existence, and I have not been found wanting in terms of competence, character and delivery. I believe I have sufficient understanding of the issues that are dear to the hearts of our people in Ekiti- both young and old, male and female. I have a clear understanding of the vision of the founding fathers of the state, having worked closely with them during the agitation for the creation of the state. Rumours are rife that you are the anointed candidate of Governor Kayode Fayemi for the governorship seat. How true is this?  I don’t understand what you mean by being anointed but if it means the same thing as endorsement or support I think I deserve it if I get it. I say this because having served under Governor Kayode Fayemi for two terms without blemish and with a record of performance to show for it, if I show interest in the governorship race and he chooses to support me, I think I have earned it. In fact, people should be very concerned if I don’t get his support, or he cannot vouch for me, having worked closely with him for over seven years in different capacities and having known him for over 20 years. However, let me quickly add that this is not my exclusive right because many people also served under Governor Fayemi and they can equally enjoy the same benefit. In fact, almost all the people contesting now must have approached him for endorsement or to get his support in one way or the other. Beyond the gubernatorial race, at least three of the aspirants have been supported by Governor Fayemi to be elected to the National Assembly at various times. So, to answer your question, his support is highly coveted and I would be honoured to get it. - Advertisement - It is widely believed by some people that you were being dragged into the contest by your promoter who want to continue ruling the state by proxy purposely to cover their tracks? That is a very interesting thought, but I understand because that is the perception some people have of politicians. I have also heard from some people, including journalists that the speculation about me contesting this election has been on for over a year. The truth of the matter is that those who are close to me can confirm that I’m not the type that could be forced to contest, if I don’t have the wherewithal to govern. The question I think people should ask is why it took me this long to aspire for elective office. My style is different, I don’t venture into any business, if I am not well grounded. Today, I can beat my chest and tell you that I’m one of the most qualified with requisite capacity and experience to strengthen the developmental strides in Ekiti and continue from where the present leadership will stop on October 16th. Now, coming to the other part of your question that some people want to use me to remain in government or cover their tracks. That is quite laughable, but we are dealing with serious issues of governance so I will not laugh. One, let me tell you something, the Governor Fayemi I know is not someone who is hungry for power and so the idea of him governing by proxy doesn’t add up at all. It will interest you that after the controversial 2014 election, some individuals were very desperate to get the mandate back by any means possible but he insisted on the rule of law. Then you spoke about covering tracks? Which tracks? Perhaps track record of performance and delivery of quality service to Ekiti people. Governor Fayemi is not a frivolous person; he’s transparent, respects the rule of law and he’s ever committed to lift Ekiti to its desired heights. He has run one of the most transparent government  in this state, winning the Open Government Partnership awards in 2020. What “tracks” does he need to cover? Such claims are from those who may feel they are losing out because of the ground swell of support my candidacy is garnering daily. There is no substance in it at all.   APC: Towards a successful convention     ‘Southeast should clinch APC presidential ticket’     Fayose’s image enough to win Ekiti PDP ticket for me,…   Do you think the ruling APC stands better of sustaining stranglehold come June this year?  Ekiti people are not only willing but are earnestly waiting for the day because the All Progressives Congress has done well in the state. Forget the distractions here and there through propaganda; the party has brought about stability in business, politics and other areas. I’m sure we will still get to discuss in more  details  what the party has been able to achieve under Governor Fayemi but one other thing I want to add is that there is peace in Ekiti and that is essential. There is progress and there is prosperity under the Governor Fayemi–led APC government. There is no victimisation of members of opposition parties and there is a conducive atmosphere for people to go about their businesses. These are in addition to the huge investments in education, health care delivery and infrastructure development. For this, the people have good reasons to support and vote for APC come June 18th 2022. While some people have described you as a technocrat, some have described you as a politician, where exactly do you belong? I belong to both and I am proud of that. I have been a lecturer, I have been a player in the banking sector, I have served the state government for 11 years and I have served on the board of a Federal Government agency as Chairman, Governing Board, Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre, Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development (June 2009 – Dec. 2010). Besides, I read a lot and I have a  passion for books on development, the global economy, African socio-economic movements  and books that deal with strategies for growth. The loudest noise in Ekiti political space is the vociferous agitations for power shift to the Southern senatorial district. What is your take on the issue? First and foremost, we are all Ekiti, a State that has often been described as being homogeneous, principled and loving. As a stakeholder, who is also involved in politics, I can tell you that at no time has any barrier been placed on any part of the State stopping them from participating in the governorship race. In fact, records have shown that since 1999, there hasn’t been any time that one person, at least, dis not show interest from the three senatorial districts. As I speak, in APC alone, at least three governorship aspirants are contesting from the South. Having said this, I think the most important thing is to get the best person for the job. To me, every interested indigene of the State, regardless of his or her religious affiliation or senatorial district should be given opportunity to contest and tell Ekiti people what he or she has to offer. Then, we will go for the best person. The most important thing is even distribution of the commonwealth and opportunities. You are one of the few Ekiti politicians who are very close to the Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo and Governor Fayemi. Don’t you envisage a kind of dual loyalty moving forward? I’m close to many Ekiti leaders, including former Governor Adebayo and Governor Fayemi and I’m loyal to all my leaders and elders of our party, including my ward chairman in Ikogosi Ekiti. Perhaps you don’t really know these two gentlemen you mentioned. They are not frivolous and they don’t like eye service or sycophancy. If they give you a task, they want result and not just result but good one for that matter. Ask other people who have worked with them, they will tell you Fayemi and Adebayo are not your usual politicians. They are respectable, focused and innovative leaders.