The Federal Government has given two physically-challenged former members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) jobs in the Federal Civil Service. The duo were handed their employment letters from the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) by the NYSC Director General, Maj.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim. The employment of the two ex-corps members – Onogberie Efe Lulu and Nuruddeen Tahir – was reportedly facilitated by wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari. In a statement in Abuja by the corps Deputy Director of Press and Public Relations, Emeka Mgbemena, the NYSC said the gesture followed the director general’s persistent advocacy for stakeholders’ support, especially in the area of welfare. According to the statement, Ibrahim expressed gratitude to the President’s wife for her sustained interest in the success of the NYSC and the welfare of corps members. - Advertisement - The beneficiaries assured the NYSC that they would utilise the opportunity given to them to render even greater services to the nation.   Convention: APC stakeholders ask governors to sack PGF DG…     ‘Driving after abusing substance can land you in…     24,000 terrorists surrender to troops in eight months   Also, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, has urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, to include persons with disability in future police recruitments. Farouq spoke at the official launch of the Nigeria Police Special Desk for Persons With Disability in Abuja. grammes, especially in employment. She assured the nation that the ministry would support the police to protect lives and dignity of persons with disability in Nigeria. The minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Nura Bashiru, said: “It is the fact over the years that persons with disability have experienced one form of discrimination or the other until 2019, when the Act was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, who has shown affection for persons with disability. “You will agree with me that laws made without proper enforcement or compliance will only appear as an ordinary statement without actions. You are here today to witness the launching of the strategic movement that will see to the establishment of desk officers to serve as quick response units to handle related cases and abuses against persons with disability.”