Worried by the insecurity in the country, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja have endorsed a peace tour of the Ayedero of Yorubaland Shina Peller to mobilise youths across the six geo-political zones against violence and insecurity ahead of 2023 general election. Peller, who is representing Iseyi/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal constituency of Oyo state, was recently installed as the Ayedero of Yorubaland (making the world a better place). Peller and his team kick-started the tour yesterday in Niger state. Apart from appealing to the youths to work towards peace, the lawmaker would be bridging the gap among youths across all tribes. Oba Adeyemi said Peller’s chieftaincy title necessitated his move to fostering peaceful co-existence among Nigerians.   Iheanacho: Eagles have new identity     Buhari lauds winning Super Eagles     G/Bissau 0-2 Nigeria: Exciting Super Eagles tame Wild Dog   - Advertisement - The monarch said he would give his staff of office to Peller to everywhere he intends to go to solicit for peaceful co-existence. Oba Ogunwusi said nothing meaningful can be achieved without peace. He said: “Looking at our present situation, insecurity is all over the place, and not having proper youth inclusion in all we do across the board. Peller, as an advocate of what I believe in, by virtue of what he does and his position as Ayedero, is trying to promote peace all over the country. He has my blessing to move around the country to speak as Arole Oduduwa, it is a good initiative that must be supported. “Peaceful co-existence particularly among youths across the board will go a long way to make our country a better place. Nigerian youths should continue to be focused and look beyond how they can be responsible in society. We should all come together to make this country a better place.” Peller said my major responsibility was to promote peace and prosperity in the land, noting that without peace there can never be progress.