OGA. That is how we call him, even till today. It was a name that sent the chill down our spine in school those days. Whenever we heard Oga nbo, it was time to leave whatever we were doing and run back to our classrooms. The name evoked fear, respect and love, all at the same time. His real name is Alhaji Jimoh Adisa Gbadamosi (OON), but among his students, he was and is still Oga, which is euphemism for master. J. A. Gbadamosi was a master of class and style. His teachers were in awe of him, while we, his students, adored him. In school, he stood in gap for us as a father. He remains our father till today. As principal of Ahmadiyya (now Anwar-Ul Islam) College, Agege, he ran the school in a way that made the owners proud. Students came from diverse backgrounds. Though a Muslim school, it admitted Christians as well. The school is what it is today because there was no religious discrimination. All the students, whether Christian or Muslim, were treated equally. Oga will not hear of it that any student was discriminated against on the basis of religion or the part of the country he came from.   Alumni renovates science laboratories     New college excites Jigawa indigenes     ‘No plans to shut schools over resumption’   The students too treated themselves like brothers, following the example of their principal. But how did he come about the moniker: Oga? Who gave him the name? It will take some investigations to unravel that. But for now, it is suffice to say that we (that is the 1977/78 set) met our seniors calling him by that name. The Ahmadiyya (that is the name we are used to) of our own day is different from what it is today in terms of facilities. Worried by this infrastructural decay, old boys of the school have been rallying round to put things back in shape. The 1977/78 Set has just completed the renovation of the library, which is named for Oga. The J.A.Gbadamosi Library will be inaugurated at the school compound today. A member of the set, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, funded the project. But he is not making noise about it. To him, it is the set’s project. So, the set is handling everything concerning the inauguration. Obanikoro and other members of the set will be on hand as Oga, the special guest of honour, hands over the library to the school today. According to Obanikoro, ”there is nothing too much (to do) for the school that made us who we are today”. “The school”, he added, ”deserves the best; after all, its motto is: Aut Optimum Aut Nihil (either the best or nothing)”.