Imo Governor Hope Uzodimma on Saturday blamed the security crisis in the state on the opposition and criminal elements. He called for a renewed and collective effort by the people to end violence and other forms of criminality this year. In his new year message, Uzodimma pledged that his administration will continue to work in concert with security agencies to ensure a safer Imo in 2022 and beyond. He also pledged that his administration will increase effort to redress the infrastructural deficit it met on assumption of office. According to him, the huge capital outlay in this year’s budget of over 74 per cent was a sign that more developmental projects were coming. - Advertisement - Uzodimma noted that progress can only be made in an atmosphere of peace. He noted that some opposition elements had sought to destabilise the state and arrest its progress. The governor expressed gratitude to God that they have been overwhelmed.   Clubbers harrassing our wives, daughters, Ibadan residents…     Imo: Six killed as soldiers, Ebubeagu raid Orlu community     Appeal Court orders Rivers, Imo to retain 50/50 sharing…   He also expressed appreciation to all patriotic citizens who supported the government’s efforts to defeat them. He was happy that inspite of the distractions from the opposition and criminal elements, the administration has recorded giant strides in all sectors. “The administration is also determined to give practical effect to its recovery programme by ensuring that all looted assets of the state are recovered,” he said. He said the recovery of the state’s Kibgsley Ozurumba Mbadiwe University worth N40billion, as well as the Shell Camp land, were aimed at safeguarding the assets of the state. The governor enjoined citizens to support the government to work for the peace and progress of the state. He urged them to resolve this year to engage only in actions that would enhance the peace and stability of both Imo and Nigeria. He said it was worthy of note that the Christmas and New Year celebrations in the state has so far been peaceful, to the glory of God. The governor assured that every effort will be made to ensure that Imo people enjoy peace throughout the year.