The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) has unveiled its 2022 programme of activities while the federation also named heads of its sub-committees and members. The year has started with the registration and documentation of all states and clubs affiliated to the federation and this will run throughout January with the first AFN All-Comers event featuring non-Olympic events scheduled to hold on January 29 at Ozoro or Asaba. The second AFN All-Comers competition holds on February 25 and 26, while there will be an anti-doping seminar for athletes and coaches. There will be two AFN Relays competitions and four AFN Classics events during the course of the year to get the athletes into shape for the major Championships and Games holding this summer. The two road races enjoy exclusive World Athletics label ratings starting with the Silver-label Access Bank Lagos City Marathon on February 12 and the Silver-label Okpekpe International 10km road race in Okpekpe, Edo state on May 28.   AFCON opens in flash of colour amid Covid-19     Geremi warns Eagles on Egypt’s Elneny     Osimhen clears of COVID-19   - Advertisement - The All Nigeria Open Athletics Championships which will serve as selection trials for the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, United Kingdom and the World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, USA will hold in June at the Stephen Keshi Stadium in Asaba. The AFN has also named heads and members of its sub-committees with the first Vice-President, Tafida Gadzama heading the road race committee. The performance sub-committee is headed by Victor Okorie, a former Nigeria 400m hurdles champion. Rosa Collins, former Nigeria and African record holder head the Women’s sub-committee while Maria Worphil, a former Secretary-General of the AFN heads the Protocol and Ceremonial sub-committee. The Technical sub-committee is headed by a former Nigeria track star, Samuel Onikeku while Ken Anugweje, a Sports Science Professor and Emmanuel Ojeme, a Professor and lecturer at the University of Benin head the anti-doping and education/institutional Sports Development committee/commission respectively while the ethics and disciplinary committee is headed by Ambassador Manta Haruna Mohammed. Athletes’ relations and media/publicity sub-committees will be headed by Henry Okorie and Dare Esan respectively while Commodore Nesiama Omatseye (Rtd), a member of the technical committee of the CAA and a qualified World Athletics Athletes representative will be in charge of the sub-committee in charge of organisations of all AFN local events. Two-time AFN president, Solomon Ogba will head the Youth and Sports development commission.