As tech-related skills continue to increase in demand daily in the world, Bincom Dev Centre a multi-location technology talent development and Solutions Platform have set up an initiative called “Bincom Tech Career Path Deep Dive Series” to get participants enlightened about and interested in specific tech tracks and provide a platform for professionals to facilitate and mentor younger ones. Founded by Tech Entrepreneur, Bade Adesemowo, Bincom Dev Center runs as a platform that offers talent development and mentorship in different tech fields. Among the services offered is the Bincom Global Tech Programme that allows participants to learn skills, gain experience and gain the relevant exposure to become globally attractive in the field of digital technology. Currently, some of the available knowledge tracks include Back-End Development, Mobile App Development, Data Science, and Digital Marketing. The next edition of the event series was announced as “Becoming a Full-stack software developer” to be facilitated by Adefolarin Adeniji, a senior net developer.   Firm unveils business TV channel on Startimes     Guinness Nigeria launches drink-driving e-learning module     Honeywell Group sets sights on key growth sectors   The first edition, anchored by Nneka Akuma, Project Manager at Bincom Dev Center held in November 2021 and focused on how to become a Quality Assurance / AutomationTest Engineer, and also learn high-quality skills with Dele Odusanya as the facilitator of the day. Dele Odusanya who has a background in Information Technology, is an experienced Software Tester who has managed several teams of penetration and automation testers for many large enterprises. He spoke extensively on Software Testing and the essentials required to become a software tester. - Advertisement - Highlighting the importance of software testing, Odusanya said, “It helps business owners to keep moving with the market trend. When testing is not done correctly or at all, it could lead to the loss of money or customers. Proper testing results in higher product quality and satisfied customers.”