As a result of the unrest in Ilesha, Ogun State, where five people were reportedly killed by cultists and incessant robbery cases, the police said they have arrested five hoodlums in connection to the unrest.  No fewer than five people were killed by cultists in the early hours of Saturday in Ilesha Community after members of Eiye Confraternity clashed with one another over land grabbing proceeds. Similarly, Ooni of Ife, Oba Ogunwusi on Saturday announced restrictions of movement between 11:00 p.m. and five a.m. over incessant robbery incidents in the community. The curfew is indefinite. For now, the Osun State Police Command yesterday confirmed the arrest of five hoodlums in the two communities. The command, through its spokesperson, SP Yemisi Opalola explained that “our men arrested three hoodlums in Ilesha. They have been terrorising the community. We are carrying out more raids to arrest other fleeing hoodlums.   Twin brothers allegedly defile 10-year-old in Anambra     NDLEA arrests three traffickers with 48,000 tablets of…     Ibadan mayhem: NURTW washes hands of clash with police   - Advertisement - “Also, we have arrested two suspected robbers troubling the Ile-Ife community. We believe that the incident of Ile-Ife doesn’t warrant the community to declare a curfew. Our men are available 24 hours every day to curb criminal activities in the community.” Read Also: Ibadan mayhem: NURTW washes hands of clash with police   This is just as Osun State Government issued a stern warning to criminals in the state. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemonde yesterday reads: “Our government wishes to inform the public that the disturbance in Ilesa caused by a clash between two rival cult groups and land grabbers (Omo-onile), has been brought under control and security operatives have moved into the communities where the clash had spread to ensure that there is no further break down of law and order. “Residents of Omi-tuntun, Ijoka, Sabo, Ilerin-Ijesa areas and other affected communities can now go about their lawful activities without fear. Peace has been restored but the communities remain under tight security surveillance till further notice.”