A socio-cultural group Ogbomosoland Consultative Council (OCC) has described the death of Soun of Ogbomoso Oba Jimoh Oyewumi Ajagungbade 111; former Oyo Governor Otunba Adebayo Alao Akala; Professor Alex Gboyega and Professor Taibat Danmole (Nee Oyewumi) as a collective loss with phycological impact on the people of Ogbomoso The non- political body of prominent Ogbomoso Indigenes constituted by the late Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Oyewumi, said this in a condolence message during a visits to the family of Otunba Adebayo Alao Akala. They were received by the familes and associates of the late Bobagunwa of Ogbomoso who was alao a member of the group. In a message read by Dr Saka Balogun one of the group’s coordinators, the group commiserated with the families of the deceased and the entire Ogbomoso and prayed God to grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. While urging the deceased families to be courageous, the group promised to galvanise its strength unity and faith in Almighty to ensure the development and progress of the land . - Advertisement - Read Also: To Soun Ajagungbade III, a tribute “Until his death, he was a member of the triumvirate at the leadership of the OCC. Other members of the leadership of the OCC are General Oladayo Popoola and Dr. Saka Balogun.” “The message we are sending to all our people, the traditional, religious, community leaders, women and the youths, therefore, is a message of hope, unity, peace, purposeful leadership and progress. “In the days and weeks following the transition of our revered Soun, the OCC has stood in the gap for coordination of affairs and consultation, while supporting the Palace Council of Chiefs, the royal family members and ensuring that the peace and security of the community is sustained.   ‘Our projects in tandem with T.H.E.M.E.S agenda’     Youth ambassadors for training in US     ‘We don’t mutilate monarch’s body in Owu…   “The OCC shall continue to play these roles in a most apolitical manner and in the best interest of Ogbomoso” While urging Ogbomoso people to always remain peaceful, law abiding and vigilant, OCC assured every Ogbomoso indigene that there will never be a vacuum in the protection of their interests. “We also urge our citizens to steadfastly pray for the safety, security and progress of Ogbomoso, the State and the nation. They should also pray for the success of all processes that will eventually produce the next Soun of Ogbomoso. God bless Ogbomosoland, keep us all safe and grant us good health. Amen” While urging Ogbomoso people to always remain peaceful, law abiding and vigilant, OCC reassured every Ogbomoso indigene that there will never be a vacuum in the protection of their interests. “We also urge our citizens to steadfastly pray for the safety, security and progress of Ogbomoso, the State and the nation. “They should also pray for the success of all processes that will eventually produce the next Soun of Ogbomoso. God bless Ogbomosoland, keep us all safe and grant us good health. Amen” Still shocked on the death of Akala,OCC Public relations Officer, Ambassador Akintola Oyateru said Akala still chaired a virtual meeting the Monday preceding his death where he assigned roles on the befitting funeral plans for the late Soun of Ogbomosoland. He identified the deceased as a man who was keen about Ogbomoso,saying he was unashamedly passionately in love with his ancestral home. Members of the group in the entourage include Gen Oladayo Popoola (Rtd) Chief Bayo Bankole, Amb Akintola Oyateru, Senator Abdulfatai Buhari, Senator Ayoade Adeseun ,Hon Wumi Oladeji, Dr Akin Onigbinde SAN, Chief Sunday Adegoke, Professor Adepoju DG FRIN, among others.