Since Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Jagaban Borgu, announced that he would contest the February 2023 presidential election, it would appear that all hell has been let loose. In the aftermath of throwing his hat into the ring, Tinubu has become the dominant figure in the political landscape and he is equally trending on social media. But he is not the only candidate who is eyeing the exalted seat in Aso Villa. There are well over 16 Nigerians, according to media intelligence reports, who, like Tinubu, want to be president. They are well within their rights to contest and test their popularity during the presidential election when it holds as scheduled by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC); that is if they are nominated by their parties. Tinubu bashing has become the favourite pastime for some and a full-time job for others in a highly hypocritical society. Why would one man attract so much venom from different quarters? What is his offence? The poisoned arrows aimed at Tinubu are like giving him more ammunition to fight on. By the time the dust settles down, Tinubu would have fought the fiercest battle of his life. - Advertisement - Three times, APC – the party that has been playing poker with destiny – allegedly postponed their national convention just to “contain” Tinubu and “cut him to size”. Thankfully, the convention will now hold on February 26. The Tinubu factor is real. My free advice to the leadership of APC is that they should not lose their focus because of Asiwaju who is determined to become the party’s flag bearer. When Tinubu said it has always been his ambition to become Nigeria’s president, I don’t think he is bluffing; he should be taken seriously. The late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, and late Chief MKO Abiola came very close to achieving the same ambition. After Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, will it be Tinubu’s turn to be Nigeria’s president from the Southwest region? APC’s leaders seeming obsession with Tinubu’s political ambition and the plot to stop him at “all cost” may backfire and prove to be an unintended but expensive gambit that could favour the opposition. By the way, the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, is watching and waiting down the road for APC to play into their hands due to the unending crisis of confidence within the party. In truth, there’s no difference between APC and PDP. My theory is that they are two sides of the same coin. Unfortunately, we are left with these two options as we count down to next year’s general elections because they are the dominant parties. The idea of a Third Force is necessary but each time promoters of the idea come together to test the idea, they fall apart like a pack of cards. Apparently, they are not ready. Having “conquered” other territories, Asiwaju Tinubu, from all indications, is poised to overcome every obstacle on his way to winning the top political prize of his career. How would he achieve this goal? Tinubu has his game plan but historically, winning depends on how well he can achieve a broad coalition and secure the major voting blocks. But it is too early to say which way the pendulum will swing because, after the APC national convention, the primaries to elect the party’s flag bearer will follow. The mode of conducting party primaries may allow for consensus candidates, a very dodgy affair that is open to manipulation. Whether it is indirect primaries as it was in 2015 or direct primaries adopted in 2019, our politicians know what is at stake and they will cut deals to survive.   Transforming Nigeria’s agrifood system     Oil belongs to Niger Delta people     Lessons from the Magodo brouhaha   Tinubu has been enjoying the largest share of voice – whether positive or negative – in the media even before his famous trip to Aso Rock to inform President Muhammadu Buhari of his intention to contest next year’s presidential election. He is also enjoying first-mover advantage after declaring his ambition ahead of others. The controversies created around Tinubu by his adversaries – without them knowing it – are actually helping to enhance his popularity index and increase his brand equity. In building successful brands, top of mind awareness is an important part of the brand equation. Since Tinubu has become a major factor and talking point, let us digress a little bit by asking some fundamental questions to enable us provide relevant contexts and evaluate a similar scenario in order to understand his brand essence. So much has been written about how Tinubu “captured and pocketed” Lagos State but no one, to the best of my knowledge, has conducted any rigorous research on the subject. Students of politics and strategy should investigate this phenomenon and find out how Tinubu “captured” the richest state in Nigeria. How, indeed, was it possible for one man to “capture” Lagos? How did he do it? What happened to the rest of us? Does it mean Lagosians went to sleep while one man was working round the clock to become the “owner” of Lagos? How come, as alleged, that he is also responsible for all the key appointments in Lagos State and beyond or who is awarded which plum contract? Then Tinubu, whom we are often told is not from Lagos or whosoever is vested with similar skills, must be an enigma and extraordinary genius! It is understandable that some of Tinubu’s erstwhile associates – indeed benefactors – have “rebelled” against him for one reason or the other. Please don’t lose sleep over the matter; it is the way of politicians and they are always open to reconciliation driven mainly by enlightened self-interest. Now take the case of Donald Trump, the former President of the United States. Knowing what he stands for and without compromising the values of his brand personality, Trump followed his heart and joined the vocal Republican crowd to pursue his dream and life-time ambition. It does not matter whether we like him or hate him; Trump is also an enigma of the rarest kind. Some of my friends tell me they like Trump because he is “bold and fearless”. It doesn’t matter that he tells bare-faced lies or that he created two Americas within the United States, they still like him. A showbiz impresario, reality television star and real estate entrepreneur, Trump has always craved media attention; it is the oxygen he needs to operate forcefully from his bully pulpit enabled by his sensational and provocative tweets before Twitter banned him. How did Trump win the Republican nomination for president of the United States in 2016? How was he able to beat other notable contestants when it looked like he did not have a whiff of a chance of becoming the Republican Party nominee? From 17 major candidates that entered the race, it eventually narrowed down to three: Donald Trump, Ted Cruz and John Kasich. Trump went on to score landslide victories – an interesting phenomenon – and became the Republican Party candidate. He was the dominant news item on a daily basis. Trump, a master of subterfuge and an excellent salesman, loves to hug the spotlight, a deliberate tactic he uses to promote his brand power. In spite of his own hubris, Trump won the November 2016 elections, beating Hilary Clinton who looked set for the White House. What am I getting at? Thrashing Tinubu and making him look like a villain even before the primaries is a familiar story. I concede that Nigerians are becoming more aware of our current circumstances and want a president who will give them hope that they can hold on to, believing that tomorrow will be better than today. In fact, for some Nigerians, where the president comes from is not important as long as he or she can be trusted to perform and deliver the dividends of democracy.