The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, has urged the media to partner the military in building a secured nation where citizens can pursue their aspirations without fear. He said the media, like the military, has defined role in the pursuit of national security. Irabor spoke in Abuja at a parley with media executives with the theme: Role of Media Executives and Editors in National Security and Conflict Sensitive Communication. The CDS harped on the need for the military and the media to pursue common course of freedom, liberty and secured environment. “All along, it is we versus them. But I am hopeful that at the end of this parley today, you will no longer see yourself as we versus them. Rather, it will be an engagement about us and engagement about what binds us, which is Nigeria. - Advertisement - “Whatsoever influences one may have outside the shore, either the territorial or space of Nigeria. We must begin to understand that you are the best person to keep Nigeria safe. “No one outside of these shores loves you better than you love yourself because you are the one that meets this challenge,” Irabor said.   Need for new roadmap on power sector     NGO seeks proposals for community funded-projects     Rivers approves N8.2b for 10th flyover   The Director of Defence Information, Maj.-Gen. Jimmy Akpor, said the CDS considered media executives as most worthy to interface with, considering their standing in the spectrum of the media space. He said the parley was conceptualised to build sustainable trust and confidence of the media as the military conducts its operations and engagements. Read Also: Brace for more challenges, CDS Irabor tells military The Defence spokesman said there is no gainsaying that the society approach which the CDS has continued to advocate is a sure way to go in our commitment to overcoming various forms of security challenges confronting our nation. “This will, therefore, no doubt open a new vista of collaboration and understanding between the Armed Forces and the media as both parties will henceforth be in the same phase in matters of defence and national security. “At the end of the deliberations, media executives, editors, bureau chiefs are in better position to set right the agenda for public discourse when the issues of national security  and conflict sensitive management are generating debate,” Akpor said. The Chief Executive Officer, The Media Today International, Charles Odenigbo, said the interface marked a new beginning for military and media relationship in Nigeria. He said a roadmap would be developed at the end of the parley for a clear understanding of the roles of the media in national security matters and conflict-sensitive communication.