Nigeria’s economic revenue may face a plunge following the imminent disruption of operations at the Opuama Flow Station in oil mining lease (OML) 40 by the people of Polobubo (Tsekelewu) community in Egbema Kingdom, Warri North council area of Delta state. Opuama Flow Station has a production capacity of about 15,000 barrel per day. The host community had  issued a seven-day ultimatum to operators of OML 40, Nigeria Petroleum Development Company/Elcrest JV on January 19, 2022 at a press conference in Warri, Delta state. In a statement by the Polobubo National Council’s president-general, Engr. Bright Abulu; general secretary, Rev. Clement Tiemo and public relations officer, Christmas Ukugha, the community reaffirmed the ultimatum which expired yesterday.   NESG expresses concerns over weakening naira     Dangote maintains rank as Forbes’ richest man in Africa     NLNG, NMDPRA partner on domestic gas supply   It further stressed that Polobubo is a peaceful community, hence its appeal for the intervention of the international community, Federal and State Governments after several efforts by the community to have a meeting with the NPDC/Elcrest management failed. - Advertisement - “Recall that refusal of management of NPDC/El-crest for peaceful resolution of the issue of the negative impact of past and ongoing dredging activities on Tsekelewu community and waterways prompted Polobubo (Tsekelewu) Community’s national executive council to address a press conference and to issue a seven-day ultimatum to NPDC/El-Crest on January 19, 2022, which expires on Wednesday, January 26, 2022. That ultimatum stands. “We want to inform the management of NPDC/El-crest/JV, the Delta State Government, the Federal Government and the international community that the issues that made us to address the press conference have not been attended to because NPDC has refused to dialogue. “That nobody should blame Polobubo (Tsekelewu) community if NPDC/El-crest JV operations be disrupted or halted,” parts of the statement read. The PNC president-general had explained that recent dredging activities by the oil company is threatening the existence of the riverine community, hence the call for a dialogue between both parties.