There are important questions on Chief M.K.O. Abiola’s controversial death 23 years ago, which are unanswered, and demand answers. The recent version of the tragic event, presented by former military head of state Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, who was in power at the time, only resurrected the controversy. He notably offered the same official version of the incident, which has been questioned and remains questionable. It was curious that Abubakar spoke on the issue for the first time in a Trust TV interview.  Why did he wait so long before trying to clarify possibly the most significant incident that happened under his regime? Abubakar became Nigeria’s head of state, following the sudden death of Gen. Sani Abacha on June 8, 1998. Abacha’s five years in power were marked by ruthless oppression in response to an intense pro-democracy campaign. Abacha had overthrown the interim national government installed by military strongman Gen. Ibrahim Babangida who controversially annulled the country’s historic June 12, 1993 presidential election, won by the moneyed and magnetic politician, Abiola. With Babangida forced out of power, and the interim government ousted, the stage was set for Abacha’s unprecedented despotism.  His regime caged Abiola, who died in detention on July 7, 1998 in the middle of the fight for his release and restoration of his ruptured electoral mandate. - Advertisement - Abiola’s death in foggy circumstances a month after Abacha died understandably triggered public suspicion. Many people believed he was poisoned, and the Abubakar regime was involved. ”Well, I smile because there were lots of allegations here and there that we killed Abiola,” Abubakar said.  ”On the day Moshood Abiola passed away, “he narrated, “two to three things make me always say I thank my God for the guidance He gave me. “One was when I received a delegation from America headed by Pickering who was then, I think, the secretary of state or so… So after the normal courtesy and discussion we had, when they were leaving my office, Pickering said “Your Excellency, we made a request to see Moshood Abiola but we were denied. “So I said: “Why were you denied? Who denied you?” There and then I made a decision. I said: “Look, you will definitely see Moshood; I overruled whoever said you cannot see him.” So, I called my chief security officer, and I said: “Please, make arrangements for this team to see Abiola.” The narration continued: “Now, during the incarceration of Moshood Abiola, except his personal doctor, to my knowledge, no member of his family saw him. So, when I became head of state, based on consultation and interaction together with Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, I gave the family a date so that they could come and see him.” He added: “So, a day before he died, his family came to Abuja to see him. For one reason or the other, the whole family could not see him at the same time. so, it was agreed that when this group of his family will see him today, tomorrow, the next team will see him. “So, they saw him like yesterday, now this team from the US came to see me and I said they could see him. Normally it was in the evenings the family goes and sees him. So because I had authorised the American team to see him, the other part of the family was waiting to see him.”   Budget and repeated rot     Kanu’s trial and IPOB’s image     DSS and habitual lawlessness   According to Abubakar, “It was when the American team was meeting Abiola, he fell sick and suddenly, the security officers called the medical team to come and attend to him, and when they saw the situation, they said it was severe and they needed to take him to the medical centre. So, it was the medical team plus the American team that took him to the medical centre, but unfortunately, at the medical centre, he gave up.” But there is a strong counter-narrative from those who suspect that Abiola was a victim of foul play. His personal physician, Dr Ore Falomo, now deceased, had said: “He died on July 7, 1998 at about 3pm at Aguda House when he was being visited by an American delegation. He died, shortly after being offered a cup of tea by the leader of the delegation. ”On that day, Abiola was very alert. He recognised Susan Rice whom he saw last in 1982. The Americans came with a flask containing tea. The flask had three layers. Why should they come with their own tea, special tea? Is it normal for visitors to come with tea and offer a prisoner? It was abnormal…It was a conspiracy.” Falomo also said: “It is now left to all of us to find the cause of Abiola’s death. He died 15 minutes after the tea. My conclusion is that the tea is probably fundamental to his collapse and sudden death. “Until detailed investigation is carried out, the death of Abiola will continue to generate controversy, supposition, reasonable and unjustified conclusion for a very long time to come. Abiola died in government custody. It is the duty of the government to unravel the cause of Abiola’s death, after drinking a cup of tea.” On the question of Abiola’s death, Falomo categorically said: “The Federal Government under Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar should be held responsible.” Abiola died in his fourth year in detention, and the official autopsy report stated that he died of a heart attack. He was 60. It is curious that the autopsy report produced by a team of international investigators was not released. He was held in solitary confinement, and denied adequate medical care. There is no doubt that these conditions took a toll on his health. His detention conditions were cruel, inhuman, degrading, and amounted to torture. Abubakar was the Chief of Defence Staff from 1993 to 1998 when he became head of state after Abacha died.  As a member of the military ruling council under Abacha, he was among the actors who caged Abiola for insisting on actualising his victory in the presidential election. After Abacha’s death, Abubakar kept Abiola in detention until he died. He had an opportunity to redeem himself by releasing Abiola immediately he became head of state. That might have saved the detainee’s life. Abubakar’s failure to promptly address Abiola’s detention issue was a great moral failure.  The longer the detainee was kept in such life-threatening conditions, the greater the culpability of his captors. Though Abubakar handed over power to a democratically elected government a year after his rise to power, that does not erase the fact of his consequential omission in Abiola’s case. It was a grave omission that stained his hands with Abiola’s blood.