Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral A.Z. Gambo, said nothing new when he hinted that some naval personnel are colluding with oil thieves and other maritime criminals. He merely confirmed what many Nigerians have been saying with regard to the seemingly unending war against the criminals. Vice Admiral Gambo said, “While there are significant achievements in the fight against these maritime crimes, there are a pocket of personnel still colluding with criminals to sabotage these efforts,” he said. The CNS, who spoke in Abuja while decorating newly-promoted senior naval officers, said that, henceforth, it won’t be the usual kid gloves treatment for naval personnel found colluding with the criminals. Rather, such unpatriotic acts would be met with stiff sanctions in accordance with the laws of the land. Interestingly, this unpatriotic act is not limited to the Nigerian Navy and its efforts to check bunkering and other maritime criminals. It applies also to other military personnel who have been prosecuting the war against terrorists and other criminals that have been ongoing without an end in sight. The popular belief is that the country is not making much progress despite the efforts and resources committed into the war against terror and other criminals because some military personnel are making money from the insurgency and are therefore not in a hurry to see it end. The longer the war lingers, the more illegal money they are able to make. While we agree with the CNS that military personnel who connive with criminals do not deserve to be treated with kid gloves, we wonder why such personnel had not been made to face sanctions commensurate with their criminal acts in the past. We wonder, too, why the Nigerian Navy is now warning them to desist when it should be naming and shaming them, preparatory to making them face disciplinary actions within the military, and if necessary, in conventional courts. Military personnel, as members of the society, are likely to be influenced by what is happening around them; in this case pervasive corruption, but the military as an institution is an epitome of order and discipline. Just as loyalty to the institution should be total and complete, patriotism is also non-negotiable. Unpatriotic acts therefore are not to be condoned in the military. It is the height of unpatriotic act for soldiers who should be checking bunkering and other maritime crimes to collude with the unpatriotic criminals perpetrating the illegality that is injurious to the country’s wellbeing.   Forbiddden cow     Yuletide tensions     Buhari appoints Okadigbo’s widow NNPC chair   - Advertisement - There is no doubt that the military recorded some successes in the anti-bunkering efforts, as the CNS noted. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Benard Onyeuko, corroborated this: “The anti-crude oil theft efforts of the Joint Task Force South-South Operation Delta Safe (OPDS) this year (last year) led to the demobilisation of about 1,423 illegal oil refining sites, each of which contains many camps; over 4,929 storage facilities and 536 large wooden boats, popularly called “Cotonou boats.” Moreover, troops of the Joint Task Force South-South Operation Delta Safe (OPDS) arrested 567 criminal suspects in the South-South in the same year. What this means is that much more could have been achieved if there was no collusion between some naval personnel and criminals involved in bunkering. We hope the naval authorities are not taking a cue from the Federal Government which has reneged several times on its promises to bring to book all manner of criminals, from those behind the ghost workers’ syndrome to terror sponsors. It is bad enough that the Nigerian Navy has to first warn its officers and men who are colluding with criminals to desist instead of wielding the big stick against them promptly because those involved know, ab initio, that colluding with criminals whose activities they are supposed to check is a crime. But, having sounded a note of warning that such acts would henceforth be heavily sanctioned, the naval authorities should move swiftly against those who find the illegality irresistible because of the filthy lucre they make from it. The era of warning should now give way to that of sanctions. That is the only way to make those involved or those looking forward to joining them to desist from the illegal act. The country will only continue to dance in circles in the anti-bunkering war if the soldiers providing cover to the criminals are not served their due comeuppance. We congratulate the new officers and urge them to collaborate with their colleagues in buying into the CNS’ new vision of punishing unpatriotic men and officers colluding with criminals, not only in the Niger Delta, but in all areas under their jurisdiction.