The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Wellcome yesterday each pledged $150million making $300million to help accelerate the development of vaccines against emerging variants of the coronavirus and to prepare for the next pandemic. The money will go to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), a global partnership launched five years ago by the governments of Norway and India, the Gates Foundation, Wellcome, and the World Economic Forum. The pledges come ahead of a global replenishment conference on March 8, 2022, in London to support CEPI’s visionary five-year plan to better prepare for, prevent, and equitably respond to future epidemics and pandemics. “As the world responds to the challenge of a rapidly evolving virus, the need to deliver new, lifesaving tools has never been more urgent,” said Bill Gates, co-chair of the Gates Foundation in a statement. “Our work over the past 20 years has taught us that early investment in research and development can save lives and prevent worst-case scenarios.   Havana syndrome not result of global campaign by hostile…     Six ways to avoid ‘sudden’ slump     17-month-old baby needs N700, 000 for cancer treatment   - Advertisement - “Five years ago, following the Ebola and Zika epidemics, our foundation helped launch CEPI. Today, we’re increasing our commitment and pledging an additional $150 million to help CEPI accelerate the development of safe and effective vaccines against emerging variants of the coronavirus and to prepare for, and possibly even prevent, the next pandemic.” Since its inception, CEPI has played a central scientific role in curbing epidemics around the world, overseeing several scientific breakthroughs and putting pandemic preparedness at the centre of the global health R&D agenda. “The overriding lesson from this pandemic is the need for effective organizations and systems to be in place and ready before a crisis, as well as acting rapidly based on well-established science when such crises inevitably occur,” said Dr. Jeremy Farrar, director of Wellcome. “Our new commitment of $150 million recognizes the enormous potential CEPI has to protect lives against emerging infectious diseases,” Dr. Farrar continued. “The effects of COVID-19 have been sobering. We urge leaders to provide their support and ensure that CEPI reaches its funding target. It is in the world’s collective interest to avoid repeating mistakes and to help future generations prevent epidemics.”