The 21-storey in Ikoyi, Lagos, being built by Fourscore Homes suddenly collapsed on November 1, last year, trapping the developer and workers. Another two-storey under construction at Osapa London in the Lekki-Ajah axis of the metropolis also went down. Never has there been such a monumental destruction in quick succession in Lagos. However, the Director-General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, says it would have been worse, but for the rescue efforts, topnotch equipment and emergency preparedness. He spoke with OKWY IROEGBU­CHIKEZIE. The incident signposts gaps in building regulations in the state as the debate over how many floors that were approved and how many that were eventually built continues. Observers and professionals in the built environment said the official attitude towards building regulations is still largely carefree; coupled with sharp practices on the part of the regulators, which have given room for developers to cut corners with resultant frequent building collapse disasters wrecking the society. Others have also said disasters are meant to happen but that the important thing is the response time, rescue and recovery efforts of the agencies concerned. Several building failures have been witnessed in Nigeria and Lagos in particular but the difference has been in the manner of preparedness and execution. Several factors are being listed among which is  the undue competition of professionals in the sector, quackery, failure of the regulatory role of the state building agency, LASBCA and the Lagos State Materials Testing Laboratory saddled with laboratory tests and services on soil, concrete, steel, chemical, calibration, Non-Destructive Testing (NDT), and geo-techniques for buildings, among others. - Advertisement - Citing the collapse of the 21-storey building in Ikoyi, Lagos  where  rescue efforts lasted two weeks with 15 people recovered alive but about 50 recovered  dead in the addition to the gamut of investment in equipment, human and material resources deployed, the LASEMA boss said  the effective management of disaster is about planning and preparedness  and the abundance of  resources in  human  and material resources. Oke-Osanyintolu said Governor Sanwo­Olu is committed to protecting lives and properties in the state. He said the THEME’s agenda of the governor is the guiding principle of LASEMA in the discharge of her duties. On how they got it right and saved lives at the collapse site and other fire outbreaks such as tanker fire, especially around the notorious Otedola Bridge, markets and other places in the state, he said: “We have done vulnerable and risk analysis and have provided   adequate equipment that can handle all emergencies in record time. We are building fire hydrants and the state fire service is  standing alone as an agency.   LandWey gets GPWIN certification     UNILAG NASU, Bashmoh Homes partner on 250-housing scheme     How we are delivering on our mandate, by LSDPC boss   “When the 21-storey building in Ikoyi came down, we were the first responders and we managed it effectively. The building collapse in Ikoyi is a national disaster but we took ownership of it. The governor who is the incident commander was there to give us the moral capital. Before  now, he had provided us with enormous funds to procure  sophisticated equipment, in terms  of light and heavy duty with that we rose up to the occasion and  saved 15 lives  and recovered   50 bodies intact. The destruction is a major disaster of high magnitude that is supposed to be tackled, in conjunction with a Federal Government’s agency tasked with it, but we took ownership and performed to the optimum.’’ According to him, despite the population density of the state and infrastructure such as airport, seaport and movement of articulated vehicles across the state, we were able to reduce the morbidity level of this collapse. We have modern and equipped hospitals that we evacuate people from incidence scene   for urgent medical care. “As an agency, we are passionate about what we do. We have built capacity, we have emergency committees in all the 57 local governments.  We have a local emergency committee in all local government areas and in all our hospital,’’ he stated. He said they not only put their expertise and the equipment to work to save as many lives as possible in the rubble but also ensured that the integrity of the other two towers built by the same developer and adjacent  to the collapsed structure was preserved. On the challenges confronting the agency, he said it is that of fake news and unverifiable information where people cook up with figures. Recalling the bomb blast of January 27, 2001 in Maryland, Ikeja, he noted that the majority of the people who died were as result of wrong or poor information management. “On our own we have decided to carry the media along to relay to the public first-class and accurate information,’’ he stated. On the frequent market fires in the state, he responded that his agency will ensure that the markets are built to standards with safety and health in mind. The LASEMA boss said henceforth, the agency will not tolerate fake news, especially those that bloat figures of casualties, thereby causing panic. He said they would be made to face the law with the appropriate agencies of government. In addition, he added, anybody or group causing obstruction in cases of emergencies either with their articulated vehicles or in ways detrimental to  emergencies would be sanctioned.