The All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), Lagos state chapter has expressed concerns over insecurity ravaging public schools in the country. The association urged the government to employ the use of technology in tackling insecurity in schools. Speaking during the ANCOPSS 34th Annual Congress themed: Security: Managing insecurity in public schools, the place of technology as a remedy, ANCOPSS’ President, Mrs Folashade Moronkeji said that the use of CCTV and other forms of advanced technology in schools especially public schools will help monitor movements around the school. This, she said, would also decrease the rate of insecurity and ensure safety of the pupils. She urged principals of Lagos schools to continue engage in more trainings to improve the quality of the education.   Council fetes 200 widows, aged     ‘Two million Nigerians get N10b monthly stipends’     Tinubu, wife mourn first Lagos female speaker Adediran   - Advertisement - “The essence of being employed is to teach and impact knowledge and there are lots of trainings we should attend as principals and administrators of schools concerning security challenges, and how to proffer solutions and to be vigilant. If you’re not competent enough, you can never be made a principal in this new era. We should improve on our skills and continue to participate in more training so that we will not lag behind. When we improve ourselves, then the school environment will be more conducive and aid easy learning”, she said. She lauded the efforts of Governor Sanwo-Olu in the education sector, adding that there’s still a room for improvement. She said: “The governor has tried his best but we still want to urge him to employ more teachers and provide more desks and benches for our students to make our work easier and make learning fun for students as well”. Tue Managing Director, NISREL Consulting, Mr Ope Amusan noted that insecurity in the country is a pandemic that requires prompt attention from the government and citizens as whole to ensure it does not get worse. He said: “The government will have to up their game; it is important to note that government is trying their best but we as stakeholders must also play a key role in this as well. We must be whistle blowers and report to the government when we notice that something is about to happen to help ourselves”.