Alternative dispute resolution has the propensity to address the yawning gap in investment across the country. The foregoing was the experts’ opinion expressed at the just concluded 2021 annual conference of Arbitrators in Lagos. Tagged: ‘Disruption and The New Normal in Arbitration/ADR- A Way Forward’, the event which was partly physically and virtual drew participants from the organised private and public sectors including civil servants, civil society, media, bankers and lawyers respectively. While declaring the conference open, the Chairman of the 2021 Annual Conference Planning Committee of the Nigerian Institute of Chartered Arbitrators (NICArb), Sir Oladipo Opeseyi (SAN) said alternative dispute resolution if effectively executed can imbue confidence in individuals and the public in general. Experts, including officials of Lagos state government also held that considering the cost implications of disputes to businesses, having an effective Alternative Dispute Resolution System (ADRs) is a better method of dispute resolution. They have also pointed out that the appetite for such resolutions has given rise to arbitration in major economies.   Prima Corporation retains DataPro’s A- rating     Fan Milk Danone commissions new state-of-art production line     The economy: boom or bust in 2022?   - Advertisement - According to the Lagos state government, this will guarantee investors that their investments are safe and guided by the rule of law and by doing so, boost investment and investor’s confidence. “Unlike litigation, arbitration presents a new frontier in today’s evolving world and this represents the future which Lagos State said it has embraced and as theme of the conference shows, we are in the new normal which shows that potential technology is not destructive to the rule of law but an enabler to increase access to justice.” Also speaking at the conference, the incoming President and Chairman of Governing Council of the institute, Professor Fabian Ajogwu (SAN), admitted that while the Covid-19 social distancing world has brought virtual meetings to the fore for many businesses and government organs including courts, the arbitration community and the ADR community in general is better equipped to take the stage and lead in the resolution of issues between disputing parties who are confined to their rooms because of the ban on international travels. According to some of the experts, while some advantages of virtual arbitration/ADR includes fast, flexible and cost effective, as many countries and business grapple with the harsh economic realities occasioned by the devastating effect of Covid-19 on the economy, virtual arbitration/ADR provides a versatile solution in the resolution of disputes. The conference had over 200 delegates physically and over 100 delegates online with about 50 speakers from all over the world.