Outrage has greeted the abduction and murder of a five-year-old girl, Hanifa Abubakar in Kano state. Until her demise, Hanifa attended Noble Kids Academy located in Kwanar Dakata in Nassarawa local government area of Kano. Kano State Government has ordered the immediate closure of the school. In connection to her death, the Police in Kano has arrested two suspects, Abdulmalik Mohammed and Hashim Isyaku. According to the police, the principal suspect confessed to poisoning the girl when he realised that she had recognised him. - Advertisement - The suspects then buried her remains in a shallow grave at the private school premises at Kwanar ‘Yan Gana, Tudun Murtala Quarters. The abductors reportedly demanded a ransom of N6million but still killed her after receiving the money. With over 15,000 tweets as monitored by The Nation, many Nigerians took to social media to trend the hashtag #JusticeForHanifa.   Gunmen abduct Bayelsa commissioner     FG asks Customs to generate N3.019tr in 2022     Kizz Daniel announces 2022 world tour   Many sympathised with the family and called for justice. Some others demanded death penalty for the suspects as contained in Kano anti-kidnapping Law. Reacting, Salihu Tanko-Yakasai, a former media aide to Kano Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, said: “The Kano anti-kidnapping law states that anyone that kidnaps someone & the victim dies in the process death penalty is the punishment for the kidnapper! “I call for the death penalty for the barbarians that kidnapped & killed this little angel #JusticeForHanifa.” Mohammed Jammal popularly known as ‘White Nigerian’ tweeted: “This is too Painful. #JusticeForHanifa” Adam Sharada lamented: “After kidnapping Hanifa for many weeks, She has been murdered! This is indeed a heavy slap to the face of Nigeria, and security sector. Verily, Hanifa has lost in doom and gloom The challenge question is: Who killed Hanifa? #JusticeforHanifa” Jacob Sule said: “Very devastating news about the death of this young girl who was allegedly kidnapped and later killed by her teacher in Kano state. This is such terrible news and I join my voice to demand for justice. No child deserves to be killed. #JusticeForHanifa” Senator Shehu Sani, who represented the Kaduna Central, said: “The school is the only place you can trust your Children to a people you don’t know; When teachers started becoming kidnappers, nobody’s child is safe. You can’t read the mind of a man from his smiles. He fed Hanifa with Rat poison,he deserves to be fed with it.”