It is no news that 2023 is the year of the next general elections, when most of the states of the federation will be electing new governors, members of the national and state assemblies. A new President will be elected as well. It could bring the country a new lease of life or compound its problems. The turn of events depends on the credibility of the polls. And, going by experience, the bedrock of fair elections is the integrity of the electoral register. Over the years, it has always been said that the register is padded by unscrupulous politicians looking forward to thwarting the people’s will. The process is fraught with registration of underaged voters, multiple registration, manipulation of the system to ensure that the people are not registered in areas where opposition parties are strong, and getting many to register at the behest of political godfathers who then seize the voter cards. Of major concern here is an alarm raised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) that the register is still riddled with names of dead people who had been previously registered. Ideally, the names should have been expunged in order to know the accurate number of would-be voters. But, explaining why it cannot remove names of the dead from the register, INEC has blamed it on the unavailability of an up-to-date register of deaths and births in the country. The electoral commission has been unable to receive such a register from the Chairman of the National Population Commission (NPC) who is the registrar of births and deaths in the country. Many births are not recorded as the number of those born in the hospitals is very low. But, even lower is the number of those who die in the medical centres. As such, Nigerians see no reason to officially report or register the deaths.   Oba Saliu Adetunji (1928 – 2022)     Yuletide tensions     Tougher sanctions   This has implication for planning. At a time like this when the country is planning to have free, fair and credible elections, the revelation that only 10 per cent of the dead are registered and could therefore be expunged from the electoral roll is unfortunate. It is bad enough that the last time we had a national census was 2006, but the inability to know how many Nigerians have since passed on or have been born since then is alarming. We agree with INEC that it cannot on its own arbitrarily expunge names from the register, neither is there an authentic list from NPC that is constitutionally saddled with the responsibility, but there must be a way out. One is to educate the people on the importance of voluntarily registering births and deaths as it would affect planning for national development and, in this case, ensure we have a credible register of voters. The NPC officials should not just sit in the office shrugging off the non-cooperation of Nigerians in this respect. Hospitals, however remotely located, traditional rulers, religious leaders and local government officials should be enlisted to make the people warm up to the constitutional imperative. - Advertisement - Good governance would remain elusive until we get the electoral system right. Only then would the electorate take responsibility for the government, with the elected officials realising that they are responsible to those who elected them. We are already lagging behind many countries, even in Africa. This cannot be allowed to continue. It is good that the electoral commission has said it now has a software to eliminate multiple registration in the process of cleaning up the register, and with the introduction of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), it is expected that future elections would be an improvement on the previous ones, but INEC should be assisted to perfect the system.