NOLLYWOOD star actress, Shaffy Bello, has revealed that she’s a one woman man. The ‘Chief Daddy’ actress, in the interview, also said she would love to give marriage a second chance. She continues; “I’m a one-man woman, I give everything.” The mother of two, who has been divorced for a while, noted that getting married at this point of her life would be only for enjoying good times with her partner since there won’t be kids involved.   Producers postpone Yahaya The White Lion premiere     NDLEA quizzes Obi Cubana over alleged link to drug dealers     Burna Boy and I have opposing views on spending money – Mum   She said, “Absolutely, I am such a marriage-oriented kind of lady, I love who I love. And then, marriage now at this age with no children, all I have to do is travel with some money, let’s go! It’s gonna be sweet. You just have to have that comfort, I want no drama, I work too hard to get to where I am, I am sacrificing nothing, I am not a 20-something or a 30-something-year-old woman so at this age, take me traveling, I want to go to Paris, I want to go to Greece, I can do it for myself so you gotta be able to double up. But you’re going to be some heck of a guy to get me to say I do again.” - Advertisement - The ‘Battleground’ star actress also explained why she had to leave her kids to pursue her acting career in Nigeria. “I sacrificed everything because I believe that they didn’t ask to be born so I wanted to give them everything. When I came back I lost my mother and she died in my arms so because of the history of me being a nurse I got to take care of her when she got ill but then it changed around for me for good because one day they told me that I taught them to go after their dreams no matter what. That was when I knew… ok, thank God.” On why she sacrificed her marriage for her career, Shaffy said, ‘Divorce, that’s a huge price. He was a good man, a good father to his children but I got to a place where I wanted more, and I would always travel back and forth but I knew at a point that if I really want this it came with a sacrifice. He, being there and the distance didn’t help. I knew I wanted this, if I go back and leave this it would be too much of a sacrifice and I would go to him empty, I won’t be myself and at some point, I would resent him so I had to make a choice.”