The Nigeria Security Printing and minting Company and the Office of the Auditor General for the Federation have disagreed over the N162 billion financial infractions contained in the 2019 Auditor General’s report regarding the activities of the company. While the Auditor General for the Federation said the management of the Federal Government-owned company should account for the said amount, the management said there was no loss of public fund in its operations, while stressing that government circulars does not apply to it as a registered company. The management also said it was not under any government ministry even though it is listed as one of the government-owned enterprises. The report said N91.1 billion, which appeared in the consolidated financial statements of the minting company for the year ended 31st December 2018 could not be verified and reconciled with the Assets Register due to non-existence of proper Non-Current Asset Inventories Ledger. It also said that Inventories of Raw Materials amounting to N4,459,141,000.00 and Consumables amounting to N2,364,112,000.00 could also not be verified due to non-existence of proper Inventory Receipts & Issues ledger. - Advertisement - The report said: “In all, a total of N97,918,703,000.00 reported in the company’s financial statement could not be confirmed. The above anomalies could be attributed to weaknesses in the internal control system at the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc.” The AuGF report also said the sum of N48,931,124,278.37 was overcharged against the Statement of Financial Performance of the company for years 2016 and 2019 with no verifiable evidences to justify these expenses as most of the figures contained in the Statement of Financial Performance were different from the balances obtained from the Trial Balance. The report also said that the Minting company spent about N14.43 billion as on salaries and allowances for its staff between 2016 and 2019 without the approval of the National Salaries, Income and Wages. The Auditor General also said that in contravention of the Pension Reform Acts, the Company paid salaries to its workers without fully deducting only 5% from the workers as against the minimum 8% as stipulated in the law. It said in all, the company failed to deduct about N432.812 million contributory pension from its workers within the period, but the management dismissed this claim saying “the company choose to contribute 18% while employee contribute 5% giving a total of 23% for each employee as against the total of 18% provided by the Pension reform Act 2014.” It also said that the Company which is responsible for printing government security documents engaged external solicitors without the approval of the Attorney General of the Federation, spending about N112.34 million in the process.   Military neutralise three kidnappers in Jos     BREAKING: AMCON takes over IBEDC     Insecurity: LG, RRS institute taskforce to tackle ‘Awawa’…   The Company was also accused by the report of procuring ICT facilities without first obtaining clearance from the Nigeria Technology Development Agency (NITDA), as contained in Establishment Circular No SGF/6/S.19/T/65 of 18 April 2006 directed all Public Institutions planning to embark on any IT project to obtain clearance from NITDA, incurring a cost of N91.6 million in the process. However, in its response to the audit query, the management of the company said: “This does not reflect the correct position as our financial statement have been IFRS compliant since 2013. The financial report was duly prepared and audited by the audit firm approved by the Board. They complied with IFRS standards. “However, the observations raised were not brought to our notice during the audit as the external auditors would have been contacted to provide the adjustment passed and the relevant schedules and explanations when necessary. “This also is not correct as the company is a manufacturing organization that maintain its own documents on receipts and issues. There exist ledgers that capture these. It is not correct that the company is not compliant with the IFRS, IFRIC and CAMA as indicated in your report. “The amount so indicated was also not brought to the attention of the process owner for proper explanations. Loss of public fund as alleged in the report cannot be established as the financial statements were dully prepared by our external auditors appointed by the Board. “In 2019, KPMG were appointed as our new external auditors. They review the 2018 financial statements, stock and asset registers and pass some adjustments which were reflected in the 2019 financial statements.” The management however confirmed the existence of differences between the Trial Balance submitted by the company to the external auditor and the final Trial Balance prepared by the external Auditor which is subsequently used for preparation of the Audited Financial Statements. It attributed this to the fact that “adjusted JVs are usually raised during the Audit exercise and thereafter, a final Trial Balance is prepared by the External Auditor” adding that “the Trial Balance provided to the Office of the Auditor-General were those generated in-house”. The Management said “the company is registered under CAMA; hence, it does not need to go to National Salaries Income and Wages Commission for approval. However, the Board of NSPM Plc approves all remuneration of the staff.” It also said that they were not bound by the provisions of the circular because it was not funded through the annual budget. It said “the presidential directives on NITDA only applies to project funded from the National Budget. The NSPM Plc does not benefit from the National budget and has her thresholds that guide all approvals as an organization in business. “NSPM PLC carries out the business of printing of bank notes and security documents with Central Banks as customers for the bank notes and security documents for government and interested public customers. It is not under any Ministry as stated in the directive.” It said the company paid its Pay As You Earn tax which is tax deducted from workers salaries from its annual profit in 2017, thereby reducing the profit by NN56,328,778.79 and leading to revenue loss to the government.