ALL Progressives Congress stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and his wife, Senator Oluremi, have expressed shock over the demise of Lagos first female Deputy Speaker, Adetoun Adediran. They described as unfortunate that Mrs. Adediran died at a time Lagos and Nigeria needed her services in rallying women participation in politics. In a statement issued from the Tinubu Media Office by Mr. Tunde Rahman, the duo commiserated with members of the deceased family and the ruling APC. The statement reads: “We received the sad news of the death of Rt. Hon. Adetoun Adediran, the first female Deputy Speaker in the annals of Lagos State House of Assembly (1999 to 2003), with shock and sadness. “Coming when we are still savouring the euphoria of the New Year makes it particularly painful and devastating. It is saddening that Adetoun left when Lagos and Nigeria still required her patriotic zeal, commitment and diligence in galvanizing more female participation in political affairs and leadership. - Advertisement -   No plan to sack workers, Finance minister recants     Buhari’s biggest capital project in Southeast, says Kalu     2023: Anyim, Southeast PDP step up campaign for Igbo…   “Her death signifies a major depletion of the already-inadequate presence of women in politics. As the first Deputy Speaker of the state assembly, Hon. Adediran discharged her duties and responsibilities with passion, integrity, confidence and fidelity not only to the legislative work but also to the cause of Lagos and the common good. “As a notable party woman leader, she was a role model and mentor to many young women who because of her discovered and honed their passions for public service. “Her tenure as Chairman of the Lagos Building Investment Company cannot be forgotten because of her remarkable contributions to that organisation. “She was also a key member of Governing Councils for Lagos State-owned tertiary institutions. One of her lasting achievements was her resolute fight for female equity in politics, particularly in the Lagos Central Senatorial District. “Our deepest condolences to her husband, children, and immediate family members. They should take solace in the fact that their departed wife, mother, and sibling lived a life that positively impacted not just her immediate family and community, but also the people of Surulere, Lagos Central Senatorial District and Lagos State as a whole. “We pray that Almighty God grant her soul perfect rest and give all of us the fortitude to bear this painful exit of a shining star”.