Reality TV star, Stephanie Matto, who made thousands of dollars selling her ‘farts in a jar’ is set to quit the practice after it landed her in the hospital. Matto allegedly made $200,000 selling her farts in a jar to fans in just a matter of weeks. But the foul-smelling business and the diet that made it possible came with a significant cost. The 31-year-old self-proclaimed “fartpreneur,” who debuted on “90 Day Fiancé,” decided to retire from the lucrative venture recently after she landed in the hospital experiencing shooting pain in her chest. - Advertisement - Matto reportedly thought she was having a heart attack or stroke and believed she could face death at any moment. However, after running blood tests and an EKG, the reality star noted the doctors informed her that her symptoms were not the result of cardiovascular trauma but excess gas.   Simi to upcoming artistes: Stop posting irrelevant things     TV hosts Makinwa, Isime named brand for ‘ankara’…     Cardi B claims four-month-old son already talking   “It was just a nasty two days that I felt AWFUL, but thankfully, it was not a heart attack. “Just a very, very severe case of gas that made me feel like I was dying and having a heart attack,” the social media personality said. On January 3, 2022, Stephanie Matto announced via her Instagram page that she’ll be launching her fart jar NFT’s. She wrote: “Today we make history AGAIN! Weeks ago we grossed almost 200k in fart jar sales and today it is the official launch of my fart jar NFT’s! “There has never been a more unique & iconic launch of digital fart art! We put the art in fart! 100 NFT’s unlock a REAL physical jar and so much more it’ll make you explode with excitement. “Get your hands on a unique piece of fartastic excellence on …..each is a masterpiece you can proudly call your own or resell whenever you wish!” Further addressing her ‘fart jar’ customers in a more recent post, she wrote: “So by now you may have ‘caught wind’ that I am retiring from the fart jar business soon and branching out into the digital world of NFT’s! “My NFT fart jar collection has launched and is available to mint. Get your hands on a collectible work of fart.”