The  Federal Government yesterday blamed communal clashes resulting from boundary disputes on politicians. It said politicians use ethnicity and religion to compound straightforward issues. The government spoke through Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo at a meeting with deputy governors at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The Vice-President urged politicians to show responsibility in their political activities, noting that many of the land dispute manipulations had resulted in too many dislocations and deaths. He is the Chairman National Boundaries Commission (NBC) and superintends over the role of the commission as well as those of the deputy governors who also chair the boundary affairs in their states.   Workers defy management, picket National Assembly     Transport union decries extortion at port     Vaccination is ‘moral obligation’, Pope Francis insists   - Advertisement - Osinbajo also charged the NBC to live up to its constitutional responsibilities in managing geographical boundaries across the country, thereby preventing needless communal conflicts and their resultant dislocations and deaths. The Vice-President said it became expedient to convene the meeting to enable all stakeholders in boundary disputes to understand the Act establishing the NBC and their roles to ensure proper boundary management. “We cannot stress this enough. Land is an emotive issue and it accounts for many cases of the mindless violence and fatalities that result from border disputes and clashes. “For many of our people, it is the very essence of their identity – the whole question of who owns what and who should have access to a particular piece of land. Sometimes, it is tied to ancestry and ancient rivalries. “But most of these combatants do not understand that many of these boundary lines are mainly for administrative convenience and there should not be disputes about them. Even if there are, it should not lead to violence or the dislocation of people. “Very often, we observe where politicians play ethnic or religious games, which exacerbate otherwise straightforward issues and may result in violence and death. I believe that we are a responsible leadership that can sit at the table with other leaders and agree to give and take, and make concessions,” he said.