The United Kingdom on Monday announced that people arriving in England or Scotland from abroad will no longer have to take Covid-19 tests if they are fully vaccinated. Rules have also been eased for unvaccinated travellers, who will no longer have to take a day eight test or self-isolate. However, they will still need pre-departure and day two tests. According to BBC UK, the UK Transport Secretary, Grant Shapps made a statement in the House of Commons outlining the COVID travel update, confirming that from 4am local time on February 11 travellers who have had both doses of a COVID vaccine will no longer be required to take a test within two days of arriving in England. “We are removing all testing measures for eligible fully vaccinated arrivals to England from 4am on February 11,” Shapps said. “These changes have been made possible by the success of our vaccine and booster rollout. Arrivals in England who aren’t fully vaccinated will only need to take a pre-departure test and a PCR test on or before day two after arriving in England. All passengers will still need to complete a Passenger Locator Form,” he said. - Advertisement -   MC Oluomo reacts as RRS arrests Kunle Poly, Sego     Hanifa: Kano govt. revokes operational licences of all…     Court remands three for alleged murder of 5-year- old Hanifa   Wales and Northern Ireland have not yet said whether they will change their testing rules, although they are expected to follow suit. Shapps said the move would save families about £100 on visits abroad, as well as boost the beleaguered travel industry. “Today, I can confirm that our international travel regime will now be liberalised as part our efforts to ensure that 2022 is the year in which restrictions on travel, on lockdowns and limits on people’s lives are firmly placed in the past,” he said. “From 4am on February 11, and in time for the half-term break, eligible fully-vaccinated passengers arriving in the UK will no longer have to take a post-arrival lateral flow test. “That means that after months of pre-departure testing, post-arrival testing, self-isolation, additional expense, all that fully vaccinated people will now have to do, when they travel to the UK, is to verify their status via a passenger locator form.” BBC