For the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), 2022 will be a decisive year in its quest to return to power in 2023. Having been worsted in two consecutive election circles, another electoral defeat may consign the erstwhile ruling party to political oblivion for many years to come. GBADE OGUNWALE reports The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been upbeat about the 2023 general elections. Its optimism may derive from the perceived poor service delivery by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in critical areas of the economy and the polity.  The party is still basking in the euphoria of having successfully conducted its national convention and installing a new team of national executive officers with very little recriminations therefrom. On the strength of this, the PDP appears battle ready for the onerous task ahead. Apparently waiting to profit from the seeming intractable self-inflicted leadership crises rocking the APC on different flanks, the PDP leadership has continued to sound optimistic about a rewarding electoral outing in the February 2023 general elections. With the recent APC state congresses throwing up unresolved multiple conflicting claims to leadership in many state chapters, the leadership of the PDP expects a possible implosion from the APC national convention tentatively fixed for February 2022. With an interim caretaker committee that is unsure of what to do with the party structure, the APC may be heading for a turbulence that may tear the party down the seams during convention. And with about a dozen aspirants jostling for the party’s chairmanship seat, the outcome of the convention may prove critics right. Putting its house in order before the tentative convention date may prove quite a daunting challenge for the ruling party.   - Advertisement - Strengths and weaknesses in the zones Southwest: Presently, the PDP is in control of Oyo State, only one of the six states in the zone. The remaining five are in the firm grip of the APC. However, the governorship elections due in Ekiti in June and Osun in August this year, will present the PDP with an opportunity of winning additional states into its fold in the zone. The party hopes to harvest from the festering intra party crisis in the Ekiti APC to boost its chances at the upcoming poll. At the same time, the PDP chapter in Ekiti is also in a similar crisis situation. The camp of former Governor Ayo Fayose and that of the senator representing Ekiti South, Biodun Olujimi, are presently at each other’s throat in a struggle to control the party structure in the state. The PDP leadership had, a few days ago, set up a reconciliation committee made up of seven of its 13 governors and some prominent members of the Board of Trustees (BoT) to mediate in the crisis. It is too early to predict the outcome of the committee’s rapprochement efforts. Also, there are about 17 aspirants, including Olujimi, jostling for the PDP ticket in the June 2022 Ekiti governorship election. The party may as well land in bigger crisis if it fails to trim the number of contestants without recriminations. While addressing the contestants during the inauguration of the reconciliation committee, the PDP national chairman, Dr. Iyorchia Ayu, directed the contestants and other stakeholders to go back home and resolve their differences. Ayu made it clear during the parley, which was attended by Fayose and seven serving PDP governors, that the national secretariat will not meddle in the Ekiti chapter crisis. In Osun, the party hopes to unseat the APC administration in the August 2022 election. However, the age-long rivalry between Senator Ademola Adeleke and Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, two of its leading aspirants in the race, is being revived. The two political actors are already on their way back to the trenches. Adeleke and Ogunbiyi had slugged it out for the ticket in 2018 with the former emerging the winner. Adeleke had challenged APC’s Gboyega Oyetola and was defeated in a fiercely contested election, the outcome of which spurred widespread controversy over alleged rigging. The PDP may face an uphill task unseating the APC in the remaining three states in the zone; Lagos, Ogun and Ondo, every other thing being equal. Southeast: The Southeast, which used to be a stronghold of the PDP now presents an entirely different picture. Of the five states in the zone, the PDP is presently in charge of only two; Abia and Enugu. But with the leadership challenges confronting the political leadership in the APC controlled Imo and Ebonyi, the PDP may likely make an inroad in the two states come 2023. The outlook suggests that the sitting APC governors in the two states do not command considerable support and affection of their citizens. The ever bellicose Ebonyi Governor, Dave Umahi, has been skipping from one inter party crisis to the other since he dumped the PDP for the APC in November 2020. Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has also been battling a series of local uprising, arising from crisis of confidence dogging his administration since he mounted the saddle through a Supreme Court judgment in January 2021. The two Southeast states appear shaky in the hands of the APC governors and the PDP may present a serous electoral  challenge in the two states. The remaining state, Anambra, has now become a formidable home to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The state will be up for grabs in the 2023 presidential election for whichever party that does its homework properly. It is apparent APGA will not field any presidential candidate. Taking the governorship seat in Anambra is out of the question because the governor elect, Prof. Chukwum a Soludo of APGA, will just be serving a year into his four-year tenure about the time of the 2023 election. North-Central: Benue State remains the only home of the PDP in the six states comprising the zone. The governor, Samuel Ortom, has continued to ride on the crest of insecurity plaguing the state. Public sympathy has generally tilted in favour of his administration. What with incessant mindless attacks on communities, believed to be spearheaded by armed herdsmen and their powerful backers. The average Benue voter would rather vote Ortom’s PDP than the APC that is widely perceived to be sympathetic to the aggressors. Two other states in the zone; Niger and Nasarawa remain strongholds of the APC, with the former recording below average performance so far. Nasarawa appears a fairer of the two with flashes of modest achievements here and there. Incidentally, the PDP leadership in the two states has not shown enough commitment towards unseating the two first term governors. The leadership of the opposition in Niger is hobbled by perennial internal crisis while the PDP in the Nasarawa chapter appears to have gone to sleep. The huge cracks and widening crevices in the leadership of the APC in Kwara State may give the PDP ample room to stage an onslaught against the ‘O to ge’ movement, which unhorsed the Saraki political dynasty during the 2019 election. Kwara Governor, AbdulRahman Abdulrazak and Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, who are the two leading patrons of the movement, have fallen apart  as a result of disagreements over the control of the APC structure in the state. The two combatants now lead separate factions and do not seem in any hurry to resolve their differences. The PDP may cash in on the friction if the crisis persists till the 2023 election, with two-term governor and form er Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, leading the charge. Kogi State presents a different kettle of fish. With APC’s Governor Yahaya Bello obsessed with ego trips and infantile fantasy of running for president in 2023, at the expense of the people, the PDP may record some political gains in the next elections. However, the same political machinations that rattled the party in the last governorship election may still undo it in 2023. Only a free, fair and credible election, which may be hard to come by with Bello in the saddle, can save the PDP in Kogi. It’s going to be survival of the fittest in the crisis-ridden Plateau State come 2023. Lately, the Governor Simon Lalong APC administration has been battling crisis across party lines as a result of what many perceive to be his laid back and complacent approach to the security challenges confronting the state. The governor and the leadership of the Plateau State House of Assembly are presently at daggers drawn over insecurity and sundry issues. However, it would take a focused and forward looking leadership of the PDP in the state to rise up to the challenge. But such a leadership is not in place right now. South-South: The party is in comfortable lead in the zone with five of the six states firmly in its kitty. Virtually all the five states appear stable in the PDP. In Delta, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and other stakeholders appear to be firmly in control, with the backing of the James Ibori political family. With Governor Nyesom Wike in control, Rivers State may safely remain with the PDP come 2023 and beyond. With deft political moves, he has seen to it that the two APC factions, led by Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi and former Senator Magnus Abe remain sworn political enemies for as long as possible. Widely perceived to be acting hand-in-glove with one of the factions, the governor is believed to be stoking the fire in Rivers APC and the prospects of reconciliation appear far away. It’s that protracted political war of attrition between Amaechi and Abe that led to the disqualification of the Rivers APC from the 2019 state elections. The situation has not changed a bit. Things are not different with the APC chapter in Akwa Ibom State where Governor Udom Emmanuel holds sway for the PDP. The governor’s estranged political mentor turned arch rival, Godswill Akpabio, has lost some electoral value among his own people, as a result of power tussle with the sitting governor who succeeded him in 2015. On the other hand, his compatriot, James Akpanudoedehe, who presently serves as APC’s Caretaker National Secretary, neither possesses the clout nor commands the following strong enough to fill the void created in Akwa Ibom APC with Akpabio’s trashing. The challenge to PDP’s dominance in Akwa Ibom may not scale up in the months ahead. In Bayelsa State, the party appears to have learnt its lessons from the internal crisis that almost cost it the governorship seat. The crisis was triggered by disagreements over nominations for the November 2019 governorship election. The PDP had lost the election to the APC at first ballot. But the APC eventually lost the seat as a result of discrepancies in names observed in the official documentation of the party’s deputy governorship candidate by the Supreme Court. Having escaped defeat by a tiny skin of the teeth, the Bayelsa PDP may have learnt how to manage its internal conflicts.   Despite challenges, we’re committed to better Bayelsa,…     The economy: boom or bust in 2022?     Insecurity: Violence defying ideas   In Edo State, a group loyal to the PDP National Vice Chairman (South South), Chief Dan Orbih, is engaged in a supremacy battle with a larger camp controlled by the state governor, Godwin Obaseki. Restraining court orders, sponsored by the feuding parties shortly before the October convention, almost denied some members of the Orbih camp participation in the exercise. Convention over, the disagreement persists as neither the Orbih group nor the Obaseki camp has shown any willingness to bury the hatchet. It is being rumoured that a certain governor in one of the South South states, is backing one of the two warring camps. The PDP in Edo may open its flanks to external forces if the crisis lingers for too long. In Cross River State, the PDP will be fighting a challenging electoral battle as a party in opposition for the very first time since 1999. For the party, all previous elections in that South-South state up to 2019, had always been like “family picnic”. However, Governor Benedict Ayade has taken the crown to the APC with his defection to the ruling party in early 2021. Ayade was elected governor in 2015 and got re-elected in 2019 on PDP platform but opted out of the party when he clashed with his mentors. Ayade will be doing battle against the PDP with two former governors before him – Donald Duke and Senator Liyel Imoke. It’s doubtful if Ayade has got what it takes to defeat the combined forces of the two ex governors. PDP may retake Cross River. Northeast: The PDP controls three of the six states in this zone -Adamawa, Bauchi and Taraba while Gombe, Borno and Yobe are for the APC. The three PDP states appear secure so far. In addition, the PDP may benefit from the ongoing power tussle between the Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya and the senator representing Gombe Central district, Danjuma Goje, who is being rumoured to be making moves to defect to the PDP. Goje served as Gombe governor from 2003 to 2011 on the platform of the PDP, but defected to the APC in 2014 alongside other politicians in the heady days of the New PDP. The ex-governor also served as Power Minister from 1999 to 2003, under the Olusegun Obasanjo administration before he got elected as governor. He used to be a very strong political ally of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar when he was in the PDP. With Atiku’s backing, Goje was able to defeat the then incumbent Gombe governor, the late Abubakar Hashidu who got elected in 1999 on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). At the end of his eight-year tenure in 2011, Goje anointed a former Accountant General of the Federation, Ibrahim Dankwabo as his successor. The latter also served for eight years as governor. It was during Dankwabo’s first tenure that Goje defected to the APC while Dankwabo remained with the PDP where he secured his re-election in 2015. An entrenched power broker in Gombe politics, Goje may cause a major electoral upset for the APC in 2023 if speculations about his reunion with Atiku and his purported move to defect to the PDP turn out to be true. Yobe State has remained in the grip of a clique of political warlords who alternate the governorship seat among members within the circle. This powerful group decides which party to pitch tent with at any point in time. The state had been an opposition enclave from 1999 to 2011 under the defunct ANPP but had joined other legacy parties that formed the APC in 2013. And with the governor, Mai Mala Buni, doubling as National Caretaker Committee Chairman of the APC, the chances of the PDP in Yobe appear very slim. Borno State is a no-go area for the PDP or any other party for that matter, if incumbent governor, Prof Babagana Zulum decides to seek re-election in 2023. Zulum’s generally acclaimed sterling performance since he mounted the saddle in 2015, is enough to keep would-be governorship aspirants at bay, whether in his APC or any other party. The governor has continued to defy the ravaging insurgency and staked his personal safety on several occasions to reach out to communities under insurgent attacks. Zulum’s convoy had come under massive gun attacks in the line of duty and the governor has remained undeterred by multiple threats to his life. The PDP can only field a governorship candidate in Borno in 2023 to fulfill the requisite constitutional requirements and dictates of the Electoral Act. Northwest: Of the seven states in the Northwest zone, Sokoto is the only one under a PDP administration. The six others; Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, Jigawa, Kebbi and Zamfara are all home to the APC. The PDP is relatively stable in Sokoto with Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal in charge. The PDP may have to depend on possible fallout of power struggle among key power brokers in the other six states to make any impact in 2023. So far, such intra party wrangling is presently at play in Zamfara where the APC governor Bello Matawalle has been at loggerheads with the duo of Abdulaziz Yari and Kabiru Marafa. Yari, who served as governor from 2011 to 2019, has been a kingmaker in the state and was in total control of the APC until recently. Matawalle’s defection to APCearlier in 2021 changed the political equation in the Zamfara APC, a development that is being vehemently resisted by Yari. The ex-governor has found an ally in Marafa who represented Zamfara Central district in the Eighth Senate. The national leadership the APC had handed over the party structure in the state to Matawalle shortly after his defection to the APC. But Yari and Marafa have challenged the decision and they have continued to undermine the governor’s authority in the chapter. Ward and State congresses recently conducted in Zamfara by the APC national secretariat ended in a fiasco and the outcome has become a subject of litigation. The belligerent Yari and Marafa have taken the battle to the party’s national secretariat, asking APC leaders to steer clear of Zamfara local politics. Speculations are rife that the ex-governor and the ex-senator may be planning to dump the APC for the PDP, to enable them fight Matawalle to the finish in the 2023 election. The two party leaders recently met with former Senate President Bukola Saraki in what many perceived as part of the consultations that may lead to their eventual defection. Matawalle, who is generally considered a political paper weight, had dumped PDP for APC in what analysts described as a move to seek cover under the ubiquitous federal might. The PDP may have to bank on Yari and Marafa for possible electoral gains in Zamfara. The APC leadership may not be able to resolve the crisis in the Zamfara chapter too soon, because Yari has already chosen a replacement for Matawalle come 2023. Also, all is not well with the Kano chapter of APC as Governor Abdullahi Ganduje is presently having it rough with a number of contending forces in the state. There is a division in the leadership with the governor battling to take control of the party structure even as his opponents would not give any respite. The crisis escalated during the just concluded APC congress in the state. This has forced Ganduje to pay several unscheduled visits to the APC Abuja secretariat with stop-overs at the Presidential Villa to seek President Muhammadu Buhari’s support. There are also talks about Ganduje’s arch rival, ex-Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso planning to dump the ruling party over alleged irreconcilable differences with the sitting governor. As it were, Kano may retain its 2019 status as a battle ground for the two leading political parties. It would be recalled that the Ganduje and APC narrowly escaped defeat at the 2019 governorship election by the whiskers. Kaduna State will be keenly contested by the two leading parties with either taking the state. For one, the people in Kaduna do not appear to be too fond of  Governor Nasir El-Rufai and his party. The incessant mindless killings, banditry and kidnap for ransom enterprise have come to define the APC administration in the state. The situation is compounded by the governor’s perceived insensitivity to the plight of the people and his many reckless statements and actions in times of grief.  With El-Rufai as APC’s poster boy, the PDP may take Kaduna in a free, fair and credible election. The APC will put up strong resistance in the remaining three states in the zone – Kebbi, Katsina and Jigawa. Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu who is also the chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum will fight tooth and nail to deliver the state for the APC, even though he will be serving out his second and final tenure by 2023. The Buhari factor may still work for the APC in Katsina, the president’s home state. In Jigawa, the battle will be between the APC governor, Abubakar Badaru and his predecessor, Alhaji Sule Lamido of the PDP. It’s too early to predict where the pendulum will swing in Jigawa where the achievements of the incumbent are considered far below what he inherited from his PDP predecessor. CONCLUSION It is obviously going to be a Herculean task for the PDP that controls only 13 of 36 states to beat the APC with 22 states. The opposition party may face a major challenge when it commences its presidential nomination process in the days ahead. Already, no fewer than six of its chieftains of northern extraction are believed to be nursing presidential ambitions. A lot will certainly depend on how the party is able to manage the contest without rocking the boat. The belief in PDP circles and among its sympathizers, is that the APC administration has done enough damage to the economy, national security and the collective psyche of Nigerians for the electorate to want to vote the party again in 2023. However, the ultimate decision lies with the voters who live with the consequences of their choices thereafter.