The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday, trained visually impaired voters in the FCT on use of braille ballot guide ahead of the Feb. 12 area council election in the territory. Speaking during the event, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, INEC’s Resident Electoral Commissioner in FCT said the training would enable them to vote independently. Represented by the Director ServiCom, Mr Dennis Ogu, Bello said the commission would provide the wherewithal for the visually impaired and other physically challenged persons to participate in the election. The commissioner said that INEC would provide braille ballot guide and magnifying glasses during the election. Bello urged registered virtually impaired voters residing in the FCT to harness the opportunity to exercise their franchise. - Advertisement - ”We have made provision for braille ballot guide and magnifying glasses as part of the electoral materials to ensure a seamless voting exercise for the visually impaired. ”This is part of our move toward achieving inclusiveness and massive participation at the election,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the programme was organised by INEC in collaboration with the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES). In her remarks, Mrs Blessing Obidegwu, INEC’s Director, Gender and Inclusiveness, described the training as a good omen and a step in the right direction. Represented by Mrs Lakunuya Bello, Obidegwu said the programme would support those with impaired vision to make the right decision during the election.   Buhari to attend Gambian President, Adama Barrow’s…     Senate to Buhari: declare war against terrorists     Buhari never directed anyone to remove petrol subsidy…   ”We are bent on achieving free, fair and credible elections, we are taking steps to ensure inclusiveness. ”The braille ballot guide is a major success in our commitment to get it right. With it, they can identify party logos and cast their votes,” she said. The director stated that citizen participation in election was crucial in promoting popular leadership. Also speaking, IFES Country Director, Seray Jay expressed the need for the electoral process to accommodate all eligible voters irrespective of gender and physical condition. Represented by Obaje Ukeh, IFES Deputy Country Director, Jay said the event provided INEC and stakeholders the opportunity to interface meaningfully. ”This is an opportunity to engage with INEC, and to understand the things that they have prepared to ensure your participation in the FCT election. ”It is important to understand the tools which have been provided to help you make informed decisions on the election day,” Jay said. In his speech, the Chairman, Nigeria Association of the Blind, Mr Jacob Agada commended INEC for the programme and described it as ‘very rewarding and encouraging’ ”I commend INEC for this gesture, this is a good way to give everyone an equal opportunity,” he said. (NAN)