Popular socialite, Obi Cubana in a new Instagram post has counselled youths to resist distractions. The business mogul explained distractions abound in life but one must be able to identify and develop the willpower to ignore them According to Obi Cubana, to be successful in life, youths must intentionally guard ‘focus’, starve and eliminate distractions; more importantly, stay calm in the midst of ‘bombardment’ as it is a vital key to making the best decisions in life. He said: “Good morning my fellow Nigerian youths. Today let’s talk about RESISTANCE TO DISTRACTIONS. “Distractions are those things that prevent someone from giving full attention to something else. - Advertisement - “Getting distracted is one of the biggest challenges for our productivity. It has literally become part of us and most times, we don’t know it. “The world we live in is constantly demanding our attention but for us to be successful, it’s imperative that we remain FOCUSED on our goals.   Life would have been easier if I wasn’t gay – Temmy…     How I battled health crisis in 2021, by Ngozi Nwosu     Uproar as Mercy Aigbe finally unveils new ‘boo’   “Identify the challenges & time wasters that are preventing you from achieving more. When you allow things like social media, gossip, tv, trolling, etc to distract you, you will not reach your destination. The 46-year-old nightlife boss further noted youths should rather expend their energy ways to make themselves better and accomplish their goals faster than on gossip and trolls. He added: “Stay away from gossip! Yes, it might sound cool to be “up to date” on the latest gist about whoever. Unfortunately, gossip will never be something productive so why waste your precious time & energy with it? “Also give no heed when they troll & gossip about you. Be addicted to bettering yourself. You will accomplish your goals faster. You don’t get anywhere answering every dog that barks on your way. “Learn to stay calm and not react to the relentless bombardments. Staying calm is key to making good decisions in the heat of the moment. Be in control of your emotions always. Never let the world around us dictate your actions. “Guard your FOCUS like a million-dollar suitcase!! Remember, where your attention goes, your time goes. Starve your distractions & feed your FOCUS. Intentionally eliminate those distractions that are making you lose focus on your journey to greatness. “Challenge yourself TODAY! Now let’s get some work done, it’s Monday!!! #mondaywisdombyobicubana #resistancetodistractions #Okpataozueora1.”