The Minister of Education Mallam Adamu has commended the Kano State Government on steps taken to address the incident of the death of five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar, killed by her teacher. Adamu, who spoke through the Director of Press and Public Relations in the ministry, Mr Ben Goong, in Abuja yesterday, condemned the killing of Hanifa by her teacher by one Abdulmalik Tanko after he abducted her. Adamu, however, said he is watching closely the development to ensure that true dispensation of justice on the accused is achieved. Hanifa, until her death, was a pupil of Noble Kids Academy, located at Kwanar Dakata in Nasarawa Local Government Area of Kano State. “We are watching this national tragedy very closely and we are interested in seeing that justice is not only done, but explicitly seen as done. - Advertisement - “If a child cannot be safe in the hands of his or her teacher, where else can the child be safe. “This is an assault on the entire teaching profession and must not be allowed to happen again.   ‘Nobody can destroy Tinubu’     Delta police nab six kidnap, robbery suspects     Eight aspirants jostle for Ekiti APC governorship ticket   “We sympathise with the parents of the innocent baby and pray that Allah consoles them in the best way possible,” Adamu said. Hanifa was abducted on December 4, last year by her teacher, Abdulmalik Tanko, who has since been arrested by the police. Also, yesterday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) met with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in Kano State to ensure justice is speedily delivered for five-year-old Hanifa Abubakar. Ganduje’s Chief Press Secretary Abba Anwar said the commission commended the governor for his quick response on the girl’s murder. Ganduje has declared he will sign the killer’s death sentence if passed by the court. The Federal Commissioner of the Human Rights Commission, Abubakar Muhammad represented the Executive Secretary of the Commission Mr Tony Ojukwu at a condolence visit to Governor Ganduje during the State Executive Council meeting (SEC) held at Africa House, Kano yesterday. “The National Human Rights Commission under the chairperson of GCM Hajiya Salamatu and the Executive Secretary Mr Tony Ojukwu deemed it expedient to send this powerful delegation to you (Ganduje) and the people of Kano State over the unfortunate incident of Hanifa’s murder. “We commend the Kano State Government for being proactive and committed to ensuring justice on the matter,” Muhammad said. The Commission told Ganduje that “there is no reason for this form of human rights violation by anyone, big or small.” The governor said: “We are glad for your special concern over the sad incident. We remain in synergy with you over this tragedy and we shall follow it up to its logical conclusion.”