Studio Press Nigeria Plc and Union Diagnostic and Clinical Services Plc at the weekend delisted their entire issued shares from the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), closing secondary transaction on the shares of the two companies. The delisting of the two companies marked the conclusion of the buyout of minority shareholders by core investors, who opted to turn delist the shares of the two companies. Minority shareholders of Studio Press had sold their shareholdings to the company’s majority shareholder, Federated Resources Nigeria Limited at N1.99 per share. Preparatory to the delisting, the NGX had on December 17, 2021 suspended trading in the shares of Studio Press to prevent trading in the shares of the company beyond the effective date of the scheme of arrangement for the buyout. Minority shareholders of Union Diagnostic had also accepted a N492.75 million deal to sell their shares to Cedar Advisory Partners Limited, in a buyout that led to the delisting of the only listed health laboratory science company. Minority shareholders transferred their shareholdings totalling 39.62 per cent to Cedar, which already held 20.04 per cent equity stake Union Diagnostic, thus increasing Cedar’s majority shareholding to 59.66 per cent, making Cedar the single largest shareholder in the company.   Fed Govt lists new savings bonds on NGX     Union Bank partners Kucheza on social innovations     Wema Bank bags most innovative digital bank award   - Advertisement - The deal involved transfer of some 1.408 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each of Union Diagnostic held by sundry minority shareholders to Cedar at 35 kobo per share. Shareholders of Union Diagnostic had given their final approval to the scheme of arrangement for the buyout and also consented to probable modifications by the Federal High Court, technically completing the deal. The transaction price of 35 kobo per share then represented a premium of 75 per cent on the company’s last closing price on March 16, 2020 and 70.1 per cent on 90-day volume weighted average share price. At the court-ordered meeting in Lagos, shareholders approved the scheme of arrangement for the buyout dated Monday, December 7, 2020 and also authorised the board of Union Diagnostic to “consent to any modifications of the scheme of arrangement that the Federal High Court or any regulatory authority may deem fit to impose or approve”. The meeting also empowered the board of Union Diagnostic to take “all necessary steps and to consent to any modification of the scheme of arrangement that the Federal High Court shall deem fit to impose or approve”. The board of directors of Union Diagnostic, which initially received the binding offer for the buyout from Cedar, a healthcare investment firm, had considered and recommended the transaction to shareholders for consideration at the court ordered meeting.