Over four years after she was among 110 female students of Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, abducted by violent bandits on February 18, 2018, Leah Sharibu, who was 14 years old at the time, remains in the firm grip of her captors. Following negotiations between representatives of government and the kidnappers, the students kidnapped along with Leah were released, while the innocent girl remained in captivity reportedly because she refused to renounce her Christian faith. It remains an inexplicable and inexcusable mystery why those involved in the negotiations had not insisted at all cost that the lone remaining girl be released along with her other colleagues. Those who have lost all hope and come to believe that securing the release of Leah has become a veritable impossibility can certainly not be blamed for their pessimism. For, the Nigerian leadership elite at all levels has in the intervening years not demonstrated the kind of passionate concern that the pathetic case of this young lady deserves. This is why although coming seemingly belatedly, the declaration by the military that there is still hope for the rescue of Leah and her return to her family, offers some consolation and a ray of hope. Speaking on a programme on the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, assured the parents of Leah and others held captive by bandits and terrorists that their children would be rescued. According to him, “With the privileged position that I hold, I am aware of plans and of course of processes that are in place to ensure that not just Leah Sharibu but every other person held captive is released. About three weeks ago, one of the Chibok girls was rescued. I would like to reassure Nigerians and the world at large that the Federal Government, using the military, is working very hard to ensure that everyone that has been held captive regains their freedom”. Leah Sharibu has only come to symbolise the plight of the large number of kidnapped persons, particularly school children in northern Nigeria who continue to remain at the mercy of their tormentors. Ever since 276 girls were abducted from the Government Secondary School, Chibok, in Borno State in 2014, kidnapping in schools has become an epidemic across that region. For instance, on July 5, 2021, 128 students were abducted at the Bethel Baptist School in Kaduna, as they were preparing to write their examinations. Earlier In April, 2021, 23 students and staff were kidnapped from the Greenfield University, also in Kaduna. This has been the familiar story in schools in a number of other northern states. It has now become the pattern for kidnapped school children and other persons to be released to parents and other relations who are able to pay the huge ransoms demanded while those unable to do so remain in captivity.   Fake COVID-19 certificates     Good one from NiDCOM     Fixing what ain’t broken?   Read Also: Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu, others not forgotten – FG - Advertisement - By some estimates, for instance, more than 1,000 students were kidnapped in the north in 2021 by armed groups and over 200 who have been unable to meet ransom demands remain with their captors. Of the about 20 school attacks recorded by the United Nations Children and Education Fund (UNICEF) in the north between January and September, 2021, the organisation notes that 1,436 children were abducted and 200 remain missing. The CDS was optimistic that with the recent re-designation and  gazetting of bandits as terrorists, the military will be able to step up its onslaught against terror, thus increasing the chances of rescuing kidnapped persons. But the issue of securing the release of Leah and other remaining kidnapped persons, or even totally eradicating the epidemic of kidnapping is not entirely a matter of the intensity of military fire power. As we have persistently said, the most critical failing in the war against terror, extremism and insurgency is that of intelligence. It is reliable and accurate intelligence that enables the stealthy infiltration and penetration of the ranks of the enemy, thus exposing their vulnerabilities, weakening them from within, thus increasing the chances as well as success of external offensive rescue operations. After prolonged agitations by various segments of the civil society, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration effected changes in the composition of the service chiefs with some salutary effects on the military operations against destabilising forces. However, the same changes were not effected in the hierarchy of the intelligence agencies and consequently, the complacency in that sphere continues to the detriment of the various forms of criminality assailing the country. Until this is done, the CDS’s optimism that kidnapped persons like Leah can still be rescued may be difficult to realise. We hope the travails of Leah and her family will be a constant reminder to Nigeria’s leadership of its failure to live up to its responsibilities of rescuing all those who remain in kidnappers’ custody across the country, as well as ensuring the safety and security of every citizen of Nigeria.