Another battle for the Ekiti State Government House has started between All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship standard bearer Biodun Oyebanji and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Bisi Kolawole. Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU profiles the flagbearers. he stage for an epic battle is set. The governorship race is gathering momentum in Ekiti State. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will clash in June. Who succeeds Governor Kayode Fayemi between Biodun Oyebanji (BAO) and Bisi Kolawole (BisiKay)? Many observers have contented that the contest is really between Fayemi and the PDP leader, former Governor Ayodele Fayose. Fayemi had thrown his weight behind Oyebanji, former Secretary to Government, at the primary while Fayose supported Kolawole. Ekiti Central District may be polarised. Fayose, Oyebanji and Kolawole are household names in the district. During the campaigns, both candidates will be under the shadow of the current and former governors. - Advertisement - The election may be tough, according to analysts. The two parties have been alternating governance in Ekiti State. While APC is pushing for continuity, PDP is canvassing power shift. APC will not want to lose Ekiti. PDP will want to make a point ahead of 2023. The electoral umpire has warned that the law banning political thuggery and violence is still in force. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu has reiterated the determination of the  agency and the police to prosecute electoral offenders. It is likely that Oyebanji and Kolawole will pick their running mates from Ekiti South. Two towns that may bid for it are Ikere and Ilawe. Fayemi is from the North. A special negotiation would have to be made with Ado-Ekiti APC and PDP leaders. The state capital is the largest town in Ekiti. The two parties will have to confront the challenge of reconciliation. It may be more easier to accomplish healing in the opposition than the ruling party. The two candidates are not giants of Ekiti history. But, they have paid their dues in their respective parties, communities and the state. The first is in his fifties. The second is 10 years older. They are men of impeccable character. Both are able to connect with the youths, aged and other stakeholders. The two contenders are highly educated, bold and brave. They have been part of governments since 1999. Ekiti looks forward to their manifestos. There are also few parties, apart from APC and PDP,  trying to pose as genuine platforms. On poll day, their candidates will be like spectators.   Oyebanji: Oyebanji was born on December 21, 1967, in Ikogosi-Ekiti to the family of Mr. Ezekiel Kunle and Late Mrs. Esther Oyebanji. He is a former academic, farmer, and public servant, who was until recently, the Secretary to the Government of Ekiti State. As a homegrown Ekiti man, his entire early education was in his home state, in institutions, including as Baptist Primary School, Ikogosi- Ekiti, Awo Community High School; C.A.C. Grammar School, Efon-Alaaye; and District Commercial Secondary School, Aramoko-Ekiti. He attended the Federal School of Arts and Science, Ondo State before he earned a Bachelor of Science (BSc.) degree in Political Science from the Ondo State University (now Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti) in 1989. He later attended the University of Ibadan, where he bagged a Masters’ Degree (M.Sc) in Political Science (International Relations & Strategic Studies) in 1992. He started his career in the academia as a lecturer in the Department of Political Science, University of Ado Ekiti, where he worked for four years (1993 – 1997), before moving on to the financial services industry, serving as Manager, Treasury, and Financial Services at the defunct Omega Bank Plc (now Heritage Bank) till May 1999, when he commenced an illustrious career in politics and governance. Oyebanji is one of the longest serving political office holders in the Government of Ekiti state, haven served for over 11 years in various capacities including: Oyebanji is a devout Christian who sees his career in politics and governance as a divine calling, and he has served God and country diligently as a loyal party man and conscientious public servant in different capacities right from the inception of the Fourth Republic through several dispensations and administrations. He has held sensitive positions requiring high levels of discretion and trust and is a pillar in the progressive movement in the state who is seen as a bridge between the older and younger generation on account of his track record, reputation, and accessibility. He has been engaged in Agribusiness for over two decades and is the chairman of Con Dois Farms Limited. In recognition of his inspirational life journey as a successful businessman and a devoted public servant, Oyebanji has earned many awards including the Distinguished Alumnus Award by the Alumni Association of the Ondo State University, Ado-Ekiti (now Ekiti State University), and the Certificate of Excellence awarded by the National Association of Political Science Students (NAPSS), Ondo State University, Ado-Ekiti (now Ekiti State University). His most notable award is the Member, Ekiti Exceptional Achievers (MEEA) award in the order of the Ekiti State Honours Roll Law, 2020, granted in recognition of his critical contributions to the creation of Ekiti State in 1996. By providence and by a remarkable show of patriotism and sacrifice at such a young age at the time, he notably served as Secretary, Committee for the Creation of Ekiti State (1996), and Secretary, Ekiti State Development Fund. Read Also: Ekiti 2022: Fayose, Ayu sold out PDP to APC, Oni alleges   Ekiti 2022: Fayose, Ayu sold out PDP to APC, Oni alleges     PDP appoints Anenih, Chidoka, Ozigbo for Anambra Congress…     ‘GAC has not settled for any replacement for…   Writing the history of politics and governance in Ekiti State would be incomplete without mentioning the contributions of Oyebanji. He is as much a part of our history as a state, as he is an embodiment of the model Ekiti man in character, intellect, experience, and goodwill across board, who should play a central role in shaping the future of our state. He is married to Dr. (Mrs.) Olayemi Oyebanji, a senior Lecturer in the Department of Educational Management, Faculty of Education, University of Ibadan, who is a seasoned scholar with over 80 publications in the field of Institutional Administration, Higher Education, Quality Assurance in Education, Human Resource Development and Leadership in Education. They are blessed with children.   Kolawole: Kolawole was born in Ile-Ife on September 20, 1957 to an Efon-Alaaye community leader, Chief  Ezekiel Omoyeye Kolawole of the Meyolanu Dynasty. His mother, a woman of impeccable beauty,  Mrs Alice Mojirola Kolawole, was a native of Modakeke. She got married to Chief Kolawole in the course of his business sojourn at Ile-Ife. As Bisi was growing up at Ile-Ife with the other children, the lot fell on the father to assume the position of High Chief Obaloja, which was the third in leadership hierarchy of Efon-Alaaye to the paramount ruler, Alaaye of Efon Kingdom. Thus, in 1961, the Kolawole family moved from Ile-Ife to Efon-Alaaye to enable Chief Kolawoye take up the onerous task of chieftaincy leadership. In 1963, Kolawole enrolled at St. John’s Anglican Primary School, Idagba, Efon-Alaaye where he completed his primary school education in 1969. Between 1970 and 1974, he attended Doherty Memorial Grammar School, Ijero-Ekiti, where he had his West African School Certificate. Later, he went to Ahmadiya, College, Agege, Lagos for his Higher School Certificate (HSC). In the course of association and interaction with friends on probable future career opportunities, he decided to seek a manifestation of a hitherto latent talent he had for works of art. He studied at the famous Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, where he earned the Higher National Diploma(HND) in Graphics Design, Art and Printing in 1981. The thirst for further education and quest for knowledge propelled him to the University of Ado-Ekiti (now Ekiti State University) where at different times, he earned Post-Graduate Diploma and Master’s Degree in Public Administration. He later enrolled for the LLB in the Open University, Abuja, which for now he has put on hold because of time constraints. Kolawole did his mandatory youth service at the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Headquarters between 1981 and 1982. He immediately after the youth service secured employment with NICHEMTEX Industries, Ikorodu, Lagos in 1982. He voluntarily disengaged in 1992 as a Production Manager to seek further opportunities. He thereafter registered his own private company, which engaged essentially in printing and merchandising. Kolawole was born into politics. His father, Chief Kolawole (Odeosunlasoore), even when resident at Ile-Ife, at a point, became a councillor from Efon-Alaaye under the then Ekiti West Divisional Council in the 1950s under the Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s Action Group( AG). Besides, Bisi grew up in the Obaloja Palace of his father and witnessed how justice was dispensed whenever cases were brought up for adjudication. He was undoubtedly exposed to the interplay of politics and this must have caught his attention and aroused his interest. Also, as a student, he was actively involved in Students Union politics at the Yaba College of Technology, advocating for social justice and fighting for interest of the oppressed. The defining moment in his incursion into partisan politics came in the return to civil rule in 1999. He was persuaded to move to Efon Alaaye from Lagos. He became a Supervisor in the Efon-Alaaye Local Government. A golden fish has no hiding place. Hence, his exemplary performance and unique capacity for social engineering made Efon Alaaye people to elect him under the People’s Democractic Party (PDP) to the Ekiti State House of Assembly in 2007. He was Chairman of the House Committee on Works. He was not a bench warmer in the parliament. He was a significant stabilising force in the Assembly and indeed, the state during the 13 PDP and 13 Action Congress (AC) (later ACN) membership of the House. In 2013, Kolawole was appointed by the Federal Government as a member of the Governing Council of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida, Niger State. In October 2014, Governor Fayose appointed him as a Special Adviser on Environment and  later in July 2015, made him Commissioner for Environment. He held the position till the end of the tenure of the administration in October 2018. He was the PDP candidate for the House if Representatives election in Ekiti West Constituency. He was also a member of the Board of Trustees of the PDP. In 2020, he was elected as Chairman of the PDP in Ekiti, the position he held until  late 2021, when he resigned to contest the party’s governorship ticket. On January 26, 2022, he was elected as the flag-bearer of the PDP in the June 18, 2022 governorship election. Bisi Kolawole is a politician of impeccable character and an unassailable  socialite, who effortlessly relates with people across straters and accords all due respect. He is urbane, civil, suave and sartorial. He is the Otunba of Odo-Owa in Ijero Local Govt and Igbara-Odo in Ekiti Southwest Local Govt, Bobajiro of Ogotun-Ekiti in Ekiti West. His admirers have described him as a witty, pleasant, and amiable politician; courageous, practical, intellectually resourceful and full of innovation. Kolawole is the Asiwaju of St. Andrews Anglican Church, Efon-Alaaye. He is an embodiment of boldness, courage and determination. The PDP candidate, a grandfather, is married to a very amiable and pious strong woman of faith, Deaconess Adeola Kehinde Kolawole, nee Fajilade, from Ikere-Ekiti. The marriage is blessed richly with grown-up children, who are making impacts in Nigeria and abroad.