The lead counsel for Yoruba Nation agitator Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho, Chief Yomi Alliyu, SAN, has urged the public to ignore a statement by a lawyer, Mr. Pelumi Olajengbesi, that he had pulled out of Igboho’s legal team. The senior lawyer said in a statement yesterday that Olajengbesi was never a member of Igboho’s legal team. He said he was engaged for the 12 persons arrested by the Department of State Services (DSS) in Igboho’s Ibadan home  on July 1, 2021, adding that his relationship was with the Ilana Omo Oodua, an organisation that also agitates for Yoruba Nation. The organisation is headed by Prof. Banji Akintoye. Olajengbesi had last week issued a statement on his Facebook page, announcing his withdrawal from Igboho’s and Ilana Omo Oodua’s legal team. - Advertisement - The statement said: “This is to officially announce my resignation as a counsel involved further in any matter relating to Chief Sunday Adeyemo Igboho and the Yoruba Nation agitators. “As a firm, we are satisfied with our little best in contributing to providing legal solutions and representations to Igboho and associated Yoruba Nation agitators as far as ensuring the protection and enforcement of their rights in this matter. “We were able to secure the release of 12 persons brutally and unlawfully arrested by the State Security Service (SSS), and also secured the release of an innocent herbalist equally unlawfully arrested and detained by the SSS. We have two persons with ongoing terrorism trials at the Federal High Court and our firm will continue and close the trial, having begun their matter. “While thanking everyone, particularly Chief Yomi Aliyu, SAN, for the opportunity and freehand service, Dr. Olasupo Ojo for his fair leadership and Chief Femi Falana for allowing his industry to be tapped and for the moral support, I most respectfully wish to now step aside.”   AbdulRazaq attributes success in health care to committed…     Ogun to introduce ‘water kiosking’     Council presents gifts to first Baby-of-the-Year   “I have stated ab initio that the scope of my work will only be within the purview of my professional duty as a lawyer to Igboho and his aides. I am a strong believer in constitutional democracy, civil liberty and human rights, which include the right to self-determination, but I am neither a Yoruba Nation agitator nor a member of any like organisation. “My reaction to Prof. Akintoye was not to undermine the Yoruba struggle, but is based off my personal convictions, which I am entitled to. I do hope my friends in the struggle will allow me enjoy the benefit of my right to such a choice as a person of thought and conscience.” Reacting to the announcement, the Ilana Omo Oodua said nobody hired Olajengbesi in the first instance. Alliyu’s statement read: “My attention has been directed by Chief Sunday Adeyemo himself to the online statement of Pelumi Olajengbesi, Esq. that he has resigned from the legal team of Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Igboho Oosa. “I instructed Olajengbesi to secure the release of the 12 people arrested in Chief Adeyemo’s house. I never involved him in Adeyemo’s matter. Thus, he has a limited brief. “He is at no time counsel for Chief Adeyemo, but rather Ilana Oodua that paid him for the services he rendered to them. Whether he could turn around to condemn the arrow head of those who paid him depends on his conscience. He knows I turned down their wish to pay me for professional services to Igboho. “Let it be on record that I also condemn the statement of Prof. Akintoye that there will not be elections in Ekiti and Osun states. Justice is not a one way traffic but 3-way! One for them, one for the public and another for the government. “I take this opportunity to plead with the public to disregard whatever Olajengbesi  or Mr. Koiki stated to have purportedly emanated from Chief Adeyemo. They lack the vires to so do! However, why Pelumi could say anything for the 12; and that will be after clearance from me, which he has not taken in recent times; he has no right to say anything on behalf of Igboho. He is not his counsel, without infringing on rules of professional conduct. No good counsel does that. Koiki on his part can say whatever he likes on behalf of his Ilana Oodua Group, but not Chief Adeyemo! Each of them should be held personally liable for their utterances. “For the umpteenth time, I, Chief Yomi Alliyu, SAN, is the only person authorised in writing by my client, Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Igboho Oosa, to act for him and/or make statements on his behalf. “I sincerely hope my two brothers will be guided accordingly.” Igboho is being held in Cotonou, Benin Republic. No charges have been pressed against him since his arrest on July 19, 2021.