Twenty-twnety gave several entertainers a hard time as many of them scrapped tours, pushed back albums, film releases, TV and comedy shows. And by 2021 every entertainer decided to pour it all out with almost too many to choose from, whether it’s Ayra Starr’s new tunes taking over the minds of teenagers and kids or Tems’ unbelievable breakthrough into the global scene, or Wizkid grabbing another Grammy nominations, it’s hard to keep up with the world of celebrity these days. That is not to even mention all the blockbusters, TV shows and social media platforms gracing us. By 2022, PwC estimates Nigeria’s total music revenue to reach $65 million as digital music consumption surpasses physical revenue and the streaming sector grows. Assistant Entertainment Editor, GBENGA BADA compiles the list to help readers stay ahead of the curve. The following, therefore, is the 2022 outlook for the Nigerian entertainment industry based on our investigations as well as insights from sources and experts in the industry.   Wizkid Although Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun a.k.a. Wizkid had a good run in 2021, having kicked off the year with a collaborative Grammy win for ‘Brown Skin Girl,’ it is without doubt that he will continue his success streak in 2022 as he charts a global course for African music acts. According to Billboard, Wizkid has worked hard to emerge the first African artiste to truly make a major pop breakthrough in the United States after years of African artistes inching closer to the centre of Western pop music with his 2021 Summer song, ‘Essence’. - Advertisement - Going for yet another Grammy run after getting a nod with Drake’s ‘Views’ and Beyonce’s ‘Brown Skin Girl,’ Wizkid might cement the assertions of this report if he wins one or two Grammys at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards tomorrow (January 31, 2022). Even if he loses, he would have made a global impact that will reverberate amongst global stars itching to have duets with him or join forces to make globally accepted songs, albums or tours in 2022 and beyond.   Fireboy DML Adedamola Adefolahan a.k.a. Fireboy DML’s continued success is another testament that rapper and YBNL boss, Olamide, sure knows his onions in spotting and refining a raw talent into a global star. While 2021 was a good year for the 25-year-old, who got an international distribution deal with Empire Distribution with just two albums, 2022 is poised to be a more rewarding and better year for Fireboy, whose debut single from his forthcoming third album, Peru, is not only smashing records but raking in incredible streams. As the young singer and instrumentalist gears up for his first U.S. tour in February 2022, he ended the year with a remake of ‘Peru’ featuring British singer, Ed Sheeran. 2022 looks good for him.   Mo Abudu 2022 is a loaded year for 57-year-old media mogul, Mo Abudu. The leggy brain behind EbonyLife studios and TV is already occupied with many engagements that will take her time in the world of content production for television and streaming platforms. Already named one of the world’s 100 most powerful women alongside others like US Vice-President Kamala Harris, Oprah Winfrey, Rihanna, Beyoncé Knowles, Ava DuVernay and Serena Williams, this mother and grandmother will be smiling to the bank all year round and beyond – all things being equal. From deals with Netflix for film productions to deals with BBC studio Drama Productions and Sony Pictures, Abudu will be making landmark impacts on Nigeria and global scenes in the world of film and content.   Davido While nothing major has come out of the DMW Chief Executive Officer’s musical chest lately, it is believed that his celebrity status will always scream headlines. As always, Davido is working hard to prove a point every musical year, and having celebrated 10th professional year in the music industry, it is believed that he would be making some big and major moves in 2022. For the father of three and businessman, it is better to keep fingers crossed and await the surprise he might pull on us all.   Burna Boy Burna Boy won’t be making much impact aside from a few song releases and collaborations. He had good runs in the last two years and crowned them with a Grammy win in 2021 and a nomination in 2022. He has toured several cities and countries and signed some deals – nothing as major as Wizkid and Davido – including with Nigerian Breweries for his endorsement of the Star lager beer. In 2022, Burna Boy is poised to concentrate more on his love life with British-Jamaican singer Stefflon Don and another album for 2023. Made Kuti One young man that many didn’t see coming is Omorinmade Anikulapo-Kuti. 2021 was a fulfilling year for the 25-year-old son of Afrobeat maestro, Femi Kuti, and prolific dancer turned artiste manager, Funke Kuti. He had quietly joined his father’s Positive Force band after returning to Nigeria from the UK to learn the ropes before he formed The Movement band. His experience has seen him headlining several shows and staging his own shows in Lagos. Already, the young grandson of Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo Kuti, bagged his first Grammy nominations ahead of the 64th Grammy Awards.   How I battled incurable ailment in 2021, by actress Kemi…     My 2021 near-death experience, by Kemi Afolabi     Ini Edo: I look forward to playing super villain   He earned his first nomination at the Grammy Awards alongside his father, who is looking at going for the sixth time. Made has some surprises up his sleeves in 2022 and feelers say he will shock his own clan.   Ayra Starr When Don Jazzy led Mavins records first unveiled 19-year-old Oyinkansola Sarah Aderibigbe a.k.a. Ayra Starr, not many knew what was coming. With barely three years as a professional singer, this teenager is fast shaping her own world with the creation of songs that are fast becoming household and party vibes. From ‘Away’ to ‘Bloody Samaritan,’ Ayra Starr has proved Don Jazzy’s gamble right with every passing day. After the release of her EP, ‘19 & Dangerous,’ she is poised to shake the world with her album and collaborations in 2022. This is not to forget that she nabbed a global ambassadorial role with Pepsi in 2021.   AV Adindu Victor a.k.a. AV had a good year in 2021, and as he looks forward to releasing a debut body of work and collaborations, 2022 looks very good. The young and talented singer and songwriter hails from a home where his father was a singer and instrumentalist. His debut single ‘Big Thug Boys’ rose to an enviable height after its release, leaving some of the older music stars green with envy. AV hit the industry hard and became a recognised figure across Africa for just the hit single, which rose to number one spot across all streaming platforms in Africa in less than three weeks. 2022 is poised to bring good tidings for AV, who is ready to take on the world.   Toke Makinwa When Toke Makinwa announced that the view from her 36th floor was bold and audacious on her 36th birthday in November 2020, not many of her fans or colleagues had the inkling of her aim. TM, as she likes to be addressed, has since achieved quite a handful of her set out goals in an audacious takeover of the TV show hosting scene. Anyone can call themselves a presenter these days but it takes an unparalleled skill, unbreakable determination and heaps of talent to captivate an audience of millions, and these are qualities that  Toke has brought with her as TV show host with BBNaija’s The Buzz and Gulder Ultimate Search being the leading feats. 2022 will be more fun and financially rewarding as her new show, Talk with Toke Makinwa. The TV show is designed to be a pan-African show and it will open more doors for the TV and radio show host in 2022.   Kunle Afolayan 2022 will start as a busy year for celebrated filmmaker, Kunle Afolayan, who has done very well for himself. Towards the end of 2021, Afolayan revealed that he was erecting a multi-million film village in Oyo State. ‘The Citation’ director revealed his current project weeks after launching an entertainment hub in Ikeja, Lagos. The filmmaker, whose work, ‘A Naija Christmas,’ has been rocking cinemas across Nigeria after its release in December, will be working on his upcoming major film immediately after the completion of the film village. Afolayan noted that his dream will be actualised in both the film and the film village, hence, his 2022 will be busy.   Tems 2022 is definitely a year music fans expect to see 26-year-old Temilade Openiyi a.k.a. Tems blossom like a flower. After a rough 2020 that had her arrested and paraded alongside colleague Omah Lay in Uganda for trespassing and performing at a concert during COVID-19 restrictions, Tems dusted her jacket to show the world what she had in her. Leveraging on her 2019 hit song, ‘Try Me,’ she began working and got the attention of Wizkid, who featured her on ‘Essence.’ The music star hasn’t looked back since then as she has gone ahead to earn two US top 40 entries on the Billboard Hot 100, with her collaboration with Drake on the song ‘Fountains’. Music fans and pundits predict a bigger and rewarding year for the RCA recording music act.