Blunt truth, the Yoruba declare, is as bitter as gall — ooto oro koro! That’s the recurring theme of Chief Bisi Akande’s book, My Participations, which has set many a tooth on edge since its release. Take these three portraitures — so spot on in their brutal frankness; so nettling in their scorching truth: Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, PhD: “… I have seen through the pretences of Obasanjo, his fake nationalism, his pretentious patriotism and his vaulting ambition to be the centre of our universe.” Chief Ayo Adebanjo: “Chief Adebanjo … is a blank politically minded leader who recognizes readily and always that he never has what it takes to aspire for high political positions.  He constantly harbours lumps of yellow hate-bile in his heart for any co-political leader with brighter chances …” - Advertisement - Prof. Yemi Osinbajo: “Osinbajo is one of our brightest boys … Modest, cerebral, perspicacious, courageous and decent in every sense …” Obasanjo, ace media letter writer and jazzy mounter of the bully pulpit for routine preachments and hustle has, since the Akande thunder, been struck dumb!  True, he tried to float a fresh controversy — to divert attention? — over the insecurity question.  But failing to draw much traction, he has kept his peace. That loud silence from the Obasanjo corner is all wonder.  Akande not only accused Obasanjo of subversive admiration, he also savaged him with alleged attempt at a stifling, if not diabolical embrace: the likes that led to the Bola Ige tragedy — aside from mercilessly rolling him in the mud for swashbuckling presidential hubris, that thought little, if at all, of a post-power tomorrow! Unlike Obasanjo’s strange quiet, Chief Adebanjo blundered into a television bluster, brimming with anger, bordering on the vulgar, and certainly the abusive.  Later, he would sing like a canary, at an impassioned, hurriedly summoned press conference, over a certain allegation of building by proxy! Yet, the more he belched fire, the more he looked like Chief Olu Falae, after the Goodluck Jonathan Afenifere “obtainment” scandal of 2015.  Some damning, uncomfortable truth is out there! Beyond initial huff and bluff, the severe majesty of that truth just sheared the garrulous of their tongue; the preachy of their sermons; the preening of their gait!  It wasn’t Baba Adebanjo’s finest hour! Yet, between the new taciturn Obasanjo and a Chief Adebanjo that made a hash of his no-retreat-no-surrender customary huff, you could see the self-thrusting similarity between these two champions of the conservative and progressive blocs; and their penchant for because-I-have-said-it-it-must-be-right! My Participations dealt a near-fatal blow to such cheap crowing and flowery grandstanding.  Welcome to the age of new humility — but only for the wise! Vice President Osinbajo emerged the most unscathed from the Akande clinical banger.  But even that — no thanks to emerging sweepstakes from Presidency 2023 — might soon birth a row of ill temper and needless controversies.   Uzodimma: A test of leadership     Unvaccinated Southeast     The rice pyramids of Abuja   The media cowboys, particularly of the progressive hue, never take prisoners in their combats; are never nuanced in their strafing, and fight as if there was no yesterday, no tomorrow, not even today but only this instant! Still, Osinbajo’s rave review from Baba Akande is well earned.  No turbulence of the moment can deny Osinbajo his basic decency, anymore than it can deny President Muhammadu Buhari his ascetic probity and integrity, Chief Akande his brutal honesty and frankness and, for that matter, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, from culling in the nation-wide alliances he has built, way back from 1992, for his newly declared presidential dream. The truth is that about everyone got barbed in My Participation — President Buhari for chickening out of his gentleman’s promise to name Tinubu his running mate; Asiwaju Tinubu for his naïveté — or is it boundless optimism? — that whatever worked in cosmopolitan Lagos could work in the hinterland; Olagunsoye Oyinlola for being an alleged merry pun in Obasanjo’s anti-Akande dirty games; and Iyiola Omisore, who the author mauled with the heady triumph of blind Justice following the putrescence of harsh evidence! To fend off his own heavy cross, Prince Oyinlola unleashed the classic Obasanjo-esque bluster: that he beat Akande black-and-blue at the 2003 election — the same he would have said of Rauf Aregbesola in 2007, had the courts not put a stop to the charade: but only after Oyinlola’s three-and-a-half years illegal rule, out of a four-year term! Comically, Oyinlola even tried to tar Akande with sleaze!  Now, that was rich — wasn’t it? — if not from the avuncular Oyinlola himself, then from the venal political military bloc that threw up the retired brigadier-general!  For once, the medium was the excellent message — and it wasn’t pretty! Still, Buhari reneging was a blessing in disguise.  First, it gave Prof. Osinbajo the wings to fly and unleash his brilliance and decency on the national front.  Governance has been the richer for it. More importantly, a Buhari-Tinubu ticket would have been a recipe for disaster, the two being rather strong characters.  The pair appear the political equivalent of the “war lord”, in the political street of their core areas. The ensuing hoopla could well have brought back, all over again, the Obasanjo-Atiku presidential dysfunction — which Nigeria sure did not need, given the near-collapse the defeated order left behind. If Osinbajo guns for president, that decision won’t cancel his trademark brilliance and decency.  But it would rupture his bloom in the Tinubu progressives garden, the political nursery that planted and nurtured him, even if he himself has proved a good seed. Besides, is vice-presidential exposure enough to earn Osinbajo his party’s ultimate ticket, any more than the Governors’ Forum could deliver a Kayode Fayemi that diadem? Time will tell.  Still, a classic clash between starchy, formal authority and fizzy, informal influence that would be! But beyond skewed and straight personages, My Participations exposed a Nigerian polity with pretty unchanging ecology.  In 1955, communities cooked up books to attract Awo’s free primary education schools, as folks in 2021 manufactured stuff to corral Buhari’s conditional cash transfer, meant for the poorest of the poor! Now, also: compare the corrupt, insufferable councillors of Akande’s youth in his native Ila-Orogun with the venal, bully politicians of today? But in all of these, Chief Akande who turned 83 on January 16, picked his straight and narrow path and stuck to it.  That is one personal glory worth crowing about — and worth recommending to others. Happy new year A happy new year to all readers of this column.  In a Nigeria ever tumbling with stuff, it’s almost criminal to leave the trenches!  Yet, rest calls and you can’t but obey!  It’s nice to be back.