A member of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Economic Advisory Council (EAC), Bismack Rewane, economic analyst Dr Muda Yusuf and others have reacted differently to the decision of the Federal Government to suspend the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), which recommended total deregulation of the downstream oil sector, among others. Rewane, who is also the Managing Director, Financial Derivatives Company Limited, explained that for Nigeria, the official data of macroeconomic indicators such as Gross Domestic Product, inflation, exchange rate, external reserves and oil prices point to a strong 2022 but the average Nigerian is still perplexed. He said: “The price of domestic commodities are high and will climb further should fuel subsidy be removed and cost reflective electricity tariffs be implemented; people’s  income levels have remained the same.” Yusuf who is the chief executive at Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise (CPPE), said he was not surprised by the sudden decision of the Federal Government. - Advertisement - He said: “The capitulation on the subsidy removal did not come as a surprise.  There were too many odds against the move.  There were obvious concerns about the potential political cost to the government and the ruling party. There were worries about the social cost given the excruciating poverty in the country. There was also the waning goodwill required by the government to enlist the support of the people.” In a statement titled: Capitulation on Subsidy Removal,  Yusuf, a former Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), said the whole subsidy story became a political-economy matter.  It was moved from the realm of economics and investment to the political realm. The outcome was predictable, especially with impending general elections next year. “But the economic cost of the capitulation is equally weighty.  The truth is that you cannot eat your cake and have it. We should expect the cost of funding the subsidy to be much higher this year because of the surge in crude oil price. If the oil price remains high for most part of the year, the subsidy cost could go as high as N2.5 trillion or even more by the end of the year. This would surely affect funding for critical infrastructures such as roads, railways, healthcare education, and even security. The petroleum products smugglers, beneficiaries of the fiscal leakages in the fuel subsidy ecosystem and their collaborators will continue to smile to the banks for the next one and half years. “Some states would struggle to pay salaries, especially states that are heavily dependent on federal allocation.  Some may have to lay-off some of their workforce. Many will struggle to meet their financial obligations as sub-nationals. “Macroeconomic risks would become elevated as fiscal deficit and borrowing significantly surpasses projections in the 2022 budget.  The CBN may have to continue to cover financing gaps through ways and means.  This of course has serious inflationary implications.  The macroeconomic outcomes would adversely impact on the exchange rate, leading to further depreciation of the currency.”   NNPC: There is sufficient petrol     ‘Nigeria’s 5G frequency guard band poses no aviation…     Leky Mills unveils yam chips   Dr Yusuf said prospective investors in the downstream oil sector would withhold their investments until the policy environment becomes conducive.  Additionally, a major confidence crisis has been created around the Petroleum industry Act as a result of this capitulation. These are the prices we would have to pay as a country for the policy reversal, he added. On the suspension of PIA implementation, he said:  “This is another instance of policy somersault.  It also reflects the absence of political will to reform the oil and gas sector. This has been the struggle over the past few decades. Perhaps there are entrenched and powerful interests working against the PIA. “These forces have succeeded in upturning a major economic reform programme.  It is a sad development. “This would further aggravate the political and policy risk of investing in Nigeria.   The oil and gas sector is one sector that has been starved of investment for several decades because of policy and regulatory issues. “Regrettably, at a time when we thought we had turned the corner, we are now faced with the stark reality of a complete suspension of a major instrument of reform. “It is certainly not good for our perception by investors as an investment destination.  It will affect our country’s risk rating. It also implies that the implementation of the Act will not commence in the life of the present administration. It is difficult to predict what the succeeding administration will do. Meanwhile, attracting investment into the oil and gas space will be extremely difficult going forward.” Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, said government should block revenue leakages and get big corporations to pay taxes. For him, the right thing to do is not to present N3 trillion supplementary budget for subsidy payment, but to collect more taxes, stop reckless borrowing and reform key parastatals to get more revenue needed to fund budget. Rafsanjani said: “Many companies are not paying taxes. And instead of getting such funds back, government is going into reckless borrowing. The N3 trillion supplementary budget is ‘window dressing’; go after tax defaulters, and improve Nigeria’s revenue base.” Analysts at United Capital, said fuel subsidy removal remains a dicey discourse given that labour unions and public backlash will continue to limit the government’s ability to push through a total removal. He explained that there will continue to be significant public backlash and adverse reactions from Labour on fuel subsidy removal anytime it comes up. “Thus, the fuel subsidy discourse would be a key driver of economic fortunes in the future, particularly regarding inflation, monetary policy and purchasing power,” they said.