The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has dissociated itself from Monday’s shooting in Enugu and Anambra States by those it referred to as hoodlums and cultists recruited and sponsored by certain politicians in the states. It urged Southeast Governors to deal decisively with those taking advantage of the Monday sit-at-home to torture innocent citizens and residents of the region. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB also cautioned media against linking the group and its security outfit with criminals behind the sad development. The group explained that those using its name, leader and security outfit to demonise the movement aimed at giving the federal government reason to hold its leader perpetually in detention. It warned that its ESN operatives would henceforth go after the criminals unleashing mayhem on both residents and visitors in the zone. - Advertisement - The statement reads in parts: “Our attention has been drawn to the senseless shooting in Enugu State on Monday by hoodlums and cultists recruited and sponsored by some evil politicians in the state who derive joy in spilling blood of their fellow citizens. “We have severally explained that IPOB has not authorized anybody to enforce Monday sit-at-home which has been suspended since September 19, 2021. Anybody unleashing sorrow on innocent citizens under the guise of enforcing sit-at-home order is a criminal and does not deserve pity. “Despite the suspension of Monday Sit-At-Home since 19th of September 2021, some unscrupulous elements and criminals conniving with security agencies and our enemies have continued to inflict pain on our people. Their aim is to blackmail IPOB but they will continue to fail.   Ex-Ondo SSG: Tinubu most qualified in South West to be…     BREAKING: Umahi joins 2023 presidential race, informs Buhari     BREAKING (AFCON 2021): Super Eagles starting XI against…   “We want to inform our people to stand firm in the fight for their liberty. IPOB did not ask anybody to enforce Sit-At-Home of any kind. Henceforth, ESN operatives will come from the bushes and forests and go after these criminals unleashing mayhem on innocent people and visitors to Biafra land in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. Read Also: Sit-at-home: Suspected IPOB members burn vehicle, scare residents in Anambra “We also ask Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to also deal decisively with any hoodlum using Monday sit-at-home to toture innocent citizens/residents of the state. No genuine member of IPOB or ESN operative is involved in any enforcement of Monday sit-at-home order. Anybody doing so is working against Biafra restoration. “We equally call on our people and members of the public to skin alive, any idiot caught inflicting sorrow on the people in the name of enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. Such evil soul and messenger of death doesn’t deserve to live. “Those shooting sporadically in the market are criminals and bandits using the name of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu and ESN to humiliate our people and demonise the movement. Their aim is to give the federal government excuse to hold our leader perpetually in detention. “ESN operatives must be ready to confront criminals creating these problems in the name of ESN and IPOB in the region. We have suspended Monday Sit-At-Home long time ago, and we have not rescinded that decision. Biafrans must be strong to withstand our enemies and their collaborators every Monday. “IPOB was not formed to terrorise people. We remain peaceful and focused on the pursuit of Biafra freedom and independence. “Gov. Ugwuanyi and other Govs in the region must provide security for our people on Mondays because ESN is now ready to confront these criminals. “Nobody should link IPOB or ESN with these crimial acts in our region and those enforcing non-existent Monday sit-at-home order. How can we stop Sit-At-Home and turn around to compel people to observe it? IPOB are not hypocrites and we must come out victorious.”