As part of its reward to the winner of the Maltina Teacher of the Year, Miss Oluwabunmi Anani, Nigeria Breweries (NB) Plc, recently inaugurated a 200-seater auditorium at the Concordia College, Yola, Adamawa State built in her honour. The handover attracted dignitaries and stakeholders from Adamawa State Government, top management staff of NB Plc, among others. Secretary to the Adamawa State Government, Umar Bindi, who was represented by the Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Wilbina Jackson, thanked NB Plc for investing in the education sector as part of its corporate social responsibility. Bindi applauded Anani for the milestone achievement, noting that the sterling performance recorded could not have been possible without the conducive learning environment created by the government and Concordia College.   Priest pays WASSCE, NECO fees for 12 parishioners     COEASU to Fed Govt: don’t shortchange our members     District rewards educators   “I want to applaud the very teacher who won the grand prize of the sixth edition of Maltina Teacher of the Year. This achievement would not have been possible without the enabling environment set by Concordia College, Yola. Above all, this giant stride would not have been possible without the efforts of Governor Ahmadu Finitri for providing security and a conducive learning environment in the state,” he said. - Advertisement - Also, Chairman, NB, Chief Kola Jamodu, represented by the Head of Public and External Relations of the firm, Uzodinma Odenigbo, congratulated Anani, noting that her commitment was a reminder that no society can exist without the solid foundation provided by teachers. “I congratulate the people of Adamawa State, the governor and his team, and the management and staff of Concordia College for participating and winning the 2020 Maltina Teacher of the Year Awards.We are proud of you and your achievements”, he added. While expressing hope that the facility would be of immense benefit to the people of Adamawa State, he said the company remains committed to contributing its quota to the educational sector. Since its inception in 2009, the Nigerian Breweries/Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund has delivered several intervention projects in education. These include constructing and furnishing over 140 classrooms, libraries, and toilets in various schools in Kano, Sokoto, Plateau, and Kaduna states.