TO empower talented females in tertiary institution across the country, the Queen of Queens beauty pageant have announced plans to launch the maiden edition of its pageantry in Ambrose Ali University (AAU), Ekpoma in Edo State. The pageantry, which is the first of its kind, aims at showcasing the diverse creativity and talents of female students in AAU. According to the project supervisor, Harrison Ojiakor, the top winners of the pageantry will be further groomed in their various talents in actings, singing, dancing or modeling, as the case may be. “Top winners of these are the people that the brand is going to take up as signee’s for the talent promotion, for example, whoever wins or top 10 if you have a dream to go into probably acting we’ll get you hooked up with movie producers that can promote you push you to the limelight. As a brand, we are going to try and ensure we protect you and push you to achieve that limit if you’re into music we get you brushed up by a music producer and then if possible probably push you  create a record label that’ll push you up getting linked up with the record label that will push you to the greatest height you can ever achieve, so whatever it is that your talent is, we are going to try and push you to the highest stage” Ojiakor said.   UNIBEN: Row over hike in hostel fee     Of love and lust     Still on ASUU strike   On the criteria to partake in the pageant, he said contestants should be 5’2 to 6’7 feet tall, elegant, well cultured, be between 16 and  27 years, adding that they must be very fluent in English Language. - Advertisement - He noted that registration would kick off in March on their website Arami.ng. The event promises a Lexus Jeep for the winner of the pageantry as well as other prizes as consolation for the runner-ups. Speaking further, Ojiakor hinted that participants in the contest would also benefit from a skill acquisition workshop while in camp, adding that their diction and communication skills, sense of social responsibility would be improved. Queen of Queen’s Beauty Pageant,  an upshot of Arami brand, is aimed at promoting and managing young talents as well as mentoring them for a global audience.