2022 will feature several major sporting events highlighted by top stars. Among the biggest are Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon, Winter Olympics in Beijing, UEFA Champions League Final in Russia, 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar and, in between, top heavyweight bouts in boxing and UFC. Taiwo Alimi profiles the people and events that will make 2022 memorable. FOOTBALL 2022 is loaded with the best in football, and not COVID-19 of Omicron variant will take away the shine. Africa will light up the world with the AFCON from January 9-February 6, 2022 in Cameroon. It is Africa’s biggest football show and, amidst a fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic Omicron variant, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) is not short-changing itself, as fans will be allowed entry into the various stadiums, to enjoy the moments. For about a month focus will temporarily shift from EPL to Cameroon as African stars are home to showcase their skills. - Advertisement - Among them are EPL top scorer  Mohammed Salah, Sadio Mane and Naby Keita (Liverpool); Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi, Daniel Amartey and Nampalys Mendy (Leicester); Edouard Mendy and Hakim Ziyech (Chelsea); Thomas Partey, Nicolas Pepe and Mohammed Elneny (Arsenal); Frank Onyeka, Tarique Fosu and Julian Jeanvier (Brentford); Alex Iwobi and Jean-Philllipe Ghamin (Everton) to mention but  a few. In all, the EPL will be without 40 players and more leagues in Europe will be without key players, among them Nigeria’s top scorer, Victor Osimhen whose presence will add colour and glamour. At country level, Nigeria’s Super Eagles are seeking a fourth title with  defending champions  Algeria, Cameroon, Egypt, Senegal, Ghana, and Cote’d’Ivoire also favoured to lift the trophy. With expectation on players and countries riding high among fans, 2022 will start off on a high for sport across the world.   UEFA Champions League Final In May, it will be the turn of the UEFA Champions League Final to wow the world.  Billed for Krestovsky Stadium ,Saint Petersburg, Russia on May 28, 2022, it is one of the most anticipated soccer games in the world. The winners will get to play the winners of the 2021/22 UEFA Europa League in the 2022 UEFA Super Cup on August 10, 2022.   FIFA World Cup The biggest the 2022 FIFA World Cup is left for the last quarter of the year from November 21-December 18 in Qatar. This is number one on the list, not just because of the order the events happen, but it also happens to be probably the most anticipated sporting event of 2022. The World Cup only happens every four years, making this one more unique and more exciting. This year, the teams will play in Qatar and will be the first time the competition is played in the winter in the Northern Hemisphere. The event is usually held in June, but because of Qatar’s extreme temperatures in the Summer, it was moved to November/December. The known participating teams so far are: Qatar, Germany, Denmark, Brazil, France, Belgium, Croatia, Spain, Serbia, England, Switzerland, The Netherlands, and Argentina.   Vaccination shortfall and other challenges of managing…     RELOADED: Arterta’s Arsenal tackle Pep’s Man…     Spurs need new signings in January – Conte   Nigeria is in the final phase of qualification and that, in itself, makes 2022 exciting for  the teeming fans of football in the country. Football watchers and pundits also wait with bated breathe on how far  Nigeria’s new  coach,Jose Peseiro, can go and how the FA will hold out leading to the next elections. Samuel Eto’o surfacing to take over Cameroon FA is already sending signal to the rest of Africa and 2022 will be decisive in the turn of events in the FAs.   Boxing 2022 heralds ‘Fight of the Era’ between Tyson Fury and Anthony Joshua. While Fury is seeking to end his fairy comeback on a high, Joshua will need to validate himself with the contest against the Gypsy King. The build up to the epic clash is expected to begin early in the year with Joshua vs Oleksandr Usyk . It is really important that Joshua wins this fight to get a shot at Fury to make Fury/Joshua happen. It will decide who holds the title of the undisputed heavyweight champion of the world and the best of this era. We thought the fight would happen in 2021, until Usyk beat Joshua, and American Deontay Wilder called for a second bout with Fury. The Fury-Wilder trilogy is one debate which has been settled, at least. Yet it’s still not entirely clear where Fury goes next before retiring. Fury vs Usyk is not recommended after what the big Gypsy did to Wilder, the only fight that would draw attention and realistically rein in megabucks and colour is Fury or Joshua. For boxing fans, the prospect of Fury and Joshua stepping through the ropes at long last is still the event to look ahead to – and 2022 will decide whether it happens or not. Many Nigerians are hoping beyond hope that it happens.   2022 Winter Olympics From February 4-20, Beijing, China will come alive again. After hosting the Summer Olympics 14 years ago, Beijing is back to host both the Winter Olympics and Winter Paralympics in 2022. This year’s Winter Olympics will feature 15 different competitions: Alpine Skiing, Biathlon, Bobsled, Cross-country Skiing, Curling, Figure Skating, Freestyle Skiing, Hockey, Luge, Nordic Combined, Short Track, Ski Jumping, Snowboarding, and Speed Skating. It will be closely followed by the 2022 Winter Paralympics from March 4-13. Beijing hosts the Winter Paralympics just a month after the Olympics. That makes it the first city to host both the Summer and Winter Paralympics. There will be six different sports: Alpine Skiing, Biathlon, Cross-Country Skiing, Sled Hockey, Snowboarding, and Wheelchair Curling.   RONALDO VS MESSI Christiano Ronaldo’s resurgence in England will continue to be hyped by the  British media in 2022 and Lionel Messi is expected to shine brighter in France. It is yet to be seen whether the Argentine will be able to rally his country in the 2022 World Cup, which could be his last as a player. 2022, practically, will kick in or out these phenomenal players that have dominated world football for one decade and launch out the ones taking their boots.