YBNL boss Olamide Adedeji popularly called ‘Baddo sneh’ has been lambasted for dissing a fan’s mother on Twitter. The fan — Odunuga Oluwaseun @Niyibarca had replied to Olamide’s tweet saying “Baddo I need car for my bolt business ooo.. even na HP I go pay back. Make we run biz. Thanks.” But Olamide tersely replied saying “Money weh you keep for my hand … Ori iya e gbaa Ile”. Olamide’s response elicited flurry of reactions on social media especially Twitter. Many faulted him for abusing and disrespecting a fan, who made an harmless request. - Advertisement - Some others supported Olamide, saying some fans get carried away with the “entitlement” mindset. Reacting, Oladokun Martins said “@Olamide Baddo, take it easy. The guy is just asking for your help, why must you insult his mother. Be guided bro, no let fame and money fade your sense of reasoning.”   Court outlaws FG’s deduction from Federation Account…     Army arrests 150 political thugs heading to Ekiti     BREAKING: Saraki joins 2023 presidential race   Akorede Zinolee stated: “Baddo kindly apologize to the guys, his a fan of yours. “I don’t expect this reply from egbon Olamide, you ought to have just skipped the post or Better still give him what you have at hand rather than this savage reply , you’re a celebrity whatever you say you know those blogger blogger will hold it as a threat to you.” Another User, Adebayo said: “Olamide success relies on his fans and threating one of them like this is very harsh and unprofessional. @Olamide should av done better by ignoring this tweet.” Mike Jonah tweeted: “Some of you misbehave and go away with it because people are making a ‘god’ out of you. Someone that supposed to be a model for others shouldn’t be this irresponsible and careless with words. It is not your fault, we have seen tables turn in this life.” @letter_to_jack said: “This is disappointing considering I’ve always tweeted about your class & maturity. Years ago, you were in a similar situation as this person u insulted their mother unprovoked. “Those whose palm-kernels were cracked for them by a benevolent spirit should not forget to be humble.”