When will the three N8.47 billion  mobile cargo scanners purchased by the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMoF), for the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), last year, be deployed into use at the nation’s sea ports? What is delaying the deployment of the scanners four months after they were brought to the ports? These are the puzzles importers and other critical stakeholders at the seaports want the Federal Executive Council (FEC), to compel the leadership of Customs to answer. As at the last weekend, investigation by The Nation  show that the multibillion naira equipment are still lying fallow at the seaport four months after they were shipped to the country because officers that are supposed to utilise them are still undergoing training. Despite the approval given by the FEC for the purchase of the multibillion dollar equipment, importers and other port users said there appears to be no end to their long-suffering as the  equipment are yet to be deployed by the Customs for the purpose they were purchased with tax payers’ money. Officers of the service, importers and other stakeholders said, are still subjecting them to the laborious manual inspection, four months after the arrival of the multibillion naira equipment at the ports. - Advertisement - Last year, FEC had approved N8.47 billion for the supply and installation of three mobile cargo scanners in Onne, Apapa and Tin Can Ports in Lagos. The key objective of approving the purchase of the scanners by the FEC,  an importer, Mr Adebolu Adepegba, said: “is to reduce significantly, the time needed for inspecting containerised goods by substituting non-intrusive inspection (NII) for the physical examination of goods by Customs and other security agents, which generated extensive costs, caused multiple burdens and annoyances for importers and clearing agents because of lack of trade facilitation. Although the majority of stakeholders in the port supply chain agreed as to its importance, but the initiative, The Nation gathered, generated various pockets of “internal resistance” within a not-insignificant fringe of old and senior Customs officials who are still questioning the tool’s efficiency as well as the methodology for its use in the clearance of heterogeneous goods and goods that have big security questions. It was last September that the NCS, Tin-can Island Command took delivery of two Nuctech Mobile Scanners MT1213DE, to help reduce the cumbersome 100 per cent examination of cargo carried out by officers and men of the service. The scanners came in with accessories onboard Glovis Horizon Leader from the Port of Shanghai, China. The Customs Area Controller, Musa Abdullahi, while taking delivery of the consignment, said, “Integration of scanning into the clearance procedure for Imports is in line with global best practice for trade facilitation.” He stated further: “the key objective of deploying scanners is to reduce significantly, the time needed for physical inspection of goods which generates extensive cost and creates multiple burdens and inconveniences for both the importers and the Customs operations.’’ He assured stakeholders that with the deployment of the scanners, there will be increased cargo handling for better efficiency in the Trade Value Chain at the port. But four months after, the costly items, purchased with the tax payers money were brought to the ports, the NCS, it was gathered, has not acquired enough knowledge and the technical know-how that would have assisted them in the deployment of the equipment.   Easing access to forex through e-Form A     British fintech firm raises $7.4m for emerging markets     Startups get $2.5b funding in five years   Officers of the service, it was gathered, are still going through rigorous training months after the equipment were brought into the country. Customs headquarters, stakeholders said, actually put the cart before the horse in the purchase of the highly expensive and technologically fragile equipment. A maritime lawyer and analyst, Mr Muhammed Oluwaseyi berated the leadership of the service over failure to train its officers first before bringing the equipment to the country. “A scanner is a very sensitive equipment. You don’t just bring them to the port and abandoned them. Customs should have trained its officers before bringing the items to the country. Since you have brought the equipment to the country without adequate and proper training of your officers, if there is an error in its composition and configuration, the liability belongs to you. Moreso, you have given them the opportunity to hide under the lacuna created between the period of shipment and and commencement date of utilisation. “We are worried because  at a virtual stakeholder meeting on the Apapa traffic situation, chaired by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, it was disclosed that the Federal Government was set to spend over N688.56 billion on the acquisition of over 300 scanners for the nation’s ports and other critical entry points for digital examination of cargoes. The question on the lips of stakeholders like us is that is this how the service would have handled the 300 scanners if they have been purchased by the Federal Government with over N688billion tax payers money?” The maritime lawyer concluded by saying that: “there would be no improvement in the cargo delivery system of the country unless there is a total overhauling of the Nigeria Customs Service.” But  Customs Public Relation Officer, Tin-Can Island Port command, Mr Uche Ejesieme allayed the fears of the stakeholders and assured that the scanners would soon be commissioned to carry out it’s core responsibility of reducing cost and time. “We have taken delivery  of the scanners and have started the process of installing them. The officers in charge of the scanners have been compelled to go for another round of training and they are now to integrate them with our platform Nicxes 2. “What we are planning to do is to ensure that we scan straight from the ship to the terminal and any moment from now the scanners would be commissioned. I have spoken with the DC in charge of the scanners and he has confirmed to me that any moment from now, they  will come for the commissioning of the scanners. The scanners will assist us in the turn around time of container inspection,” he said. The image makers however, confirmed the fear of importers that the equipment may not be able to scan heterogeneous goods when brought to the port in a single container. According to him: “ despite the fact that we are using scanners, there are categories of goods that can not pass through it. “We have selectivity lines in the system. Like you rightly said, containers that are routed through scanning will go for scanning but those that are heterogeneous may be sent for physical examination. “ We are still going to be doing small physical examination for that kind of goods you have raised for the security and health our nation and its people. “But our job would be done mostly with the scanners to enhance efficiency and meet the global best practices,” Ejesieme said.