Armed robbers who attacked banks and security formations in Egbe and Odo-Ere communities in Yagba West Local Government Area of Kogi State on December 14, apparently got more than they bargained for. During the operation which began around 3.20 pm and lasted about an hour, residents scampered to safety as the criminals fired gunshots and grenades to scare people away and smoothen the way for their operation. Soon, the local government literally became a ghost city, as residents ran helter-skelter while the incident lasted. Although the robbers succeeded in killing at least five civilians, a police officer and a bank guard, they could not escape with their loot. What more? Some of them got killed while the others were eventually arrested. Reports say about 27 robbers participated in the operation. Signs that the operation was indeed a ‘bad market’ started manifesting soon after the robbers had attacked the police formations and the banks, as well as other commercial enterprises in the area, maiming and killing in the process. The local security architecture responded swiftly by blocking the likely escape routes the robbers could explore. If most other robbery operations could be handled the way the Egbe incident was handled, perhaps more of those who had chosen to rob would think twice before venturing into armed robbery. The hot chase against the criminals by the local vigilantes, the police and soldiers, including the deployment of helicopter to locate the criminals in the forests culminated in the latter losing coordination. And when coordination is lost in this kind of engagement, it is only a matter of time for the game to be up. There are several lessons to learn from the Kogi robbery. First was the resilience of all the actors that participated in the processes leading to the killing or arrest of the robbers. For over 10 days, they laid siege on the criminals until the criminals ran out of food, water and ideas. Obviously they never envisaged such a chase from the locals and the security operatives. Most of the credit for the robbers’ failed adventure goes to this determination to sniff them out of their hideouts.   Research is the way to go     Over-regulating water     The axe and tax   - Advertisement - The resilience paid off as the gang was eventually tracked after all their tactics to escape from the forests failed. At a point in their utter confusion, they fired grenades to scare those chasing them away, only for this to end up a misadventure of monumental proportions, as it only succeeded in exposing their hideouts. One after the other, those of them who were not killed in the forests were forced by hunger and thirst to come out, some pleading for food to be sold to them. Two of them who boarded a commercial vehicle in Isanlu were driven to a nearby police station instead of their preferred destination. Some of them were found with N2million cash, wrapped in the emblem of one of the commercial banks that they robbed. It is regrettable that three lives were needlessly lost at Odo-Ere when an angry mob descended on the Divisional Police Station in the town, demanding that two of the suspected robbers who had been apprehended by local hunters and kept in the police cell be released to them. This was a request no professional policeman would grant. The refusal of the police to release the suspects for instant justice led to a melee and a policeman allegedly mistakenly fired gunshots that killed two people. The crowd retaliated by killing the erring policeman and torched part of the police station. This singular incident was a minus for the cooperation that had existed among all those involved in foiling the robbery attacks, including the police. We understand the angst of the mob, but the point must be made that such situations call for restraint. Perhaps the most profound lesson in this matter is the place of community policing in the security architecture that foiled the robbery. The contribution of the local hunters, vigilantes, Odua Peoples Congress (OPC), Agbekoya and other locals, in this regard is unquantifiable. They understand the terrain and indeed demonstrated that by leading the way to the forest where the robbers were hiding as well as ensured that all their likely escape routes were blocked. This was what the police and soldiers eventually took advantage of, and, with the aid of modern security gadgets, including deployment of air surveillance, they were able to dislodge the remnants of the criminals by putting the heat on them. But for the involvement of the locals, the robbery could have ended the way of many other robberies, with the police arriving long after the criminals would have bolted. We commend the tenacity of purpose of all those involved in making sure that the robbers did not reap where they did not sow. The spirit of cooperation which existed among them is also commendable. In the same vein, we commend Governor Yahaya Bello for swiftly responding to the occasion and also for appreciating the efforts of the locals who gallantly confronted the invaders that had come to trouble the peace of their otherwise peaceful community. We commend the Kogi robbery response spirit to other parts of the country.