For serving airman, Haruna Samuel, a lance corporal, of the Nigeria Air Force Base, Kaduna, who was arraigned on Tuesday before the Kaduna State High Court in Kaduna, for allegedly spending N20 million that was inadvertently credited to his account, nemesis came really fast. He has been in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) before his arraignment. Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC’s spokesperson, in a statement, said Mr. Samuel was arraigned before on a one-count charge bordering on theft and criminal misappropriation. The commission says Samuel has greedily converted to personal use, some millions of naira that landed into his account mysteriously, knowing quite well that the said money does not belong to him. It was such an ungentlemanly action that has now turned the hitherto respected Air Force Officer into a suspected criminal, to be arraigned before the court. Funny enough, Samuel allegedly stole the amount from his employer, the Nigerian Air Force. The Airman allegedly committed the offence on December 3, 2020 after receiving the N20, 014,300 said to have been erroneously transferred by his employer into his bank account. Read Also: Gunmen kill Air Force chief in Kaduna   EFCC arraigns ex-bank director over alleged N26.6bn fraud     ISWAP kills two, abducts 17 in fresh Chibok attack     Sylvester Oromoni: Ijaw Youth Council rejects Lagos DPP’s…   - Advertisement - Without expecting any payment of such magnitude from his employer, EFCC alleged, Samuel failed to report the issue to his bank or employer, and went ahead to withdraw part of the fund for personal use, including settling debts. To worsen his case, the defendant allegedly absconded from his duty post to Plateau State where he was eventually arrested by EFCC operatives. This was after carrying out the alleged fraudulent act. Now, the EFCC has charged him with criminal misappropriation under section 293 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017. The charge reads: “That you, Haruna Samuel sometime in December 2020 in Kaduna within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court dishonestly misappropriated the sum of N20, 014,300.00 (Twenty Million and Fourteen Thousand, Three Hundred Naira), property of NAF Ground Training Centre which was erroneously sent to your Zenith Bank account No. 2189705893 which said sum you dishonestly converted to your own use and you thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 293 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017 and punishable under Section 294 of the same Law”. He is, however, pleading not guilty. In view of his plea, the prosecuting counsel, Precious Onyeneho, prayed the court to fix a date for trial. The judge adjourned the case until March 10. Now, he will have his day in court and explain why he thought the huge amount of money he found mysteriously in his bank account ought to be put to personal use without as much as a report to the source, his employers.