Stakeholders are urging the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to embark on trade facilitation as a new way of doing business at the ports. OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports. Towards the end of last year, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Mr. Clem Agba, said his ministry was in discussion with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to change from a revenue-generating agency to a facilitator. According to the minister, a shift in focus would expand the country’s revenue base by attracting more businesses, boost trade and manufacturing. Some stakeholders, who spoke with The Nation at various fora, agreed with the minister. They said the economy requires the Federal Government, through the leadership of the Customs, to adjust its operation to ensure that they do not lag behind in innovation and technology. The stakeholders added that it is vital for the government and the Service to incorporate the private sector in its trade policies and ensure that there are no barriers. - Advertisement - An importer, Mr Lake Adetoro said, reducing unnecessary delays by Customs and costs by shipping firms and terminal operators would attract investments, and support the growth and job creation agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. An expert, Mr Samuel Ibidapo, said the failure of the government to prioritise trade facilitation had affected the economy. “There is the need for the government and the Service to give trade facilitation a chance this year,” Ibidapo said.   Goal of trade facilitation The primary goal of trade facilitation is to make trade across borders faster, cheaper, and ensure its safety and security. It simplifies and harmonises formalities, procedures, and the related exchange of information and documents between the various partners in the port supply chain. Trade facilitation has emerged as a key factor for international trade efficiency and the development of other countries. This, findings have shown, is based on its impact on competitiveness market integration and its importance in attracting direct foreign investments (FDI) to the nation.   Principles of trade facilitation The fundamental principles of trade facilitation are transparency, simplification, harmonisation and standardisation. Transparency promotes openness and accountability of a government’s actions. Ibidapo explained: “Simplification is the process of eliminating unnecessary elements and duplications in trade formalities, processes and procedures that we have in our ports. Harmonisation “is the alignment of national procedures, operations and documents with international conventions, standards and practices by the Nigeria Customs Service and other government agencies operating at the ports. It can come from adopting and implementing the same standards as partner agencies, either as part of national integration process or as a result of business decisions. “But standardisation is the process of developing formats for practices and procedures, documents and information generally agreed by various agencies operating at the ports. Standards set by all the concerned agencies are then used to align and, eventually, harmonise practices and methods to be used in importing and exporting cargos at the ports.’’ To achieve these principles, the analyst said, there should be cooperation among government agencies like Customs, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and with the operators and business community.   Importers and other stakeholders Due to increased competition as a result of globalisation, importers, exporters and other critical stakeholders who spoke with The Nation, are demanding a cheaper, faster and reliable way of taking goods in and out of the seaports to remain competitive and these have to be championed by the leadership of Customs who are seeking to collect more revenue on  consignments coming to the port. “There is the need for the leadership of the Nigeria Customs Service to understand the position of the business sector and find mechanisms to ensure that its laws procedures and processes are not barriers to trade  facilitation. “Also, the  pressure on Customs by the Federal Government should be  to ensure  business operations are supported through quick movement of cargo at points of entry and reduction of  avoidable costs like demurrages, unnecessary  physical  examinations, and unnecessary confiscation of goods by its officers before proper investigations are carried out. “The relationship  between the Customs  and the majority of the stakeholders is  strained as they claim that there is no  transparency  on  how Service carries  its  mandates  to  the  extent that  the businesses  sees  customs  administrations  as  barriers  themselves  to  trade.  An  effort  by the leadership of Customs  to  address  barriers  is  regarded  as  lip  service  and  this  continued mistrust requires transformation before any trade facilitation mechanisms can be said to have been put into place by the Service.”   Implementing trade facilitation Implementing trade facilitation without being known by the intended beneficiary a waste of resources and time. These include calculation of taxes, appeals procedures, explanation of trade agreements entered by the government and  laws  and  regulations  related  to  origin of cargoes and  other preferences.   UN commends Nigeria over first-ever piracy conviction in…     NPA: A transition to full digitalisation     Collaboration for economic growth   For so many years, trade facilitation has gained prominence in the international political agenda which has culminated in the conclusion of the Agreement on Trade Facilitation at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) as well as of wide international technical assistance programmes for developing and transition economies. Nigeria, the former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANCLA), said would have made significant progress in lowering trade tariffs and increasing efficiency at the ports, if the Customs has embraced trade facilitation. He identified lack of transparency about regulations, redundant and lengthy clearance processes, and multiple documents requirements in various formats and data as factors responsible for the increase in the costs and time of doing in our ports “The worldwide distribution and sourcing cycles, along with just-in-time and just-in-sequence logistics services and the emergence of e-business, has created pressure on governments to ensure efficient, fast and reliable border crossing and clearance procedures. Now is the time for governments to realise that our export economies heavily depend on efficient import processing, hence the need to have a holistic approach for a more efficient management of end-to-end trade transactions,” he added. Shittu said it is more important to achieve trade facilitation to enhance administrative efficiency and effectiveness, reduce costs and time to markets, and increase predictability in maritime trade across the country and beyond.   The gains There are potential gains from trade facilitation for governments and the business community. Public entities will profit in terms of enhanced trade tax collection, better use of resources and increased trader compliance. A more efficient and transparent delivery of public services will allow the government to maintain high security levels and effective government control, while diminishing opportunities for corruption. Traders will gain in terms of higher predictability and speed of operations and lower transaction costs, resulting in more competitive exports. “For the Nigerian ports, reducing unnecessary delays and costs will attract investments, and supports growth and job creation. “Implementing trade facilitation reform programmes certainly has a cost, and facilitation measures need to be prioritised in order to maximise benefits,” said an importer, Mr Leke Adetoro, said. A recent World Bank research on aid effectiveness, he said, finds that $1 of aid for trade facilitation translates into $70 in exports for recipients. But a senior Customs officer, who craved anonymity, said: “No doubt, Customs is a key player in trade facilitation, focusing on these agencies and their processes alone is not sufficient. Trade facilitation has to encompass the entire trade environment, actors and processes involved in a transaction. An international supply chain perspective should be adopted. “A supply chain embraces activities necessary for goods to be produced and delivered to the final consumer. Such activities include sourcing of raw materials, preparing for transport, requesting an import license, preparing documentation for Customs clearance, clearance, payment, and delivery to the consumer. As a minimum, a supply chain involves two parties, the seller and the buyer. In reality, a supply chain involves many different parties.’’ A stakeholder, Chief Obina Best, advised Customs to be more concerned with trade facilitation. “The Federal Government is not helping matters in the maritime industry. Customs are focused on revenue generation instead of facilitating trade. And this is due to pressure from the government on Customs for revenue generation. You see Customs struggling to meet targets set for them. “When you give target to Customs, you are increasing the inflation rate. The end user pays for the costs arising from the pressure on Customs. “Customs are stretching port users. The Federal Government should deemphasise revenue generation. You find that after work, some officers go home in mufti because they are afraid that they might be attacked if those they had offended identified them. “If the Federal Government is not putting pressure on Customs, they will not overstretch importers. “My area of concern is how to bring down inflation. The government should do something. It should stop giving Customs targets. This is not done in any part of the world. Customs’ duty is to facilitate trade. This is why we are members of the World Trade Organisation,” he said. While appealing to the government to fix major roads leading to major markets from the seaports, he said the deplorable state of the roads was also affecting the cost of movement of containers from the various ports. He further appealed for the reduction of security checkpoints between Port Harcourt ports and Onitsha. “The road is another thing. Before now the fare from Port Harcourt to Aba and Onitsha from the ports was less than N150,000, but now from Onne to Aba is about N450,000, far higher than Onne to Onitsha. The situation of the road made that of Aba to be higher. These factors affect inflation. “Again from Port Harcourt to Aba, you meet more than nine Police checkpoints on a road that is less than 35 kilometres. From Port Harcourt to Onitsha, you meet up to 15 police checkpoints. But from Lokoja to Kaduna, you don’t see up to four Police checkpoints. These issues have been on before this Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). “At the end of the day, you see that importers are forced to raise the price of their goods. And all these affect the inflation rate,’’ he added. He urged the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) to curtail the excesses of shipping lines, saying they have become exploitative. “The shipping lines are treating us in a way we don’t understand. Before they won’t rate for you until a ship leaves but this is not so now. But today this has changed. Their systems have been reconfigured that you pay ahead. “The Nigerian Shippers Council that is supposed to be the police of the shipping lines is not active. It rarely takes actions when we cry over these issues. The government should put the right people to head the Council,’’ he said.