The cocoa value chain is a multimillion-dollar industry. The demand for chocolate is encouraging countries to expand cocoa bean production. However, the local cocoa industry has witnessed the decline in production in recent years. Agricultural Policy Research in Africa (APRA), a six-year research programme of the Future Agricultures Consortium (FAC) funded by the UK government, has been working with researchers from University of Ibadan to enhance cocoa productivity, improve food security and farmers’ livelihoods. DANIEL ESSIET reports. Cocoa is one of the most important cash crops in world. It has  an essential role in food security and sufficiency. The demand for chocolate has grown rapidly, encouraging countries to expand and improve cocoa bean production. The International Cocoa Organisation(ICCO) predicted that global could  reach five million metric tonnes by last year due to increased use of bean. However, a one  million metric tonnes (MT) global cocoa shortage   was also predicted by Solidaridad, an international civil society, fostering sustainable supply chains. This is on the back of concerns about future supplies. - Advertisement - While this is good news for other producers such as Ghana and Ivory Coast, the situation in Nigeria remains of particular concern. According to several data provided by the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS),cocoa production has dropped due to inadequate financing, lowyield per hectarage among others. Nigeria once had a thriving cocoa sector. But over the years,other crops have taken over  its place as a main source of agricultural products. Currently, the country’s current involvement in the cocoa-chocolate is limited despite many competitive advantages. Apart from finance, Agricultural Policy Research in Africa (APRA), a six-year research programme  study  on  the cocoa  production situation funded by the  UK government revealed   that production  was   limited due to low quality seedlings, inefficient farm-level processing techniques and limited access to  training for farmers. The  cocoa producing states areCross River,Delta,Akwa Ibom, Kwara, Nassarawa, araba, Zamfara, wKogi,Benue,Ogun,Oyo,Ondo and Osun. The study zeroed on the South West, specifically, Ondo, Ogun and Osun  considered the epicenter of the cocoa industry. It aims to generate high-quality evidence and policy-relevant insights on the pathways to cocoa commercialisation. Over the  last  five years, APRA‘s Nigeria Work Stream 2 (WS2) team, has been working on  measures to  boost cocoa commercialisation. and raise farmers income through  research and policies advocacies. In November,  the team gathered together in Ibadan, the capital of Oyo State, stakeholders in the cocoa value chain. They included representatives of governmental agencies,  researchers,  discuss and receive feedback on their research. Presenters included: the Principal Investigator/Country lead, APRA, Dr Adeola Olajide, Dr Kehinde Thomas and Dr Seun Olutayo. In contrast to reported boom in demand, the researchers noted that there have been concern surrounding dwindling cocoa production  in the region, giving the outlook for the fundamental supply. While the demand for cocoa was growing ,the team noted that the conditions and costs of producing cocoa in the Southwest make it not competitive compared to other countries that produce it. Dr Adeola Olajide and her colleagues from University of Ibadan detailed their concerns in the study. The  researchers noted  that the  cocoa sector would  have to be  revamped  in the face of  the  need for yield improvements and modernisation, if the crop is to  maintain  its role as a sustainable lifeline for a considerable portion of the  farming population across the region. In her presentation, The Cocoa Commercialisation in Nigeria: Issues and Prospects, during the Dissemination Workshop in Ibadan,Dr  Olajide noted that the  farmers  were facing substantial  challenges  which  were affecting domestic production. She  added that  in most communities visited  by the team in Ondo and Osun states,there were  no land for investors to  establish fresh cocoa plantations. The study recorded  an interview about  the situation in Ile-Oluji town, Ondo State: “In the olden days, forest land was quite available for new entrants into cocoa farming, but nowadays all the land has been cultivated, at best what is possible here is the maintenance of already established cocoa farms and replanting of old trees. Land for fresh cocoa plantation now can only be found in forest reserves. “ The other issue, the visit revealed,  were increasing  number of  aging cocoa trees and soil fertility depletion reported in both states. She noted that there remained a considerable work to be done in tackling issues driving  farners to  diversify from cocoa enterprises into activities such as palm oil processing, kolanut processing, logging, provision store sales, food vending and other petty trade activities.   Rice festival and Buhari’s obsession with agriculture     Foodies unveils expansion plans for 2022     Row over donor funds   Her words: “This shift is gradually displacing cocoa production in spite of the economic potentials the crop is known for over the years.” Many of the farmers, she added, were in a downward spiral of poverty, with some ready to give up growing cocoa. Urging the government to give serious attention towards galvanising the industry,  she posited   that the challenges of the farmers have not received enough responses as they continue to face setbacks,including supply of inputs. She maintained that the development of the industry was of considerable importance to respond to the demand for high quality cocoa beans and derived products. According to her, Focus Group Discussion (FGD), Key Informant Interview (KII), life story and diet diversity survey were adopted as data collection methods. Information were collected  from all stakeholders,  including  producers, processors, marketers, input dealers, extension practitioners and researchers in Osun and Ondo states, due to their historical relevance in the cocoa sector. A total of 72 FGD sessions were conducted for cocoa producers made up of adult males, adult females and youths across 24 communities. As a globally strategic crop, a member of the team, Dr Kehinde Thomas,    noted that cocoa should be   a key target for expansion, modernisation and diversification .  This is because of the government plan to up non-oil contribution to economic growth. According to Thomas,who is of the Department of Agricultural Extension and Rural Development, University of Ibadan, cocoa has an important part to play in achieving this and represent vast potential for growth. He recalled   that the  cocoa value chain  progress took a downward trend since the era of crude oil discovery. Hence, Nigeria dropping  to the fourth position among cocoa producing nations of the world following lack of enough attention. Thomas, who is Social Specialist Consultant,Ogun State Economic Transformation Project, noted that  inefficient agricultural operations have undermined productivity of the sector. His words: “Some of the challenges serving as causal factors for the setback in the sector are ageing cocoa trees, reduced soil fertility, lack of credit and improved implements, reduction in forest frontier, illegal gold mining and logging among others.” For him, the growing global demand in the cocoa-chocolate represents an opportunity for Nigeria to expand its presence in the industry. Most of the study focused on the critical issues that needed to be addressed for cocoa farming families to thrive and be sustainable.  One of them was labour  which remains a crucial issue in the region. Speaking on the impact of ‘strangers’ on cocoa production in  Osun, Ogun & Ondo states, Dr Seun Olutayo, who is of the Department of African Studies, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, posited that  the commercialisation of the crop  attracted migrants from neighbouring countries  such as Republic of Benin  and Togo.  She described migrants as the backbone of the cocoa economy in the Southwest. “Many farm settlements have been playing home to these migrants. This is because many farm owners are old and their children are not interested and work demand on the farms is enormous.” Since the children of the farmers were not interested in cocoa production, Dr Olutayo noted there were farm settlements with just strangers. Her words: “Factually, most of the farm settlements have few native youths living on the farm. Youth populations working on numerous cocoa farm lands are migrants.” Because of this, she added that migrants have become core part of the cocoa production chain in many farm in the South west. She said: “The older natives complained that the youth no longer cultivate cocoa and feared migrants might take their farmlands soon. A close observation at Olatiri revealed that there is no native on the farm settlement. The fear of the natives that strangers might take their lands has necessitated the policy of not selling farmland to strangers in many settlements.”  While migrants continue to contribute to the production of cocoa in south west they find it difficult to out rightly purchase land in many farm settlements.” An issue she pointed out was the custom that forbids foreigners from owning farmlands.   “In Osun State, lands are not sold to migrants. Lands are leased to would-be users and an agreed royalty is paid at the end of the year, which could be in kind or cash. They are not allowed to own farm lands because they are ‘strangers’. It is difficult and impossible for ‘strangers ‘to own farmland even with money. They rather work as yearly labourers or share crops. The restraints in the local land law forbid strangers especially non-Yoruba to acquire land on the settlement.” The case was however different in Ogun State. “In Ogun state, they are allowed to own farm lands and grown cocoa.  In Ondo State, they can   also own farm lands having worked for quite a number of years. The Dean Faculty of Agriculture, University of Ibadan, Prof Stella Olusola Odebode said the study was critical to help draw investments in the cocoa industry. She said, aside from infrastructure, there was need to cater to the postharvest and processing needs of farmers. Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), University of Ibadan, Prof. Abiola Odejide said the industry has a lot of potential and that the institution supports the government efforts to encourage more farmers to grow cocoa. APRA Project involves Michigan State University, University of Ibadan and the Institute of Development Studies, United Kingdom.