The Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) Engr. Farouk Ahmed, said the Authority was ready to partner with the Nigerian Liquified Natural Gas (NLNG) towards solving Nigeria’s energy challenges and increase gas use in cooking,   transportation and power generation. A press statement, which he issued yesterday noted that he spoke in Abuja when he received the management of the NLNG on a courtesy visit to his office. He commended the NLNG for its focus in prioritizing domestic supply which has had a significant impact on deepening gas consumption in the country. The NMDPRA helmsman reiterated Federal Government’s goal of deepening LPG/CNG especially for Autogas as an alternative to Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) to cushion the effect in situation of upward spike in oil prices. Meanwhile, the Managing Director, NLNG, Dr Philip Mshelbila, said the company will continue to prioritise the growing domestic LPG market and increase utilization by supplying 100per cent, its Propane and  Brutane production.   Nigeria eyes $40b investments in digital infrastructure     FCMB’s FastCash provides fees, emergency support     LCCI urges implementation of PIA   - Advertisement - Mshelbila also revealed the ongoing plans of the NLNG to commence operation for the Nigerian domestic LNG market this year, in line with the government’s plans to boost local consumption. He explained that the move was part of the NLNG’s dedication to participate in industrializing Nigeria by providing efficient energy in line with the Federal Government’s developmental initiatives and as one of the two focus areas of the company. Their other area of focus is to remain globally competitive. He pledged the company’s dedication and commitment to making Nigeria an energy-sufficient nation. He gave assurance that the Authority, as the regulator of the midstream and downstream, will put in place polices that will not stifle businesses but rather level the playing field and stimulate economic growth and job creation in the industry.