A staff of the National Assembly recently collapsed and died while ascending the second floor of the White House through the staircase. The spokesperson of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ebonyi State, Chika Nwoba also slumped in court. The Chairman of Akwanga Local Government Council in Nasarawa State Hon Emmanuel Leweh recently slumped in his office at the council Secretariat, Akwanga. Last year, an Airport staffer at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja also slumped and died on duty in the Abuja radar control room. - Advertisement - 1. Improve your sleeping pattern/hours of rest – Sleeping is just as important as regular exercise and a healthy diet. Research shows that poor sleep has immediate negative effects on your hormones, exercise performance, and brain function For many, sleep quality and quantity has declined. In fact, many people regularly get poor sleep. 2. Regular health checkups – Regular check-ups can help find potential health issues before they become a problem. When you see your doctor regularly, they are able to detect health conditions or diseases early. Early detection gives you the best chance for getting the right treatment quickly, avoiding any complications. By getting the correct health services, screenings, and treatment you are taking important steps toward living a longer, healthier life.   Over 18 million Omicron cases reported in one week, says WHO     FCTA records 70% vaccination compliance     Over five million Nigerians get second vaccine dose   3. Good diet – Eating healthy food is important as it helps to avoid having heart diseases or even suffering kidney failure. A diet rich in fruits and vegetables has been scientifically proven to provide numerous health benefits, such as reducing your risk of several chronic diseases and keeping your body healthy. Eating a healthy, balanced diet is an important part of maintaining good health, and can help you feel your best. This means eating a wide variety of foods in the right proportions, and consuming the right amount of food and drink to achieve and maintain healthy body weight. Among lots of other health benefits, eating a balanced breakfast can help sync up your biological clock by letting your body know that it’s time to wake up and get going. 4. Regular water – Staying hydrated is one of the simplest ways to keep energized and focused. The body constantly loses water throughout the day, mostly through urine and sweat but also from regular body functions like breathing. To prevent dehydration, you need to get plenty of water and food every day. 5. Always check your blood pressure – High blood pressure is one of the leading causes of sudden cardiac arrest or heart issues. High blood pressure (also called hypertension) happens when your blood moves through your arteries at a higher pressure than normal. Many people have high blood pressure without even being aware. Most people who have high blood pressure do not have symptoms. This is why it’s sometimes called “the silent killer.” It is very important to have your blood pressure checked regularly. 6. Reduce alcohol intake – Quitting alcohol isn’t easy but the reduction is very important. According to statistics, Alcohol consumption contributes to 3 million deaths each year globally as well as to the disabilities and poor health of millions of people. Overall, the harmful use of alcohol is responsible for 5.1% of the global burden of disease.