The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general elections will be published immediately after the Electoral Amendment Bill is signed into law. The Commission noted the early passage of the Bill is crucial for preparations of the 2023 election. INEC Chairman Professor Mahmood Yakubu, who made the disclosure during the first quarterly meeting with political parties, said that the Commission “is encouraged by the Senate President’s assurance to give priority attention to the Bill when the National Assembly reconvenes from its recess today, and the commitment by the President to assent to the Bill as soon as the issue of mode of primaries by political parties is resolved. “We look forward to a speedy passage of the Bill, which is crucial to our preparations for future elections. “As soon as it is signed into law, the Commission will quickly release the Timetable and Schedule of Activities for the 2023 General Election based on the new law”. - Advertisement - On preparations for the Ekiti and Osun governorship elections slated for June 18 and July 16 respectively, the INEC noted that none of the political parties has submitted the list of aspirants, less than two weeks to the primaries.   IPOB’s sit-at-home: Banks, schools, markets shutdown…     BREAKING: Court grants Mompha N200 million bail     BREAKING: Reps to reintroduce Electoral Acts amendment on…   Party primaries for the Ekiti State Governorship election are scheduled for 4th – 29th January 2022. For the Osun Governorship election, primaries will hold from February 16-March 12, 2022. According to Yakubu: “in the case of Ekiti State, all the 18 political parties have served the mandatory notices for the primaries. Let me seize this opportunity to draw the attention of parties to the necessity for transparent and rancour-free primaries. “Parties should also respect their chosen dates for the primaries based on the Commission’s Timetable and Schedule of Activities. “Already, many parties have rescheduled their primaries several times. While the Commission has earmarked a period of three weeks and four days (i.e. 25 days) for the conduct of the Ekiti State Governorship primaries, virtually all political parties have decided to hold their primaries in the last four days i.e. 26th – 29th January 2022. “In fact, seven political parties have chosen the last day for their primaries. Similarly, no party has so far submitted its list of aspirants, the composition of its electoral panel, or the register of members or list of delegates depending on the chosen mode for electing its candidates. As at yesterday, only one party has indicated the venue for its primaries.”