From December 1, 2021, the Kaduna State government announced a four-days-a-week work policy, starting with civil servants, later to be extended to schools and the private sector — but only after all the due laws and regulations are in place. “Kaduna State Government will begin implementation of the transitional arrangements in the public service of the state from 1st December 2021.  From that date, working hours for public servants are adjusted from 8 a.m-5 p.m, Monday to Friday,” a November 29, 2021 statement from Muyiwa Adekeye, Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s Media Adviser announced. “However, all public servants, other than those in schools and healthcare facilities, will work from home on Fridays,” the statement continued.  ”This interim working arrangement will subsist until the government is ready to move to the next stage of the transition which will culminate in the four-day week across all MDAs in the state.” Beyond common sense and fair distribution of the week’s workload, there appears nothing sacrosanct about the working week.  Nigeria started with a six-day working week.  Later, it changed to a five-day one, leaving out Saturday and Sunday; but sharing out the Saturday work hours over Monday to Friday. For religious reasons, many may even wager that Friday, as a work day, is suspect — since the Muslim Jumat prayers all but paralyse work in some parts of the country.  Kaduna falls fairly under that reality; and perhaps the proposed four-day work week is a brave innovation to right that flaw — if the Friday hours could be spread over Monday to Thursday. - Advertisement - Even with all that, the Kaduna State work week innovation jars at first blush — but that could be because of the customary fear of the unknown.  Beyond that however, there is something odd about a four-day work week for public servants where, with all due respect, indolence appears the established work culture; with very little stress  on high productivity.   2023: Wike’s presidential posters flood Abuja     Shonekan had great vision for Nigeria, says Jonathan     Cholera: Nigeria reports 3,604 deaths, 111,062 cases in…   But even if it could somewhat gel with civil servants, how does it fit into other public services like public schools, which most of the citizens attend? The Kaduna State government is promising fitting and workable protocols for a four-day school week.  But how can that be an advantage, in competition with other public schools in other states? Will Kaduna come out with longer school days and shorter holidays?  Talking about holidays, will Kaduna pupils enjoy far less long vacations after the third term, now generally between June and September?  How do longer school hours and shorter holidays boost learning readiness and improve all-round education? Perhaps education experts would have to better inform us all.  But that the Kaduna education publics — basically teachers and parents — have kicked against such is dissonance that should be taken rather seriously.  So far, schools are not yet part of the proposed framework.  The state government should, therefore, consult wider with a far more open mind.  It might just find out the schools are better left with their present academic calendar. Let us even assume schools are left with the present five-day working week, in contrast to government ministries and other agencies and departments’ four days.  But how does that dichotomy — needless, in our opinion — enhance productivity in the public services which, as it were, are no paragon of serious work ethic?  Will fixing what is not spoilt not lead to an avoidable challenge, if not outright crisis? To think that the government, eying the final stage of the transition, is even thinking of roping in the organised private sector!  Even with the federalist doctrine granting a state the right to tweak its working hours, it’s hard to see what competitive advantage, over other Nigerian states, Kaduna stands to gain. To make the public sector more ICT-compliant, especially with the COVID-19 experience, is no crime.  Neither is creating a window for more rest; or integrating routine farming into the public service work culture. Still, the Kaduna government needs to give this proposal deeper thinking; and consult much widely.  If it does, it may well find out that it is trying to fix what is not awry.