In a move to address paucity of reliable data to plan local and regional development, the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission has introduced an initiative that will provide data for socio-economic  development of the region. It will also produce a book on Yoruba ethos known as omoluwabi which will be distributed to primary and secondary school pupils across the region. The commission’s Director General (DG), Mr Seye Oyeleye, disclosed this in a chat with The Nation on Sunday. He explained that the frustration of planners, policy makers and investors over absence or unreliable data was inimical to the development efforts of state and local governments as well as other stakeholders in the region, pointing out that it was time to deal with it. He said: “The Southwest Sustainable Open Data Management System is a planned intervention by DAWN Commission to address the enormous challenge of paucity of data in governance and administration. The goal of the Sustainable Open Data Management System is to facilitate the creation of a harmonized data management system that will enable the production, assemblage, warehousing, analysis and broadcasting of statistical information for the sustainable development of Southwest Region of Nigeria.”   Has Southeast found answer to Igbo question?     Kwari: Giving legislative impetus to war against corruption     ‘Is Makinde living to expectation?’   - Advertisement - Oyeleye also revealed the commission’s plan to launch regional investments promotion network in next month. The network, he explained, will enable investments promotion agencies to share experiences for improved inflow  of investments in the region. “The need to present the Southwest as a strong economic bloc has brought about the importance of establishing strong investment promotion network that will create opportunities for investment promotion agencies to share experiences, lessons and challenges while deliberating on modalities to eliminate bottlenecks for Foreign and Local Investment in the economy. In 2022, the Commission is thus working towards facilitating the maiden edition of the Southwest Investment Promotion Agencies Conference.” He said. The book on omoluwabi is also coming in the new year. It will be distributed to primary and secondary school pupils in the region to reawaken the ethos in young people living in the region. Oyeleye said: “The Omoluwabi book is a project the commission was instructed to undertake by the chairman of the Western Nigeria Governor’s Forum, His Excellency, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN). There is a rapid erosion of cultural values and norms and this is reflected in the moral decadence observed across the region and in Nigeria.”