The United States Government on Friday in Lagos strengthened its partnership with local organisations in the battle to stem corruption in Nigeria. Its Consulate-General in the city, in collaboration with the Inter-Religious Coalition Against Corruption in Nigeria (ICACN) launched ReportMagoMago.com, a unique web-based portal that leverages citizen engagement to fight corruption. It explained that the website, which includes whistle-blowing functions against ‘mago mago’ – pidgin for trickery or dishonesty – is part of the US’ committment “to supporting anti-corruption initiatives and collaborative efforts that prevent graft, strengthen investigation and prosecution of corruption, promote accountability and transparency, and empower reformers.” Led by Bishop Emmanuel Gospel Isong and Imam Shefiu Abdulkareem Majemu, the ICACN was formed in 2016 by Muslim and Christian religious leaders with the primary goal of addressing how faith communities could take a leading role in anti-corruption advocacy in Nigeria. During the event, participants received a guided demonstration of the ReportMagoMago.com platform. - Advertisement - In addition, political, traditional and religious leaders, members of law enforcement, judicial officers and civil society representatives renewed their commitment to the fight against corruption. Speaking during the launch of the website, U.S. Consul General Claire Pierangelo explained that ReportMagoMago.com puts the power to report corruption in the hands of the Nigerian people. Pierangelo urged Nigerians to demonstrate their commitment to the fight against corruption by making use of the innovative online platform which seeks to address the daily instances of corruption faced by millions of Nigerians. “Countering corruption is not only a key concern in Nigeria but also a core U.S. national security priority for the Biden Administration,” Pierangelo said.   Recruitment: Police announce venue, dates for screening in…     Fashola: we’ve achieved more than U.S. in infrastructure     Millions lost as fire razes Lagos plank market   “Growth and development, consistent with the richness and strength of Nigeria, depend on a new narrative and a culture where corruption has no place.” She expressed optimism that the new initiative will encourage Nigerians affected by corruption to feel empowered to share their experiences and spark a new movement in citizen engagement in fighting the scourge that has hampered development and stifled prosperity in the country. Isong urged Nigerians to tackle corruption physically and spiritually. Citing biblical references, he described corruption as another word for sin, adding that a relationship with God was the trump card against sin. Majemu said their movement against corruption was sparked by an initiative in 2016 organised by former US Secretary of State John Kerry which featured about 200 religious leaders in Nigeria. He added: “At the end of the day, we decided to take it up on our own, Bishop Isong and I, that this project must not die. It was an awakening call that our country was suffering and we had to ensure that we took it upon ourselves as religious leaders, using our goodwill and position to bring corruption down.” Lagos Speaker Mudashiru Obasa noted that corruption had permeated every facet of Nigerian life, with parents bribing schools to gain admission for their kids. He urged everyone to get on board. The United States, through a number of agencies, including the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Agency for International Development, takes an all of government approach to fighting corruption, a key component of the United States’ national security strategy. It strives to hold the corrupt accountable through robust diplomatic engagement, by supporting multi-stakeholder initiatives and civil society, through foreign assistance to build stronger partners and transparent, trustworthy institutions.