What does Governor  Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State hope to achieve with his four-day working week which began in the state on December 1, last year? This was the question many people were asking when the policy was announced. Muyiwa Adekeye, special adviser to the governor on media and communication who announced this last year said the  policy was designed to boost productivity, improve work-life balance and enable workers to have more time for their families. “The measure also reflects lessons learnt from managing the COVID-19 pandemic which required significant relaxations of old working traditions and the ascendancy of virtual and remote working arrangements”, Adekeye said in a statement. He added however that public servants in schools and healthcare facilities were not affected by the policy. According to the special adviser, “senior officials are working on detailed guidelines to ensure that emergency services and the education and health systems in the state continue to deliver services 24 hours a day, seven days a week during the transition and beyond.” Obviously, this transition has ended, with the announcement by the state government last week Sunday that schools would now migrate to the four-day working week schedule. This time, it was the commissioner for education, Halima Lawal, who made the government’s position public. According to her, “All public schools are to migrate to the four-day working week while the 2021/2022 academic calendar would be adjusted to ensure coverage of the curriculum for the academic session.” This has however angered parents in the state and some of them have voiced out their opposition to the idea. Ordinarily, I would have commented on the policy when it took off last year but for the fact that schools were then exempted. The truth of the matter is that many civil servants in the country have long been idle. As a matter of fact, we have the huge numbers of civil servants in many places because the respective governments that employed them are not responsible for sourcing the money to pay them. In other words, it is one of the many contradictions of our federalism. The moment the country embraces federalism in the true sense of the word, no one would teach most governments – federal, state or local – to prune the numbers of civil servants on their payroll. Even right now, it is an open secret that many civil servants across board don’t see their work as full time jobs. Many of them are simply idle; they only report for work after which they leave the office to do their own businesses. Indeed, most government establishments are mere gossip centres, and this is indication that the jobs the workers are doing are not engaging enough. As a matter of fact, some people call them “evil servants” because of some of the characteristics they manifest, including but not limited to padding their workforce with ghost workers who get paid monthly, get promoted, get transferred, etc. Please do not get me wrong. I am not saying civil servants are not desirable or that they are all bad. The fact is; some of the attitudes they manifest merely reflect what obtain in the larger society. I know many senior citizens would always recall with nostalgia the role of civil servants in the country in decades past. I remember some of them in the defunct Western Region were ever proud of the role of civil servants in the region then, such that the region’s civil service was competing with the private sector for the best brains available then. The truth is that today, the civil service in many parts of the country has become over-bloated for efficiency. - Advertisement - All of these explain why I was not keen on wasting my time writing on the issue when the policy was announced last year. How, for instance, could anyone say civil servants need more time to rest for improved productivity? What are many of them doing presently to warrant more rest? Again, how can a state government say workers should work for four days in a week so that they can have more time for agriculture? So, agricultural productivity has become something to decree into existence? What infrastructure has the Kaduna State government put on ground to actualise its dream of increased agricultural productivity? More questions than answers indeed. That the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and other workers’ unions in the state or nationally did not protest this path to indolence on the part of their members in Kaduna State merely makes them complicit in the entire arrangement. It shows they are merely interested in collecting rent for their generally idle members. Indeed, a policy like this confirms the lack of rigour or robust debate in government and on the part of people on whose shoulders the responsibility of taking this country to greater heights lies. That is part of the reasons why we are the way we are, all motion, no movement. Even countries that have solved most of their problems are not asking their workers to work for four days in a week. Kaduna State is still grappling with the most basic duty of government – provision of security. Yet, its government says they need rest. The state, and indeed Nigeria need more than 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 30 or 31 days in a month and 12 months in a year to solve some of these basic problems of security, shelter and food. Bad and ridiculous as the policy is even as it affects civil servants alone, to now add schools to the long list of idle workers in Kaduna State makes it too dangerous for silence or comfort. Education is the bedrock of development. It helps make people better citizens. With education, “we are able to shape a better society to live in by knowing and respecting rights, laws and regulations.”   Twitter: No thanks     How to be what you claim on your CV     The gift of life   It is astonishing that the same el-Rufai who announced free feeding for students in public schools in the state in 2016, to encourage pupils to attend school as well as improve the nutritional value of the food for them cannot see the danger that this new policy poses to education and social values in the state. Let’s even assume that the teachers need rest and so should work for four days in the week, what would the students be doing on Fridays? This question is pertinent because, far back as 2016 when the state government commenced the free feeding programme, it also pledged to tackle drug addiction among students of primary and secondary schools in the state. Is this new policy not a recipe for idleness which the devil needs to provide jobs to keep the students busy in reverse? I think it’s high time we began to show interest in what is happening in each other’s states or affairs because the world itself has become a global village. When in 1975 the General Yakubu Gowon regime was overthrown, Gowon knew it was over and did not expect any external country to fight for him. Indeed, the charter of the then Organisation of African Unity (OAU) did not provide for interference in member-states’ internal affairs and the organisation said this much then. Today, however, things are different. The Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) is fighting the junta in Mali and has imposed wide-ranging and unprecedented sanctions on it, ostensibly in the interest of the Malian people. Although, for me, it would seem more of self-preservation or enlightened self-interest. Where was ECOWAS when the former Malian leader was misbehaving? This is not about ECOWAS or Mali, though. But, just as what happens in a country is of interest to neighbouring or other countries,  the same way other parts of Nigeria should be interested in what is happening among themselves. The seed of el-Rufai’s four-day a week policy on education will germinate long after he would have exited the political stage. The same way the country is now reaping the whirlwind of the seed of the almajiri system that the northern elite planted over the decades. Now, it is not only the north that cannot sleep, even though it is most affected, it is the country’s collective resources that are now being used to fight the banditry and terrorism which are products of that odious system that deprived the vast majority of the northern youths of education. But this is not about Kaduna State alone. It should go for all states of the country. It is just that when a policy touches on education, we should be worried, if for nothing but for what we are currently going through as a nation because of policies like the one el-Rufai has just introduced in Kaduna State. We need to be worried because when the seed germinates in the future and the heat becomes unbearable in the region, they would start transporting the youths in droves down south, all in the name of free movement that is entrenched in the constitution. There is no society that is crime-free, but when people in leadership positions begin to take decisions that the negative consequences would reverberate across the country, we should not pretend not to see or hear. It is however gratifying that some parents in the state have seen through the disadvantages of the policy for learning. One of them who bared his mind to a newspaper, Aliyu Suleiman, and has children in a public school said “As parents, we are not happy with this policy because it will affect our children’s performance in school. Remember what happened in 2020 when public schools were shut down due to pandemic and now the children are struggling to recover, the government came up with this four-day working week.” Another parent, Suwidi Zakari, said a day difference would surely affect the life of a child in public school. “One day can affect a child attending a public school. We hope the government will have a rethink except if they don’t care about our children,” he said. Even teachers that one would expect to naturally leap for joy as a result of the policy are not upbeat. These are the people who interface directly with the students and should therefore know where the shoe pinches. It is even doubtful if teachers in the state were consulted before the government rolled out the policy. If they were not, it would only confirm the characteristic manner of government officials sitting comfortably in their air-conditioned offices and taking critical decisions without the input of critical stakeholders. One can only appeal to Governor el-Rufai to rethink this policy that cannot better the lot of students in the state. Kaduna is not noted for any exceptional performance in public examinations. Only four per cent of its students passed West African Senior School Certificate Examinations (WASSCE) in 2010 and 10 per cent in 2011, rising to a phenomenal 44 per cent in 2012, there is still much room for improvement. This four-day working week can only reverse the gains recorded in the past. This policy can only make Kaduna State rest in pieces. Therefore, it must be reversed before it becomes the fad, especially in the northern part of the country which plays host to most of the out-of-school children in the country.