Kwara Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq has started implementing N30, 000 minimum wage for workers in the State. It was gathered workers in the State Government’s employment on Monday got alert of their January full pay. Accordingly, the alerts triggered applause for Mallam AbdulRazaq for the fulfillment of his promise to implement the consequential adjustment component of the minimum wage amid dwindling resources. Secretary of the Joint Negotiating Council Tunde Joseph, in a statement, said that the development is commendable, declaring the Governor deserves a pat on the back. “The Kwara state organised labour under the auspices of TUC, NLC and the JNC wishes to use this medium to thank the state government for this noble achievement in this period of our economic and financial exigencies affecting all sections of human endeavors. - Advertisement - “On this note comrades, it is imperative to appreciate the Kwara State workers for your perseverance, loyalty, support and prayers through these years, we say thank you.   Police appoint first female adviser for JTF in Chad     Abiodun gives automatic employment, N2m to 2 best graduating…     UPDATED: NASS transmits reworked Electoral Act Bill to…   “To all the government representatives that had one way or the other participated at the negotiation processes, the labour leaders and the elders forum, we appreciate you all,” Comrade Joseph said. He directed his students to clap for the Governor as a result of his gesture to the civil servants in the State. “I want you to clap for the Kwara Governor. He has done very well for the civil servants in Kwara State. We need to appreciate him. It has never been good like this in Kwara State when a governor will promise and will fulfill it in a better way,” he said. “When you get home tell your parents that I said they should clap for Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq. We don’t know what he wants to become but we pray God will grant his heart desires. We are not in a political rally but when somebody does something very good we need to appreciate it.” He also commended the Governor for the various school renewal projects under his administration, saying it was unprecedented.