Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has the right qualities to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari. Sanwo-Olu spoke yesterday during the inauguration of the working committee of the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement, a group working for the actualisation of the presidential ambition of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in Ikeja, Lagos. He said the person who would succeed Buhari should be a detribalised Nigerian with contacts all over the land. He added: “He must be a thoroughbred democrat, who respects the ideals of true federalism. He must be a true progressive – in word and in action. “Above all, he must be a tested and trusted manager of men and resources whose capacity to lead this country is not in doubt. This is where the cap fits our revered leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who performed creditably when he was in the saddle here in Lagos. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a wise choice that must not elude Nigeria in 2023. Take the message from street to street, village to village, town to town, city to city and region to region. Let it be loud and clear.” - Advertisement - The highpoint of the event was the inauguration of the 1,300-foot soldiers drawn from 57 local governments and local council development areas and 377 wards in Lagos. They are to propagate the gospel of voting wisely and rightly in the interest of Nigeria. Sanwo-Olu urged members of the working committee of the ABAT Movement to encourage Nigerians to obtain their voters’ cards, “so that they can vote in the elections coming up next year”. He thanked the founding fathers of the ABAT Movement for their thoughtfulness in creating an avenue for addressing the basic moral and political needs of Nigerians.   Fashola: we’ve achieved more than U.S. in infrastructure     FIRS: VAT controversy affected tax collection in 2021     Adeyeye, Bamidele, five others boycott Ekiti APC primary   He said: “By undertaking to provide a platform for the people to broaden their political horizon through constant education and enlightenment, you are as well signing up to become their friends and confidants. You, therefore, cannot afford to disappoint them; you must be above board in your conduct, always. “You must display exceptional commitment that is befitting of the standards already set by our principal and national leader of our great party. You must, in line with Asiwaju’s humane politics; be open to all, tolerate various interests and embrace all good and productive ideas. We must reflect the ideals of our leader in everything we say and do. As your first assignment, I urge you to reach out to other support groups with a view to striking a workable line of fusion and/or collaboration.” Elder statesman Prince Tajudeen Olusi thanked members of the committee that put the ABAT Movement together, saying it is a historic day and the beginning of a campaign to assist the former governor of Lagos State to actualise his dream of leading the country. He enjoined all those mandated with the responsibility of marketing Asiwaju at various levels to be diligent with their jobs. “You must be able to explain to our people why Asiwaju should occupy the position,” he said. Former Lagos State Deputy Governor Femi Pedro said he would be glad to see Tinubu win next year’s election because as far back as 2003 he was convinced that he would make a good president. The event was graced by eminent personalities and members of the ruling party, including the Director-General of the ABAT Movement, Alhaji Muhammed Oyinlomo Danmole, its chairman, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudasiru Obasa, former Lagos State Commissioner for Finance Wale Edun, Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) National Chairman Kolade Alabi, members of Lagos Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), members of the National Assembly, members of the Lagos State House of Assembly, as well as local government chairmen. House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila was represented by the chairman of the Lagos Caucus in the House, Dolapo Badmus.