Abdul Samad Rabiu’s BUA Group yesterday listed its N720 billion worth food subsidiary on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), increasing the market capitalization of the Nigerian equities market above the N23 trillion mark. A total of 18 billion ordinary shares of BUA Foods were listed at N40 per share under the consumer goods sector of NGX. BUA Foods instantly became the most active stock at the NGX with a turnover of 1.0 billion shares worth N40.5 billion. It boosted total turnover at the NGX yesterday to 1.2 billion shares valued at N43 billion. The listing of BUA Foods has further boosted liquidity in the Nigerian capital market, providing opportunities for wealth creation. The listing will also increase the visibility of the food manufacturing, processing, and distribution company to investors on the African continent and across the globe.   Buhari appoints Okadigbo’s widow NNPC chair     Nigeria-China Relations: Consolidating Uncommon Friendship…     ‘Nigeria’s N3tr trade deficit alarming’   - Advertisement - BUA Group’s BUA Cement is already one of the most capitalized companies on the NGX. BUA recently signed another agreement with Wartsila OY of Finland for the construction of a 70megawatts dual-fuel power plant for its BUA Cement Obu Line 3 project in Edo State. The agreement was signed between both companies at a ceremony in Abuja presided over by the Deputy Minister for International Trade for Finland, Ms. Nina Vaskunlahti. The gas power plant would also be the third power plant to be commissioned by BUA from Wartsila as BUA Cement seeks to increase its total production capacity across all its locations to 17million metric tonnes by 2023. Chairman, BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu who signed on behalf of the cement producer said that BUA was committed to utilizing cleaner, more efficient energy sources for its cement operations rather than relying on coal or heavy fuels. According to him, the 70MW gas powered plant ordered by BUA for its Obu Line 3 cement plant would ensure that the company remains very efficient in its energy utilization in the cement production process. “Currently, we have phased out the use of coal across our factories and are shifting to gas powered plants. As we ramp up our capacity, there is need to complement it with efficient power supply and Wartsila’s technology has been found to be durable and uniquely aligned with our vision for more efficient power generation at all our production locations,” Rabiu said. BUA Cement Plc is Nigeria’s second largest cement company and the largest producer in its North-West, South-South, and South-East regions. BUA Cement operates strategically from Okpella, Edo State and Kalambaina, Sokoto State with its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria. Currently the second most capitalized manufacturing company on the Nigerian Exchange(NGX), BUA Cement is committed to quality – a differentiating attribute, driven by its people, innovation, and technology; and positioned to solving West Africa’s cement, housing, and infrastructure deficit while driving economic growth and development.