IT is a grand irony. I refer to President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to withhold presidential assent to the new Electoral Amendment Bill sent for his approval by the National Assembly. With his refusal to grant assent, there is the strong possibility, just as happened in 2018 with the 8th Assembly, that the bill will ultimately end up not seeing the light of day after all. Two central provisions of the the new bill are the empowerment of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to transmit election results electronically thus eliminating challenges experienced over the years with manual collation, processing and announcement of electoral outcomes as well as mandating parties to conduct their intra-party candidate selection processes exclusively through direct primaries. Consequently, the two other selection modes previously provided for, indirect primaries or consensus arrangement, had become prohibited by law. His rejection of the mandatory direct primaries provision was the key reason cited by the President for returning the bill to the legislature unsigned for, among other reasons, its alleged prohibitive cost, essentially anti-democratic character and unfairness to smaller parties. In rejecting the mandatory direct primaries required by the amended law, the President is widely seen as having sided with state governors who had not hidden their fierce opposition to the proposition. By compelling parties to select their candidates mandatorily through direct primaries, involving the participation of all party members, the legislators obviously sought to curtail the excessive powers and influence of governors who, through their control of humongous state funds, were able to almost single-handedly determine the outcome of intra-party contests conducted through indirect primaries. Apart from their control over statutory delegates most of whom are their appointees, the smaller number of participants in indirect primaries makes it easier for money to play a decisive role in the outcome of the process than if every registered party member is allowed to participate as required by direct primaries. The grand irony I referred to earlier is that President Buhari has been at the forefront of seeking to check the perceived excessive powers of the governors by taking initiatives to enhance greater accountability, transparency and more effective exercise of checks and balances at the lower echelons of governance in the federation. This the President has done by pushing for greater autonomy by local governments in accessing and controlling their statutory allocations from the Federation Account and also seeking to ensure greater financial independence for the legislative and judicial arms at the state level; initiatives that the governors have continued to resist directly or indirectly. It is thus astonishing that when it came to the issue of institutionalizing direct primaries that could arguably help to deepen intra-party democracy and decisively limit the capacity of governors to maintain a stranglehold on political parties, the President has so comprehensively capitulated to the governors as it were. No less ironical is the fact that Buhari himself emerged as presidential candidate of the APC in 2019 through direct primaries and he would have been expected to be an enthusiast of a process widely perceived as more open, transparent and reflective of the general will of party members. Even then, the impression must not be created that either the governors or the legislators are exclusively saints or sinners in this matter. Neither group is. They are all pressing not necessarily to deepen democracy but to enhance personal gains and interests. The legislators are bent no less than the governors on ensuring that the intra-party electoral process works to their advantage. - Advertisement - We must make no mistake about it. Neither Senators nor House of Representatives members are ordinary members of the party. The controversial humongous allowances and perks of dubious moral and even legal validity they collect give them a distinct advantage over less financially endowed party members who seek to compete for their positions within the party. But then, the governors have an advantage over the legislators in terms of access to funds to influence the outcome of intra-party contests. This is why some of the legislators have proposed that incumbents be given the right of first refusal before their positions are thrown open to interested party members, a patently anti-democratic proposition. The truth of the matter is that the direct, indirect and even consensual modes of candidate selection are all prone to manipulation and domination by moneybags. It is just that direct primaries involving the participation of all party members will require substantially more money to influence than indirect primaries in which selected delegates have the responsibility of electing party candidates. Even then, a state governor with access to state resources and who has not alienated key stakeholders of the party is more likely than others to have the financial muscle to exert influence on the outcome of direct primaries. The challenge then is not a choice between direct or indirect primaries but rather how to substantially mitigate the role and influence of money in both intra and inter party electoral processes.   Disquiet in Ondo over assassination of Owo high chief     Buhari to Nigerians: future will be written in gold     Nigerians count losses as flight delays cripple businesses   Surprisingly, the President cited the cost of the process as one of the reasons for his rejection of direct primaries even when INEC had stated that the mode would impose no additional cost on the commission. Surely, if nothing can be done now about substantially reducing the influence of money on the electoral process, then significantly expanding the base of participants in candidate selection through direct primaries will increase the financial strain and burden on money bags including governors and legislators, which is not necessarily a bad thing after all. It is unfortunate that even though political parties constitute the most critical structures in our political process as the platforms through which members of the executive and legislatures emerge with the latter playing key roles in the composition and functioning of the judiciary, parties are essentially privatized entities in our current system run in a largely loose and informal manner. Thus, for instance, we have had since 1999, continuing contestation by contending cliques, tendencies, factions and fractions at the centre and the states fighting to the death to gain control of the soul of the dominant parties. Both the PDP and APC today are, to varying degrees, in the throes of such destabilizing and dysfunctional struggles to seize control of their structures with the 2023 elections in mind. This has negative implications both for the stability of the political system as a whole as well as the quality, effectiveness and productivity of governance. What is clearer than ever before is that the political elite both within and beyond the two dominant parties have no inclination towards bequeathing to the country credible, transparent and open intra and inter-party elections that reflect the will of the citizenry at the levels of both party and general elections. Had they any such intention, the report of the Justice Mohammed Uwais committee on Electoral Reforms set up by the late President Umaru Yar’Adua which made far reaching proposals to strengthen the country’s electoral system structurally and procedurally would not have been left to gather dust over the years. If public office holders of the two parties at all levels believe they can use the position of incumbency and the consequent humongous wealth available to them, to seize control of the parties and determine, arbitrarily, who holds public office at all levels, they will most likely face the prospects of intra-organizational implosion. The PDP experienced this in 2015 and it is now just trying to put its house in order again. The APC will be living in an illusory world if it believes that it cannot  suffer a similar or worse fate if it continues along the the path of muzzling intra-party unity, stifling party autonomy and organizational efficacy and enthroning the arrogance and impunity of a few as overlords over ordinary card carrying party members. In the final analysis , what is most critical in this regard is the insistence by INEC that it has the capacity to and will always transmit elections electronically  as it did in the off season elections in Edo and Anambra states irrespective of whether or not the Electoral Bill is passed. Those who hold the parties’ by the jugular and are bent on the sustenance of non-inclusive candidate selection processes through indirect primaries may meet their electoral Waterloo in general elections that are becoming more and more difficult to manipulate and thus increasingly reflective of the will of the electorate. Aggrieved candidates and their supporters perceived to have been cheated in primaries, may wait patiently for general elections where they can punish the party for whatever perceived injustices they suffered during intra-party selection of candidates. Whatever may have been the shortcomings of the General Ibrahim Babangida regime’s transition programme, the formal institutionalization of the party processes leading to the creation by government fiat of the defunct National Republican Party (NRC) and Social Democratic Party (SDP), was a key factor in the emergence of a candidate like Chief MKO Abiola as the SDP flag bearer and his eventual victory in the June 12, 1993 presidential election. It is difficult to imagine that Abiola could have emerge as a viable candidate in the party systems of the first or second republics. This column supports the proposal for the establishment of a Political Parties Registration and Monitoring Commission, which will be responsible for the registration of parties that meet set criteria; the compilation and maintenance of registers of party members as well as the conduct of all intra-party elections at all levels in addition to substantial government funding of parties that win elections relative to the degree of the magnitude of their victories. That way, the parties will be less vulnerable to being hijacked by powerful people in government be they President, governors, legislators or sundry godfathers and the generality of party members will be more effectively mobilized and empowered to exercise some degree of control over their parties.