Experts are agreed that satellite communication technology can be of great assistance to developing countries in their quest for socio-economic transformation as well as to secure the lives and property of their citizenry. Satellites have been known to help improve communication and data collection, thus being very useful for the sustainable  development of countries. These facilities are known to have capability in helping to monitor illegal fishing, track malaria, support early warning systems in flood-prone areas, give farmers app-based advice on fertiliser application as well as help map rural areas. Satellites have also been useful in helping with communication in disaster areas, sharing medical information, providing safety plan for refugee camps as well as assisting in tracking city growth in order to adequately plan for amenities and resilience from natural disasters. It is thus within this context that we can understand the excitement of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, at the prospect of Nigeria’s imminent acquisition and launch of a second satellite communication system in 2022, to boost the country’s satellite communication system. Speaking during a one-day working visit and interaction with the staff of the Nigerian Communications Satellite (NIGCOMSTAT) Limited, Pantami said that he had sought and obtained the  approval of President Muhammadu Buhari for the acquisition of the new satellite. According to him, “Since 2019, I have been so passionate about the success of NIGCOMSTAT, starting with the suspension of the privatisation of NIGCOMSTAT. As a matter of fact, I have secured the approval of Mr President for purchasing another satellite. I went further to lobby the Minister of Finance to ensure that this is included in the 2022 budget”. In 2017, the Federal Government announced plans to raise $550 million for the construction of two new communications satellites for Nigeria, which the Chinese Export and Import Bank accepted to provide. However, a concrete step forward in this regard appears to have been made this year with the allocation of N2.5 billion in the 2022 budget for the NIGCOMSTAT 2 project. The Chinese Export Import Bank has also abided by its decision to support Nigeria financially towards the actualisation of the project, particularly because the country made representations to it to the effect that it could not afford the 15 per cent counterpart funding required to access the loan of $550 million for the construction of the two new communications satellites.   Security votes     Ex-Anambra governor Nwobodo seeks more investment in…     Akwa Ibom South PDP elders hail Emmanuel   If such humongous amount is to be expended on this venture, especially at a time of severe economic and financial crisis, then, it is critical to ensure that the country will benefit optimally from the acquisition of the new satellite. Unfortunately, it cannot be said that the country has derived maximum gain from the existing Sat1R, which was launched in 2011, with a life-span of 15 years, implying that it will expire in the next four years. An efficient communications system in orbit ought most certainly to have helped the country respond more effectively to such challenges as rampant criminality, including kidnapping, banditry and terrorism in different parts of the country. Even as these criminal elements operate almost freely, picking up their targets at will, our satellite communications system has been of little or no use in tracking them down and decisively bringing an end to their destructive activities. There is absolutely no reason, in our view, for instance, why our satellite communication facilities should not help track and drastically minimise or even eliminate the activities of those engaged in crude oil bunkering and other forms of oil theft, which have had such devastating effects on our economy. If the existing satellite communication system has not helped in addressing these protracted national problems, is there any guarantee that acquisition of a new one will necessarily be more beneficial and effective? Is anything being done to identify the causes of the ineffectiveness of the current satellite communication system, with a view to ensuring that new ones will perform better when acquired and installed? - Advertisement - It is noteworthy that the initial contract to build the existing satellite, NigComSat – 1, was signed in 2004 and launched in China on May 13, 2007. What effort has been made since then to develop local expertise in this area such that we would not be wholly dependent on external personnel and technology as seems to be the case now?   Also significant is the fact that Nigeria’s first satellite failed on November 11, 2008, after losing power. The existing satellite was delivered in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a replacement for the failed NigComSat -1. Is it not possible to provide better funding and staff motivation for such agencies as the National Space Research and Development Agency (NASRDA) as well as the Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NASMA) to help develop greater self-reliance in this highly specialised sector, which is so  critical to national development?