With a steadily increasing global crude oil price, a weakening naira against other international currencies, planned removal of fuel subsidy, among others, Nigerians will have to brace up for tougher times this year. Besides, the projected divestment of oil majors from some of its local investments, full implementation of the provisions of the Petroleum Industry Act, are issues that will shape the industry this year, MUYIWA LUCAS reports. If the trend in international crude oil price continues as it is entering into this year, then it signposts huge revenue earnings for the federal government. At the turn of the year, Brent crude sold at over $80 per barrel at the international market, while the country’s N17.12 trillion budget is benchmarked at $62 per barrel of oil.   Production capacity The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) forecast global oil demand for the year at 100.83 million barrels per day (mbpd). This represents a 4.15 million bpd increase from the 2021 figure. However, the country’s greatest challenge against benefitting from the surging crude oil price and increased production quota allocation will be her inability to meet its daily production quota of two million bpd last year. Although the Minister of state for petroleum, Timipre Sylva projects that production output will rise to 2.4mbpd this year, if the capacity in the last five months is anything to go by, then Sylva’s projection may remain a tall dream. This is because OPEC is not likely to be favourably disposed to granting any application from the country aimed at increasing her output. For several months, Nigeria failed to meet the existing crude oil supply quota allocated to it by OPEC. For instance, last August, the country under produced by 90,000 bpd, translating to about 2.8 mbpd during the month, leaving the country with a paltry crude oil production of 1.43 million bpd in that month and one of the lowest in five years. Besides, ending last year on a low production output of 1.57 mbpd is not a good way to jump start 2022, especially if the country is to benefit from the rising price of the commodity in the international market. - Advertisement - Still, with the COVID-19 pandemic still ravaging and the race by developed economies to full key the new order called “energy transition”- a movement away from fossils fuels to usage of cleaner energy as replacement, Nigeria’s intentions of kick-starting aggressive exploration and production programmes may suffer this year. Fields like Shell’s Bonga Southwest/Aparo, TotalEnergies’ Preowei and Exxon’s Bosi, which have the potential to add a total of around 400,000 bpd to the country’s oil production output, may all now be at risk of either not getting developed or experience apathy from its owners owing to the energy transition programme. Yet, field and pipeline issues, vandalism, financial constraint and insecurity in the Niger Delta are likely to continue to threaten the industry this year.   Subsidy removal The rising cost of crude oil in the international market is a double edged sword for the country. This is because as an oil producing nation, domestic fuel consumption is primarily dependent on importation of the white product, which is estimated at 1.25 million metric tons per month, due to the poor performance of the four government-owned refineries. Now, with the local currency trading poorly against international currencies, the cost of landing imported fuel keeps rising, causing a huge hole in government pocket. As at September last year, government estimate put subsidy spent at N1.8 trillion annually. Fuel subsidy is the difference between the landing cost of petrol per litre and the regulated pump price per litre. Malam Mele Kyari, Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, last November, was emphatic that the law provides that by the end of February 2022, the nation should be out of the subsidy regime. “There will be no provision for it legally in our system, but I am also sure you will appreciate that government has a bigger social responsibility to cater for the ordinary and therefore engage in a process that will ensure that we exit in the most subtle and easy manner,” Kyari noted, hinting at fuel selling at between N320 and N340 per litre this year. But how the subsidy regime will be “subtly” exited remains another stern test for the country. Already, labour and other civil society groups are vehemently against this idea for obvious reasons of hardship that will definitely come with it like inflation.     Presidency, historian disagree over security situation     SERAP seeks probe of governors for ‘misuse of security…     New moon: Sultan directs Muslims to look out for Jumada…   Divestment dilemma For stakeholders in the industry, 2022 may witness more divestment by oil majors from their legacy oil and gas assets to reduce operating, security challenges and the huge costs of battling with the pandemic. Buttressing this position, analytics at S&P Global Platts in a report warned that the country could be the worst hit as Shell, Chevron, and ExxonMobil are close to selling their onshore assets in the country. It further warned that many oil majors are starting to divest their legacy oil and gas assets in Africa as they target net-zero carbon emissions while hanging onto their most efficient and often largest oil projects. For instance, last May, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) had said its onshore operations in the country were no longer compatible with its long-term climate strategy. This is even more pronounced after the oil major pledged to transform itself into “clean energy” giant and gradually wind down its oil and gas business to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. As many as 19 Oil Mining Leases (OMLs) were being touted for sale by the oil giant in onshore locations and shallow waters in the company’s eastern and western operations in the Niger Delta. “So, I expect to see more divestment by oil majors from selected assets because things are not working as they should be,” the CEO of Lagos-based oil consultancy firm, Degeconek, Abiodun Adesanya, noted in a chat with S&P Global Platts.   PIA The Petroleum Industry Act (PIA), will this year take its full cycle in terms of implementation. Stakeholders are expectant that this year, the PIA would bring about increased local and foreign investment in the industry, just as it is expected to tackle the associated problems in the industry like pipeline vandalism, oil theft, illegal refining and environmental pollution in the industry. This year, the PIA is further expected to be straightened out , especially in such grey areas like that of the Community Trust Fund to host communities, which is pegged at three percent. Already, the NNPC is set to operate as a private concern as provided for by the Act.   Gas Gas is expected to continue an aggressive revolution against fossil fuel this year. A growing and more flexible liquefied natural gas (LNG) market has enabled global competition for gas supply. Now, with more demands for gas, locally and internationally, the country’s declaration of the next 10 years as a decade of gas may be rightly justified. Experts contend that the commodity may have been a taken the upward curve given that it is a cleaner source of energy and now being embraced by the majority. The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, target is to produce at least five billion Standard Cubic Feet (SCF) of gas per day for domestic consumption this year. With over 206TCF of natural gas reserves, Nigeria has enough of the molecules to support new gas-fired power plants and more than enough to make gas a viable fuel for existing and new industrial facilities.