The Lagos State Government will ensure seamless operations of sawmillers in their new location – Timberville, Owu-Ikosi and Agbowa – as they prepare to move from the waterfront of Okobaba in Ebute Metta. Its Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako and other top ministry officials, who were on a visit to the new site, said the facilities were being provided to facilitate hitch-free wood processing and sales. Salako noted that the facilities which include link roads and internal roads, drainage, electricity, housing and display sheds were being provided for the comfort of sawmillers and their customers. He explained that the government had resolved the issue of connectivity by providing an alternative link road as supplement to the main road, thereby making it possible to approach the Timberville from Ikorodu-Itoikin road.   Reinsurance in Sub-Saharan Africa records premium growth     ‘Why you need motor insurance’     Way forward for insurance, by experts   At the time of the visit, the alternative road of 1.265km is almost completed to support unhindered movement from Okobaba to Timberville. - Advertisement - “While the main road requires strenuous engineering works, such as the construction of a deck-on-pile among others, the alternative road to the Timberville has attracted urgent and immediate attention of the state and would soon be completed in a few weeks time to supplement the major link road under construction, “ he said.   He noted that work on the major link road, covering a distance of 2.65km had progressed to the stage where the structure work for the bridge was nearing completion, having sunk about 316 piles.   Details of other facilities, according to commissioner, include installation of 8 power transformers with the total capacity of 500KVA as well as the provision of 260 units of 2-bedroom bungalows, 100 units of which were released from Odo-Onosa housing scheme by the Lagos State Government to augment housing requirements of the sawmillers in Timberville.   Other social amenities at Timberville are canteen, meeting hall and trailer park.