By 2063, according to African Union leaders Agenda for the Africa We Want, cultural elements in Africa would have begun to count in the drive for growth, development and advancement in world affairs. Due to this, the Centre for Black and African Arts and Civilization (CBAAC), penultimate week in Lagos put together an international conference with the theme: The Renaissance of African culture: Music, crafts, language, literature and folklore, to address the matter. Scholars came from all over the world for two days to harp on this, reports EDOZIE UDEZE. IT has been widely noted that every culture, every language, all over the world, cherishes what they have.  The latest United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) survey has observed that very soon many local languages in the world will go extinct.  They will go extinct just because of the sheer neglect by the owners of the languages.  This and more reasons have forced the leaders of African Union (AU) to declare this year 2021 as the year of the arts, culture and heritage.  But in their wisdom also the leaders have gone beyond that to ensure that all the ingredients of cultural values and heritages in Africa, tangible and intangible, must be guided and preserved by the people themselves. This was why the African Union Agenda 2063 was mooted.  It is aimed at creating the Africa we want.  Primarily, it shows that by 2063 all the paraphernalia of African cultures will be recognised and put in their proper places.  It is in recognition of this that the Centre for Black and African Arts and Civilization (CBAAC) which is the intellectual hub of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, organized an international conference penultimate week on the theme: The renaissance of African culture: Music, crafts, language, literature and folklore. Held in Lagos for two days, it was an ample moment for scholars in all aspects of the humanities and the social sciences to gather to discuss and dissect the nuances of these important issues that define the African people, home and abroad.  The Diaspora Africans were also involved because the conference was both virtual and physical, cutting across continents and regions and countries. In drafting the theme, CBAAC ensured it covered all areas of the peoples cultural indices so that the aim of AU leaders are taken into proper account.  Scholar after scholar harped on the urgent need for Africans themselves where ever they are, to be attuned to what they have.  Culture is the pillar, the pivot point of growth, development, advancement, name it.  Once you miss it, you are doomed for the rest of your life. - Advertisement - This point was made clear by Professor Rita Pemberton of the University of West Indies St. Augustine campus, Trinidad and Tobago in her keynote address titled Africans across the globe:  The Diaspora answers back.  In her usual vehemence and zeal to see Africans united under the umbrella of a common goal, Pemberton intoned quoting Marcus Garvey, “Look for me in the whirlwind of storm, look for me all round you for I shall come with countless millions of enslaved… blacks from the Diaspora to aid in your fight… for liberty, freedom and life” And so it is proper that the relationship between Africans in the motherland and Africans in Diaspora should be cohesive just for the sake of a united front. This Garvey quote, she argued summarizes “what the relationship between continental Africa and its Diaspora should be in keeping with the ideals of Garvey and other Pan – Africanists, thereby contributing to the achievement of the very noble and long overdue objective  – the  Africa we want as identified in Agenda 2063 which espouses the ideals of Pan – Africanism”.  With this statement, as remarkable and pungent as it sounded, the tone was set for the conference to kick-start.   Empowering youths with adire textile hub     ‘My mobile bookshop targets grassroots in Benue’     ‘Market research, analysis the future of brand…   Pemberton challenged Africans at home to always create cultural calendars at both local and embassy levels to involve the Diaspora which will encourage them to always think and come home to continental Africa.  “This should form part of the AU Agenda 2063.  Also they should try to develop, publicize and implement a Diaspora policy to determine where we are going, how to treat with the different Diaspora groups … Then there should be a collaboration between High Commissions of African nations, the Caribbean community and African business associations and their Caribbean community counterparts to establish the African communal market in the Diaspora…  We must devise ways to monetize culture especially to back the crypto currency and other new currencies.  Therefore, cultural skills should be protected and developed”. Oluwabunmi Amao, the Director General of CBAAC in her speech warned that time had come for the world to reappraise the contributions of Africa to world civilization.  But then, there has to be unity of purpose amongst Africans, amongst blacks all over the world.  “The theme has drawn our attention to these important cultural ingredients that shape the people.  They are all about our belief system, where we hope our vision as a people point to.  If therefore Africa has to make any meaningful development, we have to rely on our cultural values, revisiting what we have to attain the Africa we want”. No doubt, Amao had foreseen the essence of these elements of African cultural renaissance when she opined that CBAAC will not relent until all corners of the world realizes that Africa is a beehive of the highest, richest cultural heritages meant for comprehensive leap forward in world affairs.  It was this belief that propelled Rose Kwarse, who spoke on behalf of the permanent secretary of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Dr. Ifeoma Anyanwataku to also reiterate that the theme was apt, noting “It is coming at a time when government  is concerned about entrenching its foreign relations with other countries in Africa through strengthened cultural diplomacy…  As enshrined in the AU document, the Agenda 2063 is Africa’s blueprint and master-plan for transforming Africa into a global economic force to be reckoned with”.  The Agenda, she reasoned, is rooted in Pan- Africanism and African renaissance generally which provides not just a robust framework for addressing the question of the Africa We Want, but also “aims to deliver on its vision of inclusive and sustained development for all Africans”.  This shows that the federal governments stand on the imperativeness of economic growth based on cultural commodities is indeed incontrovertible.  And also that cultural elements are viable components to sue for love, cohesion, unity and the intensification of relations all over Africa, and the world at large. The discussion came in sessions handled and moderated by different scholars.  Some of the scholars who delivered papers included Professors Emmanuel Dandaura, Akin Alao, Dele Layiwola, Adeoluwa Okunade, A.O. Asagba.  Others were Doctors Ofonime Inyang, Femi Odedina, Malusi Mncube, Geoffrey Osaaji , Joy Odewumi and others.  Also in the house was Jim Solanke who characteristically handled the folkloric aspects of the conference.  The sessions were moderated by Professors Tunde Babawale and Duro Oni, two former Director Generals of CBAAC and Professor Sola Olorunyomi of the University of Ibadan. Participants came from the Caribbean, South Africa, Ghana, the USA, from different institutions of higher learning where the affairs of African development and growth have for years occupied the attention of scholars, researchers and Pan- Africanists. The themes and sub-themes of the conference varied as each zeroed deep into African cultural renaissance.  They included: Culture and the attainment of African Union Agenda 2063.  Imperative of epistemic and methodological shift in harnessing cultural values for Pan- Africanism and African development.  New media, animation and the re-imagining of Things Fall Apart: implications for Pan- Africanism and Africa’s creative industries.  Utilizing creative and culture industries as empowering tools for 21st Century African youths. Other topics were: Renaissance of African cultural elements arts, music, crafts, language, literature and folklore.  Copyright laws and the creative economy in Africa.  Restoring African focused integrity in contemporary societal practices:  Reflections from musical arts agency.  Folktales and folksongs: my eternal tools.  Oath taking in Igbo culture and conflict resolutions.  Urban renewal, heritage sites and the alterations of towns identities in Lagos State, Nigeria and lots more. Babawale and others, in the end, agreed that the AU Agenda 2063 on the Africa we want should hasten up to spare Africa from further disintegration.  All over Africa, there are skirmishes, pockets of arm struggles, banditry, insurgency, troubles, loss of values, hate, xenophobia, wanton destruction of lives and properties…  Indeed fear and uncertainty rule in certain places like Mali, Barkina Faso, Cameroon, Nigeria, Niger, Sudan, Ethiopia, the Horn of Africa and more.  It is only when this Agenda which is unfortunately years away from today comes into fruition that Africans may be able to gather their acts together.  In all these culture remains the pivot point, the centre-piece of progress, growth, development and renaissance that will be all-encompassing, profound and far-reaching.