The Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and foundation member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr Osita Okechukwu, has said that the recent rejection of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) overtures by former President Olusegun Obasanjo portends another defeat in 2023 general elections for the opposition party. Okechukwu wondered whether PDP leaders have refused to understand that Nigerians are suspicious and no longer interested in reinforcing the PDP’s share- the -money culture. The VON boss, who made the remarks on Sunday, while speaking with newsmen in Abuja, maintained the rejection of PDP’s request to rejoin the party by Obasanjo comes as a failure signal on the eve of the 2023 presidential election. He noted that PDP action smacked of a politically incorrect move for a party, whose membership card was publicly shredded to go back asking for the support of the same statesman that rejected its association. The opposition party led by its national chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, visited Obasanjo in his Abeokuta Ogun State residence, during which the former President said: “I have been with the party right from inception. Whatever I do in my own life, because I became President on the platform of PDP, PDP will continue to be part of the history of my life.   Support corruption-free aspirant for APC chairmanship, group…     Delta 2023: Zoning and the Ijaws’ guber quest     Uzodimma: Two years of firm hands on the plough   - Advertisement - “But, having said that, the day that in my ward I decided to tear my PDP card was the day I ceased to be a member of PDP and that day I vowed that I will not be a member of any political party again, but I will remain a statesman in Nigeria, in West Africa, in Africa and indeed in the world.” Reacting to the development, Okechukwu said: “I have my sympathy for our sister political party, PDP, over this misadventure. Just imagine the uncommon electoral boost the party would have generated if Chief Obasanjo had accepted their request.” “The statesman’s re-entry could have boosted the morale of the rank and file of the PDP. In short, the rejection is a bad omen, particularly coming at the eve of the crucial 2023 presidential election.” Dismissing Ayu’s accusation of cluelessness levelled against President Muhammadu Buhari and for plunging Nigeria into eternal debt, Okechukwu said: “I have my tremendous respect for His Excellency Iyorchia Ayu, intellectual and seasoned academia; however one needs to name some of the huge and uncountable infrastructural deficit PDP bequeathed to Buhari’s regime, which compelled borrowing for development.” “They include Ibadan-Lagos standard gauge rail line and other rail lines abandoned by PDP; Less than transparent privatised Power Sector, which has dangerously stifled economic development; Lagos-Ibadan, Lagos-Abeokuta, 2nd Niger Bridge, Kano-Maiduguri, Abuja-Makurdi, including other 13,000 federal road network nationwide and Re-equipment and upgrading of the Armed Forces and other Security Agencies emasculated by the PDP.”