Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KW-IRS) said that it raked in N26.9 billion as the state in internally generated revenue for the 2021. It added that the amount represented 95.61 percent achievement of its annual budgetary target of N28.2 billion. “The feat is the highest target hit since the agency was founded in 2016,” the agency said. A breakdown of the IGR generated for the year includes nine billion Naira in the first quarter; N6.5 billion in the second quarter; a sum of N5.7 billion in the third quarter and N5.2 billion in the fourth quarter. Executive Chairman, KW-IRS Shade Omoniyi noted that the year 2021 started on a good note, with an IGR collection of N9.6Billion, in the first quarter, the highest in the history of the agency since its establishment without introduction of new taxes and or any extraordinary item. - Advertisement - She stated that revenue collection across board dipped in the last three quarters of the year, owing to challenges associated with general apathy in the adoption of some newly introduced revenue collection processes, non-remittance, as well as the seasonal collections.   NDLEA arrests three trans-border traffickers with 48,000…     Fuel queues ease off in FCT     Alleged contempt: Court to hear suit against Finance…   She said that the achievement was an improvement of 37.34 percent over the total IGR of N19.638Billion generated in the year 2020. “This achievement is attributable to the gradual recovery of the economy after the pandemic, continuous consolidation, and digitization of all revenue lines of the State, both of which are helping to reduce revenue loss, leakages, and diversion of revenues accruable to the State Government.” said Omoniyi. Mrs. Omoniyi noted that the agency “is not relenting in its efforts of provision of seamless tax administration, continuous tax advocacy through various mass media platforms and stakeholders’ engagement to ensure tax compliance, prompt payment and remittance of tax arrears, eradication of under deductions and non-remittance of taxes due on income. “The service remains committed to improving its processes, promoting collective work ethics, and seamless provision of tax administration for the growth of Kwara State IGR.” The KW-IRS boss charged all business owners in the state to register their businesses with the KW-IRS, ensure tax returns are done within the time allowable by law, declare all sources of income for appropriate assessment, and pay all that is due on income as tax within stipulated time.