Soldiers attached to the 144 Battalion of 14 Brigade Army Headquarters in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State have reportedly destroyed 6 vehicles conveying illegally refined crude oil within its Area Of Responsibility (AOR). Our correspondent gathered that the vehicles were intercepted at three locations within Owaza community in Ukwa West Local Government Area and along the ever-busy Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway by its personnel who were on routine patrol within the said locations. Sources within the 14 Brigade who would not want their names in print told our correspondent that the personnel of the Nigerian Army destroyed the vehicles after the drivers abandoned their cars to run into the bush on sighting the soldiers on patrol. A source in the 14 Brigade Headquarters who confirmed the burning of the trucks disclosed that the burning of the vehicles conveying the illegally refined crude oil were because the soldiers could not arrest any of the drivers of the unmarked vehicles whose owners could not be traced.   FG, states must show commitment to Made-in-Nigeria products,…     Soludo can’t be allowed to fail – PDP chieftain     Mercy Aigbe’s marital soap opera   “The patrol team from 144 Battalion who were on patrol within their AOR stumbled on a group of persons who were moving illegally refined crude oil from a dump site on sighting the patrol team abandoned their vehicle and ran into a nearby bush. The six vehicles were intercepted along Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway as the drivers had abandoned them to run into the bush. - Advertisement - “The 144 Battalion team also intercepted a white, sky blue Toyota bus loaded with illegally refined product in Owaza, Ukwa West LGA on January 22 during a patrol after the driver on sighting the troop abandoned the vehicle and ran into the bush. “A white and red coloured Toyota bus loaded with illegally refined products was intercepted by the patrol team on the same day at about 9:20pm in Owaza, Ukwa West LGA. “The Vehicles were moved to a dump site where they were set ablaze by the team as there were no suspects to prosecute along with the intercepted vehicles.” The source added that the security agency would not fold its arms to watch unscrupulous and unpatriotic Nigerians continue in their illegal bunkering which the source said was an economic sabotage.