The Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, Shuaibu Ibrahim said his rise to the rank of Major General in the Nigerian Army was not a surprise as he had neither missed any promotion nor lobbied for it for the past 28 years. The NYSC boss, who commended President Muhammadu Buhari for finding him worthy to be appointed to showcase his potential, said his rise in the service of the military was facilitated by his principle of touching lives. He thanked the Minister of Defense and the Chief of Army Staff for having him worthy to be promoted to the rank of Major General in the Nigerian Army. Ibrahim who stated these during a grand reception on his elevation to the rank of Major General in the Nigerian Army said: “My principle in life is to touch our fellow human beings and if you cannot touch your fellow human beings, you are not fit to live and that is the principle I have lived for and that is the principle I will die for. “All I have achieved in life is as a result of prayers of those that I have come across in life because as I touch one another they pray for me. - Advertisement - “Having gone through 28 years of service in the military, I have not missed promotion; my promotions do come as and when due and all these are as a result of this principle of hard work and commitment.”   Two-year-old Daniel missing     Niger Delta youth leaders praise NNPC boss’ roles on…     FG committed to supporting volunteerism for national…   While stressing the contribution of corps members to national development, the NYSC DG further reiterated the need for the establishment of the NYSC Trust Fund to cater to their needs. He used the occasion to appeal to the Federal Government, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum and members of the National Assembly to support the establishment of NYSC Trust Fund, saying when it is established, it is like reinvigorating the NYSC again. “We cannot thank them enough and that is why I use this opportunity to appeal to Federal Government, the Nigerian Governors’ Forum and members of the National Assembly to please support the establishment of NYSC Trust Fund because when this is established, it is like reinvigorating the NYSC again,” he said. During the event, which was attended by serving and retired military officers and traditional rulers, the governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, commended the NYSC for redefining the scheme. The governor said Ibrahim had made Nasarawa State proud because of his sterling qualities and achievements. Sule said: “Let me thank you for being a true Ambassador. How else can you be such a proud governor sitting to watch two Ambassadors who have redefined their various areas of endeavours? “I was at one of the events recently where he launched nine books. We have no other person that should have been speaking about NYSC than General (Yakubu) Gowon and he speaks eloquently about how you redefined NYSC and I was sitting there as a very proud governor of your state because I came in, knowing what the various governors have said about you.”