The news item last week that 10 states in Nigeria are laggards in the vaccination race that has convoluted the world, following the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic, elicited a sense of pity in this writer. As with other developmental challenges that bestride Nigeria like colossus, I took it for granted that all the affected 10 states would be in the beleaguered northern part of the country. But alas, five out of the 10 states are in south-eastern Nigeria. Since I read the headline, I have been wondering what could make the entire south-eastern states become laggards on such an important public health issue. I have asked myself, whether it is the burgeoning insecurity in the region that is to blame for the low number of the vaccinated, as reported by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)? If not the insecurity, could be that the southeast is suffering marginalisation in the supply of vaccines by the federal government, as is the region’s experience in political appointments under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government? If it is not marginalisation in the supply side, could it be that the governments of the region are not as aggressive as their colleagues elsewhere, in pushing for vaccination amongst the people they govern? If the problem is within the states, could it be that majority of the people are not convinced about the need for the vaccine, and are therefore contemptuous of the efforts of both the federal and state governments? If they are unconvinced about taking the jab, could it be that those concerned are predominately ignorant of the advantages of the vaccine, or they are just sceptical like the argumentative anti-vaccine lobby scattered across the world? For this writer, it is important for the governments in the southeast states and even the relevant federal authorities to investigate the reason or reasons for this seeming anomaly. Understanding the psychology of the people is important in mobilizing them, and consequently delivering the dividends of democracy, as our leaders usually frame such benefits. For if the World Health Organisation (WHO) has adjudged a disease a pandemic, not to talk of the massive disruption of lives across the world, and went ahead to recommend mass vaccination, it should worry leaders that some people do not heed the grim statistics. - Advertisement - Of significance is that all the states in the southeast are amongst the laggards, not some, but all. If it is a coincidence, then it is an intriguing one. If on the other hand the slackness is contrived, then those responsible should be known, and be treated as enemies of the region. And if it is self-inflicted, then it is tragic, particularly if it is as a result of poor governance. But if it is the people that are denying the obvious, then it should be a case study on group psychology. It is also important to note that Nigeria as a country is amongst the least vaccinated countries in the world, and even within the sub region. According to data from the Multilateral Leaders Task Force on COVID-19; as at January 10, only about 2.2% of Nigerians are fully vaccinated. Comparatively, most advanced countries have vaccinated about 80% of their population. Of course, the vaccine sceptics would argue that despite the high percentage, the fourth wave still predominates in their countries.   Akande’s hurtful truths     Uzodimma: A test of leadership     The rice pyramids of Abuja   For this column, those arguments are puerile, because before the advent of COVID-19 vaccines, people were dying in thousands daily across America and Europe. So, if the argument is that vaccination has not fully stopped the spread of the disease, the simple answer is that thousands are alive today because of the vaccines. Again, while it is likely that our weather and local medication may have saved the poor continent of Africa from annihilation as feared, it will be unfortunate to treat such a scientific development with contempt of an ignoramus. So while Nigeria, nay Africa and other third world countries worry about the causes of the low level of vaccination in their countries, the governments of southeast should understudy why the region contributed so much to this development. That worry should be regardless of whether or not, they belong to the anti-vaccine lobby. I push for that study, as it would help the governments know the causes of the failure of the people of the region to vaccinate, and what they can do to ameliorate the situation going forward. But since the challenge cuts across all states in southeast, it requires a common confrontation by all concerned states. Such common challenge underscores the need for a South East Development Agency (SEDA), which would act as a think-tank for the governments and peoples of the region. It is such an organ that can follow through on the issues raised here, and come forward with reliable data of what went wrong. Of course, such an organ would also provide intellectual power for other developmental challenges facing the region. As I have argued here on other occasions, the southeast governments should be planning ahead of the current dissonance in our federal system of government, and be ready when federalism returns. To only live in the present and remain reactionary to the reactionary forces that have seized our country by the jugular since 1967, is to be unstatesmanlike. Even the blind can see that the quasi-federalism we are practising is unsustainable, and would surely give way to a workable practice of federalism, if the nation is to survive. So, the region needs to keep putting in place the building blocks for a regional development agenda. After all, before the military intervention in Nigeria’s governance, the entire eastern Nigeria was governed from Enugu, and one could see the organisational structure of developmental programmes across the region. There was a synergy between the agricultural, industrial, technological and commercial belts. Who says that an effective intellectual organ cannot provide knowledge driven collaboration opportunities between the states? What simply needs to be done is for each state to rely on the comparative advantage it has, and link that to other member states’ advantage. That is the way to the future of the region, and our governors should see such collaborative endeavour as a legacy project. They should work to gift the southeast such a development think-tank, to put in place a blueprint for collaborative development. And such a body will gain funding from local and international organisations, and could even link the universities in the region to research on some regional challenges. If such a body existed, it would have told us why the southeast is lagging behind in the vaccination programme. The governments of the southeast must not brush aside the NCDC data on COVID-19 vaccination.