To address increasing poverty, countries are deploying social safety net programmes as part of their core development plans. These include cash, in-kind transfers, public works targeted at poor and vulnerable households. The target is to reduce the poverty gap significantly. Lagos is undertaking a series of strategic programmes to provide safety nets to reduce poverty, increase productivity growth and create jobs, DANIEL ESSIET reports. The out of the blue Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has contributed, in no small way, to further the already growing global inequalities. Poor and vulnerable households were and are still the worst hit. This may have informed the step taken by the United Nations which, this year, urged member states to confront the impact of the COVID-19 crisis and its attendant inequalities on a global scale. The 2020 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) report forecast that the least developed countries (LDCs) were to experience their worst economic performance in 30 years. While First World countries have experienced rapid economic growth in recent years, persistent poverty and on-the-rise inequality have escalated in Africa. - Advertisement - As a result, experts have recommended the establishment of adequate social safety nets to protect vulnerable populations. According to the World Bank, more than 1.9 billion people in 136 low- and middle-income countries benefit from social safety net programmes.  The bank reeled off social safety net programmes to include cash and in-kind transfers targeted to poor and vulnerable households, with the goal of protecting families from the impacts of economic shocks, natural disasters, and other crises; ensuring that children grow up healthy, well-fed, and can stay in school and learn; empowering women and girls; and creating jobs. In response, countries in Sub-Saharan Africa are introducing flagship social safety net programmes. The purpose is to contribute to the reduction of poverty and vulnerability by addressing various population groups through different forms of assistance. These include conditional cash transfers, child-school-feeding programmes, among others. Consequently, the Federal Government, working with states, instituted social safety programmes to address the COVID-19 pandemic and to tackle the acute development challenges which followed on. It also rallied for support to build long-term resilience through fostering productive capacities. The Lagos State believes the poor and other vulnerable groups suffered the most negative consequences from the COVID-19 pandemic. In response, the government is rapidly expanding its social protection programmes. The aim is to provide a bridge to faster recovery of households, communities and uplift the livelihoods of millions of residents. According to the Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Yetunde Arobieke, the COVID-19 crisis exposed the precarious situation of many Nigerians and the need for further investment in public social protection. This explained why the government is rigorously implementing social protection programmes, including large-scale transfers to help poor households that were hit by the COVID-19 pandemic last year. Mrs Yetunde Arobieke added that expanding the existing social safety nets for the poor is central to the fight against poverty. She noted that the government was pursuing a strategic plan to increase productivity, growth and to tackle the inequality that has left many Nigerians without the necessary resources to start a business or move where better job opportunities may be. To assist struggling families also, she said the government keyed into the Federal Government’s Cash Transfer initiative. Following the enrolment of eligible residents of Lagos State for the first phase of the cash transfer initiative, beneficiary households began to receive the sum of N10, 000 in May and June last year. Arobieke noted that the process of enrolment of beneficiary households commenced in April 2020 with the most vulnerable, aged and indigent citizens identified. “It is of the essence to mention that the process of enrolment of about 8,147 households captured by the State Cash Transfer Office was approved by the Governor and commenced in April to fast-track a conditional cash transfer to beneficiary households in order to alleviate the sufferings of the poor and vulnerable,” Mrs Arobieke said.  The Commissioner spoke about the state’s poverty reduction strategy which was built on indicators, clear targets and tangible actions to lower the fraction of residents living in poverty. According to her, the government has made long-term investments in areas such as skills and employment which will help in addressing the issue of poverty in multiple dimensions.   ‘Let’s go back to competitive, constructive federalism’     2022: Drama of courts, cases, litigants     Controversy trails selection of new Olubadan   She said the vision of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was for the residents to have access to opportunities to be able to move out of poverty and acquire the skills, education and jobs they need to be at their best. In furtherance of this also, the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment and the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development engaged stakeholders on the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme in the state. Mrs Arobieke said: “The poverty reduction and empowerment drive by Sanwo-Olu administration has impacted Lagosians by increasing the enrolment rates of primary school children and providing empowerment opportunities for women, thereby improving the family and the local economy.” Moving forward, she said, partnerships will continue to be important.  She said the government will forge strong bonds with stakeholders on the frontlines of tackling poverty across the state to ensure its programmes and policies are aligned and complementary, as Lagosians expect and deserve nothing less. Lagos, she reiterated, is a state where everyone has a real and fair chance at success. To demonstrate this, she said the government is removing barriers and helping all residents excel through access to life-long education and skills development, which lead to quality jobs. Lagos, she noted, has reason to look to the future with confidence and optimism, even as she said that the government is optimistic to lift millions out of poverty as a result of its people-oriented programmes. She said the government is determined to broaden the use of social safety nets through a wide range of projects to foster entrepreneurship. As part of this, the government is leveraging Public-Private-Partnerships (PPPs) to reward residents to purchase items through its Eko Token (Lagos Cash Token UCSR). Described as “Africa’s First Universal Reward for Residents, Mrs Arobieke said it was an initiative undertaken by the Lagos State Government to boost entrepreneurship and economy in the state. She said the participating businesses give consumers electronic lucky dip tokens for patronising their products and services. Each token, according to her, qualifies the customer for up to N100 million win through a reward draw. As the government continues to rebuild the economic and social damage caused by the pandemic, Mrs Arobieke said there is ample opportunity for optimism. According to her, Lagos State has demonstrated the willingness to address its challenges, through a partnership with the private sector; with the hope that the efforts will result in e greater employment opportunities, economic growth, and mitigation of the impact of poverty. The Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Information and Strategy, Mr Sina Thorpe, is satisfied with the efforts the government has made in supporting the affected population by mitigating the social and economic impacts of the pandemic. To him, the Lagos State Government has achieved a lot in driving social protection programmes that assist people to meet their basic needs, improve social cohesion and citizen-state relations. According to him, there was a strong emphasis on protecting the most vulnerable, even as investments have the greatest possible impact on poverty reduction, economic resilience and stability. Thorpe said the Universal Reward for Residents promoted by the government, represents one of the most generous attempts at reducing the number of Nigerians living in poverty. According to him, the government was determined to help residents meet basic needs, build family economic security, and access opportunities to create their dreams. The Chief Executive,  CeLD Innovations Limited, Lai Labode said that CashToken creates an avenue for every customer in Lagos to have an opportunity for life-changing cash rewards every Friday night at the National CashToken draws. The product, according to him, was designed to optimise customer loyalty in investment for business, celebratory gift value optimisation and public emotional equity for the government. He further explained that the CashToken is an electronic reward and celebratory gift commodity that connects all patronages and gifts in any country’s economy. It enables every patronage or gift to become a life-changing cash opportunity. He said the company was partnering with the Lagos State Government to create a performance-based system through which businesses in Lagos will reward consumers’ loyalty.