Operatives of the Enugu State Police Command have arrested a 52-year-old man, Ifeanyi Amadikwa, for allegedly killing his two biological daughters and a step daughter. Amadikwa also dumped the corpses of his three daughters in an unused deep freezer in the house. Names of the three girls were Chidalum Amadikwa aged 11 (who is his step-daughter), Amarachi Amadikwa aged 8 and Ebubechukwu Amadikwa aged 4. Amadikwa was said to have killed his daughters after his wife and mother of the children left them in his care and went to the market with the only son. The incident occurred at 74 Nkwubor Road, Emene Enugu. - Advertisement - The suspect was arrested by the Enugu Metro Area Command of Enugu State Police Command, where he is currently being detained. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, who confirmed the incident, said: “Police operatives attached to Enugu Metro Area Command of Enugu State Police Command, on January 4, 2022, at about 7:30 p.m., arrested one male suspect, Ifeanyi Amadikwa aged 52, of 74 Nkwubor Road, Emene, Enugu, for allegedly murdering and dumping in a spoilt deep freezer fridge, his three female tender children namely Chidalum Amadikwa aged 11 (who is his step-daughter), Amarachi Amadikwa aged 8 and Ebubechukwu Amadikwa aged 4.   EFCC re-arraigns Mompha for fresh alleged N6b fraud     Court to determine validity of Kanu’s trial Jan. 19     Sen Tinubu, Jakande’s widow, Obasa, others bid…   “Preliminary investigation showed that the suspect’s wife and mother of the children went to the market with her only male child on January 4, 2022, leaving the others in the suspect’s custody. “She, however, came back in the evening hours of the said date and could not find any of the three children. But while searching for them, the suspect drew her attention to the said fridge he had brought back home from his shop on January 2, 2022, and kept in their apartment’s veranda. “And on a closer observation, the lifeless bodies of the children were found in the fridge with bruises, suggesting that they might have been murdered and dumped in the fridge.” The police said the lifeless bodies of the children were immediately moved to the hospital, where they were confirmed dead by medical doctors on duty, and deposited in the mortuary for preservation and autopsy. While commiserating with the mother, relatives and friends of the deceased children, the Commissioner of Police, CP Abubakar Lawal assured commitment to thoroughly investigate the case and ensure that justice prevails. In view of this, the CP has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department to conduct a conclusive investigation into the case and ensure everyone found culpable is brought to book.