Dr. Obiora Okonkwo is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Enugu-based United Nigeria Airline. He spoke with select journalists on the sideline of the retreat organised for senior management staff of the company on the development of the aviation industry in Nigeria. Damian Duruiheoma was there. February 12, 2022 will one year United Nigeria Airline commenced operations. Looking back, what is the experience like? It has been some exciting experience. One year in the life of a human being, probably, the person is still a toddler. But looking back in our one year of operations in aviation industry for United Nigeria Airline, it looks like we’ve been there for 20 years. It has been a year that has seen whole lot of challenges, no doubt. But beyond all those, we have seen great achievement in our strategic plan, our expansion plan, our growth plan. We had opened new locations. We have also increased our fleets. We had also worked as close as possible with the regulatory agencies: Ministry of Aviation, the NCAA which has been working so hard. We’re very happy and proud of their efforts to strengthen and improve things in the aviation industry. We have also enjoyed very productive year of client relationship. We’ve seen a whole lot of other operators in the industry coming into the picture. In all, it has been quite an exciting experience. Where do you hope to see the airline in the next 10 years in the aviation industry in relation to the security and economic challenges in the country? - Advertisement - Ten years of projection is a little bit too far that I can see for now. But we like to take out things one step at a time. Our plan here is to grow at our own pace. So we think that we rather talk about the next one year and the next two years. The margin we can project now is three years. Maybe in our second year, we will be talking about where we will be in the next five years from now. But within the next 12 months, we see ourselves doubling the number of our fleets with larger passenger capacity. This is because it was our strategic plan to start with smaller body aircrafts with 50 passenger capacity to develop and strengthen our routes. Now we have had control over and strengthened certain routes, and then we’re coming in with bigger body aircrafts as add-ons. Hopefully, we add two aircrafts every quarter till the end of the year. That will give us an opportunity to expand our locations. We have a mantra: Flying to unite.  So until we are able to find ourselves in all the commercial airports in Nigeria, we will not stop. Today, we are covering efficiently all the commercial airports in the Southeast. In the next one month, if we start stopping over in Benin, we would have covered all the airports in Southsouth. As it is today, we’re the only commercial airline that flies to Bayelsa. We started Warri, we’re in Asaba. We’ll be going to Benin soon and Akwa Ibom. With that, we’re going to face the Northeast. We’re going to face the Northwest. We’re already in an agreement and understanding to start a shuttle service within the entire six states in the Northeast. So, we think within this last one year, expansion of our routes, expansion of our fleets and then extension into the West Coast and then obviously strengthening our staff strength and our capacity in the area of human power. These are the things we’re going to do because we need a strong human capacity to be able to deliver decent services within this expansion arrangement. NCAA came up with the staggering statistics 44, 780 flights were cancelled in 2021. What would you do differently tackle this given the fact that there are no compensations given to passengers? We have an impressive greater percentage of on time departure. One thing I would like the public to know is that there’s no operator, who for just careless reason, want to put his aircraft on ground when it is time to fly. The reasons for either flight or departure cancellation, more often than not, are things beyond the airline and for safety reasons. For instance, just this morning, we saw an indication from our central portal that there’s a bad weather in Anambra Airport. The issue of weather is very serious. There are certain regulatory requirements that you do not land at certain airports within certain visibility of weather. Most of the airports are not equipped for aircrafts to land in all weather. So , the other reason could be the issue of safety. Aircraft is an engine. If there are indications that come at any point of departure, the requirement is that it must have been checked up, signed off and cleared before departure. Timely arrival is important. But I think that safety is more important. So, a combination of all these things could be reasons for flight cancellations or delay. Cancellation do also come from the records towards evening and the reason being that most of the aircrafts are on sunset restrictions. That means they cannot land at certain times of the day especially between 6pm to 6.3pm which is that sunset. If for instance you have a bad weather in a particular landing airport, it pushes the schedule of take off to two or three hours. That schedule of take off should have been what would take you to that sunset period. More often than not, the aircraft is prepared and ready to fly. For whatever is the compensation to the client, if it is reasonable and of it is the fault of the airline, obviously, I support it. But a great understanding is required and being solicited that they should know that some times it’s safety reasons beyond the control of the operator. This is because the joy in the business is that your aircraft is flying and passengers are on it. That’s when you make money. Your seems to be the only airline that has its base in Southeast. What’s the attraction? We are United Nigeria. We find here suitable and we’re happy to be here. We’re aware that in the past, another airline, Sosliso Airline, had domesticated its operations in the Southeast. From our records and research, their reason for being here was justified. They were happy about it. We decided to take a cue and we’re happy that we did.   HDI boss harps on emotional intelligence for CEOs     Expert mulls support for tourism development     BEDC lauds community over vandals’ arrest   There was this complaint about fare disparity as it affects the people of Southeast and Southsouth and that the fare to these areas are always exorbitant when compared with that of the parts of the country. Why is it so? I don’t think that anybody pays higher than the other in terms of air fare. No ticket fare is determined from where you are coming from. Never. It is a matter of the season and the exigencies. Take for instance during the Christmas period, moving down East but going back to the Southwest, Lagos, Abuja and the North, has virtually zero traffic. So, if you have to operate and carry the passengers, you have to carry the cost either way. It is the same thing with even road transporters. You could see a luxurious bus that fully loads from Lagos to the East and returning back to Lagos with zero passenger. There is a cost of operating this thing. So, somebody has to bear the burden. I tell you also that in February 2021 when we started our operations, the cost of aviation fuel was N160 per litre. But as at today, less than one year, it is N360 per litre. Aviation fuel is about 30 to 35 percent cost of operation. Yet, ticket fare has not doubled because we’re still selling at the rate we were selling last year when we commenced operations. For that reason, the operators have been doing all they can to manage the cost of the tickets so that it will not be out of affordability of an average Nigerian. But they’re still bearing the losses. You also know that for an aircraft to be serviceable, there is a whole lot of things involved in the spare parts. Some of these spare parts whether they’re good or bad, there are regulations that require you to change them on certain periods. If they land 10 or 1000 times, for instance, you must change them. And for you to change them, 99.9 percent of the aircraft body spare parts are imported. We don’t have the equivalent here in Nigeria. The first operation we had, the foreign exchange we had in terms of the spare parts was over N300. Today, you know what the rates are. So all these things put together are things that determine the operational cost. I can tell you that what the people are paying within these periods is still very reasonable. We have told them that if there’s any government policy that will make it possible for certain costs to be reduced somewhere for the operators, the benefits must be transferred to the client. If for instance, tomorrow, there’s a new government policy that brings down the cost of aviation fuel, or that the economic position of the country improves that our naira becomes stronger and we buy one dollar exchange at lower Naira, it would obviously lead to the reduction of cost of operation and definitely will affect the ticket fare. The company is holding a three day retreat for its senior management staff. What actually is it all about? This is an initiative we had all agreed to come together as the programme kick-starts our one year in this aviation industry. It is an intiative for us to take a stock in how we started, where we are and where we are heading to. For that reason, we have gathered the senior management of United Nigeria Airline. And when I look around me, as a matter of fact, 99 percent of the staff present here started with United Nigeria before our first flight took off last year. I can see that each and everyone of them is still here with us. It is also an occasion to say thank you to everyone of them. For them to have been qualified to be here, it is because they are supposed to be a solution provider in our business. This is because as a line manager, head of department, manager, and so on, the primary responsibility of manager is to provide solution and strategies, advise and support each other. I have no doubt that at the end of this retreat, we would have found solutions to a lot of issues especially areas of activities that need to improve on. We’re expected to agree on strategies and reposition our company moving forward Top on the list of this retreat is how we’re going to manage our existing fleets and increase our fleets within our strategic plan of adding between the next quarter to the end of the year, two more aircrafts each quarter and at the same time, how to resume our regional operations which we expect to take off within this quarter. At the same time, we will look at all that we need to improve our customer client experience. We’re also going to deliberate on how to show appreciation to the members of the public who have put so much trust and beliefs in us by patronising us very well in just less than one year of our operation. It is on record that on 12th of February, 2021, our first flight took to the air 24 hours within 24 hours of our final approval with our AOC(Air Operator Certificate). Also, within six hours of opening the flight, we had almost 90 percent passenger load. We have enjoyed our customer client patronage and confidence ever since then. So, they mean a lot to us. The growth of aviation industry is very important to us. We also have to see some innovations we’re going to make to strengthen from our own little position, the collective efforts that are being made by members of AON, who are the operators in the aviation industry. This is so that this industry in which we have found ourselves, should grow strength by strength.