The Rivers State Executive Council has approved N8.2 billion for the building of the 10th flyover initiated by Governor Nyesom Wike. Commissioner for Works EllokaTasie-Amadi stated this yesterday after the council meeting. He said the flyover would be sited at Rumuokwurushi -Elimgbu in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area. Tasie-Amadi added that the project, scheduled for completion in 12 months, would benefit sectors of the economy and the public, particularly real estate developers. He said: “The total length is 840 metres, comprising 526.5meters bridge and 313 metres of transition zone to the bridge. The width is 17.6metres in dual carriage configuration and it will feature service lanes, middle terms, pedestal crossing, streets and traffic lights.”   NGO seeks proposals for community funded-projects     Lagos ready to combat flooding, says Igbokwe     ‘See your ordination as service to humanity’   Commissioner for Finance Isaac Kamalu said the council gave approval for the state to access its share of the Health Care Support Credit Facility Fund established by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) floated during to cushion the impact of COVID-19 on national and sub-national economies. - Advertisement - Kamalu said the council wanted the state to participate and had therefore approved that it should access the N2. 5billion Health Care Support Credit Facility Fund from the CBN. He said: “The N2.5billion is structured into two components. N2billion will be for health care infrastructure support and N500million as revolving credit for medical consumables.” Kamalu said that Rivers State Government intended to use the fund to establish a world-class Radiotherapy Centre and Department at the Dr. Peter Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Treatment and Diagnostic Centre in Port Harcourt. The Commissioner for Information and Communications, PaulinusNsirim, said the approval by the council had given impetus for an expansion of existing health care facilities and revamp of moribund ones that would further serve the health care needs of Rivers people.