The opening FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 ticket application phase was launched yesterday  with ticket products and packages set to attract fans from the region and across the globe to a special celebration of the beautiful game. With a range of enticing options available in this opening phase, fans worldwide have a chance to secure their seats so they do not miss out on a once-in-a-lifetime experience. “This is a FIFA World Cup for Qatar, the region and the world, and the products launched today reflect FIFA’s goal of bringing the beautiful game to as many fans globally as possible,” said FIFA’s Secretary General, Fatma Samoura. “It will be a festival of football that will see fans experience the rich culture and history of the region through the platform of football at top-class stadiums and we look forward to bringing people from different cultures together to live football at the FIFA World Cup.” “The first FIFA World Cup in the Middle East and Arab world will be an extraordinary event and together with our partners, rights holders and other stakeholders, Qatar cannot wait to bring fans together to celebrate their shared passion for football, experience a new culture and enjoy everything that our country and region have to offer,” said Nasser Al Khater, the CEO of FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 LLC. During this first sales period, which starts at 13:00 Doha time and finishes on 8 February 2022 at 13:00 Doha time, fans will be able to submit their ticket applications. - Advertisement -   AFCON 2021: Fans recount  experiences at MTN Fan Parks     Costa Rica 2022: Falconets arrive Douala for Lionesses     Falconets for clash with Cameroon in Douala:   In this initial promotion, it will make no difference whether applications are submitted on the first day, the last day or any time in between, as all tickets will be allocated following the closing of the ticket application period. In cases where the number of tickets applied for exceeds the available ticket inventory for the domestic or international market, tickets will be allocated by a random selection draw process. All successful, partially successful and unsuccessful applicants will be duly notified of the outcome of their applications by Tuesday, 8 March 2022, along with the steps to follow and the deadline by which to pay for allocated tickets. In line with FIFA’s ticketing policy at the 2010, 2014 and 2018 editions of the FIFA World Cup™, residents of the host country will exclusively benefit from a special price category, category 4, with prices starting from just QAR 40 each. Visa payment cards are the exclusive payment method accepted for residents of Qatar, while Visa payment cards and other accepted payment cards are accepted for international fans. Visa is the preferred payment solution of the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.