He does not do things in half measures. He cannot also be stampeded into action. Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu (BAT) is his own man. He carries himself with confidence and he is never afraid to speak his mind. For long, speculations were rife about his presidential ambition. The speculations started after he left office as the Last Man Standing  governor of Lagos State in 2007. Last Man Standing! That is another story in itself. It is the story of a man who outplayed a foxy former president in his own game. President Olusegun Obasanjo had set a booby trap for the former Alliance of Democracy (AD) governors of the Southwest states of Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo and Lagos in the 2003 polls by seeking their support for his return to office, while assuring them of his own backing for their election too. They lowered their guards, not knowing that it was a ploy to get them out of office by stealth. Only Tinubu saw through the plot and he came out of the election unscathed. Thus, he became the Last Man Standing (on AD platform) in the midst of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors in the Southwest. It has been 15 long years since then and in that length of time, speculations about his presidential ambition spread like wildfire. He watched bemusedly as those who believe they know him well politically and others who did not, went to town about his aspiration. The ‘he will contest’ group and the ‘no he will not’ camp have been shouting themselves hoarse for years on Asiwaju’s political future. Those who want him to contest know that he has something to offer. Those in the other camp do not want him to run because of their own personal agenda. Yet, others simply hate his gut. They bristle at anything Asiwaju. “Is he the only one?” “Must he control everything?” “Look at how he has turned himself into the Lord of Manor”. They are wont to complain. But they forget one thing: that Asiwaju did not attain his political heights by being sheepish at pushing the causes he believes in. He is a fighter politically and a man you can follow to battle with your eyes closed. Asiwaju trusts his loyalists completely, but what has he got in return? - Advertisement - They speak ill of him behind his back and come before him to genuflect and assure him that ‘we remain loyal sir’. They know that they are lying. In their sub-conscious mind, they know that what they are doing is wrong. No man is a saint and Asiwaju does not see himself as one. Despite his human foibles, he has remained loyal to his belief and members of his political camp. What he demands is loyalty and all who showed that trait are the better for it today.   UPDATED: FG lifts suspension on Twitter, warns users     Full text: FG lifts suspension on twitter     BREAKING: FG lifts suspension on Twitter   His ambition is no longer a secret. On Monday, he spoke on his political future after visiting President Muhammadu Buhari. “I have informed the President of my intention, but I have not informed Nigerians yet. I am still consulting… I have not set a parameter of limitation to the extent of how many people I will consult”, he said of his interest in the 2023 Presidency. “You have got the truth from me that I have informed Mr President of my ambition… The President did not ask me to stop; he did not ask me not to attempt and pursue my ambition. It is a life-long ambition. So, why will I expect him to say more than that…” His informal declaration, as it were, has elicited a chain of reactions. Is it not Asiwaju that we are talking about? You should expect no less. Whatever some people may have against him, they should not go for the man, but look at the issue critically. Is he qualified to be president? Of all the aspirants that have so far come out, who is better than him? It is not about where the aspirant comes from or the faith he professes, it is about his ability. Does he have the capacity to do the job? That question was answered here in a piece entitled: The lion and the crown last October 14. If he decides to run, many will back him. Many too will not support him. That is politics for you. No matter where you stand, one thing is certain, though, Asiwaju has what it takes to lead Nigeria… Asiwaju too knows that his detractors will come for him in the “if you miss the ball, don’t miss the leg fashion”. This should be the least of his worries. It is a measurement of his political standing. He should just concentrate on selling himself and his agenda to the electorate who will determine contestants’ fate at the polls.   Chief, that was what those of us younger than him called him at the Daily Times. Some of his age mates too referred to him as such. Chief Anthony Idigo was a man of culture. Though, he was a Catholic, he never joked with the culture of his Aguleri people in Anambra State. Our paths crossed at the Times at the time the Aguleri-Umuleri skirmish was intense. We often wondered how the ‘brothers’ fight’ would end. Idigo, who was Ikolo Aguleri, always assured us that the feud would be resolved. It was eventually settled, but at enormous cost. Lively, lovely and down-to-earth, Idigo was grounded in the best tradition of journalism. He worked for many years with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) before joining Daily Times. He died last November 16, at the age of 69. He would have been 70 on Saturday, January 15, on which day his remains will be buried. May he find rest in the Lord’s bosom.