About $6.7 billion is required to rebuild the insurgency-ravaged states in the Northeast in four years, the North East Development Commission (NEDC) has said. According to the commission, the money will be expended on rebuilding collapsed infrastructure, peacebuilding and development projects across the six states in the zone. Also, on the card is a sustained progamme of taking over 12 million out-of-school children off the streets and mainstreaming them into formal and Islamic school system. The NEDC also plans to ensure the return to their ancestral communities, of thousands of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) seeking refuge in camps across the six states. Relocation of the IDPs, the commission said, will be done in phases and that the exercise will be concluded by 2030. - Advertisement - These were some of the highlights of the commission’s draft Master Plan, which was unveiled at stakeholders’ consultative meeting with security agencies in Abuja yesterday. NEDC Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Alhaji Mohammed Alkali said the draft Masterplan would be sent to the Federal Government for approval, with input from stakeholders.   Mixed reactions trail student loan scheme     Fake news, national convention and social media     Police rescue two kidnap victims in Edo   The commission has set a target of reducing insurgent and bandit attacks in the zone by at least 60 percent within the next eight years. Lamenting low internally generated revenue and other developmental issues, the commission expressed the hope that by 2030, states would be at par with states in other parts of the country in terms of development. Apart from ensuring the enrolment in the school of 70 percent of displaced children of school age, the Commission, the Master Plan also seeks to engage those within employment age in economically productive activities. The World Bank, the United Nations, European Union and the Nigerian Government, had in 2016, had in an assessment report, stated that insurgent attacks led to the destruction of property worth $9 billion in the Northeast. The NEDC said its rebuilding efforts fall within the framework of the Federal Government’s 10-year North East Stability and Development Master Plan. Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum urged governors in the region to work together towards the actualisation of the plan. Zulum said: “To address the challenge of increasing poverty, infrastructural deficit and that of climate vulnerabilities, we have to have a strong master plan that will be sustainable.” Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Umar Farouq said though the Master Plan is at the draft stage, different recovery projects are ongoing in the Northeast towards rebuilding the region.