This past week marked the anniversary of the terror unleashed on the U.S. Capitol by a frenzied mob grimly resolved to cancel – pardon my employing the locution de jour – one of the most hallowed traditions of the American political system: The peaceful transfer of power to the winning candidate. In light of what has happened to America under Donald Trump’s debauched presidency, it can be said that tradition had remained in place mainly by default.  When it was put to a severe test for the first time in recent memory last year, it came out so bruised and battered that few will now cite it with confidence as an American tradition. Call it the Trump Effect: the erosion of values, the corruption of institutions, the suborning of the machinery of government, the capture of government and its underlying processes.  Every official and every instrumentality had to submit to his deluded will. On January 6, 2021, American lawmakers convened in the Capitol to affix the final seal on the election of Joseph R. Biden as the 46th President of the United States.  His opponent, Donald Trump, would have none of it.  He had laid the ground for an insurrection by leading millions of his Twitter followers to believe that the only way Biden could win – or Trump lose – was if the vote was rigged. Trump lost; ergo, the election had to have been stolen. The legislators were in effect convening to consecrate a theft. - Advertisement - “Show strength” and “stop the steal,” he exhorted them as they stormed the Capitol   “That’s the only way you are ever going to take our country back.” For the next 187 minutes, America and indeed a global television audience watched in horrified disbelief as a surging, seething, murmuring, bilious crowd, men and women, veterans and enlisted persons, scrambled up the ramparts and raced up the steps to the landing, men and women, young and old, belting out blood-curdling imprecations, smashed windows and doors and impaled police officers with  flagpoles  and just about any object they could weaponize. There was no mistaking the grim resolve, the murderous frenzy with which they went about their mission. When they bellowed “Hang (Vice President) Mike Pence” over and over again, they were not posturing or grandstanding. They had erected a scaffold on the grounds, a noose dangling ominously from it. From a private room in the White House, Trump watched the proceedings with glee, according to a former staffer. Not even the frantic pleases the First Lady and his oldest son could move him to try to restrain the demons he had loosed on the Capitol. As they slunk away, the insurrectionists performed one final act of obscenity:  They plastered the whole place with human  excrement.  That is the kind of company Trump keeps. You would think that this assault on every good thing America claims to stand for would call forth a groundswell of denunciation and recrimination.  Perhaps civil society was too stunned for words, too traumatized to make a  concerted move?   Perhaps the outrage, then muffled, would gather momentum and translate into an insistent demand for an accounting, for justice, and yes, for punishment?  Perhaps a cry of “Never, again!” would reverberate throughout the United States. It never happened.   Lexical and other matters     Desmond “Arch” Mpilo Tutu (1931–2021)     Where are they now?   Civil society found no coherent voice.   Even President Joe Biden, newly vested with political and moral authority, could not employ it to change the narrative.  He consumed this precious capital in pursuing a bogus bi-partisanship and continued to do so even as Trump blockaded his legislative agenda at every opportunity. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who had at first blush placed the blame squarely where it where it  belonged, would declare that he would vote again for Trump if Trump secured the Republican nomination. Meanwhile, Trump strutted all over the place, threatening  to raise and sponsor candidates to challenge and defeat in the midterms anyone who would not, and who did not dance to his beat. Even before the insurrectionists dispersed, the shock, the horror of the siege was already dissolving. The Congressional GOP would not vote to condemn the attempted putsch and would play almost no role in conducting a fact-finding inquiry. The police who lost six of their officers to the mob were being as denounced as bullies and human-rights abusers. The insurrectionists were cast as freedom fighters and patriots, and as tourists who just took a day off to check out the attractions and delights of Washington, DC. And when, against all odds, Congress set up a panel to investigate the riots, it ran into a wall of defiance and disobedience erected by career Republicans who had held some of the most important public offices in the country, and subpoenas be damned. Virtually all 50 Senate Republicans boycotted a ceremony in remembrance of the victims of an insurrection which, it should be recalled, was founded on a brazen lie. That is how we came to the conjuncture where, almost all a sudden, the concepts and ideals on which the United States founded and nurtured a political system that has been the envy of much of the world for centuries increasingly count for less and are now held with little conviction. The Rule of Law became the rule of Trump, which could mean one thing one day, another thing the following day, and yet another thing the day after; in short, Trump’s caprice.  Trump tied up the judicial system in knots, the better  to emasculate it.  The doctrine of “separation of powers” was exposed as the elaborate fudge it always was. Biden finally found his voice on the anniversary of the insurrection.  It was a resonant, pellucid voice that demanded to be heard.   He said little that was not already notorious about his predecessor:  the complulsively lying about matters                    big and small; his utter lack of a moral compass, and his failure in every department of leadership. But it was the first time it was being said on that pedestal, by someone with far greater credibility and character. Above all, it was said by someone who is not paralyzed at the mere thought of losing an election; someone who believes that there are far worse things that can happen to a man than losing an election. Having now found his voice – and his moral authority – Biden must never lose it again, least of all to a person who has never touched anything without corrupting it.