Workers under the auspices of Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN) yesterday picketed the National Assembly Complex for two hours. The picketing followed the failure of the management to persuade the workers to suspend the action. The workers had notified the management of their plan to picket the complex and embark on strike, if their demands were not met. Led by their chairman, Sabiyi Sunday, the protesting workers marched round the foyer of the National Assembly, chanting solidarity songs and wielding banners and placards. Addressing the workers, Sunday said the picketing was billed to last two hours after which the workers would return to their offices. - Advertisement - The union leader said the executive of the association would attend an emergency meeting called by the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) to address the issues the workers had raised. He said the association would also picket the NASC today.   Fed Govt accuses politician of fueling boundary disputes     Transport union decries extortion at port     Vaccination is ‘moral obligation’, Pope Francis insists   The workers had threatened to picket the National Assembly yesterday over non-payment of their eight-month outstanding national minimum wage as well as 15-month CONPECULIAR allowances. PASAN had accused the National Assembly management of breaching a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) both sides signed on April 13, 2021, for the full implementation of the new National Minimum Wage Act 2019 and the Revised Condition of Service. The National Assembly and NASC chapters of PASAN had, after a joint congress in Abuja last Thursday, resolved to down tools. “Whereas management had earlier identified the Supplementary Budget 2021 as one amongst various sources of funding the MoU, congress is amazed that suddenly the Supplementary Budget and virement of the 2021 fiscal appropriation have become the sources of funding items not captured in the MoU, including end of year bonus and promotion arrears. “That management should pay with immediate effect, eight months outstanding balance of minimum wage; Year 2021 rent subsidy; 15 months arrears of CONPECULIAR allowance; and six months arrears of hazard allowance to National Assembly workers. “In addition to the MoU, congress also demands implementation of 50 per cent balance of CONLESS, immediate release of 2022 training template for staff members, and evidence of provision of gratuity for retiring staff members. “In view of Resolutions 1 and 2, congress resolves to embark on industrial action, commencing with mass picketing from Monday, January 10, 2022, in protest of the breach of the MoU,” PASAN said.