A new Commissioner of Police, Abiodun Alabi, has been appointed to take over from Assistant Inspector General of Police Hakeem Odumosu as the Lagos police boss. Odumosu was recently promoted to the rank of AIG. Alabi, who was until his latest appointment the Bauchi Commissioner of Police, takes over from Odumosu next week. 1. Abiodun Sylvester Alabi, fdc (born December 31, 1964) hails from Ekiti South-West Local Government Area of Ekiti State and enlisted into the Police Force on the 03rd of March, 1990. He is married with children. - Advertisement - 1. He holds a Masters’s in Sociology and a Bachelors’s degree from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife (1989) and the University of Lagos (1986) respectively.   Outrage in Maiduguri as student slits throat of 11-year-old…     Police kill two suspected kidnappers, rescue victims in…     Tinubu visits APC chairmanship candidate Senator Musa   2. He has attended several courses among which are Junior Command Course, Intermediate Command Course, Leadership and Senior Management Course. 3. He has since served in various capacities in the Nigeria Police Force within and outside Nigeria, notably among United Nations Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) in 2001. He was mobilised into the elite Police Mobile Force as Unit Commander in August 2001. 4. In April 2004, he became Squadron Commander of Police Mobile Force Squadron 43 Lagos (Diplomatic Protection Squadron) in charge of the security of all Embassies in Lagos. 5. CP Alabi was demobilised from the Police Mobile Force in June 2009 as a Chief Superintendent of Police and subsequently posted to Lion Building Divisional Headquarters as the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and later redeployed as the DPO of Ikeja Divisional Headquarters, Lagos respectively. 6. In September 2013, he was promoted to the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Police and deployed to Force Headquarters Abuja as ACP Admin Police Mobile Force. 7. In June 2016, he was promoted to the rank of Deputy Commissioner of Police and posted to Taraba State Police Command as DCP Administration before his subsequent posting to Bayelsa State Command as the Deputy Commissioner of Police Administration in July 2017. 8. At the completion of his Higher Defence and Strategic Course at the National Defence College, CP Abiodun was promoted to the rank of Police Commissioner (2020) and deployed to the Central Criminal Registry (CCR), Force CID Annex, Alagbon, Lagos, from where he was transferred to Bauchi State Command as the Commissioner of Police Bauchi.