Sacked coach Gernot Rohr is yet to be paid his accumulated salaries and allowances almost three weeks after he was relieved of his Super Eagles’ job despite repeated assurances by the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). NFF President Amaju Pinnick said at a well reported press briefing in Lagos about two weeks ago that his federation was raking up funds to pay off the German following his dramatic sack on December 12 after some five years in charge of the national team. “ We are doing everything to raise the funds to pay what is due to Rohr,” Pinnick said mid-December. “He should be paid in the next few days and there won’t be any problem once the commitment is there.” But a source close to the former Bundesliga defender has told NationSport that Pinnick’s were empty talk, adding nothing has been paid into the coffers of his patron. “Everything about the NFF is promises but as of today(yesterday) there is nothing from the NFF as far as payment to Rohr for his outstanding salaries for the last six months (of 2021) and the remaining 12 coming months (of 2022) as stipulated in his contract,” the source who pleaded anonymity told NationSport.   Fans fault Joshua on link with Mayweather     Costa Rica 2022: Danjuma invites Demehin, 25 others for…     Moffi, Simon make Ligue 1 Top 100   - Advertisement - The source close to Rohr had earlier hinted that the NFF may be dragged before the world soccer ruling body, FIFA, with no recourse to the contractual agreement between both parties. He has now confirmed that going to FIFA may be the next option, adding the lawyers are seriously working on getting the NFF to pay all it owed the former Bordeaux coach. “The lawyers are working, that I can tell you,” he further said.“ Already, a copy of the letter has been sent to FIFA and in the next few days, the official request will be sent to FIFA as well.” It would be recalled that the NFF handed Rohr a two-year contract extension in May 2020 with the mandate to win the 2021 African Nations Cup to be hosted by Cameroon as well as qualifying the Super Eagles to the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. But he was fired in December despite qualifying for the 2021 AFCON and final round of qualifying for the World Cup playoffs for what Pinnick described as an ‘imploding tragedy’.