The Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) has completed plans to commence the supply of 100 per cent of its   LPG production (Propane and Butane) to the Nigerian market. It is believed that the move is to meet domestic demand for cooking gas and crash the cost, which currently hovers between N640 and N650 per kilogramme. Before Yuletide, a kilogramme of cooking gas was sold for over N800. It is also hoped that the decision will boost the acceptance of the Federal Government’s policy involving the conversion of fuel-driven cars to gas-powered automobiles. NLNG General Manager (External Relations and Sustainable Development) Andy Odeh announced the good news via a statement yesterday. - Advertisement - Odeh, who said the NLNG board okayed the move, added: “This decision is coming barely three months after the company supplied its first propane cargo into the domestic market and has developed a scheme to sustainably supply Propane for usage in cooking gas blending as well as in agro-allied, autogas, power and petrochemical sectors of the Nigerian economy so as to further deepen gas utilisation in Nigeria,” The initiative, according to him, is also to support government’s decade of gas initiative.   Buhari opens strategic projects projects in Ogun     Ekiti, Osun: INEC insists on credible primaries     Makinde: Oyo has lost most experienced politician   He said that NLNG was currently the highest single supplier of LPG into the domestic market, with an estimated 400,000 metric tonnes supplied in 2021. According to the statement,  NLNG’s Managing Director Dr. Philip Mshelbila, while reacting to the approval by the board,   said: “The announcement marked the Company’s strong commitment to the continued growth of the domestic LPG market and its passion to increase utilisation of one of the most versatile energy sources in the world. “He said the Company was inclined towards helping to build a strong economy based on the gas resources that Nigeria is abundantly blessed with,” stating that “natural gas could help drive the economy by providing cooking gas  for homes, support industrialisation, power mobile cell sites and complex transportation systems, impacting food supply through its usage for fertilizer production and increasing power supply to both homes and industries while reducing the country’s carbon footprint.” Mshelbila described gas as the cleanest of the fossil fuels and an “essential energy source to be reckoned with during this energy transition period. “ He added that other countries were revolutionising their energy industry to cut down on carbon emissions drastically. pointing out that Nigeria should not be left out in this drive, considering its abundant gas resources. His words: “We are ardently following up on the commitment we made in March 2021 at the NLNG-sponsored pre-summit conference of the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) 2021 organised by the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources to support the Decade of Gas declaration by the Federal Government. “We are driven by our vision to remain a globally competitive LNG company helping to build a better Nigeria and making a reality of our collective dreams that one day, we can switch all cooking fuels to gas and power our vehicles with gas as encapsulated in the government’s National Gas Expansion Program and the Autogas Policy.” Mshelbila said committing 100 per cent of “our LPG supply is a major milestone in our journey of domestic gas supply.”