An Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in the January 22 party primary, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele has appealed to Hon. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party to adopt the use of the direct mode of election for the party’s primary. Bamidele who is serving as Senator representing Ekiti Central Senatorial District made this appeal on Friday shortly after submitting his expression of interest and nomination forms at the party national secretariat in Abuja. The governorship hopeful said direct primary would give a sense of belonging to all party members in electing who fly the governorship ticket of the party. He however said he was prepared for any of the three modes approved by the party’s constitution but insisted that consensus mode was no go area for the party at the January 22 party primary in the state. “If you ask me as an individual, what is my preference? I would say any day, I would prefer the direct mode of primaries. Just because,  for me, it is a way of ensuring participatory democracy, which makes it possible for every card-carrying member of the party to participate in the decision-making process. - Advertisement -   Olubadan: Iyalode endorses council’s decision on Lekan…     Security agencies probe ex-NIA boss over alleged leaks,…     Hellfire memes fabricated, says son of Evangelist Adebayo   “It also helps to ensure that the most popular aspirant emerges which also gives a lot of impetus to the rank-and-file members of the party who feel proud that they were part of the decision-making process and that it was their decision that carry the day. That instantly gives them the enthusiasm that is needed for them to be able to even actively participate in the general election campaign, that’s my preference. That’s my choice. “It does not mean that if the party chooses the indirect mode of primaries or any other one, it will not foreclose me from participating. But as an individual, that is my preference but I believe direct primaries are a way of giving power back to the people. The refusal of the President to sign (Electoral Act) also is not because the President is fundamentally opposed to the direct mode of primaries because of some logistics concerns. “But the good thing about it is if you do direct primaries in an isolated election holding in Ekiti or holding in Osun which would be the only election in the country by the time is holding, I don’t think that’s a kind of logistic concern that would offset anything or cause pain for anyone. So, I feel that the leadership of the party will take whatever decision that is in the best interest of the party.” On President Buhari’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the Senator assured that the National Assembly will rework the bill and send it back to the President for his assent. “It is an issue that needs to be addressed and on which we need to finalise. We are all agreeable to one thing in both the executive and the legislative arms of government which is the need to bequeath to our country an enduring, credible and people-centric electoral law that will help to not only stabilize and strengthen but also grow our democracy. “So, if all these efforts are geared towards that, I’m sure there’ll be a meeting point at the end of the day. So definitely it’s an issue that will be addressed decisively once we resume back in session.”