A professor of Anatomy at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) Oluwole Akintola has canvassed the establishment of crime laboratories to check crime rate. Akinola added that the use of forensic DNA profiling (DNA fingerprints) will make detection of criminals easier for prosecution. The don made the recommendations at the 213th inaugural lecture of UNILORIN entitled: “Human anatomy: Beyond flesh and bones.’’ He said: “It is high time governments at the Federal, state and local levels considered the establishment of forensic DNA database and forensic laboratories across the country to check the high rates of crimes in the nation. “Graduates of anatomy are a source of skilled human resource that can be given short training to operate such forensic laboratories.” - Advertisement - The professor also frowned at illegal mining activities in parts of the country, adding that such activities are exacerbating insecurity.   COEASU to Fed Govt: don’t shortchange our members     District rewards educators     Babcock student gets scholarship from Body of SANs   “The illegal mining activity in some parts of the country is not only fuelling insecurity, but is also of public health concern. High morbidity and mortality have been reported in the affected communities. They include brain damage and male subfertility arising from lead toxicity. “The government should, therefore, ensure that mining activities are strictly regulated in the interest of mental and reproductive health of the people,” he said. He also cautioned pregnant women against exposure to environmental toxins in the interest of foetal brain and wellbeing. He said “congenital anatomical and/or functional defects of the brain could arise from exposure to environmental toxins and ingestion of certain food substances during pregnancy.” The anatomist also counseled diabetic patients to desist from self-medication, “rather they should seek prompt medical attention. When untreated, diabetic mellitus could result in several complications that include psychiatric and cognitive problems.”