The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has accused Federal Government of detaining its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu indefinitely over his refusal to accept properties and monetary inducement offered him to abandon the Biafra struggle. The group also alleged possibly infiltration of its ranks in order to destroy it from inside while its leader remained in custody. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB further accused the Federal government of lobbying the international community to enlist support against Biafra liberation. It vowed that the various ploys would not succeed, stressing that Biafra remained a divine project which had gone beyond individuals, including its leader. The statement reads in part: “Our attention has been drawn to the secret plans by the Buhari government and his Fulani kinsmen to illegally detain our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU for as long as possible. - Advertisement - “Their annoyance with our leader is his blunt refusal to take properties and monetary inducement offered him to abandon the struggle for Biafra liberation. “The Federal Government decided to hold our leader indefinitely to see if it can possibly infiltrate the ranks of our great movement and destroy it from inside while our leader is in custody. “The Federal Government is also relying on the promise by some traitors and black sheep in America and Europe that they would assist it realise the evil plot. The promise was made to the federal government during their secret visit to Aso Rock last December.   Olubadan succession row: High Chiefs withdraw suit     Niger Governor blames communities for terrorist attacks     JUST IN: Everton confirm Frank Lampard new coach   “We are also aware that the Federal government has been lobbying the international community to enlist their support against Biafra liberation but they won’t succeed. “Therefore, anybody distracting or causing division in the IPOB family is a tool knowingly or unknowingly working for the Federal Government of Nigeria. “The fact remains that Biafra is a divine project. It has gone beyond any single individual including our leader. Millions of the oppressed Biafrans youths home and abroad are now more aware and conscious than ever. It’s only a matter of time. Biafra MUST come. It can only be delayed but certainly not suppressed. “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU must be released unconditionally. So, the Federal Government won’t achieve their aim because our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU and IPOB members committed no crime known to law both locally and internationally.” The group also alleged plans by Department of State Services (DSS) to detain and torture three Igbo women in solitary confinement following their refusal to lie against Kanu. It added: “Again, we want to raise the alarm that the Department of State Services, DSS has concluded plans to hold and keep torturing three innocent Igbo women in solitary confinement without allowing them out of their tiny cell at all. “These innocent women were being held under such condition because they have refused to lie against our leader Mazi Nnamdi KANU, so the DSS intend to break their spirits. “The DSS is going to courts and obtaining black market orders to detain Biafrans indefinitely. And one of the judges issuing such orders is Justice Maha of Federal High Court Abuja. The world should be aware of this. They must be made to account for their crimes.”