It is an undisputable fact that the society would have been so dull, isolated, myopic and backward without the existence of the mass media. The mass media are indispensable in every society either developed or under developed, they serve as the vehicles of communication that inform, educate and entertain the society members. Also, the mass media act as the middle men between the government and masses, they serve as the ears and eyes of the government in the society. They expose the society members to government plans, action and policy, they also keep the government on their toes. Furthermore, the role of mass media in nation building can never be over emphasised right from pre-independence, independence and post-independence era. They are used as tools by the sitting government in running its day-to-day activities and it also serve as a channel used by the citizens of any    country to channel their message to the government. Through the mass media, information is easily passed across to a large number of people. The mass media include; radio, television, magazine, newspaper, internet, etc. Their basic functions include: to inform, educate and entertain the society.   Group drums up support for Tinubu     Ex-Finance Minister Okongwu, dies at 87     Ex-Governor Alao-Akala found dead in his bathroom   - Advertisement - No doubt, the media is a societal watchdog. It coordinates facts and opinions. It moulds opinions and shapes people’s perceptions of topical social issues. On the other hand, no mass media can survive without the existence of the society. Also, no society can survive without the media, as the relationship between them is  symbiotic. While the mass media partners in the development process of any society, the society members too are partners in progress of the development of the mass media. The role played by the media in any society is very crucial.  Just like how advert serve as the live wire of every print organisation, the society also serve as the live wire of every media. Finally, no mass media can survive without the existence of the society and no society can as well survive without the existence of the mass media as the two are partners in progress of their development.