Femi Gbajabiamila, Speaker of the House of Representatives, just called for the amendment of Section 131 (d) of the 1999 Constitution, to raise the minimum stipulation for elective offices, beyond the present senior secondary school (SSS) certificate. He declared in a lecture he gave at the 52nd convocation of the University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos, on January 17: “The National Assembly needs to look into Section 131 (d) of the 1999 Constitution for persons aspiring to be future President of Nigeria and other top offices, including the National Assembly as against the current minimum requirement of a secondary school certificate or its equivalent.” Without much ado, that is a right and fair call — and the reason would appear very obvious.  The modern world bustles and bristles with innovations, almost at the speed of light.  To cope with all of that, to thoroughly understand them, and to grapple with complex concepts, sound education is key. Leadership is all about grappling with all these complexities and yet delivering transformative governance, which goal is to ensure economic growth, which yields overall people’s development and peaks in sustainable prosperity. Charting these graphs, in a constantly changing world, is a stiff challenge.  Yet, very sound education gives global leaders the tool to deal with that challenge, and make their peoples and countries competitive. - Advertisement - It is stating the obvious, therefore, that other things being equal, those who have at least a first degree (or equivalent diplomas) are likelier to cope with the rigorous demands of modern governance, much more than those with the lower senior secondary school leaving certificate. Still, despite the present constitutional peg, the reality is that the bulk of players in the political bureaucracy, elective or appointive, boast certificates higher than secondary school certificates.  Indeed, many boast advanced degrees, post-graduate professional diplomas (as the MBA, for instance), not to talk of a slew of PhDs and other professional certification in Law, Medicine, Engineering, Journalism, Accounting, Architecture, etc.   Cheaper rice     Chibok? Not again!     BudgIT’s troubling findings   So, how come then that Nigeria is still perceived to be not run by its best 11, even with the slew of degrees and chartered professionals?  It would appear simple because the political players, as the bulk of Nigerians have generally tended to embrace the learning that academic degrees confer but shun the character that it must impose. One is nothing without the other — and that is the crisis of character, of probity, of integrity facing Nigeria today.  Good old basic honesty appears no longer the age-old soul of business. There is absolutely no doubt: the Constitution must be amended to raise the minimum threshold for elective offices to at least the first degree or the equivalent Higher National Diploma (HND). But more importantly: Nigerians, bursting with new learning which better all-round education confers, should manifest more of the better character such a development ought to impose.  Indeed, the tragedy of contemporary Nigeria is that penchant to cut corners and make wealth without sweat. It’s a scandal of humongous proportions that one who boasts a slew of degrees thinks little of smashing the public till and helping himself or herself with the common wealth.  This is the current reality of politics and business in Nigeria — and it’s very sad, indeed. So, as the Speaker pushes his new and welcome idea, he should also make it clear that degrees and diplomas, without the concomitant integrity and character, is nothing but gold reduced to a mere tinsel. The move for higher educational qualifications for political office should automatically translate into a push for better sanity and character in the public space.  If one does not yield the other, then raising the qualifications would not have translated to much. But Nigerians must help the process by waking up to their responsibility of putting their leaders on their toes. They have been too lethargic about issues of governance.