Sen. Gershom Bassey representing Cross River South Senatorial District has replied his colleague from the state, Sen. Sandy Onor representing the Central District and former governor Mr. Donald Duke over their positions on zoning and rotational governorship that are brewing crisis in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Duke had received Onor on consultation visit over Onor’s governorship aspiration last weekend and Duke used the occasion to say that there had been no zoning in the state. He said he did not become a governor on the basis of zoning or rotation. Onor, who has been maintaining the same position of no zoning of governorship seat in the state, told reporters at a news conference “that those who are promoting and spreading the message of zoning are either cowards, who do not have what it takes to contest the party’s ticket under a free and fair process, or are ethnic jingoists only interested in misleading our people in pursuit of their personal and selfish interests.” Responding through a statement yesterday, Bassey, who is also a governorship hopeful for the 2023 general election, said in 2015 when Duke had left the PDP, “there was a caucus meeting, which zoned the governorship to the Northern Senatorial District, with the understanding that after the North, rotation would continue with the South.” - Advertisement - He said that “the people of the Southern Senatorial District have supported the power rotation principle.”   ‘Soludo’s swearing-in may take place at capacity centre’     We have no issues with monarchs, says IPOB     Akwa Ibom bans scavengers’ activities over clashes   “After Duke’s tenure in 2007, they supported a candidate from the Central Senatorial District. They did this in my party, by not presenting any candidate from the South in that election. They voted for the PDP candidate from the Central Senatorial District. Of course, power shifted to the Central and Liyel Imoke became our governor. “Thereafter, the people of the South stood solidly behind the North and the zoning principle that was applied in the PDP. The South did not present a candidate in 2015. They supported the North,” Bassey said. He noted that “there were potential candidates from the South, who could have created a contest in the field in 2015, but the people of the South decided to go with the zoning principle and supported the North on the grounds of equity and fairness. “The vast majority of the citizens agreed with this rotation and agreed that it was the turn of the South.” Bassey said: “As it is now common knowledge, I am contesting the 2023 elections and I have said repeatedly that my candidature does not depend on zoning. I will contest the election with or without zoning, confident that I have the capacity to win and win for the PDP. “However, my focus today is to set the record straight. That there is zoning in Cross River State PDP. That there is rotation of power in Cross River State; that it is the turn of the Southern Senatorial District to produce the next governor in 2023; and finally that the South is ready.”