As the All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares for its February 26 national convention in Abuja, a national chairmanship aspirant, Senator Sani Musa, has promised to offer qualitative leadership, if elected. The senator from Niger East District said he was ready to migrate from the Upper Chamber to the party secretariat in the spirit of service to the party. Many are taken aback that Musa is eyeing the chairman as a senator. He is trudging on despite the challenges posed by the self-assigned political enterprise. Determined to run the race to the end, he told reporters that he is encouraged by the prospect of his victory at the convention. In many strategic locations in Abuja, huge signage advertising Musa’s aspiration attract many people. The aggressive marketing of his interest in the position of chairmanship has its own gains. Musa is popular in Niger State. He is also a voice in the Senate. But, his personality would now be scrutinised as a contender for the top party position. - Advertisement - His supporters believe that he is a good candidate. Others in the race are Senators George Akume, Modi Sheriff, Danjuma Goje, Tanko Almakura; Saliu Mustapha and Abdullahi Adamu, and Mai Mala Buni. Before he was elected a senator, Musa worked in the public and private sectors. Since 2014, he has been one of the leaders of the APC. He served as a member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) from 2019 to date. His antecedents show that he is consistent. In the Senate, he is the chairman of Committee on Senate Services. Justifying his entry into the race, Musa said: “My interest in the chairmanship of our great party, the APC, is another call to national service, just like my current position as a senator.  You must bear in mind that if I become the  chairman of the APC, I can leverage on my experience here in the Senate to push the manifesto of the party to the National Assembly more efficiently. “It will also place me in a vantage position to deliver reconciliatory leadership, which the party needs now to navigate out of its present challenges.” The aspirant said his party leadership would build on the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari.   ‘Why politicians are defecting to APC’     ‘Competence will determine APC presidential primary’     APC Congress Committee petitions IGP, DSS over alleged…   Musa believes Mr. President has  given the APC a sort of ideology and presence in the international community, as underscored by his democratic ideals and work within the sub-region and Africa, the fight against corruption and his efforts at providing security. He said these should form the bedrock of the party’s moral philosophy. Musa added: “There is a need to have a leader that will continue to give full support and attention to such progressive efforts. And this is why I feel strongly about becoming the head of APC’s administrative machinery. All of my efforts will be directed to support the deepening of democracy in Nigeria.” Musa said he would focus on “Reconciliation, Reorganisation and Redirection.” He said: “I am seeking the  office of the chairman of the APC  to reposition the party to win elections and take Nigeria to its pride of place in the world. I want to provide for the party leadership that will continue making Nigeria stronger, more tolerant, more prosperous and fairer by giving every member of our party equal opportunity. “If found worthy to lead, I will devote my all in adhering to the goals and aspirations of the party, abide by the nation’s constitution, rule of law, the APC constitution and manifesto.” Reflecting on the crisis in the party, the aspirant said there is no cause for alarm. To him, this as an advantage because it allows people to learn from disputes. Even if the matters ends in court, Musa maintained that it is an avenue for deepening democracy. He stressed: “It affords the judiciary the opportunity to expound and develop the law regarding issues in dispute, which serve as precedents for the future. “I don’t see how disputes will affect the convention. I do believe that once I emerge the chairman of the APC, my reform agenda will address most of these challenges and reposition the party for the better.” Musa said the APC reconciliation committee has done enough work by going round  the states to find solutions to grievances, either before or after the various  congresses. On the proposed convention, Musa saud: “I believe we are ready and we are going to have a hitch free convention that other parties will even emulate. All the indications for the conduct of the national convention  are positive.”