For Nigeria to achieve the projected economic growth of between four per cent and five per cent in the 2022 budget there is an urgent need for the Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy and the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) to deepen and expand cooperation with the private sector to build on the gains of the IT/telecoms sector over the years. The Director-General,  Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Amb Ayo Olukanni, said with its over 290 million mobile phone users, rapidly expanding digitalization process, Nigeria has one of the largest telecoms markets in Africa. He said if properly harnessed under the 2022 budget, in close ties with the private sector, a lot can be achieved in the IT/telecoms sector which has emerged as a strategic sector that made major contributions to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2020. Speaking with The Nation over the weekend, Olukanni said the potential of the telecoms sector has been demonstrated beyond all doubts in recent years, with available statistics showing the sector’s phenomenal growth, for instance, from less than 700, 000 telephone lines before the advent of GSM in 2001 to over 290 million mobile phone lines by 2021. “In the past 10 years, the sector had witnessed continuous growth to GDP from 7.7 per cent in 2012 to 14 per cent in 2020 in the heat of the Covid-19 pandemic. Contributions to GDP scaled over $70 billion in 2021. All of this had been aided by first and second National Broadband Plan 2020-2025 which has expanded broadband penetration which in turn helped the growth of the economy in 2021,” he said. - Advertisement - The NACCIMA boss added that as the country continues to live with the COVID-19 pandemic and it’s new variant, Omicron, it is clear that the telecoms sector will be very important and will play a key role in helping to maintain the economy’s growth trajectory.   Ilorin winners receive prizes in Glo promo     Fed Govt releases N31.97b to offset accrued rights…     NCS generates N2.2tr revenue in 2021   He said the sector will also help keep social, financial transactions and economic activities in general on tract and support the inclusive growth of the economy and its projected four per cent growth target, “because there will be increasing reliance on e-commerce and on-line business activities with people using their phones for business transactions and enterprises.” Olukanni emphasized that the digital ecosystem will be crucial in 2022, with significant reliance on the Internet and other social media platforms to conduct business. “This will most likely be the trend as the country struggles on one hand to keep the economy running and on the other protect the people from the ravaging pandemic,” he told The Nation. While noting that the 2022 budget has paid some attention to improvement and upgrading of Nigeria’s digital infrastructure, he said Nigerians are certainly likely to see significant increase in demand for access to broadband services this year hence steps should be taken to fully harness its potential in close cooperation with the private sector. “NACCIMA has taken note of the promise by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) at every opportunity in recent time that it will continue to work to upgrade Nigeria’s digital infrastructure. But in doing so, there is an urgent need to mainstream the private sector into its plan and especially in the context of the 2022 budget,” Olukanni said. He lamented, for instance, that despite the creation of the Office for Nigerian Digital Innovation (ONDI) from the merger of two subsidiaries of NITDA, Office for ICT Innovation and Entrepreneurship (OIIE) and Office for Nigerian Content Development in ICT (ONC), “is not clear how closely the private sector was carried along by NITDA in the creation of the new entity, the ONDI.” He, however, said “whatever the action plan by the new entity and the overall goal of the rapid expansion of the Digital Transformation Plan, an actionable programme of action with the private sector is necessary and steps must be taken in this direction promptly as the nation gets ready for the sectoral implementation of the 2022 budget.”