The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), said it  has commenced total digital manifest management regime for all vessels calling at the nation’s sea ports to reduce human interaction, improve efficiency and block revenue leakages. The Physical transactions concerning sailing certificates and cargo manifest processing are being phased out completely as the agency has called on stakeholders to  embrace its  initiative by visiting  its portal. Its Director-General,  Dr. Bashir Jamoh, said that the automation is aimed at further  improving efficiency, block revenue leakages and human contact to make the port attractive for business. Jamoh noted that the benefits that would be derived from the total digitalisation  of all the agency’s processes expected to be completed by this year, would be enormous not just for the stakeholders, but for the country at large including helping to improve balance of trade, and improved commercial shipping activities in Nigeria.   UBA: Lifting promo winners with cash prizes     DBN to raise N100b bond     2021: Onne Customs generates N188.6b   According to him, “In line with the Federal Government’s Executive Order on Ease of Doing Business, we are committed to improving turnaround time of vessels, reduction of human interface in majority of our transactions with our stakeholders and this is in our bid to ensure transparency and professionalism that the sector require to grow. - Advertisement - “We have improved our operational relationship with our sister agencies, as we speak, we have made tremendous progress in our determination to convey sailing clearance for Vessels to the NPA electronically. We also receive and process manifests electronically” . This has improved efficiency leading to improvement in the turn-around-time of vessels calling at the nation’s Ports. Jamoh said. He said further that : “Right now, we have ensured that the process of submitting and processing manifests is reduced from 72 hours to five hours for VLCCs (Very Large Crude Carriers) and larger container vessels whereas it would only take two hours or less for smaller vessels), you would agree with me that these are marked improvement and its still work in progress’’. It would be recalled that immediately  Jamoh came to office,  he  has  always advocated the automation of the agency’s processes for enhanced and effective delivery of services. This renewed drive is seen as another stride in the total transformation of the maritime sector for economic benefit of the nation and Nigerians in general.