Some irate youths have taken to the streets of Gsshua town, the headquarters of Bade Local Government in protest of the killing of a truck driver by some soldiers on Friday. The youths took over the streets on Saturday morning, burnt tyres and blocked motorists from moving. They demanded justice for Mohammed Gashua, the deceased. Some eyewitnesses informed the driver was shot by a soldier at a filling station after he was allegedly trying to avoid a large convoy of military trucks and other soldiers riding on motorcycles. Some narrated the soldiers asked everyone not to move or get shot at but the driver, possibly afraid, moved away and was gunned down by the soldiers. - Advertisement - But Governor Mai Mala Buni appealed to the youths to be calm as his government was taking over the investigation of the matter.   Eight things to know about new Lagos CP, Abiodun Alabi     Outrage in Maiduguri as student slits throat of 11-year-old…     Police kill two suspected kidnappers, rescue victims in…   The Governor, in a statement by his Director of Press Affairs and Information, Mamman Mohammed, ordered an immediate investigation in the matter for necessary actions. He described the incident as unfortunate “especially now that we are recording progress in sustainable peace across the state. His words: “Government and the security authorities would not tolerate any act of recklessness capable of disrupting our hard-earned peace” he said. “I, therefore, assure you that the government would properly investigate the matter and deal with it decisively. “I also appeal to our good people of Bade local government area and the entire state to remain calm and law-abiding. “We should avoid anything detrimental to our peace. You are advised to be good Muslims and take it as the will of Allah and avoid bonfires on the roads” Governor Buni said. “May Allah (SWT) forgive the deceased for his shortcomings, grant him Aljannatur Firdaus and to his family, the fortitude to bear the loss,” Governor Buni prayed.