A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Kassim Afegbua, has urged the party to jettison any thought of ceding the 2023 presidential position to the northern part of the country, as doing so would run contrary to democratic principles of fairness, balance and inclusion. Prince Afegbua, who was Edo State Commissioner for Information gave the advice yesterday in a chat with reporters. He said the PDP National Chairman, Dr Iyorchia Ayu is already from the North. According to Afegbua, given PDP’s doctrine of political power balancing and fairness, it will be against its own unwritten rule to cede the ticket to any northern aspirant. He said: “The Southern geopolitical zones of Nigeria have eminently qualified Nigerians and parade great minds that are competent and ready to take a shot at the number one job.   UN chief pledges rehabilitation support for Northeast     NLC loses Edo chair Osayande     Ashimolowo names son KICC Resident Pastor, says ‘they…   “Those who are advancing very nebulous theory of seeing the northern population as a stimulant to win the sympathy of the North against the South are either ignorant of the real demographics or at best, just playing the ostrich. No one in the North should take away what belongs to the South. That will amount to hurting the consciences and feelings of the average southerner. - Advertisement - “A Nigerian of Southern extraction deserves to be given unfettered opportunity to represent the party in the 2023 presidential contest. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his northern aspirants should support the aspiration of upwardly mobile and younger elements from the South to fly the PDP flag. Anything short of such will be tantamount to standing logic on its head, and a deliberate attempt to undermine the collective interest and aspirations of the Southern aspirants. “I will, therefore, implore the new management and members of the National Executive Committee of the PDP as well as the National Working Committee to speak with one voice in ensuring that the South is given what is due to it. That will promote the fundamental principles of democracy which are inclusiveness and participation. “Let it be known that I will not hesitate to commence the process of mobilising, sensitising and conscientising like minds and team up with other stakeholders to drum up the necessary support that will birth a Southern candidate for the party. Justice should not only be served, it must be seen to have been served.”