Kris, wife of comedian Bovi Ugboma, has recounted a near death experience following an ectopic pregnancy that ruptured in one of her tubes in January 2022. The mother of three opened on the moments that almost took her life outside the shores of Nigeria. ”Friday, the 14th of January 2022. I had packed up my luggage preparing for my flight back to Lagos the next day being Saturday. *But then I woke up with excruciating pain. I couldn’t move, I couldn’t even turn, I had to stay still to control the pain,” she began. “I typically have a high threshold for pain. A very, very, very high threshold for pain but this was even beyond labour pain. I couldn’t control it. I reluctantly called my husband. He had asked me to go to the hospital several times in the days leading up to this moment. - Advertisement - “30 minutes later, this pain still wouldn’t go away. My husband again, asked me to go to the hospital but I said no. “I’ll be fine don’t worry, tomorrow I’m back home”. I have a 10 0’clock at David’s school, I can’t miss it. I took some painkillers, and it seemed like the pain was finally beginning to go down. I could stand upright at this point. “About an hour later, I started to feel like I was going to pass out. I called 999 but I couldn’t speak, then I passed out. Somehow, I miraculously woke up to numerous missed calls from the emergency service,” she wrote. Kris had thought all was well not knowing she was bleeding internally until a nurse in her son’s school noticed her looks and sent her straight to a hospital against her wish. “I got up, put on my wig and found myself heading to see my son in school whilst in pain. I had genuinely assumed the pain had subsided. I promised I’d see my son by 10am and I wasn’t going to disappoint him, so I pushed my pain aside, ordered a taxi and found myself limping to his school.   Court discharges De General of drug trafficking charges     I’m not going to be humble in 2022- Adekunle Gold     KWAM 1 plans colloquium for late Barrister   “The minute David’s school nurse saw me, she could tell that I wasn’t okay. God used this lady to force me into a car and she specifically asked the driver to take me straight to the hospital. 2 hours later, I passed out again while waiting to see the doctor and the nurses were not even aware of what was going on. “By the time I got back into the GP’s office, she was going to send me home. All the tests done for signs of infections came back negative and the last bit was to do a scan “There’s no opening for a scan for you today, they are fully booked, you’ll have to come back tomorrow. “I responded with the little strength I had left; I can’t go home without seeing the doctor. I just fainted again, I had fainted twice today.” “She placed a call to the gynaecologist and the next thing I heard was; get her a wheelchair and take her to the gynaecology & maternity ward. God did it!! Suddenly, they said I could do a scan the same day. “The report: “I’m sorry you have an ectopic pregnancy and it’s ruptured in one of your tubes. You are bleeding in your tummy. You have to go into surgery immediately” In a matter of minutes, they were prepping me for surgery. COVID test, setting up a line, just movements in and out of the room.” “I couldn’t process what was going on. I needed strength at that point, I couldn’t even pray. I couldn’t call anyone because the last thing I wanted was panic. So it was just Bovi, and 2 of my friends (Nwando & Kaine) who already knew what was going on. “For the first time in my life, I really craved for strength. And it was beyond physical strength. I was physically, emotionally & mentally drained. Nwando and her mum had rushed down to the hospital the minute I told her, Bovi was in panic & I. I just hoped in God. “Before I was wheeled into the theatre, all I could say was: ‘I am going to come out alive and stronger. ‘ I testify today of God’s faithfulness to me. I am grateful to be alive. I am grateful to be well, and most of all, I am very grateful to have good people, a strong support system around me. “This new year, I am alive and well and I’d be back home to my family and this party called life, soon.”