The Ebonyi State chapters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday exchanged fireworks over the activities of the state’s security outfit, Ebubeagu, and the recent declaration of a former House of Representatives member, Linus Okorie, as a wanted person by the state government. Okorie, a chieftain of the PDP and a critic of state government, represented Ohaozara, Ivo and Onicha Federal Constituency between 2011 and 2019 and was declared wanted for alleged provocative statement on his Facebook page by the state government. Addressing reporters at the end of PDP’s SEC meeting in Abakaliki, the state capital, Ebonyi State PDP Chairman Tochukwu Okorie said: “The Nigerian Constitution and the various criminal justice statutes clearly outline the procedure for declaration of any accused person wanted. There is nowhere in the laws of Nigeria that a state government or its officers are given such powers. “This particular declaration, as announced by Mr. Uchenna Orji, the Commissioner for Information, as has been widely noted by Ebonyians, is an active fatwa on Linus Okorie. In effect, the Ebubeagu militia has just been unleashed on him, his associates, businesses as well as other members and supporters of the PDP in Ebonyi State. Read Also: Beheading of Ebubeagu: Police arrest two suspects   Don’t abandon power shift to South, Ohanaeze cautions     Abandoned aircraft not needed for election, says Rivers PDP     Sanwo-Olu: Tinubu has right qualities to succeed Buhari   - Advertisement - “We, therefore, as Ndi Ebonyi, opposition political party and concerned citizens of the state who believe in constitutional democracy and the rule of law, call on President Buhari, the National Assembly and security agencies to immediately step in and avert the collapse of Nigeria’s democracy by the action of one man whose inordinate quest for power is capable of sinking the ship of democracy and rule of law in Nigeria.” Also, the APC berated the PDP for supporting “undemocratic tendencies” by its members. In a statement yesterday, Ebonyi State APC Chairman Stanley Okoro Emegha said: “Remember that governors are the Chief Security Officers of their various states. On this premise, it is incumbent on them to devise lawful means in a very proactive and reasonable manner to ensure that the oath of securing the lives and property of their citizens he took is not in any way jeopardised. “The former member, who represented Ohanivo Federal Constituency between 2011 and 2019 at the National Assembly, Linus Okorie, made an inciting Facebook publication, which constituted a security breach that led to loss of lives, as well as valuables, despite his supposedly enlightened position in the society. “Do you expect the governor to fold his arms and watch crisis engulf the state?” Emegha said.