Other things being equal, Nigerians should soon begin to see a downward trend in the price of rice. This is sequel to the commissioning of one million bags of rice paddy by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 18. The rice pyramids, containing about 115,000 bags of 100kg each and said to be the biggest in Africa, were built with one million bags of rice paddy planted and harvested from states across the country under the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The pyramids had expectedly remained a centre of attraction since mid-December 2021 when their building commenced at the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industries on Airport Road, Abuja. An obviously elated President Buhari not only predicted the fall in the price of the commodity, he also praised the CBN for initiating the programme, which is the brain behind the government’s agricultural revolution. According to President Buhari, “I am aware that the bags of paddy will be moving straight from here to rice milling plants across Nigeria, which will lead to the release of processed rice to the markets by the rice millers. The measure will aid our efforts at reducing the price of rice in Nigeria.” But the president is not alone in this optimism of an imminent crash in the price of rice. Shehu Muazu, Chairman Pyramid Sub-Committee of the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) said the rice pyramids show that local production of food is possible. The rice would be allocated to rice processors who will process it and sell at discounted price. Hopefully, “This will lead to drastic reduction in price once it starts rolling into the market”, Muazu said. The CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, who was at the commissioning praised the tenacity of purpose of the farmers who defied all odds, including great risks to their lives, to produce the staple. We understand the basis of their collective happiness. The skyrocketing price of rice, a staple food in the country, has been a source of concern to Nigerians and the government alike. A 50kg bag of the commodity which was selling for about N10,000 when the Buhari administration took over now sells for about N28,000. An apparently worried government set in motion some machineries to reverse the trend. For over a year, it shut its borders with neighbouring Benin Republic, Cameroon, Chad and Niger, in order to curb smuggling of the commodity as well as other commodities, to protect local producers. The CBN, through the ABP also made available hefty sums of money as loans to rice farmers, while some state governments also initiated various rice schemes, either as solo efforts or in collaboration with some other states. For instance, Lagos and Kebbi states teamed up to produce Lake Rice.   Chibok? Not again!     BudgIT’s troubling findings     Leap of faith   - Advertisement - All these efforts were beginning to yield results when, suddenly, the insecurity in the land threw spanner in the works. Farmers were not spared by all manner of criminals who almost took the nation hostage. In 2020 alone, about 44 of such farmers were murdered on their farms in Benue State. The incessant attacks on farmers in several parts of the country inevitably triggered a food crisis which in turn caused inflation of food prices. So, if there are renewed efforts to turn the tide, particularly with regard to rice production, it should be well acknowledged. Although some people are wondering why the government had to organise such an elaborate publicity glitz to advertise its achievement on rice production, we do not mind how it is done. For us, it is the result that matters. Here, we cannot but mention the cynicism of the opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), which is in the vanguard of those who believe that President Buhari had been conned to launch what the party called “a pyramid of lies”. Much as we acknowledge the cynics’ position, especially with the politicisation of virtually everything under the sun in Nigeria, we want to give the government the benefit of the doubt. Moreover, we do not know why rice producers would want to team up with politicians to deceive the public, especially on such a sensitive matter that borders on their own survival. Indeed, RIFAN chairman Aminu Goroyo’s revelation at the launch that  ”What you see here today is a trickle of what we produced in the last wet season. Only  0.05 per cent of what was cultivated is what is being displayed” would seem assuring enough that the rice pyramids are real and its price cannot be the same when the quantum of rice being touted as having been produced hits the market. So, it is only a matter of time for the true position of things to emerge on the claims and counter-claims. But there are lessons to learn, especially by the Federal Government, one of which is that never again should insecurity be treated with kid gloves, no matter whose horse is gored. There is no denying the fact that if insecurity had not assumed the monstrous dimension it assumed, Nigeria would have gone far, especially with the renewed impetus of the government to increase rice production.