The General Evangelist Worldwide of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Prophet Samuel Kayode Abiara, had told Nigerians to shun prophets of doom. He spoke during the New Year Service held simultaneously by Christian and Muslim faithful at the Lagos House in Marina. The cleric prayed for Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, his family, members of the State Executive Council and Lagos State. He urged the people not to listen to prophets of doom against Nigeria and her leaders at the national and state levels. “Don’t listen to prophets of doom against Nigeria, our nation and the leaders. Don’t listen to prophets of doom against Lagos State. The future of Nigeria and Lagos State is bright,” Prophet Abiara declared. - Advertisement - Former Vice-Chancellor of the Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo State, and Bishop of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Prof. Dapo Asaju noted that Governor Sanwo-Olu has shown good leadership in Lagos State. In his message, titled ‘God, the rulers and the people’ Asaju said: “Sanwo-Olu has done very well, and prayed that the governor will finish well and be celebrated like the late first civilian governor of the state, Alhaji Lateef Jakande. “The Bible tells us that when the righteous are in power, the people will rejoice. We are rejoicing in Lagos State because we have a godly governor. “If I can assume the role of the good people of Lagos State, I will like to pass a message across to Governor Sanwo-Olu that we love you, we appreciate you and we are proud to be your subjects. We thank God for what He is doing in your life. “Mr. Governor, you have been running this administration very well. You have done very well but your tenure is going gradually and as another election is coming, there shall be a new song. You will finish well and you will be celebrated. “Like Lateef Jakande was celebrated, you will be celebrated and the glory of the future would be greater.   Sultan: bloodthirsty killers lack motive     Sanusi goes to Ghana     600 mothers receive New Year gifts from FCTA   “People will decide the kind of governor they have. “So, people of Lagos should better open their eyes and pray for another governor like this, and I pray that God Almighty will give you the grace even to continue in the name of Jesus Christ. “If it is a political statement, I say it with every sense of confidence that God Almighty will give you the possibility to perfect what you have started in Jesus name.” Governor Sanwo-Olu, who said Lagos has a brighter future, urged members of his cabinet to work toward achieving the Greater Lagos agenda. Reading the second lesson from Philippians 3:12-16, the governor charged to lead with the fear of God, make good things out of their life and ensure that people remember them for good. He said: “Let us open a new chapter and know that the new chapter is about togetherness. They have said to us that we all have a brighter future. Our state has a bright future. But it is really for us to open our eyes very well and see the bright future. We should connect to God Almighty and ask for His direction in everything we do.” Speaking at the Muslim prayer, Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat, assured Nigerians of a better life in 2022, and asked all religious leaders to continue emphasising religious tolerance. He said only unity, peace and love can engender prosperity in any society. “It is practically difficult, if not impossible, to achieve prosperity where insecurity permeates in any society. “I, therefore, urge every Nigerian to support the government in her quest for socio-economic and political development. “The THEMES agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration encompasses every aspect of the life of every Lagos resident. “Therefore, we solicit the support of everyone so that our noble objectives may be a reality,” he added.