Odudu Otu Imeh, winner of the Gulder Ultimate Search season 12 has been coronated by the organisers of the show at a lavish winners’ party. Odudu Otu, the winner of this season’s Gulder Ultimate Search, was crowned for finding Akolo’s chest on the final day after battling 17 other contestants who made it into the jungle with him. Odudu was presented with N50 million worth of prizes, including the key to an SUV courtesy of Innoson motors and a return ticket to Dubai. The youngest of the finalists expressed delight in being the ultimate craftsman. He said: “First, I would like to thank Nigerian Breweries, organisers of Gulder Ultimate Search, for bringing back the show. I had fond memories of it growing up and was sad when it went off the air. I could not contain my delight when it returned for Season 12 in 2021. - Advertisement - “I did not hesitate to put in my application, and despite getting into the jungle as a wildcard, I was determined to make the best use of the opportunity. This rare opportunity has changed my life for good, and I am truly grateful to Nigerian breweries, their sponsors and partners, as well as my fellow contestants.”   D’Banj: My music, business and love life     How police extorted, threatened to kill me, by Boyebest     Nothing can make me return to party politics –…   Seventeen other warriors that went into the jungle with Odudu were rewarded for their participation and dedication to the tune of N23.7m. Chidinma won herself a total of N3.5m as the Ultimate woman and the last woman standing. Tosin won N1.5m for emerging the Ultimate man while Damola and Damilola won N3m each for being the finalists. Omoya got N600,000 while Mfon and Gerald got N700,000 and N800, 000 respectively. Nnebe and Iniabasi got N900,000 and N1 million respectively. Godswill got N1.050 million, while Tube got N1.1 million, Ishmeal got N1.15m, Osas got N1.2m, Yankari got N1.3m, Esitima got N1.35m, Racheal got N1.4m. Emmanuel Oriakhi, who is the Marketing Director of Nigerian Breweries, attributed the success of this season’s Gulder Ultimate Search to the organisers, sponsors and partners, crew members, the contestants and all Nigerians.