From 19 states, All Progressives Congress (APC) states increased to 22 under the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee. Aside from the governors who joined the party, many bigwigs have also found their way into the party. Can they help the party in its desire to retain power in 2023? ROBERT EGBE writes. One of the most visible accomplishments on the scorecard of the current All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) is the swelling of the party’s governorship roll from 19 to 22 in its 18-month-old tenure. It is not a feat many would have foreseen on June 25, 2020, when the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) tasked Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni to lead the CECPC. The 12 other members of the CECPC were a former senator for Akwa Ibom Northeast John Akpanudoedehe; former Senate President Ken Nnamani; APC governorship candidate in Bayelsa in 2019, David Lyon; Osun State Governor Isiaka Oyetola; Niger State Governor Sani Bello; Vice-Chancellor of Baze University in Abuja, Tahir Mamman (SAN); the Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Cooperation and Integration in Africa and NEPAD, Abubakar Yusuf (Taraba Central Senatorial District); Rep Akinremi Olaide (Ibadan North Federal Constituency of Oyo State); Executive Director (Business Development) of Nigerian-Export Bank (NEXIM), Stella Okorete; Chairman, Plateau State Disability Rights Commission, James Lalu; former interim chairman of the APC Youth Forum (APYF), Ismail Ahmed; and Abba Ari representing the Northwest geo-political zone. Their appointment immediately after the NEC’s dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) was the direct aftermath of the self-destructive crisis the party found itself at the time. - Advertisement - In just two years of the former NWC, the APC lost several states, including Edo, Zamfara and Rivers and, according to a party chieftain, this was caused by Oshiomhole’s “aggressive attitude”. “Because of his aggression, we have lost quite a number of states. We lost Rivers State; we didn’t have a chance to contest. We lost Zamfara, where we won the election and all our victories were handed over by the Supreme Court to the PDP, all because of Oshiomhole’s aggression. I think there were also two other states which we lost because of his aggressive attitude,” the chieftain said. While calling for a reform in the party, President Muhammadu Buhari referenced several more challenges. “The issues currently confronting our party at this time are such that should worry every party member. At the moment, our great party is faced with internal wrangling; there are ongoing litigations amongst some party members and we cannot clearly ascertain the status of certain National Working Committee (NWC) members.’’ The president expressed worry over the shifting loyalty within the party and inconsistency in leadership, which had opened the governing party to mockery. So, upon its appointment, the Buni-led CECPC had its work cut out. There was an urgent need for its intervention to immediately arrest further drifts and internal wrangling which could have led to the party’s total disintegration. And in just six months, it appears to have recorded relative successes.   Gale of heavyweight defections to APC   Beginning from January 28, 2021, three sitting state governors and scores of parliamentarians from other political parties joined the APC, gaining the party invaluable political capital. There were no fewer than 20 high-profile defections into the APC, including the following: January 28: Seven APM lawmakers in Ogun defected to the APC. The lawmakers were Modupe Mujota representing Abeokuta North State Constituency, Musefiu Lamidi from Ado-Odo/Ota II and Amosun Yusuf from Ewekoro State Constituency. Others were Ajayi Bolanle and Ganiyu Oyedeji from Egbado South and Ifo II State constituencies, and Ademola Adeniran from Ipokia/Idiroko and Sagamu II constituencies. February 15: Iyiola Omisore, a former deputy governor of Osun state defected from the SDP to the APC. February 16: Otunba Gbenga Daniel, a former Governor of Ogun State and campaign manager for the Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP in 2019, Atiku Abubakar, ditched the opposition for the ruling party. February 23: At the House of Representatives, the member representing Ondo East/West Hon. Abiola Peters Makinde left the ADC for APC. Just days before then, Hon. Blessing Onuh and Hon. Yakubu Abdullahi announced their defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). While, Onuh who represents Oturkpo/Ohimini Federal Constituency of Benue, joined the APC from the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Abdullahi who represents Bauchi Federal Constituency, also dumped the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) for the APC. February 23: All the three lawmakers elected on the platform of the African Democratic Congress ADC in the Ogun State House of Assembly defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress. Lawmakers who announced their defection during plenary included Jemili Akingbade, who was also the former Minority Whip, Adegoke Adeyanju, and Wahab Haruna. March 12: A former Speaker of the House of Representatives and party chieftain in Ogun State, Hon. Dimeji Bankole left the PDP and pitched tent with the APC. March 17: Lawmaker representing the Egbado North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency of Ogun State, Jimoh Aremu, moved from the African Democratic Congress ADC to the All Progressives Congress APC. March 26: On this day, Buni received former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Azubike Ihejirika (REtd)“Dike Abia” into the party. Ihejirika was formally presented to the chairman by the Jigawa State Governor and Chairman APC Strategy and Contact committee Abubakar Badaru and Farouk Aliyu. April 13: Samuel Tsebe, the member representing Akwanga South constituency in Nasarawa Assembly, dumped the PDP for the APC. May 20: Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade officially ditched the PDP for the APC. October 13: The Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Nkem Okeke, dumped the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) for the APC.     Alleged N6b fraud: Court grants N200m bail for Mompha     Long walk to APC national convention     Time has come to choose wisely   Governors, deputies    Just five months after the CECPC team was sworn in, it got its big break. After days of speculation, Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi on November 17, 2020, formally defected from the PDP to the APC. It was remarkable because the Southeast, Umahi’s region, was traditionally anti-APC and perhaps the strongest hold of the PDP. The governor defected to the APC along with members of his cabinet. He said: “Why am I moving to APC?, some people said I was promised this and that but I tell you, there is no such discussion. APC never promised me any position, they never promised South-East any position, there was no such discussion, however, I offered this movement as a protest to the injustice being done to Southeast by the PDP since 1998 till date.” Umahi is, in a sense, a big boon to the APC’s chances in the state ahead of 2023. He is believed to be largely in control of the party structure and his admirers across party lines believe he has built a reputation for relatively good governance in terms of infrastructure and other projects, perhaps better than most governors in the region. Responding to the PDP’s criticism of Umahi’s style of governance on December 19, 2021, the Chairman of the APC in Ebonyi State, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha said it was that the governor was the PDP’s greatest nightmare. He said: “I appreciate the PDP for acknowledging that they are deeply troubled by the governor’s exit from their party. I wonder how the same party will win election in 2023, in Ebonyi State. My party’s accomplishments from 2015 to date have already forced them into extinction.” The APC chairman added, “Essentially, Umahi is the one who collapsed the PDP in the country. Immediately he left the party as the pillar, Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River joined him. Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State joined, too. So many National Assembly members and State Assembly members in different states equally defected. They all defected with their teeming supporters. “I, therefore, enjoin the good people of Ebonyi state to disregard any accusation coming from Ebonyi PDP against our award-winning governor, as the PDP has gone into oblivion.” Next to dump the PDP for the ruling party was Cross River State Governor Prof Ben Ayade. Ayade’s defection in May 2020 came six months after Umahi. He formally defected to the APC after months of speculations that he would do so. He announced his departure from the opposition party while hosting Buni and five other APC governors who visited him in Calabar, the state capital. Apart from Buni, the others were Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi, Hope Uzodinma of Imo, Simon Lalong of Plateau, Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa and Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti. It was not immediately clear why Ayade left the platform that brought him to power in 2015, but he had for months complained about being poorly treated by the PDP. With his defection, Mr Ayade became the only APC governor from the South-South geopolitical zone. The ruling party had lost its only governor in the zone in 2019 when Godwin Obaseki of Edo crossed to the PDP months to the governorship election in that state and won reelection on that platform. While Cross River is traditionally a PDP state, things are changing and Ayade’s movement to the ruling party along with his political structure will certainly add to boosting the APC’s chances of gathering votes next year. It is also expected that he would deploy his connections to raise funds – a key ingredient – for the electioneering. Just a month later, lightning struck again, this time, in Zamfara State. Governor Bello Matawalle, on June 29, formally defected to the APC, after months of speculation and denial. Matawalle announced his defection late evening at the Gusau Trade Fair Complex at an event attended by APC governors, ministers and the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. However, the state’s Deputy Governor, Mahdi Aliyu, and the member representing Talata Mafara/Anka in the State House of Assembly, Kabiru Yahaya, remained in the opposition PDP. Some federal lawmakers from the state who were also members of the PDP had earlier announced their defection to the APC. Matawalle’s departure from the PDP followed months of speculation and snubbing the PDP governor’s meetings while hosting APC governors and the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, at Government House in Gusau. The governor on June 12, 2020, dissolved the state’s executive council as part of preparations for his defection. He, however, rescheduled the defection date, ostensibly for further consultation with Aliyu and some state lawmakers who were reluctant to make the journey to the ruling party with him. With Mr Matawalle’s defection, APC became in control of six of the seven states in the North-west geopolitical zone. Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal remains the only governor of the PDP in the zone. Mattawale is expected to be a key player in boosting the party’s chances ahead of the 2023 presidential election. When the general election comes, it will be clear if these men and women, who joined the party when Buni and his men led it, are blessing or curse to the ruling party.