Sierra Leone showcased their talents to the African continent for the first time in the 1996 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON). A 16-year-old boy scored the winning goal against Burkina Faso in their first match of Group B. That youngster wore the No 10 shirt and played at Lugano, Switzerland. His name is Mohamed Kallon. At that time he was the youngest footballer to ever score in the AFCON and would end up becoming the best Sierra Leone footballer of all time. The legacy he left is so significant that his name is still linked to Sierra Leone football and its national team. - Advertisement - Two players of the current squad at the disposal of coach John Keister come from FC Kallon, the club founded in 2002 by the former Inter Milan and Monaco forward. Some others have grown up there or spent some seasons at the club. Among them Alhaji Kamara, the man who scored the unexpected equaliser against Cote d’Ivoire in Sierra Leone’s second Group E match this month. Kamara grew up in Lungi, in the Kaffu Bullom Chiefdom district. He started playing football on the streets just like every other kid of that area, situated next to the Freetown International Airport. He had even formed a junior non-division team with his friends called ‘Young Lions’. His career changed when he joined FC Kallon. He made his professional debut while playing for them, fulfilling a dream that every aspiring footballer in Sierra Leone would like to achieve. Kamara could have missed this year’s tournament and the excitement after the goal he scored against Cote d’Ivoire could have remained just a dream. In 2016, when he was 21, he underwent some tests required by UEFA which found a congenital heart defect. IFK Norrkoping, the Swedish club where Kamara was playing, were preparing for their first appearance in the Champions League since 1963, but the Sierra Leone striker had to give up taking part in that historic event.   Nadal relishes exciting tennis career     Qatar 2022: 1.2 million tickets sold in 24 hours      Golden Jubilee Polo Tourney: Fallen heroes honoured in Port…   UEFA wouldn’t allow him to play, and the Swedish champions decided to terminate his contract. Sierra Leone’s football association also had to close its doors to Kamara, because they couldn’t afford to guarantee prompt and professional medical attention to him in case of an incident on the pitch. “Life is challenging,” Kamara admitted. “There aren’t easy roads. Whatever you do, there must be an obstacle, and that was the obstacle that came in my career.” He tried to stay positive because he had never felt any symptoms while playing football and other different sports. But above all, he didn’t give up. “It obviously was a shock for me, but I told my agent that I needed to try other options, to listen to other doctors,” he said. “So, together with him, I chose to go to the US.” Fortunately, DC United came on board and made him undergo different kinds of tests. He finally got the approval to play and his career restarted after doctors determined that the congenital heart defect wasn’t serious enough to prevent Kamara from playing professionally. “I’m happy and excited that I didn’t make the decision to stop my career back then. I wouldn’t be part of this team now,” he pointed out. “Not being able to play for my country when they found my heart problem was the worst moment, but I looked at the positive side. That wasn’t my time. My time is now and I feel blessed for that.” Six years later, the scare of quitting football has eventually faded away and Kamara has been able to write a wonderful new chapter in Sierra Leone’s turbulent football history. Despite missing out on the knockout stage after losing 1-0 to Equatorial Guinea in their last group match, the result doesn’t really matter to Kamara. “We are happy to be here,” he claimed. “It’s been 26 years since last time and, no matter what happens, we will be proud because we are a small nation taking part in a big tournament and facing big teams. “The game against Cote d’Ivoire has given us even further motivation. Now we just need an extra push to give a new smile to our people,” he told Daily Mail.