Pope Francis said in his annual speech yesterday that getting vaccinated against the coronavirus was a “moral obligation” and denounced how people had been swayed by “baseless information” to refuse one of the most effective measures to save lives. The Pope used some of his strongest words yet calling people to get vaccinated in a speech to ambassadors accredited to the Holy See, an annual event in which he takes stock of the world and sets out the Vatican’s foreign policy goals for the year. Francis, 85, has generally shied away from speaking about vaccination as a “moral obligation”, though his COVID-19 advisory body has referred to it as a “moral responsibility”. Rather, Francis has termed vaccination as “an act of love” and that refusing to get inoculated was “suicidal”. Yesterday, he went a step further in a formal speech, saying that individuals had a responsibility to care for themselves “and this translates into respect for the health of those around us”. - Advertisement - “Health care is a moral obligation,” he asserted. He lamented that increasing “ideological divides” were discouraging people from getting vaccinated. “Frequently, people let themselves be influenced by the ideology of the moment, often bolstered by baseless information or poorly documented facts,” he said. “Vaccines are not a magical means of healing, yet surely they represent, in addition to other treatments that need to be developed, the most reasonable solution for the prevention of the disease,” he added. Some Catholics, including some conservative U.S. bishops and cardinals, have claimed vaccines based on research that used cells derived from aborted fetuses were immoral, and have refused to get the jab. The Vatican’s doctrine office, however, has said it is “morally acceptable” for Catholics to receive COVID-19 vaccines based on research that used cells derived from aborted fetuses. Francis and Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI have both been fully vaccinated with Pfizer-BioNTech shots.   Greece donates 1m J&J vaccines to Nigeria     FAAN arrests 90 suspects for fake COVID-19 tests, others     Anambra to change security’s group name to Ebubeagu   Francis repeated his call for universal access to the shots, particularly in the parts of the world with low vaccination rates, and called for revisions to patent rules so that poorer countries can develop their own vaccines. “It is appropriate that institutions such as the World Trade Organisation and the World Intellectual Property Organisation adapt their legal instruments lest monopolistic rules constitute further obstacles to production and to an organised and consistent access to healthcare on a global level,” he said. Pfizer might soon have a new version of its vaccine on the market that targets the Omicron variant of COVID-19, which the company expects will be ready in March. In an interview with CNBC’s Squawk Box yesterday, Pfizer Chief Executive Officer Albert Bourla said the company has already started manufacturing doses of the vaccine. “We hope that we will achieve something that will have way, way better protection against infections,” he said. “I don’t know if we will need it or how it will be used, but it will be ready.” Bourla said the new dose will also be effective against other variants circulating in addition to the Omicron variant. Though he could not say if there is a need for another booster at this point, he said several countries have indicated they want it as soon as it is ready. Israel is among the first countries that have already made a fourth dose of the Pfizer vaccine available to people over the age of 60 with compromised immune systems and healthcare workers. British government advisers said they recommend against a fourth dose of the COVID-19 vaccine to nursing home residents and people over 80, according to the United Kingdom’s Health Security Agency. “One of the things that we’re going to be following very carefully is what the durability of the protection is following the third dose of an mRNA vaccine,” Dr. Anthony Fauci, the White House’s chief medical adviser, said during an interview with WCBS 880 on Dec. 22. “We may go a significant period of time without requiring a fourth dose, so I do think it’s premature, at least on the part of the United States, to be talking about a fourth dose,” he said.