SUPER Eagles coach Augustine Eguavoen has been named the best coach of the group stage by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) following his outstanding achievements at the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. Eguavoen, who took over the team as an interim coach a few weeks to the tournament, guided Nigeria to an excellent performance in Group D, winning all their three matches. Nigeria started their AFCON campaign with a Victory over Egypt followed by convincing wins over Sudan and Guinea-Bissau to leave Eguavoen as the only manager who led his team to three wins at the group stages. Speaking to journalists over the award, the 56-year-old manager thanked the players and his coaching crew for the success of the team so far in the tournament. “Many thanks to Confederation of African football for this award; the best coach of the Group Stage wouldn’t have been possible without my fantastic group of players and colleagues. Thank you Nigerians for your support, it’s needed now, more than ever,” Eguavoen said.   Ramat Cup kicks off February 12     JOE ARIBO: I WANT TO LEAVE CAMEROON WITH SILVERWARE     Troost-Ekong sets sights on AFCON title   - Advertisement - Read Also: Ramat Cup kicks off February 12 Super Eagles duo of Simon Moses and William Troost-Ekong have also been included in the CAF best 11 players in the group stage of the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. The Technical Study Group (TSG) released their Best of the Group Stage on Saturday morning following the conclusion of the TotalEnergies Africa Cup of Nations, Cameroon 2021 Group Stage. Moses and Troost Ekong were an integral part of Coach Agustine Eguavoen’s side that has been in scintillating form during the campaign. Best XI includes: Goalkeeper: Mohamed Elshennawy (Egypt), Right Back: Achraf Hakimi (Morocco), Central Back (R): William Troost-Ekong (Nigeria), Central Back (L): Ahmed Hegazy (Egypt), Left Back: Ghislain Konan (Cote d’Ivoire), Defensive Midfielder: Yves Bissouma (Mali), Offensive Midfielder (R): Naby Keita (Guinea), Offensive Midfielder (L): Musa Barrow (Gambia), Right Forward: Sofiane Boufal (Morocco), Left Forward: Simon Moses (Nigeria), Striker: Vincent Abubakar (Cameroon). Substitutes: Andre Onana (Cameroon), Iban Salvador (Equatorial Guinea), Ali Maaloul (Tunisia), Abdou Diallo (Senegal), Wilfried Ndidi (Nigeria), Massadio Haidara (Mali), Karl Toko Ekambi (Cameroon), Nouhou Tolo (Cameroon), Guelor Kanga (Gabon), Amadou Diawara (Guinea), Mohamed Salah (Egypt) and Sadio Mane (Senegal).