Deputy Editor Emmanuel Oladesu examines the factors that will guarantee a hitch-free national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on February 26. The All Progressives Congress (APC) is warming up for convention. Ahead of February 26, the party should resolve some challenges that are critical to a successful exercise. The ruling party should elect or select an experienced and competent chairman who can unite chieftains and forge ahead with reconciliation. APC should be specific on whether it would hold its convention, based on consensus, direct or indirect options. The party should also be categorical on the zoning of national party offices. This will give the six geo-political zones a sense of participation, inclusion and belonging. - Advertisement - The decisions that will lead to the above cannot be done by the National Caretaker Committee,  led by Mai Mala Buni, alone, but through  agreement among party leaders-president, National Assembly leadership, Progressive Governors’ Forum, founding fathers and the National Caucus. As a ruling party and a platform with responsible structures with built-in integrity to preserve the kernel of democratic institution, APC shoukd not entertain the flagrant display of impunity by going into the party convention on the back of flagrant abuse of set constitutional and procedural steps. It is therefore, important that at this crucial time, the party should be properly guided by its law. It should be judiciously observe the prerequisite processes leading to the convention, and set the party structures aright to ensure compliance with  sacrosanct party rules and regulations and the electoral law. Instructively, the processes that often lead the national convention are virtually fixed and conventional – over a fairly long consensual period of time. This is peculiar to nearly all parties in the country. Some observers  believe that AOC, under the leadership of the National Caretaker Committee,   has tried to meet up with the prerequisites of convention preparation, having conducted relatively very successful ward,  local government and state congresses across the 36 states and  the Federal Capital Territory(FCT). It is important to build on the success recorded by the CECPC and the innovations it has attempted to introduce. Despite its challenges, APC appears to be waxing stronger. With a much more stronger membership base and lesser internal rancour and litigations associated with other opposition parties, a peaceful and transparent convention will send the signal of its readiness to maintain its hold on power st the natiinal level and further enlarge its coast by winning more states.   Oyebanji: competence not zoning should determine next Ekiti…     ‘Southeast should clinch APC presidential ticket’     Fayose’s image enough to win Ekiti PDP ticket for me,…   Party stakeholders and interest units shoukd elevate collective survival over personal interest. To ensure a rancour-free convention, the party should be determined to fortify its itself. The national congress provides an ample opportunity. APC as a responsible organisation has in the past proved that it was only guided by its rule. It should do the same during the convention. The party should ensure a speedy and successful conclusion of the ongoing reconciliation, and bring the party into the convention on a truly united front. It will be counter-productive to go for convention in an atmosphere of disunity, strife and rancour The unity of the party is paramount.The pockets of disagreements underscores the presence of  aggrieved members and groups. It attests to an u finished business of reconciliation. Indeed, the ruling party cannot afford to downplay the reconciliation. This is a concrete agenda the party should not treat with levity. The party needs to put its house in order. The party is expected to identify and collate the list of its appropriate delegates to the convention. The list should contain both the elected delegates from the ward, LGAs and state congresses, and regular statutory delegates. It is very important that in collating the list of the statutory delegates, the list shoukd be fine tuned to exclude names of deceased statutory delegates. The tradition is that past presidents on the platform of the party, governors, and former and current members of the National Assembly constitute the statutory delegates. The list should be prepared and displayed for scrutiny, prior to the convention. Having released the time schedule for the convention, it is incumbent on stalwarts, leaders, interest units and groups in the party to work together to ensure a peaceful, rancour-free convention that will further endear the party to the electorate The constitution of the party and the Electoral Act prescribe the option of consensus candidate for political party in electing or selecting members of the National Executive Committee (NEC). If the party can present a united front and come up with agreement on the option, it will strengthen the bond of unity and reduce the stress and litigations that may arise from direct and indirect systems. However, the consensus cannot be imposed. It can only be a product of agreement and not agreement under dures. Zoning is critical. It is in the interest of justice, fairness and in recognition of the regional units within the party. Party leaders and groups should follow the path of agreement, knowing that zoning can guarantee a fair and equitable distribution of elective positions in the National Working Committee (NWC). If APC desires to retain political control beyond 2023, it should manage its convention well.The convention should foster unity and cohesion. It is only as a united front can the ruling party withstand onslaughts from adversaries and retain power in next year’s elections.