Dr Obasemo Omotayo Sunday, a medical doctor with General Hospital, Ebute Metta, Lagos, speaks with Adegboyega Adeleke on Demetia with Lewy Bodies and factors that may lead to it. What is dementia with Lewy bodies. What are the manifestations? Dementia with Lewy bodies, also known as Lewy body dementia is the second most common type of dementia after Alzheimer’s disease. Lewy body dementia is a medical condition that causes degeneration of the brain and it affects the intellectual function of the brain. Manifestations and symptoms include, sudden changes in behaviour, visual hallucinations, shakiness of the hands and rigidity, confusion and disturbed sleep. What are the earliest symptoms and can it be arrested? As earlier said, part of the symptoms are sudden changes in behaviour, visual hallucinations, shakiness of the hands and rigidity, confusion and disturbed sleep. As we speak, there is currently no cure for dementia with Lewy bodies or any treatment that will slow it down. But there are treatments that can help control some of the symptoms, possibly for several years. - Advertisement - Are you saying there are no medication to reverse it? Unfortunately it is not reversible. It tends to develop slowly and get gradually worse over several years. Actor Olu Jacobs is the latest popular figure known to have come down with the disease. Some are, however, saying this may be because he has overused his brain, memorising lines upon lines as an actor over the years; how true is this? There is no link between overusing of the brain and one developing dementia. The disease can happen to anybody .Dementia with Lewy bodies is caused by clumps of protein forming inside brain cells. These abnormal deposits are called Lewy bodies. You just said Lewy Body is caused by clumps of protein forming inside the brain cells, does that mean the condition has something to do with consumption of protein foods?   2023: Intrigues in Abia as stakeholders insists on Charter…     Our forum will help strengthen legislature in Nigeria –…     Benue 2023: APC chieftains in fierce struggle to succeed…   The protein deposit in Lewy body is called alpha-synuclein. It is neurotoxic molecule that causes damage to the brain when it aggregates together What are the lifestyles that can cause this condition? Is it hereditary? A few factors appear to increase the risk of developing dementia with Lewy bodies, including: age, sex, and family history. People older than 60 years are at greater risk. Lewy body dementia affects more men than women. Those who have a family member with Lewy body dementia or Parkinson’s disease are at greater risk. Is it treatable or manageable in Nigeria or the patient has to travel abroad? It can be managed in Nigeria. It involves treatments that can help manage the symptoms and therapies as well as  practical measures that can help make life easier for someone with the condition. How best should people with condition be treated by family? Persons with dementia would need all the support and love they can get from family to carry out basic activities. Also, caregivers should  discourage all activities that can lead to restlessness at night, such as sleeping too much during the day or taking caffeine during the daytime. In addition, people living with Lewy body dementia are advised to live a  healthy lifestyle. This involves regular exercise, playing games that stimulate the mind, engaging in social or religious activities, and establishing regular bedtime rituals. Is it a mental case or something to be ashamed of by family? No, it is not a mental or psychiatric problem. And, no, it is not something to be ashamed of, as it can happen to anybody. There are support groups available for people living with such condition to help them get along. Can it happen to a young person? It rarely happens to persons under age of 65.