Boxing fans aren’t sure that Anthony Joshua should be seeking guidance from Floyd Mayweather in training after the pair were spotted working together. ‘AJ’ is looking for heavyweight redemption next year when he is expected to face Oleksandr Usyk in a second meeting, bidding to regain his unified titles. The former two-time champion was spotted training with retired boxing legend Mayweather at Binous Gym in Dubai as his preparations get underway. But fans aren’t certain that working Mayweather is a good move for Joshua with one fan tweeting : “In my opinion totally the wrong person to be helping AJ. Completely the wrong style. He needs someone to get the spite and aggression back.” Another posted : ” Tyron Woodley also got tips from Floyd for his fight against Jake Paul. How’d that work out?” - Advertisement - One fan made up some mock advice from Mayweather : ” Exactly ‘avoid your mandatories and fight old champs or young ones who haven’t entered their prime’.” Another commented: “Mayweather showing him how to fail”. Joshua will seek redemption for the second time in his career after being comprehensively outboxed by Usyk, who handed him his second career defeated after Andy Ruiz beat him in 2019.   Super Eagles get Sudan warning     Costa Rica 2022: Danjuma invites Demehin, 25 others for…     NFF yet to clear Rohr’s outstanding wages   The British star toured America in a bid to find a new coach to add to his corner for the rematch visiting several gyms across the Atlantic. Despite confirming he will not fully relocate, Joshua compiled a short-list of potential candidates to take the mantle which he hopes can be alongside current long-term coach Rob McCracken. These candidates included Canelo Alvarez’s award-winning trainer Eddy Reynoso, Ronnie Shields and Virgil Hunter. Now the heavyweight champion has also been spotted working with trainer Anthony Wilson in the Middle East with no time left for rest during the festive trip. Joshua has shown a bullish defiance since his defeat to Usyk talking of his planned revenge, while largely refusing to step aside to clear the way for an undisputed clash between Usyk and Tyson Fury. Mayweather could be considered a potential suitor for the role having reigned at 50-0 during his undefeated career defeating the likes of Manny Pacquiao and Alvarez. With Joshua needing a significant revamp to stand a chance of reversing his defeat, Mayweather previously stated he had several “pointers” he will give to the heavyweight. “I told him from the beginning, I came on the record from the beginning, I told him to come and I could teach him some pointers,” Mayweather said earlier this month of Joshua.