Undoubtedly, all eyes would be  on Liverpool star Mohamed Salah when the Pharaohs of Egypt  face off the Super Eagles in an opening Group D tie of the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations  on Tuesday at Stade Roumdé Adjia, Garoua. Already picked to will vie with Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski and Paris Saint-Germain forward Lionel Messi for FIFA’s Best award in a final three-man shortlist for the prestigious prize,Salah has become a sensation in the Premier League ever since he joined Liverpool in June 2017. He broke into the top three for the second time, having finished third behind winner Luka Modric and Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo in 2018. Salah is considered by many to be an icon in football and revered as  Egypt’s biggest football star ever. He is also known to have a heart of gold and is involved in many philanthropic activities. He isn’t just winning trophies, but is also winning hearts with his goals and skills on the field and by helping the poor and needy off the field. Here are some less known facts about the ideal modern day footballer and icon… Mohamed Salah’s full name His actual name is longer than we know. His actual name is Mohamed Salah Hamed Mahrous Ghaly. But, he is popularly known as Mohamed Salah. - Advertisement - Salah has been playing football since he was 12 Mohamed Salah started playing football at the youth level with a local Egyptian club called Ittihad Basyoun in 2004.He was just 12 years old then. He went on to play for another local youth team for a year before joining the youth team Al Mokawloon al Arab SC in 2006, where he made his pro debut in 2010. Salah made his professional debut at the age of 18 Mohamed Salah made his professional debut for Al Mokawloon al Arab SC on 3rd May 2010, against El Mansoura. He was 18 years old then. He used to get a few minutes in some games initially, before becoming a regular for the team. Is Liverpool Salah’s first English club? No! Before playing for Liverpool, Salah has played for Chelsea. Though his time at the club was forgettable. He made only 13 appearances for them before being loaned to Fiorentina and Roma. Chelsea had signed him from Swiss club FC Basel after he gained a lot attention for his stunning displays for his previous employers in the UEFA Champions League. But he failed to impress then Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho and was loaned off.   Salah played at left back as a young player As a young player, Salah played as a left back for the Al Makowloon al Arab SC youth team.So when did he start playing as a winger? One day, after his team won 4-0 in an Egyptian youth cup game, his coach found him in tears because he had missed a lot of chances. That made him realized how much young Salah loved to score goals and hence then moved him up field as a winger.   Hosts Cameroon eye victory against battle-hardened Burkina…     AMUNEKE: Super Eagles will bravely defend their chances in…     Troost-Ekong confident Eagles can stop Salah   The reason behind Mohamed Salah’s celebration Salah’s celebration has become somewhat iconic in the Premier League ever since he started doing it frequently. Salah celebrates by performing a “sujud” or “sajdah”, which means bowing down to God.Salah is a devout Muslim and has said that he celebrates in that way to thank Allah for giving him the chance to live his dream of becoming a footballer. He told CNN in an interview: “It’s something like praying or thanking God for what I have received, but yeah, it’s just praying and praying for a win. I’ve always done that since I was young.” His celebration also features in the popular game FIFA 19. Salah has no tattoos on his body Footballers have always been fascinated by tattoos. Many footballers these days have numerous tattoos on their body. Some do it as a fashion statement; some do it for expressing themselves. But Salah isn’t a part of the tattoo bandwagon. He is one of those few famous footballers who don’t have a single tattoo on his body. When asked why he doesn’t have a tattoo, he said he expresses himself through football. Which brands does Salah endorse? Salah is one of the stars signed to Adidas, alongside others like Lionel Messi, Paul Pogba and David Beckham. He is also the face of Vodafone Egypt. He also featured on the cover of GQ Middle East. “The Egyptian pharaoh” That’s the nickname of Mo Salah. Salah is nicknamed “The Egyptian Pharaoh” by the fans and the media in England. Pharaoh is an Egyptian word which means ‘king’. Since joining Liverpool, Salah has become all conquering and has managed to score against almost every opponent he has played against. He has been instrumental in Liverpool’s rise to the top under manager Jürgen Klopp. He has another nickname which he is popularly known by: “The Egyptian Messi”. This nickname became popular when he scored number goals in typical Lionel Messi style in 2018/2019 season. Also, he is left footed and likes to cut in from the right, a style that resembles Messi’s. Which car does Salah drive? Salah is a simple guy. But when it comes to cars, he likes fancy. Salah owns the famous Lamborghini Aventador, a Bentley Continental GT, A Mercedes AMG GLE Coupe, a Mercedes-Benz SLS AMG Roadster, an Audi Q7 and a Toyota Camry. Salah, a king at heart too! Salah takes part in many philanthropic activities and is a role model for Egyptian celebrities. He is involved in a regeneration project in his hometown of Nagria. Salah has donated money for building many schools and hospitals in the area. These schools and hospitals provide education and healthcare at affordable prices.   *Adapted from Liverpoolcore