A pastor in charge of Spirit-filled International Christian Church, Olomore Abeokuta Ogun State Pastor Timothy Oluwatimilehin has been arrested by operatives of the Ogun State Police Command for enticing a housewife and her two daughters into leaving their family and kept them in his home. The pastor, afterwards allegedly began to sleep with each of them routinely. The husband of the woman, who was unable to rescue his wife and two daughters from Pastor Oluwatimehin over the entangling romantic affairs, ran to Adatan Police Station and reported how the suspect sifted his wife and daughters away from him, took possession of them and maintained steady sexual exploitation of the three. The helpless husband was assisted to report his ordeal to the police by officials of the Ogun State Ministry of Women Affairs, who were appalled by the alleged illicit affairs. The Police Public Relations Officers in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this to reporters yesterday.   Six Yahoo Boys convicted in Osun, Ekiti     Two burnt, 30 houses destroyed in gas-laden tanker explosion     Sylvester Oromoni: Dowen College’s founder, board quit   - Advertisement - Read Also: Amotekun arrests ‘serial’ POS fraudster in Osun Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) said the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) for Adatan Division, Superintendent of Police (SP) Abiodun Salau, dispatched detectives that arrested the pastor. The police spokesperson said the suspect had admitted that he committed the alleged offence. “The pastor has confessed to the commission of the crime but pleaded for forgiveness. In his confession, he explained that he took advantage of a little misunderstanding between the woman and her husband to carry out the devilish act. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Lanre Bankole has directed the Anti-human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department to take over the case and diligently investigate it with the view to charging the suspect to court as soon as possible.”