The Lagos State Government, through its Ministry of Health, has evolved measures that can help it to use multi-sectoral approach to deliver prompt and effective mental healthcare to Lagosians and reduce premature deaths through mental health awareness and promotion. This was made known on Tuesday at mental health conference organised by the Ministry of Health to draw attention to the importance of multi-sectorial approach to improved mental health interventions for citizens. The conference, which held at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island and had “Responding to the mental health needs of 21st Century Megacity” as the theme, ended by charting a new course towards providing the mental and social health assets and infrastructure needs of the state. In attendance were the state Head of Service, Dr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola; Chairman, Lagos Health Service Commission, Dr. Atinuke Onayiga; Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye and former Commissioner for Health in the state, Dr. Jide Idris. In tandem with the Sustainable Development Goal for health, the state government has set the target to reduce premature deaths in the state by one-third, through prevention, treatment, and promotion of mental health and emotional well-being. - Advertisement - Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the government has set the groundwork for the development of sustainable mental health care programmes and services that will ensure improved health outcomes in the long-term. Sanwo-Olu,  represented by his deputy, Dr. Kadiri Hamzat, enthused that the implementation of the groundwork would enable Lagos to become one of the forerunners in the delivery of sustainable, efficient and effective mental health services to citizens in Nigeria, and Africa. “Mental health is one of those issues in our society that are still very largely misunderstood and whose conversations still happen in secret. This is despite the fact that we all know someone who is struggling with one form of mental health challenge or the other, like depression, anxiety, substance abuse and those we have lost to suicide. Our goal is to reduce by one-third, premature death through prevention and treatment, and promote mental health and well-being, in keeping with the SDG for health.” Sanwo-Olu explained that the promotion of mental health and well-being, and the reduction of stigma and discrimination of mental illness, are priorities within the state’s development agenda for health. All efforts will be geared towards ensuring that every citizen has access to effective and sustainable service delivery models, he stressed. “We recognise the difficulties in accessing mental health services not necessarily because of non-availability of these services, even though the  institutions and resources that provide these services are stretched to the fullest, more important factors are the lack of courage to come forward and seek help, or insufficient awareness of where these services can be accessed. Read Also: How to improve female healthcare   Six ways to avoid ‘sudden’ slump     17-month-old baby needs N700, 000 for cancer treatment     Over 18 million Omicron cases reported in one week, says WHO   “Our commitment to mental health is symbolised by the development of the Lagos State Mental Health Policy and Lagos State New Mental Health Law, which was passed in 2019. This law provides for the protection of those suffering from stigmatisation because of their illness and sets the framework for developing an effective and robust mental health service for Lagosians. As a government, we are working to partner and collaborate with other sectors, to create a strong network of operations, facilities and programmes that will address some of these challenges,” he stated. As part of its mental health and well-being promotion strategy, he added that mental healthcare has been integrated into the General Hospitals and the Primary Health Centres services in the state. “We are also building a first-class mental health institution in Ketu Ejirin. When completed, it will be one of the largest in West Africa, if not in sub-Saharan Africa, as a measure of our commitment to healthcare services, research and rehabilitation,” he said. The governor noted that the psychosocial well-being of a community, city or state is a reflection of the physical, social and environmental safety nets  in that society, adding that there is no health without mental health because health is not just the absence of disease but a state of complete physical, social and mental wellbeing of a person. “Finally, I urge us in the spirit of community and partnership to be our brothers’ and sisters’ keeper, and let us make each day a little brighter and better for everyone around,”he said. Also, the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, explained that the promotion and protection of the health of Lagos residents has a positive impact on social development and quality of life of people. He added that the continuous improvement in quality of health service in the state is a core mandate of the Ministry of Health, which is uniquely positioned to utilise its resources to actualise same. Abayomi, while explaining  why the summit was held, said the mental health conference was an offshoot of the “Livable City Conference of 2013,” which led to the drafting and enactment of the Mental Health Law 2019 and the proposed establishment of a state-owned tertiary psychiatric hospital, among others. The forum, which provided a platform for key government ministries and agencies, healthcare professionals, private sector and civil society groups to discuss mental health issues, identify opportunities and areas of collaboration, also availed stakeholders an opportunity for networking in the mental health sub-sector. Narrating the increase the percentage of citizens with mood disorders, anxiety, substance abuse and psychotic disorder before COVID-19 and after the pandemic, Abayomi said the new Lagos Mental Health Law, which was passed in 2019, seeks to protect citizens against stigmatisation and discrimination and increase access to mental health services. According to statistics cited by Abayomi, 10 per cent of the population have symptoms of clinical depression; while 1.5 per cent of the population is said to frequently have thoughts of suicide or self-harm. Depression is more common among females, those in lower income groups and unmarried. As for anxiety, 16 percent of the population are said to have clinically significant anxiety symptoms; while an average 10 per cent of the population have combined anxiety and depression. Anxiety is more common among females and those in lower income groups. Studies also show that about 20 per cent of the population have clinically significant unexplainable somatic symptoms, with somatic symptoms more common among females, married people, and those in lower income groups. About 13.2 per cent of the population who are suffering from alcohol use disorders, with alcohol use disorders more common amongst males, people not married and aged more than 30 years. About 11 per cent of the population are suffering from a clinical disability and difficulty in performing tasks, with more common in people older than 30 years, not married, and lower income groups. Also, about 2.8 per cent of the population are suffering from psychoactive substance use disorders, with the crisis more common among males, and lower income groups Meanwhile, mental health experts and stakeholders at the conference have advocated building and sustaining investment in mental health to promote, protect and restore mental health of citizens. They noted that better information, awareness and education about mental health and illness; improved health and social services for persons with mental disorders; and enhanced legal, social and financial protection for persons, families or communities adversely affected by mental disorders will better improve health outcomes in the state.