Remo Stars could only secure a 1-1 draw at home to league leaders Rivers United in a top of the bill clash played the Remo Stars Stadium in Ikenne while Akwa United and Shooting Stars bagged their first away wins of the season as Nigeria Professional Football League Matchday 9 games were concluded yesterday. The remaining two unbeaten teams in the topflight staked their record in the game played at Ikenne, Ogun State but it ended 1-1 apiece after 90 minutes. Andy Okpe put the Sky Blue Stars ahead in the 10th minute but Chijioke Akuneto equalised for the Pride of Rivers in the 43rd minute after a howler from Goalkeeper Kayode Bankole. Both teams occupy the top two with 19 points each but Rivers United are ahead on the superior goals difference while Rangers are third with 16 points after they battled Dakkada FC to a goalless draw in Benin.   Sports Editors endorse Eguavoen for Eagles     Eagles’ Watch: Aribo shine in Old Firm derby     Qatar 2022: Runsewe rallies support for Super Eagles   Wikki Tourists improved to the sixth spot with 15 points after goals from Abubakar Aliyu and Anas Yusuf helped them to a 2-0 win over Nasarawa United who slumped to the 11th spot with 12 points. - Advertisement - In Abuja, Niger Tornadoes lost their first home game of the season against the league’s reigning champions, Akwa United who got their first away points too. Leo Ezekiel’s debut league goal in the 66th minute fired the Promise Keepers to the seventh spot with 14 points but Ikon Allah Boys slipped to the 17th position. In Jos, Albert Hilary’s 67th -minute effort for Plateau United saw off stubborn Abia Warriors. The Peace Boys moved to the fifth spot with 15 points while Kwara United jumped to the eighth spot with 14 points after a 2-0 home win against Gombe United in Ilorin. Junior Lokosa and Alao Danbani with the goals in the 36th and 38th minutes. Shooting Stars’ Damilare Olatunji early minute goal fetched the maximum points for the Oluyole Warriors in the South West derby played in Lagos yesterday. The three points take 3SC’s point tally to 12 as they moved to the 12 spot.