When he won the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize in 1984, it was a significant endorsement of his non-violent approach to anti-apartheid activism. It was a measure of his stature that he had previously been nominated for the award in 1981, 1982, and 1983.  He received the award for his “role as a unifying leader figure in the campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa.” Desmond Tutu, who died on December 26, 2021, aged 90, was Archbishop Emeritus of Cape Town, and widely regarded as “South Africa’s moral conscience.” His campaign against the policy of racial segregation in his country was an important part of the fight against apartheid that led to the eventual collapse of the obnoxious system in the 1990s. The personal energy and passion that fuelled his anti-apartheid campaign were further demonstrated during his three-month sabbatical in New York, USA, in 1984.  He addressed the United Nations Security Council, and held meetings with the Congressional Black Caucus as well as the sub-committees on Africa in the US House of Representatives and the Senate. He also met with then US President Ronald Reagan.  He further campaigned against apartheid in the US in 1985 and 1986. He was convinced that the intervention of the international community was necessary to stop apartheid in South Africa, and called for pressure and sanctions against the country’s government. He addressed the political committee of the United Nations General Assembly in 1985, and visited the United Kingdom where he met with then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.  In 1986, he visited Japan, China, and Jamaica to encourage punitive actions against the apartheid government. Tutu’s international campaign helped to keep the apartheid problem on the front burner, particularly when most of the leading anti-apartheid activists were in jail. - Advertisement - He dreamt of a new South Africa, “non-racial, democratic, participatory and just,” where “We can live together as one people, one family, black and white together.” This was the concept of a “Rainbow Nation,” which he helped to popularise.   Light from Kaduna     Kogi robbery     Research is the way to go   In 1988, he told the South African government, which was based on apartheid and white minority rule:  ”Your cause is unjust. You are defending what is fundamentally indefensible, because it is evil. It is evil without question. It is immoral. It is immoral without question. It is unchristian. Therefore, you will bite the dust! And you will bite the dust comprehensively.” There is no doubt about his immense contribution to the fall of apartheid in South Africa. It is striking that he used his position as a priest to attack the evil system, showing that religion should be used to fight for social good. He initially trained as a teacher. He was ordained as an Anglican priest in 1960, and moved to the UK two years later to study theology at King’s College, London. He served as the general secretary of the South African Council of Churches from 1978 to 1985. By the 1980s, he was a well-known champion of human rights, racial equality and universal suffrage in South Africa. He was the first black to become Bishop of Johannesburg from 1985 to 1986, and also Archbishop of Cape Town, the most senior position in southern Africa’s Anglican hierarchy, from 1986 to 1996. A new title, “archbishop emeritus,” was created to honour him when he retired as archbishop. He also received the Order for Meritorious Service, South Africa’s highest honour. After the fall of apartheid, and the 1994 general election that resulted in a coalition government in South Africa headed by the legendary Nelson Mandela, Tutu was picked to chair the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses committed by both pro and anti-apartheid groups. This significant appointment underlined his moral reputation. He received numerous awards and honorary degrees, particularly in South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States. He had about 100 honorary degrees by 2003. May 13 was declared ‘Desmond Tutu Day’ in Illinois State, USA, in 2008. Acclaimed for advancing spiritual principles, he demonstrated his belief that “human beings are made for goodness,” and should be committed to making the world a better place.