It is reassuring that the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu waded into the crisis that almost engulfed the high-brow Magodo area of the state, over the mode of execution of a  judgment of the Supreme Court. While it is a truism that judgments of the court should be obeyed; as the head of a responsible government, it behoves on the governor to take necessary steps to maintain peace and tranquillity amongst contending interests in the state. But many Nigerians are concerned that the Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami, SAN, and the Inspector-General of Police, Alkali Usman, who mobilised policemen from Abuja, without the knowledge of the governor, usurped the powers of court sheriffs, as provided by the Sheriff and Civil Process Act. While by their action they undermined our federal system of government, it is however reassuring that the governor and his team are mediating in the crisis. After the peace meeting, the governor said: “I am happy to inform gentlemen of the press that the issues had been well laid out. We are not in any disagreement or misconception about the fact that there is a Supreme Court judgment or a judgment that says Lagos State should give 549 plots to the Shangisha Landlords Association, and all of that had been taken into context and resolved that the committee set up before now should get to work immediately.” The governor went further: “This means that … they will be working with the stakeholders, identifying available plots of land around Shangisha areas, drone will be flown, surveys will be made and available plots will be identified. In the event that available plots are identified, allocations will be made timely and additional plots, if we don’t have the right numbers, we’ll work on mutually agreeable locations with the other stakeholders.”   New year window     Credible polls     Oba Saliu Adetunji (1928 – 2022)   Furthermore, he assured: ‘’The government will also review the list of all the allottees, 549 of them, and we will ensure that the injustice the Shangisha Landlords’ Association had suffered for 38 years, is restituted.” On the part of the police, he said: “We also agreed that there should be a de-escalation of police movement in Magodo because we have all agreed that we can resolve these things on the table among ourselves.” - Advertisement - No doubt, the landlord’s association has a case, as affirmed by the governor. But if the AGF and the IGP feel justified to act on behalf of the judgment creditors, they owe a responsibility to Lagos State, which is a federating unit, to inform the governor of the state, who is the chief security officer of the state, about the movement of the police brought into the state. That was the point excellently made by the governors of the south-west, through their chairman, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN. After all, the same AGF had, when it suited him, argued strenuously that where the peace of the federation is threatened, the human rights of the citizens takes the back stage. If we may ask, what is more threatening than an invasion of an estate by police officers who are not empowered by law to execute judgments by themselves, in a manner that could threaten the lives and property of citizens in a state, without the knowledge of the state chief security officer? Except of course, the AGF is saying that the provision of section 2(2) of the 1999 constitution which states: “Nigeria shall be a Federation consisting of states and a Federal Capital Territory” is a farce. If Nigeria is truly a federation, then as stated by the Lagos State governor: “there is no need for men of the police to come from either Abuja or wherever into Magodo again.”