Almeria of Spain forward Sadiq Umar is one of the 14 debutants that featured for Super Eagles at the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Cameroon. The Kaduna State-born forward has yet stated that he should not be judged by his performance in Cameroon since he is still on the learning curve with the senior national team, TAOFEEK BABALOLA reports. Sadiq Umar came into the limelight in Nigerian football in 2016, when he was included in the Samson Siasia 18-man squad to the 2016 Rio Olympics and was an important member of the squad that won a bronze medal at the tournament as Nigeria’s top scorer. Following his exploits in Rio, the gangling striker was tipped to be another star in the making for the senior national team but his progress was stalled as he has the likes of Odion Ighalo, Victor Osimhen, and Paul Onuachu to compete with for the Super Eagles forward role. And, the former Super Eagles manager Gernot Rohr preferred the trio in his squad ahead of Umar. Although he was not in the provisional Eagles 38-man list for AFCON submitted to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) by Rohr as faith would have it, the interim coach Augustine Eguavoen included added him to the final 28-man list.  “It was a moment of joy for me as a player to be called to represent my country at AFCON and I am so happy when I received the news of my call up to the national team. It was the dream of every player to represent his country and I am happy to get the chance to do so I can’t wait to be part of the team again in March when we take on Ghana in the World Cup play-offs,” Umar told Nationsport.  - Advertisement - Umar scored his first goal for Nigeria as they eased to a 2-0 victory over Guinea-Bissau in the last Group D match when Kelechi Iheanacho’s excellent pass with the outside of his boot across the goal provided a tap-in for the tall forward at the back post. Expressing his feeling for the goal being his debut goal for the national team, the former Roma FC of Italy striker said, “I feel great, that moment was an unforgettable moment for me and my family but in football, you just enjoy a few days and you look to what is coming to you next. Now we just have to go back to our club with the head down and come back to give everything to the qualifiers. Despite scoring a goal in the tournament, the 24-year old forward was criticised for some glaring misses in the tournament but Umar admitted that he is still trying to adapt to the new environment in the Super Eagles setting which is completely different from the 2016 set. ”It was not an easy one because this is my first time here and we don’t have much time together before coming to the AFCON. We had two weeks of training and not with the full house before we came to the tournament. But finally, I tried to understand how the team is playing and how things are been done in the team. I feel great and I am proud of myself to be part of the team,” he noted.  Regardless of criticism, Coach Eguavoen has used every opportunity during competition to express confidence he has in the Almeria of Spain forward and how to get better of him as a striker.  “After the game against Guinea Bissau he (coach Eguavoen) called me and told me he had lots of confidence in me, and I should keep doing what I know how to do best and he is happy with what I am doing in my club, that the coaching crew are behind me and would give me all the support I wanted,” he noted.   NIGERIA vs. GHANA: Qatar 2022 play-off ignites fierce…     Lagos brace up for Eko’2022 Polo Festival     Nadal closes in on tennis history   Umar attributed the Eagles’ exit to ill luck. “It was a big disappointment for all of us because they only had one shot on target and scored one goal. That is football when it is not your day; it is not your day,” he stated, adding “The defeat is hard for everyone to take. All of us left the pitch disappointed. Millions of Nigerians were disappointed as well and all I can tell them is that let them keep supporting us and the flag of Nigeria is never down.  “When you lose everything is wrong and when you win everything is right. This is football and it was not our day. We have accepted it and we will go home and come back stronger.  We have to keep moving because we still have a lot of matches ahead of us.” Nigeria has been pitched against its perennial arch-rivals Ghana in the 2022 Qatar World Cup playoffs in March and Umar is confident that Nigeria will pick the ticket at the expense of Ghana, insisting that the boys are hungry for more.  ”We will come back with full energy. The players are hungry for more. We want to give Nigerians what they desire which are victories and we will come back with full energy to face Ghana. With what happened in the game against Tunisia, I believe we will come back stronger because sometimes disappointment makes you stronger. I hope this disappointment will make us stronger,” he stressed. For the game against Ghana, Osimhen would be back in the team and the 6ft tall forward is already looking forward to playing with the Napoli striker  “You know Osimhen is a top player who has already shown his class in the best league in the world, and with players like this, you just have to enjoy the moment. I hope he will come back fit to the national team to do what he knows how to do best.” The former Torino FC of Spain has also said that the Super Eagles captain Ahmed Musa has inspired him as his hero.   “Ahmed Musa is one of the heroes when you are talking about the Super Eagles. You can’t mention twenty names without talking about him because he has already shown it in the past and he is still giving to the game in and outside the field. We just have to appreciate him and keep enjoying the moment with him,” Umar’s parents wanted him to pursue education but after noticing his passion for football, they backed him.  “My Parents played lots of roles in my football career. They followed you and pushed you to chase your dreams. Even though back home they always wanted us to go to school and not every parent supported football but after my dad and mom realized that this is what I wanted and they supported me,” he added.  The Olympic bronze medalist has played in Spain, Italy, Scotland, and Serbia but he preferred Spanish football to other leagues.  “The Italian league is all about tactics, it makes you grow a lot and it has really helped me a lot. The Spanish league is more of total football. If you don’t want to play with the ball do not come to Spain. It is total football. I am enjoying the moment, playing every game and that’s what a footballer needs.  I am enjoying my football in Spain,” he said.