AHEAD of the 18th edition of the Africa Movie Academy Awards AMAAs, the Africa Film Academy has announced the call for entry submissions. In a recent statement signed by the founder of the awards ceremony, Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, the organisers called on filmmakers to submit their genres of films to vie for nomination in almost 30 categories of the film award. “Africa Film Academy, organisers of the AMAAs, is now accepting submissions for the 18th Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAAs). The Africa Film Academy invites filmmakers to submit their feature, short, animation and documentary works for consideration in nearly 30 film categories of the awards,” the statement read in parts. Organisers also stressed that submission of films is strictly opened to films produced between a period of one year. “This submission is officially open to only films produced and released between 1 st of May 2021 and April 31st, 2022 (last day of submission). All entries for the 18th AMAAs will be made via Filmfreeway. The Africa Film Academy will not accept any film that exceeds the 120-minute run as a feature or a short film that is longer than 40 minutes.” The 17th edition of the AMAAs was held at the Lagos Marriott Hotels, Ikeja with Lagos state Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, several filmmakers across Africa and diaspora, executives and government officials in attendance.   PHOTOS: Davido, 30BG crew on groomsmen duties in Zimbabwe     Bobrisky apologises for asking Oba of Benin to marry him/her     My one BBN ‘Shine Ya Eye’ regret, by Sammie   - Advertisement - During the event, Nigeria’s “Eyimofe” which was directed by Chuko and Arie Esiri scooped five awards, winning NFVCB Award for Nigerian Best Film in the process. Somalia’s “The Gravedigger’s wife” also shined at the 17th AMAAs scooping five awards and winning the best film. Somalian Actor, Omar Abdi won the “Best Actor in a Leading Role” for the role he played in the multiple award-winning film, The Gravedigger’s wife.Ugandan Actress, Joan Agaba beats top nollywood actresses like Funke Akindele and Rita Dominic to win the AMAA 2021 Awards for best actress in a leading role. Kelechi Udegbe also won the award for best actor in a supporting role for his role in Collision Course, while Wilmah Munemera won the AMAA 2021 Award for Best Young/Promising Actor. AMAA awards two major categories of short films and animation. The proposed date of the nomination’s gala night for the 18 th AMAAs is Friday, August, 26, 2022 while the award ceremony will run through Wednesday, October 26, 2022 to Sunday, October, 30, 2022. AMA Awards was founded in 2005 and is widely known throughout the globe for its reputation in rewarding the brilliance of players in the African movie industry.