Mayowa Alakija, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in this interview with Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI, speaks about the succession politics in the ruling party In your view, why is your party, the APC, finding it difficult to put its house in order? I don’t think there are doubts over the convention; I believe it would hold in February as proposed. This is because the leadership of the party is aware of the implications of not holding the convention; considering that there will be primaries this year to elect the party’s flag bearers for various elective positions at the state and national levels. So, they know the importance of putting the house in order, to ensure that there is a national convention to elect the National Executive Committee (NEC) that would eventually conduct the primaries for our great party. Besides, the issue of having rancour within the party is a general phenomenon; it is not peculiar to the APC, as the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) have their own issues. Even in developed democracies, like in the United States, such things are not uncommon. As a matter of fact, the differences we have in the APC today is not a big deal; it is merely family rancour because we are one big family. Though there are personal and selfish interests here and there, I am optimistic that at the end of the day, these issues would be sorted out amicably; knowing full well that they would have implications on the party. So, I believe the differences would be sorted out and the convention would hold next month. The leadership of the party would ensure that it happens. One of the crucial decisions that would be taken during the convention is the issue of the zoning of the party’s presidential ticket. What are the chances that the party would zone the ticket to the South as widely envisaged? The likelihood is that the ticket would be zoned to the South because if you take cognizance of the situation in the country, you will notice that there are a series of agitations and the party leadership knows the imperative of zoning the ticket to the South. We currently have a president of northern extraction and there is no way the next president will be picked from that region again without creating more problems for the country. If you go down the memory lane, former President Olusegun Obasanjo was considered for the job in 1999 because he is from the South. After Obasanjo’s tenure, the late Umaru Yar’Adua who hailed from the North emerged. Unfortunately, there was a vacuum in between and former President Goodluck Jonathan came on board. The agitation for zoning in 2015 paved the way for President Muhammadu Buhari to emerge, so there is no way the issue of zoning will not affect the choice of who becomes president in 2023. If you look critically at the situation today, Nigeria is divided as a country along regional and religious lines, and the stakeholders are aware of this, so it would not be in the best interest of the country to pick another president from the North, irrespective of the body language of the PDP leadership on the matter at the moment. In fact, indications, as we speak, are that there is no final word yet on the part of the PDP as far as its presidential ticket is concerned; the ticket could still end up going to a candidate from the South at the end of the day. In the APC, the issue of zoning is even more profound because a president of northern extraction would be vacating office in 2023 and based on the agreement at the outset the next president ought to come from the South. I am sure that the party leadership would not want to disappoint us the youths from the South that are members of the party, particularly because they know this will have implications on our stand in this coming election.   APC Congress Committee petitions IGP, DSS over alleged…     Ijaws canvassing for Delta governorship slot, against zoning     Lagos APC to Lagosians: expect a better 2022   - Advertisement - There are speculations that former President Jonathan is being wooed to join the ruling party to run for the presidency next year. The idea behind it is that he is entitled to only four, so that power would return to the North after that. Do you see the APC giving its ticket to someone that joins the party at the last minute? As we speak, the former president is still a member of the PDP because he has not renounced his membership in the party. Having ruled the country on the platform of the PDP, the former president has played his part. Of what benefit would it be for our party, the APC to draft him into the 2023 presidential race? Does it mean that there are no credible aspirants within the party to run for the office? Considering the fact that we have credible people like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu that have made sacrifices for the progress of the APC that would be a disservice to such people and the party in general. Tinubu particularly had been a member of the opposition before the advent of the APC as the ruling party. He was one of those that took on the former ruling party head on to ensure the emergence of Buhari as the president in 2015. In 2015, he was capable and willing to run but had to step down because of the perception that the period was meant for a candidate from the North. So, when he now indicates interest to run in the next general elections, are we going to say that he is not capable of flying the party’s ticket? If you look at what is happening now, everybody is clamouring for Asiwaju, not only in the South but even in the North. We need him; if he can perform the same magic he performed in Lagos, with many states trying to replicate what is happening in Lagos, it would be of benefit to the country at large. So, I strongly believe that we have a credible candidate in Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and that there is no need to woo former President Jonathan to join the APC and run on the party’s ticket. How is your group preparing to support Tinubu’s aspiration? As the Youth Ambassador of the United Nigeria Forum (UNF), a group within the APC, we are trying to come up with a movement to mobilise Nigerian youths for Asiwaju. When it comes to politics, Nigerian youths are very docile; they don’t believe in politics and they don’t believe in the politicians and they believe that the best way we can participate is to criticize on social media. So, we want to mobilise Nigerian youths at the grassroots level for Asiwaju through this said youth movement, which will be launched very soon. Beyond the issue of mobilisation, we are also going to raise funds through this movement to support his campaign. The name of the group is Youth Movement for Asiwaju Tinubu’s Agenda (YOMATA). This body will galvanise Nigerian youths from the Southwest, South-south, Southeast, Northeast, Northwest and North-central. We already have representatives at five geo-political zones. We are using our engagement platform to raise funds for him, so that we can have a stake in the project and ask questions when the time comes. This youth movement you talking about, is it something already in existence or is it still in the making? We have formally launched and it is already in existence. As I said earlier, we are already on the ground in five geo-political zones. Our next step is to organise a series of symposiums at the local government levels, the state and the national level to engage and educate the youths on the reasons why they need to support Asiwaju. Basically, we are looking for a means to get the youths actively involved in the electioneering process through funding, because the funding of elections in Nigeria is different from the way it is done in the United Kingdom (UK) and we want to correct that orientation. The perception we have in Nigeria is that if you are running for an elective office, you are going there for your own interest. No! We want to change that perception. Even if it is N1,000, you can contribute to Asiwaju’s campaign, do it because it would make you a stakeholder and you can ask questions. This is to ensure that Asiwaju does not have to spend his personal or depend on a cabal who would eventually manipulate him when he comes to power to fund his campaign. Incidentally, the funding of elections in the United States is slightly different from that of the UK, but there are similarities. I am speaking as an individual; I am speaking on behalf of all the youths that are already on board in five geo-political zones and others that will join us later. The symposium would kick off in the next two weeks and it would be followed by other activities, particularly with regards to raising funds for Asiwaju. We are aware that some powers that be are saying that Asiwaju should not run for the presidency, but our stand is that nobody should intimidate Asiwaju or ask anybody to step down; they should bring out their own credible aspirant to contest against him for the APC ticket. At the end of the day, the best man would get the ticket. They should not use the idea of Moslem-Moslem ticket or that he is a kingmaker to intimidate him. Who says that a kingmaker cannot become a king?