WORRYING about insignificant things has serious implications on one’s sex life. Some couples hardly enjoy their sex lives as they should. For instance, some men are so burdened by the size of their organs, which does not make much sense to women. So, husbands should be at peace with themselves. A survey of 50,000 men and women showed that the majority of women (85 percent) are content with the size of their husband’s penis, while nearly half of the men (45 percent) were unhappy with their package. In essence, wives should let their husbands know that they care more about them. According to a study carried out in 2008, at the University of Zurich, both men and women release oxytocin, called the ‘cuddle hormone’ during lovemaking. This strengthens the bond between new moms and their babies. So, what does that mean for men? Oxytocin boosts their desire for intimacy and their feelings of trust. Therefore, what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Wives, don’t be in a hurry ‘to put the food off the stove.’ Just stay for a few minutes. He needs to be cuddled too, and his nipples are as much fun as yours. Wives also know how it feels when their husbands deliberately ignore their nipples during foreplay or sex. Definitely, no woman likes it. So, why are you ignoring him? Men’s nipples are as important to them as yours are to you. More than half of the men surveyed in a 2006 study conducted by the University of Sheffield in England confessed that the stimulation of their nipples caused or enhanced their arousal. But only 17 percent ever asked for it, because they expected their wives to know the right thing to do at that point. Couples should not forget that variety is the spice of life…and of sex. Whether you do it in a spare room, penthouse, kitchen floor or bathroom, just try something new - Advertisement - The belief that women do not get easily aroused isn’t true in all cases. Show the best of affection to your wife and see her respond in a jiffy. In a 2007 study, wives who receive lots of affection get turned on easily. The researchers at McGill University in Montreal, Canada who used thermal imaging technology discovered that men who watch their wives undress become fully aroused in 664.6 seconds (11 minutes), compared to their wives, who took 743 seconds (12 minutes) while receiving the best of affection. If your sex life isn’t hot, it is simply because you’re cold. Research from the Netherlands shows that couples with cold feet had a harder time reaching orgasm — only 50 percent made it. When couples put on socks, the number jumped to 80 percent. The climatic condition of our country is definitely a good sex start-jumper. To some wives, the musky smell of their husband’s sweat can be a real turn-on for them. You really can’t tell what can be a sex turn on for your wife. Ask so that you can have the best of sex. In a 2007 study at the University of California, Berkeley, it was established that the scent of men boosts women’s sexual arousal, mood, heart beat and blood pressure. It’s never too late for the elderly couples to steal a moment out now and then. Even if having sex is something you do only on special occasion like birthdays, Mother’s Day, Father’s Day and so on, you can always get back on track. You may have to force yourself at first, but the more you do it, the more you want to do it. Start with once a month, then once a week, and who knows? Maybe you’ll be a once-a-day elderly couple. There is no harm in trying. Sometimes, some elderly husbands gather together and discuss their sex lives with themselves as old friends. And some get off the hook after listening to some of their friends’ exploits, even when such stories are mere fabrications. Old women should also not hide their feelings. But if you tired or having headache and any good reason why you do not want to give in to the demands of your wife on sex, do not be ashamed to say it out. It could be funny. But it was discovered through a 2009 survey carried out at the Newcastle University in England that women who have wealthy husbands and healthy marriages have more orgasms than those who are living in abject poverty. Young wives married to older husbands should realise that they have to create the mood and atmosphere when it comes to having a hot and sizzling form of sex. Contrary to popular belief, men aren’t always ready and willing to all the time. Middle aged men also go through their own form of menopause, as their testosterone levels also drop. After the age of 30, testosterone levels decline approximately by one percent every year, with a steep drop between the ages of 45 and 50. So, if he seems not interested in your advances, take it easy. And if you have not yet discovered, the toes, fingers, earlobes and back of the knees are key erogenous zones for both men and women. Romance could last forever if you let it be. New research shows that long-term marital relationships can keep their sexual chemistry, intensity and engagement going strong. If you are an old wife and sex does not appeal to you any longer, it is because of hormonal changes in your body. This is how it feels – You always experience bleeding; your sex drive has shriveled up; you’re very dry now; your mood swings and so on. What you are expected to do is to be positive about life. Be optimistic, you can still enjoy your sex life.   QUESTION Your article on kissing on Saturday, November 21, 2009 opened my eyes to a lot of things. It was a fantastic piece. One of the regular readers of the column wrote about wives that always want to starve their husbands of sex. To be candid, as a married man myself, I cheat on my wife occasionally. Yes indeed, I do. It is definitely not right. No, it is a grievous sin. But I do it at least monthly. Why? You may ask. It borders on the same point that the man raised in his article. Wives don’t give sex as much as they should. It could be true that men are not as romantic as they should, but then, if we don’t get enough sex in the home, we have to go outside. And believe me; those Lagos girls are ever ready for action. My wife is beautiful and sexy. But she always complains that she is tired. We have children and I know this makes it challenging. However, it does not mean we should only do it once in three weeks. I thought it was only me. But after reading your column last week, I realised that it is an epidemic. Yes, Funmi, men cheat on their wives too much. It is not right. I think both men and women are at fault.   ‘My husband murdered my three daughters to traumatise me’     ‘Gunmen tied, made me watch as they killed my six children…     Police repel Boko Haram attack on training college   It would be shocking to tell you that at least 60% of Lagos men cheat on their wives. Yes. While wives always complain of tiredness, men come under pressure from these pretty girls all over the place. I know that most of the men in my company (telecoms sector) regularly do it. Many don’t even enjoy it. But it’s the only way to relieve pressure, while we don’t want our wives to know. Now, I have two girls that I see regularly. They are nice single girls and we like each other. They know I’m married, but they don’t really mind. They do it because they enjoy the sex too. Many say it is because of money, but the truth is that it is not so. These single girls want men who care for them, spend time with them and say nice things which they don’t see from single men of their age. I am writing this because I don’t like cheating on my wife. I don’t. I love her so much. But as any man in his forties would confess, we need good sex regularly, at least once a week. When I don’t get it, I always call these girls and we meet after work. We don’t love each other, but we enjoy each other’s company and have great sex. Now, I am much older. I can understand why our fathers always used to have girls out there. And the mothers used to say the girls had juju or something. It is all a big lie – the girls always get the married men because their legs are ready to open without any begging, pleading and bribing. I feel wives should be implored to stop destroying their marriages. There is an epidemic here that we need to watch out for. I have promised myself that I won’t do it again. But if I don’t get sex from my wife for three weeks, I know I will do it again.   ANSWER Thanks for your comment. I am sure this is food for thought and l know our women out there will not only read this, but will make necessary adjustments. However, I would like to say that the mere fact that everybody is doing something does not make it right. With the help of God, we can make up our minds to be an exception.   QUESTION I got married about seven years ago and the marriage is blessed with two lovely kids; a girl and a boy of 6 and 2 years old respectively. I fall in the category of men who didn’t have the ‘best of time’ sexually before marriage due to parental strictness and guidance (a blessing in disguise, you will say). Hence, I was looking forward to a sexually enjoyable and explosive marriage. I met my wife a virgin and she never allowed me to have sexual intercourse during our courtship. The first six months of our marriage was beautiful when it comes to sex between couples. After then, her interest dwindled; she did not initiate sex anymore and I became more of burden anytime I demanded sex at night. I am a Christian and I know what the Bible says about adultery. These days, I’m lucky when I’m able to have it once in a week; best case scenario is twice in a week. I’ve tried my best to make her happy by buying her gifts from time to time; but the effect does not last long. I bought a Honda for her use (even though the registration is in my name). It’s becoming so frustrating. I’ve tried on a couple of occasions to make her read your columns, but she doesn’t; she’s not an avid reader. I’m giving up the fight and I don’t want to look for pleasure outside my marriage, even though the temptation is always there. I’m confused.   ANSWER Sincere appreciation for sharing your experience with me, especially, the fact that you have not taken irrational decisions. I would also want to add that you should try and create a time to actually pour out your heart to your wife. I’m so sure that when she sees the importance, she would definitely change, because no woman wants to see her marriage destroyed. You can do this by going on a weekend vacation to a free, quiet and private place together. Keep the children with trusted friends and just go out alone together. This eradicates stress and helps both of you to unwind. You should also remember that affection and foreplay means a lot to many ladies. If you skip foreplay, most of them feel as if they are being legally raped or put under the knife of a surgeon. Then, make sure that you address her in a befitting manner, and not the way a house girl is addressed.   QUESTION My wife is slim. She says penetrative sex does not make her experience orgasm. When I read your column about foreplay and I tried what you said, it didn’t work. I don’t know the part of her body that will make her experience orgasm faster and her breast is just too small; smaller than a bra 32 size. As for ‘eating’ her, I can’t do that. Please reply to me and I would be grateful.   ANSWER There are many parts in a lady’s body that can make her experience orgasm. Virtually all the areas of a woman’s body can help her experience it; even by talking to her emotions. A simple talk, caresses whisperings and passionate touches here and there in any part of her body will do the magic. So, irrespective of the size of her breast, she can still experience orgasm with or without penetrative sex. To your second question, using your tongue on your wife’s vagina has no negative effect on your health; just make sure her vagina is very clean and neat.