Seasoned football administrator Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam has warned that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) must henceforth refrain from acts inimical towards the Super Eagles qualification for the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup, even as he advised that politicians and moneybags should be kept away from the team’s dressing room. The Super Eagles were befuddled with all sorts of promissory funds before their 1-0 Round of 16 defeat by Tunisia on Sunday at the Africa Cup of Nations(AFCON) Cameroon 2021 and Uchegbulam has urged the leadership to stop ego-tripping on the altar of football administration for obvious reasons. “We are unfortunately counting our losses after the crash from the AFCON and this is a time for sober reflection especially on the part of the leadership of the NFF,” Uchegbulam, a former 1st Vice-President of the NFF, told NationSport. “By now, there are some things we should stop doing and I want to beseech the NFF to keep politicians and the so-called Corporate Nigeria away from the Super Eagles dressing room because it would always backfire.”   SWAN Partners Supporters Club for Qatar 2022 Playoffs     Australian Open: Medvedev to set meet Tsitsipas in…     Akide, Ayila feature in FIFA Next 90   The respected Uchegbulam frowned at the perennial cash pledges to the national team players who ironically are professionals in their own rights on the eve of important matches; sighting two previous incidents that boomeranged for the Super Eagles. “On the eve of our important match against Argentina at the SA 2010 World Cup, the then President Goodluck Jonathan came to the Super Eagles along with business mogul Mike Adenuga who promised the team One Million USD for a win but we lost because the mind of most of the players was on the money,” Uchegbulam recalled. - Advertisement - “ The same scenario played out at Brazil 2014 World Cup when a huge sum of money sent directly to the Super Eagles from the presidency before the Round of 16 match against France but what happened? Our team crumbled like a pack of cards towards the end of the match due to fatigue of sharing money overnight and we lost 2-0 to France. “ We made the same mistake before last Sunday’s match against Tunisia but we can all see that all these monetary pledges to the Super Eagles has never helped rather, it destroyed the team,” the current Imo FA chairman noted.