Hon. Saidu Musa Abdullahi is Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Finance, representing Bida//Gbako/Katcha Federal Constituency of Niger State. In this interview with Gbenga Omokhunu, the lawmaker said the Ninth National Assembly is focused, adding that to solve the security challenges bedeviling the country, those in authority must be willing to dialogue with all concerns and apply brute force where and when necessary. HOW do you think we can address the security challenges bedeviling this country? Now, we must be honest enough to tell ourselves that this challenge of insecurity, whichever guise it has taken, preceded this government and I have said it in different forums, yes, there is room for government to double its efforts, but if we look at it objectively, what we are seeing today is a result of deprivation that the people have suffered over time. At the time we were doing our electioneering campaign, I decided to do it the extraordinary way. And what do I mean by that, we reached out to plenty of villages in the hinterland in order to have first-hand information of the situations in the rural environment and the discoveries were quite alarming. You go to a village and see children coming out in their numbers, you scout round the environment, and you won’t find any educational facility, no sign of healthcare facilities, no access road, no electricity, and no access to pipe-borne water. Generally, you don’t see any real sign of life in the rural environment. When these children grow up, one thing or the other will bring them to the urban centers, and once they have a feel of what the urban centers have to offer, they will not go back to the rural communities and because we failed in providing them with the right sets of skills, we did not give them education, they will naturally become nuisance to the urban populace. I think this is exactly the situation we are faced with in most part of the country today. The solution is going to be two-way, the carrot and stick approach. We must be willing to sit with those who are willing to mend their ways and of course hit hard on those who are bent on causing problems for the country. Governments at all levels must also be more alive to their responsibilities to the people. The security and welfare of the people must be on the front burner as provided for in our constitution. The solution would not happen overnight but with careful but deliberate planning, everything will fall into place. How did you join politics? Give us a brief about your life sojourn? I had the early part of my education in my hometown, Bida. My Primary School, Secondary School and I even had my National Diploma at the Federal Polytechnic, Bida before proceeding to the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University Zaria for my first degree. I read Economics and graduated as one of the best in the class. I made a 2nd Class Upper Division. In fact, because of my performance, I got a job offer as a final year student. The Nigerian International Bank, now CitiBank came to the campus to pick top performing students from various faculties in the University, and fortunately, because of my performance, I was among the students that were picked, and I think I came top of the test, the recruitment test that was conducted. So, the plan was for me to serve with them and afterwards, they were to retain us, but destiny had a different plan for me. I was posted to Kano for my One-Year National Youth Service and was posted to serve with a commercial bank, Zenith Bank PLC. Now, I did my one-year NYSC with Zenith Bank PLC Kano, Bello Road Branch to be precise. I was in the Marketing unit, I opted for it even as a corp. member. I think at the time, I was the only corp. Remember that was posted to the marketing unit because it was my choice, and it gave me the opportunity of meeting people from different backgrounds. And because it was a critical period in my formative years, I opened my mind to learn a lot and I think that marked the beginning of my appreciation of what the Nigerian Economy and its Political structure should be. After my youth service, of course because of our performances, I was retained by the bank and I spent the next 6 to 7 years in Zenith Bank PLC between Kano and Dutse in Jigawa State. I was what you could easily term a whiz kid banker. I could proffer solutions to clients’ problems, and that endeared a lot of customers to us. At a time, I was transferred from Kano to Dutse, Jigawa State (the branch was a loss-making branch at the time but by the time we left, it became one of the top performing branches in the Bank. I worked under one of the best managers in the Bank then and of course, the team I worked with was the best. Like I said earlier, I met quite a lot of people from the political space to the business world while I was in the bank. Interestingly, even when I was in the bank, I was seen as a political banker because I could easily relate with the political class. In Dutse, there was little presence of the private sector, so what we were doing then majorly was public sector banking. I got so much inspiration from the exploits of Alhaji Sule Lamido who was the Governor of Jigawa State then. So, he had and still has an impact on what I think of politics.   Ogun politics after Buhari’s testimonials     2023 guber: Kwara North intensifies agitation amidst…     Clark: I will back Saraki’s presidential ambition…   - Advertisement - Was that what motivated you to venture into politics? I left Zenith Bank in 2012 and joined Oando Marketing PLC. Initially I was in-charge of the Maiduguri branch of the company, but at the later part of my stay in the company, I was given a bigger responsibility of covering the whole of the Northeast apart from Bauchi State. This experience was also a good one. I left Oando marketing PLC in 2015 to join a company whose account I managed while in the bank, Gerawa Group of Companies. The relationship between me and the promoter of the Company was beyond ordinary Banker-Customer relation. Therefore, the moment I left the bank, the chairman kept enticing me to join his company and of course in 2015, late 2015, I think in December, I took the decision of joining the Company. Before then, I was under the tutelage of bosses, but in Gerawa, I became the boss. I was reporting to only the Chairman of the company. This was the real call to leadership for me. Yes, I led a succes sful team in the Bank and was a successful sales manager with Oando but the real call to leadership for me was my experience with Gerawa. I was directly in-charge of the Road Construction arm of the Company. The Company also has interest in agro-value chains. As I speak with you, the company owns the biggest Oil Milling plant in West Africa, and the biggest rice milling plant in the country also. These cumulative experiences prepared one to want to add value to the public space and especially through the political process. More so, that I have been an advocate of getting professionals crowding both politics and the entire public space. I also read lots of books about the great exploits of our forebears, especially our first republic leaders. Their stories are enough inspiration for one to want to contribute his little quota to the development of this Country. All these put together makes venturing into partisan politics a necessary decision for me. Looking ahead in 2023, what lies ahead? I think at this stage of our democratic development, we must take decisions that will deepen democracy and enhance participation by the people. We took the decision to go for direct primaries because of these two reasons. Each of the political parties have their faithful who have not been too much involved in their Party activities. One thing we must get right as a country for democracy to endure is to redefine our leadership recruitment process. You must redefine it so that the process produces the best, not necessarily money bags that have come to crowd the space today. We must make it transparent enough by ensuring participation from party faithful right from the level of party primaries before going for general elections. One of the factors that influenced my decision to join Partisan politics was the fact that I feel as a generation, we have not been given the opportunity to participate. Interestingly, most of the leaders you see today had leadership thrust upon them right from their youthful age. General Gowon became head of state in his early thirties. You also have the class of 99, governors of 99, the bulk of whom became governors in their early 40s. My late Governor Kure became governor when he was 43. Kwankwaso was 43. Makarfi was 43. Donald Duke was 39, Saminu Turaki was 36, now it is not acceptable for someone to look at me today at 42 when by 2023 I will be 44 to say I am too young for such a responsibility. I think we should focus more on quality than quantity. I am for the quality of experience as against years of experience any time, any day. What is your perspective on governance in Niger state? Governor Abubakar Sani Bello. I met him before he became Governor. We had a chat and I immediately keyed into his vision for Niger state. He has particularly focused his attention in the educational sector in the State. His government has done quite a lot in terms of giving a face lift to some key sector of the state that has enhanced development across the State.