An interest group, Movement for Election of Nigerian President of Igbo Extraction, on Friday, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing Sen. Margery Chuba-Okadigbo as Board Chairman of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Limited. Convener of the movement, Mr Vincent Ezekwueme, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu that the appointment was ‘the greatest New Year gift’ to the people of South-East and Anambra in particular. Ezekwueme described Okadigbo as a distinguished, worthy, courageous, selfless and patriotic senator and servant leader of the people as well as doyen of the Okadigbo political dynasty. “There is no doubt in our minds that she will live up to expectations and reposition NNPC for optimal and more robust performances. “The movement commends President Buhari for reciprocating the immense contributions made by his running mate during the 2003 presidential election and former Senate President, Dr Chuba Okadigbo, toward protecting, promoting and sustaining the current political dispensation. - Advertisement - “We also thank the president for appointing his late widow and distinguished Sen. Margery Okadigbo as Chairman of Governing Board of NNPC Limited,” he said.   My husband wants to kill me with too much s3x, says woman     Buhari inaugurates NNPC Board, demands transparency,…     Mbaka: Heaven dragged me into priesthood   Ezekwueme recalled that the movement had, during appointment of Chief George Muoghalu as Chief Executive Officer of National Inland Waterways Authority, pleaded with Buhari to extend such good gesture to the Okadigbo family. He said: “We are extremely happy and grateful that our patriotic demand has been actualised by President Muhammadu Buhari. “We passionately appeal to the president to give more such political appointments to the South-East zone, especially actualising Nigerian president of Igbo extraction,” he said. The convener recalled that the late Chuba Okadigbo had once assured that the Buhari presidency would guarantee quick and prompt actualisation of Nigerian president of Igbo extraction. “This remains his (Okadigbo’s) greatest heart desire and best wishes,” he said. (NAN)