The Chairman, Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Primary Election and governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Mohammed Badaru, has said that no aspirant boycotted the party’s shadow election conducted in the state on Thursday. Rather, he said, the grudge of seven aspirants a day before the primaries was that party members loyal to the governor were chosen to serve as returning officers in various wards and local governments; a complaint that was promptly attended to. Badaru made this disclosure to newsmen after presenting the official result of the primaries conducted in 166 wards of the state to the Caretaker Committee at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja yesterday, through the Director Organisation of the party, Prof. Usujji Medaner. It will be recalled that a few hours to the primaries, seven aspirants on Thursday pulled out of the exercise, protesting alleged irregularities in the conduct of party primaries. They are Kayode Mojo, Demola Popoola, Femi Bamisile, Bamidele Faparusi, Dayo Adeyeye, Opeyemi Bamidele and Afolabi Oluwasola. A statement issued by the aggrieved aspirants reads: “The seven aspirants herein received with rude shock and dismay the purported list of the local government election committee and ward election committee made up solely by party members and political appointees that had before now openly endorsed the candidacy of Biodun Oyebanji, the immediate past secretary to the state government.” - Advertisement - They further alleged: “It is on record that the government of Governor Kayode Fayemi has given its unwavering support to the candidacy of Biodun Oyebanji. It is common knowledge that the governor and most appointees of the governor are openly rooting for and supporting Biodun Oyebanji’s aspiration to become the flag bearer of our great party. “What is more disturbing is the fact that a simple glance at the names of the persons appointed as members of both committees would reveal that it is made up of appointees of government who are all supporters of a candidate in the primary election they are appointed to superintend on.” The Chairman of the exercise, who was accompanied by the party’s former National Publicity Secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, faulted the claim that some aspirants pulled out. He said nobody boycotted the exercise but only complained about the returning officers; an issue that was attended to. Asked why seven of the eight aspirants boycotted the exercise, Badaru said: “That is not true. When we landed on the 26th of January, I had meetings with all the aspirants and seven attended out of 8. We discussed the guidelines and we agreed on all the terms. “What they are alleging probably was that party members loyal to the governor were chosen to serve as returning officers in various wards and local governments. “They raised that at the meeting. And I asked them, the guidelines are to use the party people to do the job. We cannot hire or take people that are not from the party. But they can also give us 20 persons each from the party people that they believed will do justice to them. And they provided lists of 20 persons who we incorporated into returning officers. “This was communicated in the early morning to them because they sent their list very late, and that was what even delayed us that night. But we managed to incorporate all the 20 people they each sent to us to participate in the exercise.” Governor Badaru who said the primary was peacefully conducted in line with the party’s guideline, however, said that results of 11 wards were cancelled due to gross malpractice that characterised the primaries in the affected areas. “There was no challenge in the whole process. People came out and voted for the candidates they wanted, and it has been relatively peaceful in the 166 wards. “And when you have issues with only 11 wards, mark you, we have also checked, the number of registered voters in the 11 wards can’t upset the margin of lead by the winner. “It then means that we declare the election conclusive. Because if we say let us do a re-run, the margin of victory is far beyond the number of cancelled wards.” He advised the defeated aspirants to join hands with the winner, reminding them that he had told all the aspirants and other stakeholders that power comes from God. Earlier, Governor Badaru had presented the results of the election in the 16 local government areas of the state to the Caretaker Committee through the party’s Director of Organisation, Prof. Medaner.   Why I’ve ventured into partisan politics –…     Family retrieves corpse of murdered OAU MBA student from…     Trader gets wish for divorce because husband loves his dog…   Commending the committee, the director said that the exercise was a process and that the party will soon inaugurate an appeal committee to attend to any complaints that may arise from the primaries.   Another aspirant rejects Ekiti APC governorship primaries result A leading aspirant in the just concluded Ekiti State governorship primaries of APC, Engr. Kayode Ojo, has called for the cancellation of the results of the poll producing Mr. Biodun Oyebanji. Ojo, who was one of the seven aspirants that boycotted the election held in Ado-on Thursday, rejected the results on the grounds that the processes leading to the poll was marred with manipulation and irregularities. Read Also: Ekiti 2022: Group cautions APC, PDP against disrupting political process Addressing journalists in Ado Ekiti, the state capital yesterday, the governorship hopeful described the shadow poll as a monumental charade, alleging that Governor Kayode Fayemi hijacked the process to the advantage of his anointed aspirant. He stated that no election was held in all the 177 wards of the 16 local government areas in the state, adding that the result in circulation were written in Government House under the supervision of Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru. Ojo alleged that Badaru was appointed the chairman of the election to perform a hatchet job and validate “fraud”, saying that APC had made a mockery of democracy by the incidents that dogged the conduct of the poll. He said: “What you witnessed in Ekiti on Thursday and the day preceding the election showed the election had been compromised even before it was conducted. With this, it was clear that Governor Badaru was not in Ekiti for a credible poll, but to see to the anointing one of the aspirants. “But as of now, I can confirm to you that the APC has no legal and credible candidate in Ekiti. From the results, you could attest to the fact that those figures were fake, concocted by the committee to suit their purpose. “We asked the committee about the personalities that will be used as returning officers on Wednesday, the day preceding the primaries, they didn’t give us any useful answer. “You could all see that majority of the people used as returning officers were members of the APC state executives, appointees of government and elected party members who are lackeys of Governor Kayode Fayemi and were also part of the Biodun Oyebanji campaign Council. “They asked us to nominate 20 persons to be used as returning officers. Up till now, we didn’t see where our lists were included. The original list was not updated. Those we gave to them were not posted to where they would monitor election. “What they did in Ekiti was inappropriate, unethical and unacceptable. The arrangements we had were disgraceful. All the numbers allocated to aspirants were fake. Nobody has won any election here in Ekiti. We all reject this craziness. “It is irresponsible of Governor Badaru and his team to come here and disgrace our party. It is a shame for any governor to behave this way. “We have resolved to stand against this injustice. We are seeking every peaceful avenue to ensure that we have a process that would produce a credible candidate in Ekiti. It will be a disaster to APC to approach this election in this disgraceful manner.” The aggrieved aspirant advised the national leadership of the party and the Presidency to intervene in the primary election he described as nullity and illegality, adding that “what they did in Ekiti was evil. They are even worse than evil. “The Presidency must intervene in this matter before APC crumbles in Ekiti. It was sad that they even voided votes in a direct primary where people were counted; to tell you the level of their fraud.”