The memorable day was December 10, 1992. The place was in the International Conference Centre at Musa Usman Secretariat, Maiduguri, Borno State. The occasion was the launching of LEGACY, BORNO STATE Volume 2, a book on the synopsis of the achievements of Colonel Muhammad Buba Marwa as governor. The programme for the occasion showed General Sani Abacha, Minister of Defence and C hief of Defence Staff as the Chief Special Guest. At the high table were among others, Alhaji Maina Ma’aji Lawan, the Executive Governor of Borno State, Lt. Colonel Mohammed Buba Marwa, the Special Guest, the Chairman of the Occasion in person of Elder statesman Shettima Ali Monguno, the Chief launcher, Ambassador Hamza Abubakar. The Guest Speaker El-Miskeen of the University of Maiduguri and the Master of Ceremony in person of Mallam Kali Imam. In the hall full to capacity and overflowing were present serving and past Commissioners, Directors General, top Civil Servants, politicians, prominent Borno sons and daughters, acclaimed professionals, businessmen, bureaucrats and distinguished ex-this ex-that. The Guest Speaker reviewed the book and made his comments. He among others commended Colonel Buba Marwa for his excellent performance as the Borno state governor. Then care the turn of Colonel Marwa as the special guest who came this time from Kaduna as the Registrar, Nigerian Defence Academy. Before the shout of Jack Rabinson, Colonel Marwa before now known for his soft spokeness and calmness was now on a firing lane as her directed his speech at members of the Borno State House of Assembly who before now called on Governor Ma’aji Lawan to probe the tenure of Marwa as the state Governor. Marwa in a raised voice sowed the wind and dared the whirlwind as he declared before the August gathering “Go ahead; I am ready for the probe. I am incorruptible” He made reference to his handover notes to Governor Maina and the documentation of all work done as contained in the Profile of Development Projects during his period of governorship. The profile Development is a comprehensive summary of the activities of Marwa’s administrative in Borno state. The report, the first of its kind in the history of Borno state is a reflection of Marwa’s attitude in government based on 2A’s and R; Accountability, Action and Results. The table of the Development Projects is presented under the following headings: Finance, Social, Environmental Development and General Administration. Each project or any activity in the report indicated: Project title, Location, Project cost, Amount disbursed, Mode of execution, Date of completion, Extent of execution and Remarks. He adopted the same approach in Lagos state. Not done, Marwa told gathering that he is guided in life and office by his philosophy of “Action, Accountability and Results”, adding he knew one day, he would stand before his Creator to give the account of his stewardship on earth. Immediately after his speech, the Chief Host, Governor Maina Ma’aji Lawan who possibly by now perceived the mood of Marwa and whom few months back during the handing over ceremony he had invested on him honorary citizen of Borno for the great strides he recorded as the out-going governor responded, telling Marwa to forget the insinuations or utterances from the law makers. According to Governor Ma’aji, “the lawmakers are politicians and behaving to type and this should in no way bother anybody”. Neither would the Chairman of the occasion, Shettima Ali Monguno maintained silence. He came in condemnation of the utterances and behavior from some quarters which he pointed out did not augur well for peace and good governance. It would be recalled after the Marwa’s speech at the gathering and subsequent response, the probe call from the Borno legislature remained in abeyance to date, three decades after. This article is informed by the consistency and continued assertion of Marwa’s philosophy of “Action, Accountability and Results” up to date in all his appointments which stands him out not only great, but an accomplished statesman, leader and achiever in a nation of leadership drought negating the assertion of Professor Wole Soyinka that ours is a wasted generation. As a member of my generation, Marwa continued to make us proud and giving hope that all is not lost for Nigeria and the Black Race. Even critics of President Buhari’s appointments are unanimous that the father of the nation at Aso villa has got it right this time on his nod in Marwa. Even in his latest appointment as the Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Marwa less than a year in office has demonstrated in capability and capacity his philosophy in the operations of the agency with resounding successes to the admiration of many who called for more action. He is the man of the moment giving credibility to Buhari’s administration world wide in the war against drugs and illicit substances. - Advertisement - In words of Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, “Greatness can be achieved by an idiot as immortality can be achieved by selected few”. True greatness like true gold is often acknowledge freely and spontaneously by everyone. The leadership style and achievement disposition of Marwa continue to provoke, prick and prod the nation’s leadership question making Marwa an issue of the time. At this juncture it is imperative to ask some pertinent questions: Who is Dr. Buba Marwa and his philosophy? At whom were the programmes and policies of his erstwhile administration in Borno and Lagos targeted? Were they on ground or just on paper? How well spread were they? Did they hasten the pace of democracy and development thereby enlighten and enrich the people so that sooner or later they could be empowered to choose their own leaders democratically? These question would be answered within the context of implementation of the objectives and aspirations of Buba Marwa’s administration programmes and policies in Borno and Lagos as well his service in the NDLEA and what the same portend for the future of the people. Dr. Buba Marwa, a solider gentleman, military intellectual and politician is a child of the barracks. Born 67 years ago, Dr. Buba Marwa, who came from humble background through hardwork and devotion to duty, rose to rank of a Brigadier – General in the military before retirement. A philanthropist, a grandmaster planner, a nationalist and a democrat. A very strong disciplinarian and a detribalized Nigerian. According to Dr. Marwa, “I was brought up in a very strict environment, a religious one too. Islam, of course, is the religion. That background has been guiding me. My father, a capital in the Army used to deputize for the unit’s Imam and that’s how my upbringing came to bear on the strict side. I think I have grown with some of his attitudes, because he was a disciplinarian. Generally, I am very strict too”. Both as Military Governor of Borno State and Military Administrator of Lagos State, Buba Marwa was pragmatism personified. The cunning skill, wisdom and tact with which he made an inroad into the complex states of Borno and Lagos and subsequently endeared himself to the people stands credit to his statesmanship craft. He made a mark and indeed a feat. In the military service he was very outstanding and in academics, he was a genius. Dr. Marwa is an achiever with a midas touch. Marwa is not new to challenges. At the age of three, he lost his mother with all the sacrifices, deprivations and challenges that it entailed. At 12, and as a first form student in the Military School, Zaria, he was conscripted with his mates to manage the tension and uncertainties generated by the coup of January 15, 1966. That was barely a week after his resumption at the military school. He and his mates were to liaise with the civil authorities to maintain security in Zaria town, when according to him “I was not sure if I was taller than the riffle I was holding or the other way round”. At 23, he was the ADC to Theophilus Danjuma, a soldiers’ soldier and generals’ general, Chief of Army Staff during the epochal Murtala/Obasanjo era, and one of the most respected and most accomplished military professionals. He said of the appointment, “the appointment exposed me at a relatively young age of 23 to high command. I observed how an army is run by someone like Theophilus Danjuma.” The watershed of his rising profile was his appointment as the commander of the very powerful elite corps – the 212 Tank Battalion – where he was put in charge of sophisticated equipment worth billions of naira. In June 1990, at 37, he was appointed Governor of Borno State by the Babangida administration. During a short spell at the Sahelian state, he faced squarely the challenge posed by the hard realities on the ground and discharged himself creditably. Borno was faced with the problem created by robbers both from within and the neighbouring countries of Chad, Cameroun and Niger. Marwa met “Operation Damisa,” set up earlier by his predecessor, Colonel Abdul one Mohammed, to combat the menace. He reinvigorated it, changing the code name from Operation Damisa to “Operation Zaki.” Damisa in Hausa means Tiger, while Zaki means Lion. As a result of the ramifying success of Operation Zaki in the war against the underworld, especially the bandits, some of the states in the North East Zone tag their respective security outfits in similar appellation this period. He made history as Borno State Governor when he closed down all the subtreasuries  in the state and centralized the Accounts of the Government in the Ministry of Finance. He accused the sub-treasuries “of constituting themselves into little banks, where the heads collude with contractors and some government officials to steal government money.” His action yielded positive result as government monthly internal revenue increased from N1.5 million to about N5 million. As he did in Borno, Marwa used the direct labour agency to execute many government projects, conserving huge amount of money previously paid to contractors. In sport, he won the Challenge Cup for Borno for the first time. Mohammed Marwa would be remembered for resolving the age-long tussle between two local communities in Borno over the ownership of a settlement called Sabon Gari Village. The village has been tagged as “No Man’s Land” following unresolved rival title claims by both Biu and Damboa communities. The issue had defied attempt at solution by the then Colonial. Government, the Federal Boundary Commission, the Northern Regional Government, the defunct government of the North-East and the successive administrations in Bomo State. Marwa, after a careful study, grabbed the bull by the horns, resolved the dispute and later handed it over to Borno emirate. Also worthy of mention was his immense contribution to boosting tourism. He revived the Maiduguri Sheraton Hotel project began by Governor Mohammed Goni. It had remained a white elephant scheme since the termination of that government in 1983. Marwa completed the project in a record time. He created the Sambisa Game Reserve which competes favourably with Yankari. and handed down the Maiduguri Amusement Park, the first in the whole North. Borno state shares international borders with three countries namely, Niger Republic to the North, Chad to the Northeast and Cameroun to the East. The security and socio-economic implications of sharing such borders with these countries over the years put serious pressure on the tight financial resources of Borno state. On assumption of office as the Military Governor of the state, Colonel Marwa made a strong representation to the Revenue and Fiscal Allocation Committee on the possibility of the inclusion of length of international borders of a state as a factor for revenue allocation. Marwa in his submission amongst others stated the Borno was the biggest state in terms of landmass with an area of 612,000 square kilometers forming nearly 15 percent of the total land area of the country. To Marwa’s credit, his request was considered and the length of international borders of a state thereafter became a factor for revenue allocation. Fully aware of the strategic and security implications of the state, he made development of border towns and villages as one of his major priorities. With diligent prosecution of this policy, Nigerians who had hitherto migrated to various areas in the neigbouring countries for one reason or the other made their way back to the Nigerian soil. To further consolidate its foothold on the border towns, Marwa’s administration awarded a twenty million-naira Television/Radio booster contract to ensure adequate coverage of the state. Hitherto, Nigerians along the border zones in this sector of country were exposed to the vagaries and culture of the French speaking countries in possession of more power radio and television stations. In academics, it was a trail of distinction here and there. His performance at the Military school and the Nigerian Defence Academy was outstanding. In the promotion examination from lieutenant to captain, he came first, he also topped the class in the entrance examination to the staff college. Apart from coming first at the Staff College, he set a record as the first to earn a B grade in the junior division. A record of diligence at school preceded his diligence in public office. It was reported that he was so devoted to his books at the staff college, that one day when his colleagues saw him strolling around the school premises, they exclaimed; “Marwa is strolling around today. It means the course is over”. What better way to show a commitment to learning than bagging two master’s degrees from two of the world’s foremost institutions. Pittsburgh and Harvard, USA in two different subjects, International Relations and Public Administration He equally excelled in these great schools.   Between IPOB and Kanu’s fate     Refuge of common sense     Labour begins mass mobilisation for subsidy removal protests   In recognition of his academic prowess, he was appointed Registrar of the NDA. He was also one of the examiners for the entrance examination to the Staff College. He authored several books which include Military Dictionary and another book on Military Appreciation. Both are recommended texts for the military. For his workaholic disposition and diligence, he was appointed Defence Attache both in Nigerian Missions in Washington DC and New York USA – the first to be appointed twice at different occasions as well as Nigeria former Ambassador to South Africa and the Kingdom of Lesotho and Swaziland. His gentlemanly disposition and urbanity have been explained by his academic exposure and orientation. According to veteran journalist and columnist, Kola Animashaun, “until the simple matter of Sallah rams that caused the storm in a tea-cup between him and indomitable lawyer and human rights activist, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, no one had a confirmation what we suspected that he must have been born well. What gave impression was that he did not swagger… so he is not a guttersnipe. “What is generally known is that he is well educated. It is easy to see the education in him. The people of Lagos are acknowledging Mohamed as approximating their wishes”. What stands him out, says Animashaun “is the gentlemanly -and the educated way he goes about it all”. Neither has the press been so unanimous as now in crowning a state chief executive with the “Man of the Year” title. For example in 1996, Colonel Marwa was made the Sunday Concord ‘Man of the Year’. In crowning Colonel Marwa as its 1996 “Man of the Year,” the Sunday Concord January, 5,1997 writes, “however in a nation where governance has become an avenue of self-aggrandizement and where nothing seems to work it is praise worthy that men like Marwa are in office serving as an example that things could be better with the right man in the right place. That is why he was nominated in a morbid year that left tears, sorrow and blood. At least we had someone who put smiles on our faces – Mohamed Buba Marwa”.  According to the Asoju Oba of Lagos, Chief Molade Okoya Thomas, “What Marwa has done is to prove wrong our past leaders who continued to say that Lagos has no money… and messing up things”. For his service oriented disposition and unparochial approach to issues and appointments, the Late Alhaji Maitama Sule, Nigeria’s Former Permanent Representative to the United Nations tagged Marwa a nationalist and mini sardauna. The massive construction and rehabilitation of Lagos roads, the sanity brought on touting at motor parks, resolving permanently the perennial clashes/between the tanker drivers and cattle dealers along Malu Road through provision of alternative place to cattle dealers, ability to be able to carry both the opposition and the Abacha administration along during the crisis ridden era of the latter, rehabilitation of the miscreants (Area boys) through provision of job and acquisition of skills, promulgation of the popular 1997 Rent Edict, that rescued the tenants from the shylock landlords, re-energizing the OPERATION SWEEP to keep the robbers at bay, improving the treasury by generating an unprecedented N6 billion in eight months, improving the welfare of civil servant through provision of free healthcare to 90,000 public servants and breaking the ground for affordable housing scheme, and his skillful handling. of the killer beans saga which brought once more beans business into full scale which had hitherto almost collapsed were some of the land marks of Marwa administration in Lagos. Thus evidence are abound to show that in commerce, water development, health, education, rural electrification and other Infrastructural development, Marwa’s administration both in Lagos and Borno states had made indelible mark through laudable achievements and that in all these areas Marwa’s administration was supportive and mass-oriented. If the primary of the federal government effort is to create a bridge of understanding with the hitherto apathetic, if not hostile environment, Marwa’s appointment as Lagos State Military Administrator had hit its target. Within a short time of assumption of office, through a rare display of sheer guts, results, unmatched commitment and transparency, Marwa had shown that the act of reconciling the government with the governed was not a mirage after all. Within the short time, he drastically narrowed down the gap between the aspirations of the people, and those of the government. The tact, caution and wisdom with which he handled the death and burial ceremony of Chief M.K.O Abiola in a volatile Lagos attested to his statesmanship and cunning skill. In his book: “FROM JOHNSON TO MARWA” the author, Uthman Ademilade Shodipe says of Marwa’s administration: “He was always wrapped in the sturdy benignity of public service. He was born upon a welfarist strain, believing that the challenge of government was to strengthen the weak, to redeem the helpless. A man of philanthropic instinctiveness, he would buy a wheelchair for Adekunle Babalola, a disabled journalist who had merely mentioned his plight to the administrator in a casual encounter. And Joseph Dosu, the Super Eagle goal-keeper who was prostrated by a spinal injury was promptly rescued from a probable life of invalid helplessness with Marwa’s grant of a N7.5 million which allowed the footballer to go to Israel for a life saving surgery. Coming to NDLEA, Dr. Marwa inherited almost a moribund agency with demoralized staff, lacking accommodation, no incentives, stagnation in promotion, lack of training and retraining, unpaid enrolments, a dying agency starved of fund, bereft of meaningful working tools and ingredients expected of a fighter dog. For example, the agency lacked in no small measure operational vehicles, communication gadgets, rifles, protective equipment and loss of good will with regards foreign aid or assistance. On ground starring at Marwa’s face is an agency that has lost its bearing with partners like the civil societies (NGOs) for successful prosecution of its mandate and has become the uninspiring tootles bulldog to expected fearful and deadful watchdog. In short, marwa inherited a rudderless organization leaving him with no choice, but to bolster through the debris of catastrophe. In his characteristic of action, accountability and results, Marwa, as an achiever racing against time hit the ground running decisively in the speed of a meteor. The agency has adopted multi-dimensional approach to taming the shrew. Marwa who before his latest appointment was Chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Drug Abuse (PACEDA), that developed a blue print on how to end drug abuse in Nigeria confronted the challenges in his latest appointment frontally putting in place a machinery that viewed the agency in the interim, midterm and long term measures in an all embracing re-organization process for ultimate goals of the organization. While staff were being motivated through incentives, promotion, initiatives and excellence rewarded, training and retraining is now on stream while essential working tools are being provided. Marwa has made a case to the Presidency not only for adequate funding of the agency, but for good welfare package including accommodation for the staff of the agency for maximum performance in the light of the peculiar and challenging nature of their job. Besides, the chief executive has equally embarked on cleaning the Augean stable of the agency where faults and short comings exist. Intelligence and information sharing between the agency and other related bodies as well between the agency and individuals and even countries is encouraged and facilitated. Besides, the NDLEA boss has been observed moving from one point in the country to the other meeting with royal fathers, opinion leaders, organizations, strategic institutions, religious and civil organizations and other stakeholders with a view to making the war against drug and other dangerous substances a collective one for ultimate success. In his 2022 New Year message to the drug cartels and barons the chairman gave a serious warning to the concerned to turn a new leaf or risk losing all. As a result of the relentless drive of Marwa, NDLEA is fully back on track and calling the shots. At no time in the history of the agency had war on drug and other illicit substances has been intensely and ferociously fought or prosecuted on the terrain or habitat of the drug addicts, couriers, barons, individuals or suspected organizations as Marwa’s tenure. The agency under watchful eagle eyes, fights the drug war on land, sea, air and others. The new motivated Marwa’s soldiers with ears to the ground and eyes wide opened now ransack the nooks and crannies of country chasing the addicts, the barons, the couriers and accomplices directly or indirectly involved in the illicit trade. Daniel has come to judgment as drugs and illicit substances worth billions if not trillions of naira have been intercepted by the agency and about 10,000 culprits ranging from drug peddlers, addicts, couriers, barons and accomplices have been arrested, questioned and some charged to court. The baffling revelations in the unimaginable quantum of drugs and other substances uncovered as a result of the relentless assault and drive of Marwa’s re-energized boys typified the incontrovertible fact that Nigeria is not only a transit route, but drugs consummate as the entire nation is infested in drug addition with about 15 million people mostly youths involved. East, West, North and South, the appellation of drug tag is conspicuous. What must be emphasized at this juncture is that the drug war is not Marwa’s war, neither is the NDLEA war, instead, it is the nation’s war. Before the drug and other dangerous substances consume Nigeria, let Nigeria consume these through total eradication of the same through kinetic and non kinetic approach. Nigeria cannot effort the unenviable luxury of Colombian nations where the drug barons and the government are always in contest. Within the NDLEA, there must be continuous cleaning of the Augean stable to fish out the bad eggs and possible fifth columnists. Staff must be adequately equipped and motivated, constant training and retraining to meet the challenges of the time. The agency must be given the teeth to bark and bite. It must be well funded and reinforced with necessary laws. While education on harmful consumption of drugs and other illicit substances must be a continuous process at various levels, there is need to take a hard stand on the sources and drug barons. Apart from imprisonment, there is need to consider the confiscation of their assets. It is gratifying to note that Marwa is reaching out to various quarters for cooperation and understanding in the drug war; this scope should be widened, maintained and sustained. Today, the NDLEA under the chairmanship of Brigadier General Buba Mara (rtd) is vigorously prosecuting the drug war with breakthrough and successes. He gave Lagosians, Bornoians in particular and now Nigerians in general what they have always wanted of their leaders, result! results!! results!!! Marwa is workaholic with consummate horse power. Tag him a slave driver, you are right. However, he is a slave driver with a difference. He gives work and work, but rewards instantly or accordingly. For him, the result of good work is more work from him. Marwa detests failure. He never let go a good resource person as he would utilize him or her to the maximum and very meticulous. Here is an extract from the jottings of Alhaji Abdullahi Zaifada on Marwa. Zaifada was one of the commissioners who served in the administration of Colonel Marwa when he was the governor of Borno state. “Colonel Marwa? I can speak on the Colonel 24 hours a day for a whole week. He has never failed to impress me in all his actions and utterances. I am fully satisfied that before the man acts, talks, he gives a thorough thought to the situation. He must have a very sharp analytical mind, very scientific in his approach. I have a thought that one day, he is going to impress the whole world, why? When he appeared on the local scene in Maiduguri as the Governor of Borno State he so impressed the old Borno State and the surrounding states of Bauchi and Gongola that the entire region had nothing else on their agenda but “Marwaism”. Marwaism? Of the accountability, action, and results fame? Ask anybody within the Benue-Chad-Jamaare waters triangle. It is well known, and if you are a nationalist and, interested in other states besides your own, you know it very well. It works like this in practice. Marwa wants a job done. He picks on a suitable and appropriate person to do the job. He tells you precisely what he wants done and asks “is that clear?”. You say yes or ask as many questions as you like even if they are stupid questions; He does not get annoyed, or think you are stupid. But when you say you understand, you had better be sure you do. He will then ask you what you need in terms of resources to get the job done. If what you need is reasonable and rational, you get it. The two of you then agree on a time frame and the greenlight goes on. He now holds you responsible for and ACCOUNTABLE for all resources given to you. He holds you responsible for appropriate and timely ACTION. And most importantly, he holds you responsible for the RESULTS he wants on the ground which had been discussed, understood and agreed upon. You fail to act appropriately and on time and ‘fail to produce the desired results without visible and acceptable reason and you will pay for the resources wasted. That is not all, he kicks you out with size-nine black boots,” added Zaifada. He never compromise worker’s welfare and wellbeing of their families. Most of his actions and utterances are tailored in human face. If Marwa is a success, it is partly because he listens, seek advice and wisdom from high or low and from any quarter and compares notes from both formal and informal sources. Besides, as a man of honour he keeps his promise and this makes him a dependable ally. Marwa never leaves the decision today from tomorrow nor the action for minute for the next hour. Bring up or engage in any decision with him and in the process an issue of urgent importance crops up, you see Marwa either jotting, picking the phone and giving directive to the right quarter or individual for actions. He believes in immediacy of result and when this is not forthcoming, he wants to know why and adjust depending. A good listener, less talkative and awesome in retentive memory. Beneath that firmness and tone of finality in him as soldier or civilian lies his milk of human kindness. Most of his actions and utterances are tailored in human face. He assigns work purely on merit regardless of tribe, class or creed. Marwa’s journey in governance and administration is fraught with challenges, temptations and threats, but he remained focused and unperturbed. His natural allies are the ordinary people of Nigeria. To keep and maintain their faith, he must not be squeamish. You cannot make an omelet without breaking the eggs. Dr Marwa must remember that being just is not the same as being nice. And justice to the people as good and credible leaders embraced and succeeded and which General Marwa is today echoing is not achieved by being nice to everybody. It is not possible. You have to decide. In this respect both our culture and religion have taught us that he who is with the majority is with God. The majority are the masses.