Nigeria and Ghana have forged a great rivalry over different things, music, whose jollof is the best in the world, tourism and arts but the greatest rivalry between the two strongest countries in West Africa would have to be football. And this eternal rivalry will resume when the two continental giants meet in the 2022 FIFA World Cup play-offs with the Ghanaians set to host the first leg and the reverse in Nigeria, both matches to take place between 24th – 29th March. While there are various records of matches having been played between the national teams dating back to 1938, these matches were unofficial. The first well-documented matches were organized from 1951 under the banner of the Jalco Cup, a competition sponsored by the Ford Motor Company by way of a subsidiary, Joe Allen & Company (J.Allen & Co.) for whom the cup was named. It is generally held to be the beginning of the rivalry’s historical record. The cup was contested between the two countries every year except 1952. In 57 previous encounters over 71 years of an intense football rivalry, Nigeria have won 16 of the matches, with another 18 drawn, while Ghana have won 23. Both countries have been involved in World Cup qualifying fixtures for the 1962, 1970, 1974 and 2002 finals, with honours evenly shared. While the Super Eagles will be looking forward to overpower the Black Stars and book an African record equalling seventh appearance in the final phase of the FIFA World Cup competition the Ghanaians would be looking to qualify for their fourth appearance and the first since the 2014 edition in Brazil. - Advertisement - Ghana edged the contention for the 1962 FIFA World Cup ticket with a 4-1 win in Accra and 2-2 draw in Lagos. In the race for Mexico 1970, Nigeria won 2-1 in Lagos with the return leg ending 1-1 in Accra. For the 1974 finals in Germany, Ghana were awarded a 2-0 win for the first leg that was abandoned in Lagos, with both teams ending it 0-0 in Accra in the return. In the race for Korea/Japan 2002, both teams battled to a 0-0 draw in Accra, with the Eagles winning the return 3-0 in Port Harcourt. For veteran sports journalist Segun Adenuga any game between Nigeria and Ghana would always be tough. The octogenarian, known to his peers as “West Coast” because of his love for Ghana football has witnessed countless clashes between the neighbours and is currently chronicling in his soon-to-be completed book the history of Football in Ghana.   Lagos brace up for Eko’2022 Polo Festival     Nadal closes in on tennis history     Eyes on Mane, Salah as AFCON enters Q-Finals   “Nigeria first played Ghana then it was called Gold Coast in 1938 and both countries have met many times in over 70 years. The game against the Gold Coast was Nigeria’s first ever international match,” Adenuga told NationSports.”Any match against Ghana is always tough irrespective of the current form of the country. Nigeria wins some, Ghana wins some and the circle continues. “I cannot predict which country would be victorious at the end of the playoffs but I can assure you that both legs would be very tough and entertaining.” Adenuga recalls a few memorable matches between Nigeria and Ghana especially one that was played in 1958 at the King George V Stadium, Onikan Lagos which the Red Devils (as Nigeria was known then) beat the Gold Coast team 3-2 despite efforts from the match-day referee, a Reverend Massey, to turn the game in favour of the visitors. Another memorable match Adenuga remembers was when Nigeria was humiliated 7-0 in Accra in 1955. Meanwhile Executive Council Member of the Ghana Football Association (GFA) Frederick Acheampong is upbeat about Ghana’s chances of beating in-form Nigeria in the final round of the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers. “Everybody would think it will be an easy pass for Nigeria. Nigeria will beat Ghana but the World Cup is a different ball game altogether”, Fred Acheampong said in a recent interview. “I remember what happened in 2006. Ghana disappointed in the AFCON but we went to Germany to make Africa proud. Football is just full of uncertainties. Anything is possible but to me, I think that Ghana, we shall qualify,” the former AshantiGold CEO confidently said. “We know them and they know us. And I am confident that Ghana will prepare to eliminate Nigeria and qualify for the World Cup. Ghana has already gone through such a situation. During the AFCON in 2006 in Egypt, we were eliminated in the group stages and everyone said we were in decline. “But the same year, we became the pride of Africa during the World Cup in Germany,” the Ghanaian FA board member noted.