“I never never gave or demanded bribe from anyone all my life.” —Bisi Akande, in My Participations: An Autobiography, page 400. In several occasions in his celebrated autobiography, Chief Bisi Akande asserted with confidence that he never gave or demanded a bribe. The above quote is the most assertive of them all. Preceding the quote on the same page, he also made bold to declare: “No one ever wrote any petition against me to the EFCC, ICPC or the police for any fraud or wrongdoing during my term of office”. He even vouchsafed for his Cabinet members: “All of us who served in my government, all my commissioners and others, came out the way we went in. No one was richer and not a single one of my political appointees was indicted after we left office”. Many reviewers of the book either ignored the statement as well as the supporting evidence or found it impossible within the corrupt ecosystem of Nigerian political engagements. I have known Bisi Akande for nearly 70 years and have always known him as Master or Mr Integrity. As the evidence below will show, he did not suddenly adopt an incorruptible posture. As a pupil teacher at barely sixteen years of age, Akande first encountered and detested corruption in the form of mischief by local supervisors of schools in 1955, who inflated the statistics on primary school enrollment in order to deceive the authorities in the bid to take undue advantage of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s free primary education scheme. At that time, as he intimated the reader, “I was too young to understand the mischief and too inexperienced for it” (page 62). By the following year, when he was appointed as the Health Officer as a teacher in training at the Divisional Teachers Training College in Ile-Ife, Akande had begun to firm up on his anti-corruption stance. One of his duties as Health Officer was to examine and taste the students’ food and pronounce it good for consumption or whether the students should be compensated with nine pence each, if he condemned the food. He resisted the pressure mounted on him by fellow students, who preferred the money. He stood his ground, even when the students ganged up to lie against him before the Principal. - Advertisement - Once he ventured into politics and got elected as a Councillor, corruption and various fraudulent activities began to surface frequently. In 1977, some of his fellow Councillors, who constituted the electorate for delegates to the Constituent Assemby, which worked on the draft Constitution, demanded N3000 to checkmate Chief Kola Balogun, who was alleged to have offered a bribe of N200 each for their vote. Akande’s angry response was instant: “I refused bluntly and walked out on them in anger.” (page 115). Even after an elder promised to contribute half of the bribe, Akande refused and did not turn up for the meeting in the palace, where the matter could be raised. He even left town only to return on the eve of the election. He got elected anyway.   Bisi Akande: Man and Book of the Year     Okada operators and police symbolic brutality     How to improve medicare at LASUTH 2   When he was eventually elected Governor of Osun state in 1999, he took every measure possible to avoid corruption in government. Having been warned against possible mischief by Iyiola Omisore, who he has chosen to be his Deputy. He told him what he had heard about him and warned him never to use any forged certificate (page 263). Unfortunately, however, it was the same Omisore that nearly soiled his governorship. In Chapter 19 of the book, Akande detailed several encounters with Omisore over fraudulent activities, for example, over supposed car rentals and water chemicals contract. He also had disagreements with civil servants over illegal payments, such as what they termed “critical allowances” and inflated purchases. For example, he refused to endorse the purchase of tires for N40,000 each, which should have cost only N6000 each! He also had serious encounters with the House of Assembly, which sought to impeach him with the backing of his Deputy, who knew that his antics were not working with the Governor. He refused to bribe the legislators and prepared for impeachment, by packing his belongings from the government house. It turned out, however, that truth and reason prevailed. The corrupt activities of civil servants were carried to his doorstep: On the occasion of his daughter’s wedding, the government protocol department procured food and drinks without his knowledge, which he rejected as unnecessary as he had personally provided everything for his daughter’s wedding. Nevertheless, he would be confronted weeks later with a memorandum for his approval for N300,240 to defray the costs of the procurements for his daughter’s wedding. Sensing the “immorality” of such expenditure, he quickly wrote his own personal check for the amount and obtained a Government Treasury Receipt No 252399, dated July 5, 2000 (page 273). Akande even refused to bribe Obasanjo’s officials against the advise of his Health Commissioner, when officials of the Budget Office told them that the huge and unnecessary deduction was been taken from Osun state’s allocation by the Obasanjo administration, deductions which were later paid when a PDP governor succeeded him (page 389)! Akande also refused to be bribed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who was wooing him for political reasons, by rejecting offers that typical Nigerian politicians would readily jump at. For example, he rejected the plot Obasanjo allotted to him in Abuja. He also declined to follow Obasanjo to China (page 387). Obasanjo himself would later describe Akande as “a prudent and honest governor” (page 388). For Akande, corruption is not limited to the appropriation of government funds or bribery alone. He also sees the dirty intrigues and falsification of truth as corruption. This can be deduced from his carefully worded letter to Tom Ikimi, who went behind the party, which made him a Committee Chairman, to act behind, and on behalf of, the political party, which delegated a specific function to him, without reporting to the party (see pages 433-434). To date, only former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola, who succeeded Akande, has come out to accuse Akande of corruption, but only as a measure of self-defence against Akande’s own accusations. However, anyone who has carefully read Akande’s account (pages 392-396) would realise that Oyinlola’s accusation is spurious at best. Akande nation-wide recognition as Mr Integrity deserves in part from the above evidence. More will be provided in other areas of governance in subsequent reviews of his book.