He paid the price for possibly his most momentous decision, and went to the grave irreparably diminished because of that choice. It is ironic that the Federal Government ordered that the national flag be flown at half-mast, for three days, as a mark of respect for Chief Ernest Shonekan, who died on January 11, aged 85. The posthumous honour was based on the same role that brought him considerable dishonour in his lifetime. He was controversially Nigeria’s interim head of state for about three months, August 26, 1993 to November 17, 1993, following the unjustifiable annulment of the country’s historic June 12, 1993 presidential election by the Gen. Ibrahim Babangida military regime. His acceptance of the appointment placed him on the wrong side of history.  The authoritarian rearrangement ultimately prevented the inauguration of Chief M.K.O. Abiola who won the election. - Advertisement - It is unclear why Shonekan accepted the unpopular appointment. It was not only anti-democratic but also anti-people.  The anti-democratic forces he obeyed installed him to counter Abiola’s electoral victory. He hailed from Abeokuta, Ogun State, like Abiola, and his military sponsors apparently capitalised on this commonality to achieve their dark designs. Initially, Shonekan, from January 1993, was head of the transitional council and head of government under Babangida, in a curious arrangement that was supposed to culminate in a handover to a democratically elected leader of the third Nigerian Republic. Things went awry after Babangida wrongfully annulled the presidential election, and was forced to leave office. Under a new arrangement, which was no less odd, Shonekan became head of the Interim National Government (ING) but had no control over the military. Three months later, he was ousted in a palace coup.   Nigeria records 48 new cases of Lassa Fever in one week     NDLEA quizzes Obi Cubana over alleged link to drug dealers     Why Malami is always in the news   He was an accidental political leader. But more importantly, his administration was widely considered illegitimate, and he faced immense pressure and opposition from several quarters, which ultimately made his position unsustainable. It is striking that he tried to plan another presidential election and restore democratic governance, which suggested that he was on the same page with those who annulled the June 12 election. There was no greater evidence of his unprogressive political thinking. It is unclear why he was chosen to head the transitional council in the first place.  His background as a prominent boardroom player with obscure political skills did not immediately recommend him for the position. But it may well be that those who picked him wanted a yes-man. Before his messy political role, he was chairman and chief executive of the United Africa Company of Nigeria (UACN), a giant conglomerate with interests in manufacturing, services, logistics and warehousing, agriculture and real estate. He joined the company in 1964, and became a member of its board of directors in 1976, at the age of 40. He became chairman and managing director in 1980. At that height, he made a name for himself as a business leader. In the course of his leadership, the company underwent restructuring in response to new challenges in the business environment, particularly occasioned by government policies. He studied law at the University of London, United Kingdom, after his secondary education at CMS Grammar School and Igbobi College, both in Lagos. He also attended Harvard Business School, USA. It is noteworthy that he returned to familiar turf after his political misadventure. He founded the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) in 1994.  By launching an advocacy group and think-tank for private sector-led development of the Nigerian economy, he demonstrated a desire to contribute to the country’s development. A recipient of the national honour, Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR), he managed to remain relevant, and was Special Envoy on the Implementation of the Abuja Agreement on Zimbabwe in 2001 and Chairman, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) in 2008. In the end, Shonekan’s political notoriety dimmed his business and economic notability. That is an inevitable conclusion.