In the view of analysts, the much hyped 2022 Budget of Economic Growth and Sustainability may not take Nigerians to the land of promise given its weak socioeconomic fundamentals. In this report, Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf examines the issues. With the signing of the 2022 Appropriation Bill titled tagged: “Budget of Economic Growth and Sustainability” by President Muhammadu Buhari almost a fortnight ago, the fiscal policy for the year literally assumed a life of its own. The budget, valued at N17.126 trillion, was recently transmitted to the President by the National Assembly, on Friday, December 24. The breakdown of the budget include N869 billion for statutory allocation, N3.8 trillion for debt servicing, N6.9 trillion and N5.4 trillion for recurrent and capital expenditure respectively. The oil benchmark was raised from the proposed $57 per barrel to $62 with the projected oil production put at 1.88million barrels per day. - Advertisement - It may be recalled that the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, had in October laid out the projected funding process for the Budget, saying revenues of N6.54 trillion and N2.62 trillion are projected to accrue to the Federation Account and the Value Added Tax (VAT) respectively. Ahmed said the deficit would be funded through borrowings.   Fears over 2022 budget Many have expressed forlorn hope with the projected outcomes of the 2022 budget, noting matter-of-factly that things may remain the same if not worst of this year. In the view of some analysts, the fiscal policy has some red flags to watch out for. In its analysis of the fiscal document, for instance, the PwC had recently stated that the 2022 budget has a deficit of about N6.25tn, approximately 3.39% of GDP.  “This is slightly above the 3% ceiling set by the Fiscal responsibility Act 2007 (FRA).” The body however attributed that deficit to what the president alluded that the expenditure level was necessary to assist with overcoming current security challenges and accelerate post-recession growth. Also expressing fears over the 2022 budget, Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Boniface Okezie said it was rather scandalous that successive governments have done little or nothing to make the budget perform optimally. Regrettably, he said, many Nigerians would slide into poverty this year because there meager income has been overstretched already. “Nigerians have never benefitted from the budget, ever. We only hear of the humongous cost and nothing more. We’re not seeing massive infrastructure. We’re being shortchanged.” Raising some posers, Okezie asked, “Since 24 years of return to democracy, what really can we show for it in terms of turnkey project and all?” The PSAN boss, who fell short of tarring the leadership in bad brush, said the budget 2022 coming on the heels of an election year was a recipe for failure.   Mixed reactions by OPS  Expectedly, members of the organised private sector (OPS) in their separate appraisals of the 2022 budget have expressed mixed feelings. the OPS, led by two of its key members namely Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), reflected on what they considered as the highs and lows of the 2022 budget. Specifically, the group apprised the total budget stressing among other things that the increase was as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic and its new variant, Omicron, known to be widely spreading in Nigeria and across the world with potentials to negative impact on lives and the economy. A breakdown of the N17.126 trillion 2022 budget showed N869 billion for statutory allocation, N3.8 trillion for debt servicing, N6.9 trillion and N5.4 trillion for recurrent and capital expenditure, respectively. While the oil benchmark was raised from the proposed $57 per barrel to $62, the projected oil production was put at 1.88 million barrels per day. According to the projected funding process for the budget earlier laid out by Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, revenues of N6.54 trillion and N2.62 trillion are projected to accrue to the Federation Account and the Value Added Tax (VAT), respectively.   ‘No hope for citizens in 2022 budget’     N/DELTA SOOT ARMAGEDDON: Nightmare for citizens, cash cow…     N100bn contraband, unclaimed auctioned vehicles turn customs…   The Minister said the deficit would be funded through borrowings. And expectedly, some of these key provisions in the 2022 budget have drawn diverse reactions from members of the OPS. For instance, even before the 2022 budget was signed into law, MAN had warned that some of its provisions and policy initiatives may push some operators in the manufacturing sector over the edge. The Director-General of MAN, Mr. Segun Ajayi-Kadir said, for instance, that the proposed excise duty on carbonated drinks, which was eventually pegged at N10/litre; increased drive for collection of taxes and levies, and the highly ambitious assumption of a 13 per cent inflation rate, would have negative consequences on the manufacturing sector. On the increased drive for collection of taxes and levies, Ajayi-Kadir said the current unbridled avalanche of taxes, fees and levies from the three tiers of government and their overzealous regulatory agencies may be compounded. The MAN DG also described the assumption of 13 per cent inflation rate in the budget as ‘highly ambitious’ when the prevailing rate as at August 2021 stood at 17.01 per cent. This, according to him, is more so when government is yet to address the incessant crises between the herdsmen and famers and other insecurity conditions that contribute significantly to food scarcity that evidently fuel inflation. MAN listed other low points of the 2022 budget to include preference for deficit financing to be funded by new borrowings, proceeds from privatisations and drawdowns on loans secured for specific projects. MAN, however, identified some high points in the 2022 budget. For instance, it lauded the aggregate capital expenditure of N5.35 trillion, which is 32.64 per cent of the total expenditure, noting that it was against the N4.37 trillion and 32.2 per cent of the 2021 budget. “This is a development that MAN considers laudable, because it resonates with our annual advocacy submission to the government on the need to prioritise infrastructure development for sustainable economic growth. It will also increase production in the real sector of the economy,” Ajayi-Kadir said. The Chamber while commending the January-December budget cycle, which has been maintained, said the real challenge is to see how the budget positively impacts on the lives of the people and various sectors of the economy. NACCIMA said the budget was submitted in a timely fashion and equally considered by the legislature and assented to by the President within the framework of the budget cycle. It also said it was noteworthy that it is a budget, which in Nigeria’s history, is gender friendly because under it, Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government were clearly advised to ensure gender inclusion in implementation of the budget.”This is a major achievement which we hope will be strictly adhered to,” NACCIMA Director General Amb Ayo Olukanni said, adding that “recent news from the modest performance in agric sector and prospects from mining sector are sources for some form of optimism in 2022.” The NACCIMA boss in a statement titled ‘Year 2022: The Economy and the Budget: Perspectives from NACCIMA,’ and made available to The Nation, however, said whatever the optimism, it is sure to assume that this is a budget that will be implemented in the throes of the pandemic. He also said it is obvious that the budget has been prepared with election 2023 in mind. Beyond that, with a recurrent component, which appears to be over capital component, it is doubtful if the budget can meet its goal of investment in critical infrastructure to meet the infrastructure deficit and support the needs of the private sector. “It has also been observed in several quarters that the ‘elephant in the room’ is the Foreign Exchange (forex) and its management. Already, the private sector has raised an alarm on the increasing difficulties of obtaining the required forex for raw materials for industry. “The high cost of obtaining forex is reflected on the consequential high cost of goods and inflationary trend,” Amb Olukanni said. “The economy may have recorded some modest growth overall, but it’s still a struggling economy especially given the deep crises of infrastructure which is symbolised by bad road infrastructure, inadequate railway network, and the crisis in our sea ports,” he stated. The NACCIMA DG further pointed out that the most embarrassing is perhaps, the energy crisis. He said, for instance, that with the nation’s low generation and distribution problems, it can only boast of combined installed generation capacity of about 12,000 MW, and distribution of just 4,000 MW. “We must ensure that budget 2022 makes significant impact on the energy sector if the budget is to be meaningful and be a budget of growth and sustainability,” NACCIMA said. However, NACCIMA said there must be a synergy in the implementation of budget 2022 and supportive funding support such as the National Collateral Registry must support the NMSMEs if they are to function as the true engine of inclusive economic growth and development and veritable tool for eradication of poverty which is a major goal of the current administration. “NACCIMA believes that budget 2022 should go beyond the usual working to provide a favorable economic environment for the private sector. A modest growth has been recorded and projection is that the economy should grow by 4.2 per cent. “With oil prices now hovering around $75 per barrel well over the $57-$62 dollar on which the budget is based and projections are that year 2022 will be a great year for OPEC producers for various reasons; but bringing in the private sector as a true partner is key to attaining the projected growth and even surpassing it,” Olukanni said. On his part the former Director General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf, welcomed the 2022 budget. He, however, expressed hope that this year’s budget will support the goal of achieving a better port system that works and makes the NCS and other government agencies promote trade facilitation at the ports.