The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has warned political parties participating in the Ekiti and Osun States governorship elections, as well as scheduled bye-elections against presenting unqualified candidates. Any party that flouts the order will be liable to a fine of N500, 000.00, the electoral umpire cautioned. According to a statement signed by National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee Festus Okoye, “political parties that present to the Commission the name of a candidate who does not meet the qualifications stipulated in the Constitution and the Electoral Act shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.00”. The Commission also informed that all pending bye-elections comprising Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency, Ondo State, Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency, Plateau State, Pankshin South State Constituency, Plateau State , Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency, Cross River State, Akpabuyo State Constituency, Cross River State and Ngor-Okpala State Constituency, Imo State, will hold on February 26, while  Ekiti East 1 State Constituency election will hold the same day with governorship election on the 18th of June.   Police arrest eight for eating, selling human parts in…     Osun governorship: Panel spots cracks in PDP, seeks…     Osun APC is two factions, I belong to TOP, says Aregbesola   The statement read further, “following the declaration of vacancies by the Honourable Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Honourable Speakers of some State Houses of Assembly, the Commission has scheduled bye-elections for six constituencies in 4 States as follows: The elections will hold on Saturday 26th February 2022 immediately after the FCT Area Council elections. This will enable the Commission to clear most of the bye-elections, focus on the Ekiti and Osun Governorship elections and ongoing preparations for the 2023 General Election. “Some of the vacancies arose as a result of the death of the previous occupants; substantial disruption of the electoral process and fulfillment of constitutional and legal requirements in the electoral process”. It continued, “the Commission considered the issues that led to the vacancies and the rescheduling of some of the elections as well as the security situation in some of the States. The Commission decided to combine the Ekiti East 1 State Constituency election with the Governorship election in Ekiti, which will hold on 18th June 2022. - Advertisement - “The Commission is consulting with security agencies and the critical stakeholders relating to the vacancy in Shinkafi State Constituency of Zamfara State while the Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly has not declared vacancy in relation to Giwa State Constituency of Kaduna State.”