Following recent cases of ritual killings suspected to be carried out by Yahoo Boys as well as kidnappings and other criminal activities, Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong has vowed to make the state uninhabitable for criminals. Lalong spoke at an International Church Service to mark this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day and Emblem Appeal Launch held at St. Finbarr’s Catholic Church, Rayfield Jos. Lalong expressed outrage over the recent cases of ritual killings in Jos as well as kidnappings which have become a source of concern to the government and citizens. He said: “I am deeply saddened by the activities of criminals who are trying to disrupt the peace of our state. Of much concern are the recent cases of ritual killings which are suspected to be carried out by Yahoo Boys that security reports indicate are migrating to Plateau.   Father, daughter arrested with fresh human parts in Osun     Gunmen kill one; abduct five along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway     Save us from bandits, Ibeju Lekki residents cry out   “We will make Plateau State hot for you and ensure that the state vomits you.” - Advertisement - The Parish Priest of St Finbarr’s Catholic Church Rayfield and Chaplain, Government House Chapel Rev. Fr. Godfrey Gopep said while Nigerians are celebrating the sacrifices of its fallen heroes, there is a need for them to give greater honour to the deceased by living in peace with one another in order to prevent other standing heroes from falling. He said peacebuilding cannot be possible without justice, forgiveness, tolerance and unity. Chairman of the Nigerian Legion Plateau State, GOC 3rd Armoured Division represented by Brigadier-General D.D. Kurmi, Gbong Gwom Jos represented by Agwom Izere Rev. Isaac Wakili, CAN Chairman Plateau State represented by Pastor Elijah Akinwale all called on the people of Plateau State to embrace peace and support the government in its efforts to restore Plateau State to its rightful place as the Home of Peace and Tourism. They also called on the government at all levels to fulfil their obligations to the families of fallen heroes and pay proper attention to the welfare of the serving officers and men in order to motivate them to continue to make sacrifices for unity, peace and progress of Nigeria.