The Convener of Rochas Support Group, one of the groups backing Owelle Rochas Okorocha for the 2023 presidency, Mr Ayo Adedipe has indicated that the senator representing Imo West Senatorial District at the National Assembly will soon join the league of party chieftains who have declared interest to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari next year. Adedipe said in a statement that Senator Okorocha who is currently consulting with stakeholders, including those that are members of any political party, is likely to make his declaration in the coming week. Adedipe, a close ally of the former Imo State governor believes that for fairness and equity the Southeast should be allowed to produce the next president because it is the only region in the South that has not produced one since 1999. He said: “We are of the view that the Southeast geo-political zone should be allowed to produce the next president of the country in 2023, for equity and fairness. “The people of the Southeast constitute one of the three major ethnic nationalities that make up the country and it will be only fair and just to concede the presidential slot to them to give them a sense of belonging and bring peace to Nigeria. Nigeria will only make progress with a new beginning and a new orientation.   Ekiti APC’s search for standard bearer     ABAT inaugurates working committee Thursday     PHOTOS: APC presents intention nomination form to Gov…   - Advertisement - “As far as we are concerned, Owelle Rochas Okorocha is a bridge builder. A three-time presidential aspirant, he led a faction of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to form the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2013. He is one of the most qualified and competent persons to fly the flag of the party in next year’s election. He is undoubtedly the widely accepted Igbo presidential aspirant across party lines. “Rochas Okorocha is a successful businessman. As governor of Imo State between 2007 and 2015, he used his entrepreneurial drive and business acumen for the progress of the state. Okorocha believes that a new Nigeria is possible with the restoration of peace, merging of class and a new orientation. That is exactly what he would bring to the table for the industrialization of the country. He will build on the numerous achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Okorocha is scheduled to address a press conference in Abuja very soon where he would make his ambition public.