The Institute of Export & International Trade (IOE&IT) has opened its first office in Africa with the announcement of a new investment and opening of its first international office in Nairobi, Kenya. The opening of the office built on a successful 2021 in Africa where the IOE&IT delivered qualifications in Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria. The institute had worked with the International Trade Centres, along with the Ghana Export Promotion Authority and Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), as well as developing a Trade and Information Pipeline (TLIP) with TradeMark East Africa. The institute hopes to leverage the new office in further developing training, education and consultancy offerings for the entire African continent – unique and specific to Africa-world trade and intra-African trade. The opening of the office in Kenya particularly built on the Kenya-UK Economic Partnership Agreement. UK exports to Kenya in 2021 were worth £530 million and imports from Kenya totalled £579 million.   Stockbrokers call for global write-off of Nigeria’s, others’…     Nigerian Breweries allots 78.9m shares     Champion Breweries: Minority shareholders protest Heineken’s…   According to the institute, the TLIP project aimed at increasing trade for both sides and would help create greater visibility within supply chains and simplify the facilitation of trade between the UK and Kenya. - Advertisement - “The overall aim of the TLIP initiative is to reduce logistical time constraints for businesses by around 40 per cent, reduce the cost of compliance by 20 per cent- potentially worth an initial saving of up to £36 million to UK Exporters,” the institute stated on the sidelines of the second Africa Investment Conference (AIC). Director-General, Institute of Export & International Trade, Marco Forgione said it was delightful to be opening the institute’s first office outside the UK in Kenya. “It is a sign of how important we believe our work in Africa is and how much more important we believe it can be. Of course, the institute has always worked to support our members right around the globe but in opening up this new chapter we are sending a strong signal that we are there for members on the African continent and that we can help traders there to upskill their teams to trade in support of the AfCFTA as well as growing their trade globally. This investment in growing our presence in Africa especially our new base in the Kenya is central to this ambition,” Forgione said. The Institute of Export & International Trade was established over 85 years ago to support UK businesses in growing their international markets and trade. The institute is regarded as the leading association of exporters and importers and it provides education and training to professionalise UK’s international traders.