Again, President Muhammadu Buhari has threatened to deal with those who looted the funds of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He also vowed to recover every recoverable kobo of the looted funds. The president spoke during the virtual inauguration of the NDDC prototype hostel at the University of Uyo, in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. The president, who decried the serial abuses that the commission has suffered, said the lives of people in the oil-rich Niger Delta region would have been significantly improved if the huge amounts allocated to the commission since 2001 had been well spent. He added that it was this fiscal recklessness that made him call for forensic audit of the commission’s finances. “The serial abuse, lack of delivery and what had become an entrenched institutional decay, was the reason why I called for the forensic audit. “Therefore, going forward, we shall ensure that every recoverable kobo is recovered for use in the service of the people of this region and those found culpable shall face the law.” This is the way it should be. Except that the president’s government has been long in words but short in action on several occasions. For instance, it is about nine months that the Federal Government promised to name terror sponsors in the country and prosecute them. That is yet to happen. Again, almost since its inception, the government has always threatened to unmask those behind the ghost workers syndrome that has led to loss of humongous amounts of money by the Federal Government. It has never released any name, not to talk of prosecute the culprits. Going by statistics released by the president, about N6trn had been given to the NDDC since inception. This comprised about N3,375,735,776,794 .93 budgetary allocations and N2,420, 948, 894, 191 .00 from statutory and non-statutory sources. This is huge. Unfortunately, the result does not justify these humongous allocations. Rather, poverty remains the defining characteristic of the oil-rich region, which has produced an insignificantly few oil sheikhs living in opulence at the expense of the vast majority of their poverty-stricken compatriots.   Eagles outclass Pharaohs to claim key AFCON win     Uzodimma’s broken promise     Despite ban, crypto will shake digital currency space   - Advertisement - It is disheartening that the NDDC, just like its precursor, the Oil Mineral Producing Areas Development Commission (OMPADEC), rather than transform the Niger Delta has become a cesspit of corruption. For instance, more than 13,777 contracts awarded by the NDDC were found to have been compromised. Sadder still is that the corruption has not abated even when the affairs of these institutional responses to the crisis of underdevelopment in the region are in the hands of those that could be called ‘sons of the soil’ who naturally should be passionate about bringing an end to the poverty and squalor in the region. It is the monumental frauds and serial abuses that the commission had been subjected to that made the people in the region clamour for sanity in the operations of the commission, a thing the president responded to by ordering the forensic audit last year. It was at the submission of the audit report that President Buhari threatened criminal proceedings against the looters. The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, who received the final forensic audit report from the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, on behalf of President Buhari said: “The Federal Government will, in consequence, apply the law to remedy the deficiencies outlined in the audit report as appropriate. “This will include but not be limited to the initiation of criminal investigations, prosecution, recovery of funds not properly utilised for the public purposes for which they were meant for, amongst others.” We can only hope that, this time around, the president would follow his threat through to its logical conclusion. We say this conscious of some of the policy somersaults that have trailed certain activities at the NDDC, even under the Buhari administration. One of these is the replacement of regular board with interim management committees and appointment of sole administrator to head the commission. This does not augur well for its smooth operations. Indeed, it is a recipe for fraud. It is therefore high time a regular board was constituted to take charge of the commission’s affairs. We implore the relevant agencies of government that the audit forensic report has been submitted to, to expedite action on it, with a view to facilitating government’s response. We also call on the Minister of Justice to ensure that whatever process the government decides to adopt to punish culprits would be in strict accord with the laws of the land so that they would not, either by omission or commission, escape justice through legal technicalities. When the appropriate lessons are taught on this matter, its consequence would reverberate beyond the NDDC, that no looter of public funds would go unpunished.