The Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) has inducted into the fellowship cadre of the advertising profession, 63 long serving practitioners who have attained the highest level in the advertising practice in Nigeria. The induction ceremony which held recently at the Radisson Blu Hotel in Lagos was graced with several dignitaries in the advertising industry. Congratulating the new inductees while delivering his opening address at the Fellowship Induction ceremony, APCON Registrar, Dr. Lekan Fadolapo disclosed that the inductees met all the stipulated requirements by law and have attained the highest and distinguished class in the profession. He stated: “In the course of my two-and-a-half decades in this industry, I have known each of the inductee personally and I have worked with virtually every one of them in different capacities and therefore I can attest that none of the fellows inducted today lacked the professional aptitude to be designated as such. I am proud to affirm that all of them are eminently qualified to be in the category which they are today made to be.”   Sunday Sun editor’s late wife for burial Feb 23     Reps commence inventory of NNPC assets, liabilities     COVID-19: Only five percent in Southeast states are…   The regulator urged the inductees to continually promote the ideals of the profession even as he pledged his unflinching determination to support  practitioners by making the business and practice of advertising favourable to all stakeholders. - Advertisement - Addressing the inductees, Fadolapo stated: “I am optimistic that with the status that comes with your elevation in the advertising industry, you will diligently represent the profession in all progressive ramifications and resourcefully apply your position to promote the best interest of the profession.” “APCON is committed to providing you and every advertising practitioner  with a conducive business and professional grounds to make sure that the practice and business of advertising in Nigeria is conducted in an ethical manner without compromising best practices,” he added. Elated, the inductees expressed appreciation for the distinguished honour which represented a recognition of their professionalism and impact over the years. Some of the practitioners who were honoured with the highest level memberships include Ikpe Kennedy Onyeali, Steve Babaeko,  Alaba Fadero, Kelechi Nwosu, Yinka Adebayo, Okeke Christopher Emeka, Adelusi Olufemi,  Benson Abayomi, Ajufo Emmanuel and a host of others.