The outlook for the year 2022 is a mixed grill with damning projections by a cross-section of experts against the backdrop of an economy already sagging under the weight of debts and other baggage, reports Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf. Will Nigeria be poorer or better off economically in the year 2022? Harmless as this question is, the answer is not straightforward. The devil is in the details Global economic outlook shows signs of slow recovery from the COVID-19 Omicron variant which threatens both socioeconomic interests as well as wellbeing of people. In Nigeria, the outlook doesn’t look any better if considered against the backdrop of higher taxes, excruciating debts, to mention just a few. - Advertisement - Although in the latest edition of its Nigeria Development Update, the World Bank revised Nigeria’s growth forecast to 2.7% in 2021, 2.8% in 2022 respectively, many economic watchers are not persuaded that things would ease out generally in major economic fundamentals.   Outlook for ICT According to available information, the ICT sector will likely be supported by increased adoption of digitization and greater use of data activities caused by supply chain challenges, the lingering and related effects of COVID-19, an exchange rate depreciation, higher energy prices, and high global food prices more generally. Inflation’s recent downward trend is expected to continue during the remainder of 2021 and in 2022 due to base-year effects, but it will stay in double digits; annual average inflation will likely stand at 15% in 2021 and a still high 12.6% in 2022, driven by several factors.   Weakening naira There is likely further weakening of the naira due to a drawdown and utilisation of Nigeria’s IMF Special Drawing Rights (SDR) allocation, and planned Eurobond issuance of US$16.2 billion approved in November 2021. Second, the deregulation of the downstream oil sector following the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act; the Federal Government’s plans to stop subsidy payments on petroleum products by mid-2022. Electricity tariff Expected hikes in electricity tariffs, poses a variety of risks relating to further supply-side shocks across sectors, particularly in relation to further spikes in COVID-19 cases. While expressing concern about the planned increase in electricity tariffs, the World Bank has warned that this will push inflation up in 2022. In its latest Commodity Markets Outlook forecast, the World Bank indicated that prices of electricity, which peaked at 80 per cent higher this year compared to 2020, will remain high next year. Chief Economist and Director of the World Bank’s Prospects Group Ayhan Kose said the surge in energy prices poses significant near-term risks to global inflation and, if sustained, could also weigh on growth in energy-importing countries. The multilateral institution said the sharp rebound in commodity prices is turning out to be more pronounced than previously projected. Recent volatility in prices may complicate policy choices as countries recover from last year’s global recession, it added. The bank projected that non-energy prices, including agriculture and metals, would decrease in 2022, following strong gains this year. In the outgoing year, some commodity prices rose to (or exceeded) levels not seen since the spike of 2011. The bank said natural gas and coal prices reached record highs amid supply constraints and rebounding demand for electricity, although they are expected to decline in 2022 as demand eases and supply improves. However, additional price spikes may occur in the near-term amid very low inventories and persistent supply bottlenecks. The bank has projected the price of a barrel of crude oil at $74 in 2022 as oil demand strengthens and reaches pre-pandemic levels. The use of crude oil as a substitute for natural gas presents a major upside risk to the demand outlook, although higher energy prices may start to weigh on global growth. As global growth softens and supply disruptions are resolved, metal prices are forecast to fall five per cent in 2022, after rising by an estimated 48 per cent in 2021. Following a projected 22 per cent increase in 2021, agricultural prices are expected to decline modestly next year as supply conditions improve and energy prices stabilise.   Insecurity: Violence defying ideas     Ikpeazu signs 2022 budget into law, assures Abians of better…     I’m hopeful over Nigeria’s unity, progress, says…   Senior Economist in the World Bank’s Prospects Group, John Baffes, said high natural gas and coal prices are impacting the production of other commodities and pose an upside risk to price forecasts. Baffes said: “Fertilizer production has been curtailed by higher natural gas and coal prices, and higher fertilizer prices have been pushing up input costs for key food crops. The production of some metals such as aluminum and zinc has been reduced due to high energy costs as well.” The bank said: “These will increasingly need to be from low-carbon sources, such as hydropower or nuclear power, or from new methods of storing renewable power. “At the same time, the surge in natural gas and coal prices has made solar and wind power even more competitive as an alternative energy source. Countries can benefit from accelerating the installation of renewable energy and reducing their dependency on fossil fuels.” The report noted that forecasts are subject to substantial risks, including adverse weather, the uneven COVID-19 recovery, the threat of more outbreaks, supply-chain disruptions, and environmental policies. Furthermore, higher food prices, along with the recent spike in energy costs, are pushing food-price inflation up and raising food-security concerns in several developing economies. It said the share of people living in urban areas continues to rise, these results highlight the need for urban planning to maximize the beneficial elements of cities and mitigate their negative impacts. The bank noted that cities are at the forefront of climate change, and strategic planning particularly for transport links, can help reduce their resource consumption and, crucially, their greenhouse gas emissions. Economy will experience boom and bust – KPMG boss, Vetiva Research While attempting a prognosis of how the economy will fare in 2022, Olusegun Zaccheaus, Associate Director, Strategy and Economics, of KPMG Nigeria, noted that rising oil prices, production and fiscal expansion is expected to support modest recovery. Zaccheaus who observed that the economy rebounded in Q2 2021 following a marginal y-o-y growth rate of 0.5% in Q1 2021, also averred that the recorded real GDP growth rate of 5% y-o-y in Q2 2021 was the fastest GDP quarterly growth rate witnessed since 2014, indicating that business and economic activities are heading back to pre-pandemic levels. According to him, “The oil sector, Nigeria’s biggest fiscal revenue source, accounted for 7.4% of GDP in Q2 2021 and contracted by 12.7% y-o-y, following a 2.2% y-o-y contraction in Q1 2021. These contractions have largely impacted low oil production because of technical and operational issues that caused disruptions at key oil terminals. Nigeria’s oil production stood at 1.61 million barrels per day (mbpd) in Q2 2021, compared with 1.72 mbpd in Q1 2021 and 1.81 mbpd in Q2 2021. However, positive oil price market forecasts, along with increases in oil production quotas by OPEC+ are expected to support oil revenue and volume growth in 2022.”  The non-oil sector, which contributed around 93% of GDP in Q2 2021 and recorded a strong growth rate of 5.4% y-o-y (compared with the 0.4% year on year growth rate recorded in Q1 2021), has been the main driver of the economic pick-up. “Growth is expected to be planning to borrow more. It is unfortunate that the government is always thinking of borrowing, instead of thinking of other ways to generate revenue. “They can ensure that public-private partnership projects are built, once operational and yielding capital, though whoever implemented it can generate their money plus interest and then the project becomes ours and we can generate revenue from those. There are projects that we can scale down until we have enough funds to implement and there are projects that can generate money on their own.” An economist and the Chief Executive Officer of the Centre for the Promotion of Private Enterprise, Dr. Muda Yusuf, said that the increasing debt profile of the government raised some sustainability concerns. Yusuf, who is a former Director-General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: “The government tends to argue that the condition is not a debt problem, but a revenue challenge.  But the truth is that debt becomes a problem if the revenue base is not strong enough to service the debt sustainably.  It invariably becomes a debt problem.” Labour unrest likely According to Comrade Chinedu Okafor, a civil rights activist, Nigerians should not foreclose labour unrest this year if the Federal Government goes ahead with some policy initiatives such as the planned removal of subsidy by February, electricity tariff hike and some other unpalatable items on the menu to be served the citizenry in the year.   Will Nigeria be poorer or better off economically in the year 2022? Harmless as this question is, the answer is not straightforward. The devil is in the details Global economic outlook shows signs of slow recovery from the COVID-19 Omicron variant which threatens both socioeconomic interests as well as wellbeing of people. In Nigeria, the outlook doesn’t look any better if considered against the backdrop of higher taxes, excruciating debts, to mention just a few. Although in the latest edition of its Nigeria Development Update, the World Bank revised Nigeria’s growth forecast to 2.7% in 2021, 2.8% in 2022 respectively, many economic watchers are not persuaded that things would ease out generally in major economic fundamentals.