Netizens were lately on the rampage over a purported video of controversial doomsday preacher, Evangelist Funmilayo Adebayo nicknamed Mummy G.O., showing off indulgences of a hotel suite in Dubai in which she is believed to have lodged. Going to the United Arab Emirates city ordinarily shouldn’t warrant a dispute with anyone who could afford it, but the video has been a hot button of discourse because the clergywoman is famed for advocating spartan ethics upon which any defaulter, according to her, would invariably land in hellfire. In the video that went viral, a lady believed to be the fire-and-brimstone preacher drooled over the lavish comforts of her suite as she excitedly conducted a tour guide. She showed off the hotel room with its elaborate and expensive furniture; then, the wardrobe harbouring clothes, shoes and fragrances that many have heard her railed fiercely against as condemning users to certain perdition; and then, the kitchenette with opulent fittings for indulged living. Towards the end of the clip, she reveals herself in a lush bathrobe, filming the scenery with her phone and chuckling with girlish excitement. It was one exhibition of values totally in contradiction of the puritan lifestyle the clergywoman often sermonised sternly about, warning that worldly lifestyle not compliant with the abstemious ethics she preached irremediably located subscribers on express pathway to hell.   Side chicks, major reason most men are still married –…     Pastor Ibiyeomie to police: If you take bribes from ‘yahoo…     Oyo Senator Teslim Folarin loses wife   Sages have always said the true test of integrity is when it holds up in the face of strong inducements to compromise. By implication, Mummy G.O.’s hellfire sermonisations against indulgent living seemed only to the extent that she hadn’t been exposed to opulence; and when she was so exposed in Dubai, she was unable to resist relishing lavish living that she always preached against. One notable netizen observed that religion thrives in Nigeria only because of systemic discomforts, and that when the clergywoman found herself in a society with systemic comforts, she couldn’t uphold her own advocacy for ‘anti-worldly’ lifestyle. Others wondered whether the prophetess who staunchly preached against the Covid-19 vaccine did not take required jabs before getting into Dubai. Still, the apostacy of Mummy G.O. going by the Dubai video clip boggles the mind. She became a social media sensation for her aggressive preaching, among others, that holy living is a tough mandate because 99 percent of humans are doomed to hell; that ‘hello’ is a demonic word which drives people who utter it to hellfire; that those who use lipsticks and perfumes, as well as ladies who wear trousers would not make heaven. Her motivation for not only indulging in worldly pleasures of Dubai but also showing it off could only be that she relishes the sensation her controversies create and isn’t in the least driven by the moral of walking her talk. In other words, Mummy G.O. enjoys her social media attention and pecuniary benefits accruing therefrom. And we all help her along.