Anthony Joshua has angrily hit back at reports he is set to accept a staggering £15million pay-off to step aside and allow rival Tyson Fury to fight Oleksandr Usyk. Joshua was beaten by Usyk last September in their mega-fight at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, but has an agreement for a rematch in his contact with the Ukrainian. Despite that, organisers in the Middle East are desperate to stage a heavyweight unification bout between Fury and Usyk – as Sportsmail reported last week – and reports in the Telegraph had claimed that AJ was happy to step out of the way. Joshua, though, has now angrily hit back and told his fans to stop listening to the ‘bulls***’ that is written about him, and to wait until he reveals the news himself. Speaking on Instagram, he said: “You know what’s bad about all these interviews I see? I see certain interviews that quote what I’ve said, and I think to myself: “I ain’t done no interviews? Where did this person get this information from?”   Aribo’s return excites Rangers     Rohr: why Eagles lost to tricky Tunisia     NFF shifts focus to World Cup Play-off   - Advertisement - “I’m hearing people saying, “AJ accepts £15m to step aside”. I ain’t signed no contract, I ain’t seen no contract. So as it stands, stop listening to the bulls*** until it comes from me. “I’m the man in control of my destiny, I’m the man who handles my business. I’m a smart individual and I make calculated decisions every step of the way. Don’t listen to the bulls*** from other sources, if I tell you something then you know it’s from me.” If AJ were to step aside, it would pave the way for a mega year of boxing with WBC champion Fury and IBF, WBA and WBO belt holder Usyk finally going head-to-head to unite the division. Dillian Whyte was also in line for a showdown with Fury but is believed to be close to accepting a fee in the region of £5m to stand aside. Sportsmail reported last week how Whyte could be in line to fight the last man standing at the end of 2022 – after Joshua’s bout with the winner of Fury vs Usyk.