Super Eagles interim head coach Austin Eguavoen has assured his wards won’t drop the intensity of their game at the Africa Cup of Nations Cameroon 2021. The Eagles have cruised to the second round of the Africa’s flagship competition after three successive Group D wins against Egypt, Sudan and Guinea Bissau. Eguavoen noted that in as much as they are unable to hide their tactics and secrets , they are going to approach all their games with all seriousness and right formation after they might have studied their round of 16 opponent. He pointed out that hitherto ordinary teams always play at their best when they are up against Nigeria to measure how good they are and that they will continue to respect their opponents while sticking to their game plan. “The level of this competition is very high. There’s a lot of surprises. Teams are playing good football. That is why we have to double our efforts. There are no secrets anymore. Everything is out there for your opponents to study. So, as well as we can also study, we are also being studied as well,” Eguavoen disclosed. - Advertisement - “We are going to approach all games with all seriousness and with due respect as well. A lot of countries only play against Nigeria with the hope to raise their game. We have to be ready as well. “Many didn’t reckon with us before the start of the tournament because of our performance in the past few months. Again, it is the same set of players who performed at the last AFCON in Egypt and the World Cup qualifiers.   Nadal relishes exciting tennis career     Qatar 2022: 1.2 million tickets sold in 24 hours     Golden Jubilee Polo Tourney: Fallen heroes honoured in Port…   “All of a sudden, things didn’t go as it supposed to. For some reason that is why some people are trying to write Nigeria off but we have got the job done in the first three games. “Now, people are starting to respect Nigeria. But that is not going to get into our heads. We will always respect our opponents and we will play them with full strength. We are going into the round of 16 and we are going to adopt the same approach, system and aggression.” Eguavoen also spoke on the effort being made by the technical crew to ensure that Sadiq Umar is steadily introduced to the Eagles as he is still new to the national team set up. “Football is a profession and you only choose to do your job and doing so to the maximum. “I kept on talking to him because he is a player I have been watching his game when he played for AS Roma and now he is in Spain and scoring goals. The first two games he came in. He is just getting used to big tournament.” The Eagles handler however credited the former coach, Gernot Rohr for the turnaround to the team because no many changes have occurred to the team set up. “There is no way we are not going to give Gernot Rohr credit. He put the team together and a few new additions,” Eguavoen further said.”We still inherited about 90 percent of the players he put together. “There is no way we are going to leave Gernot Rohr out of this. He did a good job,” he noted.