The Deji of Akure Kingdom, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, made news during the week when it became public knowledge that he had waded into the marital crisis between the Ooni of lfe, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi and his wife, Olori Naomi. The queen had recently moved out of the palace and reportedly relocated to Ondo. Queen Naomi had announced her decision to separate from the Ooni in a viral Instagram post on December 23. She said she left because the king’s public image was at variance with “his true self.” She also vowed to move on with her life as ‘the Queen of the people and mother of her son, Tadenikawo.” In the midst of the confusion, with reports indicating that the estranged queen had refused several entreaties made to her on the matter, Oba Aladelusi, who is also chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas, was said to have made spirited efforts to bring the two parties to the table for dialogue on the matter. According to reports, the Akure Monarch met both parties in a bid to save the marriage. As fate would have it, Naomi and her mother, who had hitherto been adamant and non-reconciliatory all along, simmered down and agreed that Oba Aladelusi should intervene.   MC Oluomo: From unionist to monarch?     Tony Kabaka: No permanent friend, foes in politics     Prophet kidnapped, wife shot dead in Delta   - Advertisement - Confirming the Deji’s roles, his media aide, Michael Adeyeye, said “Yes, the chairman council of Obas in the state, the Deji of Akureland personally paid private visits to both parties and the matter was discussed. It is all being ironed out. The process is ongoing and all the tension has gone down.” Prince Eniola Ojajuni, a former Ondo State governorship candidate of the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP), added that the reconciliation started with a meeting between some Akure elders and Naomi’s family. Sources claimed Oba Aladelusi facilitated the meeting. On his Facebook page, Ojajuni further claimed that the meeting held in Akure and that the Olori’s mother “asked for forgiveness” on her daughter’s behalf. Battle is over!”, he wrote alongside a photo of the Olori being led to a waiting car by palace aides and uniformed officials.