Remilekun Abdulkalid Safaru aka Reminisce and Alaga Ibile, is a Nigerian versatile musician, singer, rapper, songwriter, and actor from Ogun State. He became popular for his mastery of the art of rapping in both English and his native language, Yoruba. However, his ratings increased to an enviable height when he played the role of Makanaki, a violent and dangerous street king in Kemi Adetiba’s hit film, King Of Boys. In this exclusive interview with ASSISTANT ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR GBENGA BADA, he spoke on the similarities of his character with the role he played, how he developed cold feet after seeing Sola Sobowale and his experience on the film set. After the first King of Boys, did you have an inkling about the second one? No, I didn’t. I did the first one and I thought it was over and I did the first one not expecting anything. I did the first one and didn’t attend the premiere, I just tried something new, it came at a period I hadn’t put out songs for a while and wanted to do something, I always try something new every now and then apart from music, so it was at that time that I wanted to do something different and Kemi had been talking to me for a while, I didn’t respond and January was free, so I thought, let me do it and I just did and moved on, I did it like every other musician and not expect anything in return, so I just did it and moved on but the audience responded to it well and people were like you did well and I am like wow. So, after the first one, I thought that was it for my character and then Kemi called to tell me there was going to be a twist and I wondered twist as to how but she asked if I was interested in doing it and I accepted since this is a people-oriented business and since people liked it, I was like let’s do it again and that’s how I got into the second franchise. After your first role as Makanaki, you got an award nomination, how did that make you feel? Well, not my first award nomination but my first award nomination for a movie role, and that was great. I was happy about it and it sort of registered me as an actor, basically, it’s a plus for me. It also boosted my confidence in going into the sequel and there was this point when RMD, whom I was nominated alongside wrote a long epistle on why he thinks I should win the award and that really mattered for me because this is RMD, who I have always watched while growing up writing such piece about me, it was one of those moments for me and of course, these things increased my confidence for the sequel. - Advertisement - You once said you grew cold feet when you saw Sola Sobowale on set but you later went on with the role. Now, at the scene when Sobowale was crowning you in the sequel, how did you feel at that moment? So, to answer your question, from almost backing out to having a wonderful relationship with Aunty Sola is the answer. Aside from that, she’s a very wonderful person, and all these things work together. As a person, she’s a nice person, while we were filming during the protest, I was in her room, eating with her, she’s a mummy figure, we spent a lot of time in her room and that kind of eased me into her personality. And when you are comfortable with someone as a person, then when you are on set, the energy is right and we created magic. So, I was able to talk to her anyhow on set without developing cold feet. You know, in the KOB 1, it took me like six takes before those conversations with her because I couldn’t talk to her as an elderly person and she was always saying talk to me anyhow as the script deems but for the sequel, I have eased into her and could take my script without hassles after getting more comfortable with the role and Aunty Sola. So, would it be right to say some of your mannerisms, especially in the second to the last scene where you were crowned King of Boys, were just your own addition to the script or were they part of the script? Well, me prostrating for Aunty Sola in that scene was part of the script but you know the producer and scriptwriters do their part but you also do your part, Kemi Adetiba, shout out to her gives us the freedom to interpret the way we deem fit. There are some mannerisms, and language that we use that she tells me say it the way you would normally do like there are times the script says show respect but I will translate it in the way I would show respect to elderly people. So, it’s a bit of the script and a bit of me in there. With King Of Boys, you were able to show your ability to interpret roles. Your character held sway even with fewer appearances in the sequel, how soon are you looking at getting on another film set? I will get on a film set if I have to. I am somebody that is very selective. Anybody that has followed my career trajectory will tell you that I am very selective in picking people I have worked within basically everything I do, so, that is why KOB probably looked like the right one for me because I took my time. I did my research and all that so if I find the right script, right production, and come at the right time, I might take it. There are times I just wake up and say I don’t want to do anything for three months, I just want to be a father to my children. So if the timing is right, the crew is right and the pay is right, we are good to go. If you ever met Makanaki as a person, what would your reaction be?   Police kill two suspected kidnappers, rescue victims in…     Tinubu visits APC chairmanship candidate Senator Musa     What you probably didn’t know about Super Eagles…   I would buy him drinks straight up and we chill together. Have you met or had any experience with anyone like that in reality? I remember my nephew once told me that he told people that this is uncle Remi without the gun. I mean he looked at me one time and said Uncle Remi, this is you now without the guns. I am not very close to industry people but people that know me would tell you that this is just me on TV without the guns. I am that kind of guy, I am a standoff guy, so Makanaki is very similar to me without the guns and the violence. All the members of my family agreed that Makanaki had my character, they are like this is me on TV and people are just seeing me on TV. So, I would probably buy Makanaki a drink if we ever met and I would probably be his mentor. Is there a possibility of collaborating with producers of KOB for the OST being an established musician? The producers and the owners of KOB will be in the best position to answer that question. There was a discussion about it but I don’t know where the producer is at with it at the moment. You know there are a lot of technicalities in this thing because other people are involved but it was in the works in 2021. If filmmakers feel with what you have done with the Makanaki character and earn big, you are then stereotyped to play such roles only, how would that make you feel? I know it’s going to happen but well, I will collect the money and do the stereotype till I feel it’s time to change but naturally, I will ease myself out of it, I am that kind of person. You know there was a time when things weren’t like this and we are in the new market for music and movies so you literally have to maximise it. For example, a sound is popping and you say you don’t want to do it, you have to do it and maximise the profit until another sound starts popping or before  something new starts popping, you can quickly put out something as a veteran but you have to maximise the current sound or what’s happening in the market. Of course, I will max out this current status of mine till I ease myself out of it and see me probably doing something different like being a banker or a doctor in a movie. Actually, my mum wanted me to be a doctor, I think I would have made a good doctor. If you were never called or didn’t make the cast of KOB, how would you have felt? I would have felt the same way. I will feel happy for whoever is in the position. You will agree with me that I have been around for a minute and I have come to know that what is mine is mine and what’s yours is yours and celebrating other people would never affect you or your joy. I would be genuinely happy for the producer because personally, I knew what she went through to achieve the success of the film. I would also be happy for the cast and crew. Interestingly, I was supposed to do something else big in 2021 but I chose to do this and the other one I didn’t do became very big and I am still happy for the person that replaced and I even did something with the person that replaced me, so, as I said, I am happy for everybody because we are able to do good stuff and that is why we are here. Of course, I would have felt maybe if it was me, I would have done it this way but I would still be happy for the person. Do you think your character of Makanaki should be killed or be allowed to continue his terror reign? I can’t answer that, I would leave that to the producers, they are the owners of Makanaki.