Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Senator Anyim Pius Anyim, yesterday expressed sorrow over the death of elder statesman and veteran politician, Alhaji Bashir Othman Tofa. In a statement in Abuja by his Media Adviser Sam Nwaobasi, the former Senate President noted that the late Tofa was a committed Nigerian who, throughout his more than 40 years of active partisan politics, demonstrated a strong belief in politics of accommodation and consensus-building. “He was so committed to a peaceful Nigeria that throughout the electioneering campaigns leading to the 1993 presidential elections, in which he was the candidate of the National Republican Convention (NRC), Alhaji Tofa never did anything, in words or actions, that could have instigated crisis in any form,” Anyim said. He lauded Tofa’s “politics without bitterness” and recommended such disposition to today’s politicians in the “interest of the peace, unity and harmony of our dear country, even as we approach the 2023 general election”. Also, the Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF) described Tofa’s death as sad. - Advertisement - It said the North has lost an indefatigable defender of its dignity and values.   Governors, others mourn Olubadan     Buhari, governors, others mourn Bashir Tofa     Mother, children missing as herdsmen in army uniform invade…   A statement by its Director of Publicity and Advocacy, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, reads: “Nigeria has lost an illustrious son, a consummate politician who was denied the opportunity to provide leadership with the annulment of the presidential election in 1992. The forum lost a loyal founding member, a firm believer in responsible and visionary leadership. “Alhaji Tofa was the embodiment of the best combination of private enterprise and unparalleled philanthropy. His landmarks in Kano and the national economy will match the best. History will record that Alhaji Tofa’s life was well spent in the service of God and fellow humans, and he will continue to be an inspiration to many generations of Nigerians…” Also, a former Imo State Commissioner of Information, Prof. Vitalis Ajumbe, expressed shock over Tofa’s death. In a statement in Abuja, Ajumbe, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), described the late Tofa as a man of peace who believed in one Nigeria and good governance. “The late Alhaji Tofa was a man of peace and a deep religious man who could hardly harm an ant. “He was a good friend of the Southeast, a firm believer in the handshake across the Niger, which he demonstrated by choosing Chief Sylvester Ugo, as his vice-presidential candidate in the 1993 presidential election,” the statement said. It added: “I have lost a personal friend. My prayers go to the Tofa Dynasty, the good people of Kano State and other Nigerians.”