Last year ended on a positive note for the University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Edo State, as Nigerian Breweries Plc through the HEINEKEN Africa Foundation formally handed over various equipment worth €103,938 (One hundred and three thousand, nine hundred and thirty-eight euros) to the neo-natal unit of the hospital. Some of the facilities donated included one ventilator humidifier, 5 neonatal tubing ventilators, 1 bubble CPAP with stand, 5 nasal masks, 5 nasal prongs, 5 infant head bonnets, 5 flexi-trunk, 5 CPAP circuit,1 incubator, 1 infusion pump, 1 resuscitaire/warmer, 1 phototherapy, 1 neopuff, 1 syringe drive, 1 suction machine, 1 portable oxygen concentrator Speaking at the handing over of the equipment to the hospital, the Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mrs. Sade Morgan, who was represented by the Corporate Affairs Manager, West, Danjuma John-Ekele, stated that this investment in health care forms part of the company’s contribution towards reducing infant mortality, thus complementing the efforts of the Federal Government. He further stated that the provision of incubators and other facilities would serve to complement the efforts of the Federal Government in addressing one out of the myriad of challenges faced by the health sector.   COVID-19 vaccine enforcement: FCTA staff flood vaccination…     NLC to stop bill prohibiting health workers’ strike     Ovarian cancer: Gynaecologist advises women on early…   Read Also: NLC to stop bill prohibiting health workers’ strike In his remarks, the Provost, University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Prof. Darlington Obaseki, commended HAF and NB Plc for the donations, noting that the partnership would undoubtedly contribute to the nationwide target of reducing infant mortality rate in the South-South region by 90 per cent. “The idea of having a Foundation that looks into healthcare is something that needs to be emulated by other organizations. It is not just about profit-making but about supporting communities where they operate. We commend HAF because we know that many lives will be saved with this equipment,” he stated. Some of the projects funded by the HEINEKEN Africa Foundation in Nigeria include the Jaundice in Babies Awareness Campaign, the donation of a female orthopedic ward in Kaduna in 2010, the gift of a CT scan (2013), and an ultrasound scanning machine (2015) at the St. Gerald’s Hospital. Recently, the foundation invested 622, 000 euros in partnership with WaterAid Nigeria to install over 1,000 handwashing stations in healthcare facilities and other public places as its contribution to the nationwide effort against COVID-19.