The Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry (LCCI) has urged the Federal Government to ensure that the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act 2021 (PIA 2021), which is a game changer for the oil and gas industry, is implemented. LCCI Director-General Dr. Chinyere Almona canvassed the need for stakeholders’ consultations on addressing the implications of lapsed provisions of the Act and forging the way forward for the full implementation of the Act. In a statement made available to The Nation, she commended the political will of President Mohammadu Buhari by signing the Bill into law to enjoy the full exploitation of the inherent potential of the oil and gas industry. The Chamber had earlier issued a statement commending the Federal Government and made a strong case for best practice in the implementation of the Petroleum Industry Act 2021. Almona, however, regretted that less than a year into the signing of the Act, the implementation has suffered a flip-flop as some of the provisions of the Act are being suspended.   FCMB’s FastCash provides fees, emergency support     ‘Human capital vital to economic growth’     Fed Govt, Egypt begin bilateral talks on power supply   She said while the Chamber supports the full implementation of the PIA and the total deregulation of the oil and gas sector, it is, however, not insensitive to the plight of the masses that may feel the pains of some of the provisions like the removal of fuel subsidies. - Advertisement - In the face of this dilemma, the LCCI DG advised that the removal be phased, with a complement of heavy investment in critical infrastructure that supports production in the economy.  According to her, more production means more job creation, poverty reduction, and improved economic growth. The LCCI boss recalled that there have been reactions since the announcement of the planned removal of fuel subsidies. She advised the government to note that the subsidy regime is not sustainable as it will become a strain on government revenue. She said: “With a monthly payment of about N250 billion to subsidize fuel consumption, the implication is that an additional N1.5trillion expenditure has to be provided for in the 2022 federal budget. “It means that any additional expenditure against the projected revenue, deficit financing will be needed to support the budget expenditure. We are likely to see government borrow more than projected to finance the bloated expenditure in the face of revenue mobilization challenge.”