Budding act Gracious Tarekeme Igere professionally known as Rollupstar has narrated how traveling across different countries influenced his style of music and helped him understand the music business. The Nigerian-born singer, who has lived most of his life in Dubai, South Africa and Ghana in an interview, said: “I must say traveling outside the country really helped me to build my experience in music and made me understand a lot about the music business too. “I had to travel to Ghana to look for a different sound just for me to be able to stand out from other artists in Nigeria. ” I went to South Africa for visual projects and went to Dubai for shopping and business too.   Women have capacity to ‘outcheat’ men – Ifu Ennada     Singer Faze loses mom one year after twin sister’s demise     Ex-BBNaija’s Nina blasts Nigerians in Diaspora…   - Advertisement - “I must say meeting different kinds of people every day gives me more knowledge, getting to know the differences between other nations culture, traditions and languages” The rising star who recently released his 2022 single titled ‘Island boy’ whilst speaking about the record said: “The song is a sensational fast tempo song, a message to all the ladies in the world. “I want y’all to know I like loyal bad girls and I’m not asking you to fall in love with me. So many ladies keep complaining of heartbreaks now I’m giving them another option to choose not to feel heartbroken again but to make them go crazy and happy enjoying what life has to offer,” he said. Rollupstar, who describes his genre as Afro-pop, Reggae dancehall, R&B, hip-hop with a little bit of amapiano and a fast tempo sound has previously released songs like ‘Money’, ‘Heavyweight’ and has worked with artists such as Ghanaian star Sarkodie, DTB and featured in several collaborations. Revealing his 2022 plan, the talented act said: “I think they should expect a great change in the world soon in this 2022 and my Extended Play(EP) coming up soon is going to help balance the world to the way we can all live in peace and harmony without hearing stories of heartbreaks everywhere.”