In 2022, maritime, like others, will be shaped by collaborations among international institutions, governments and stakeholders. The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and the Commonwealth – a group of 54 independent nations – are set to galvanise stakeholders and drive the agenda for the industry. Is Nigeria going to allow itself to be left out? OLUWAKEMI DAUDA writes. The maritime sector is central in the quest of the Federal Government to raise the necessary cash to fund the national budget. To this end, the sector must be given the needed support while its different stakeholders, both local and international, must collaborate to achieve seamless ports operation in the country.   Customs service Stakeholders said the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) policy on duty benchmarking on imported goods announced few months ago will remain one of the vibrant ways to check fraudulent declarations by scrupulous importers. - Advertisement - The Controller, Apapa Customs Command, Mr Yusuf Malanta, and the Deputy National Public Relations Officer of the Service, Mr Timi Bomodi, defended the duty benchmarking on imported goods. According to them, the Service has in its system data range on prices of goods internationally as guide. They argued that the policy of benchmarking followed the cases of under-declaration, under-invoicing and concealment of goods by importers. Bomodi said compliance has to do with honesty and transparency which according to him, have been lacking among the importers. “The WCO nomenclature and the explanatory notes to the tariff are further guides which help agents and importers classify their goods correctly. In spite of this, the NCS has noticed both a huge knowledge deficit on the side of some agents/importers and an inclination towards misrepresenting facts with the obvious intention of evading the payment of appropriate customs duty,” he said. Under the policy,  every 20ft or 40ft container pays a uniform duty rate  irrespective  of the value of the  imported goods, a development that has been described as alien to the industry. Former President, National Association of  Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Dr. Eugene Nweke, said it would trigger  inflation and harm the  economy. Nweke and other stakeholders who spoke with The Nation said the CGC should  save Nigerians such hardship and halt its implementation  this new year.    Translate plans to  results Last year, manufacturers operating at the nation’s sea ports were full of lamentation over issues of access to foreign exchange (forex). They were  given assurance by President Muhammadu Buhari  at the tail end of last year of an improvement for those wishing to import raw materials and machines for production. He  gave the assurance when he received the leadership of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) at the State House, Abuja. It is hoped that Buhari’s strategic plan to boost manufacturing activities in the country will  be kept this year.   Maritime dangerous goods Another momentous event that will shape this year is the enforcement of the  International Maritime Dangerous Goods (IMDG) Code, which was developed for the maritime transportation of dangerous goods in packaged form. The Code will come into force on June 1, this year . It was designed to enhance and harmonise the safe carriage of dangerous goods and to prevent pollution to the environment. The IMDG Code, 2020 Edition, came into force on January 1, 2020, for two years. It had applied voluntarily since 2019. The validity of this Code was extended till May 31 this year, and stakeholders are waiting to see how it would  pave the way for effective enforcement of the successor Code this year.    Port system digitalisation Why are too many people still going into the nation’s seaports in this era of digitalisation? This is the puzzle the former Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Mr Hassan Bello, wants stakeholders, including security officers, government agencies and port users to solve this new year. Bello said the port can be contactless with the use of computers.  He noted that a non-contact port is the solution to problems such as delays, which lead to demurrage, diversion of money, corruption and revenue leakages. Bello decried a situation where many people would converge on the seaports to transact businesses that could be done from the comfort of their homes and offices. Human contact, in this era of global digitalisation, Bello said, is dangerous because it is inefficient and breeds corruption.   Heineken opens N3.1b takeover bid for minority shares in…     Jaiz Bank celebrates at 10     Studio Press, Union Diagnostic delist shares from NGX   Stakeholders sought for collaboration to increase business value and enthrone transparency, speed up efficiency and safety in port activities and supply chains. A maritime lawyer, Dr Dipo Alaska  said the country needed to embrace digital operations to get a clearer picture of the maritime landscape, noting that digitalisation holds great potential for making maritime transport chains more efficient, flexible and agile. Collaboration among maritime agencies, according to him, would open up the ports to meet the challenges of globalisation, demographic change and urbanisation.   Intervention fund A chieftain of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Dr Kayode Farinto, said the sector needed intervention fund to boost maritime trade this year. The government, he said, needed to come up with a better intervention fund like they have done in the aviation, manufacturing and agriculture sectors to take maritime out of the woods this year.   CVFF disbursement Almost 16 years after the creation of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), the Federal Government approved its disbursement to indigenous shipping operators. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi disclosed the approval at a Stakeholders Appreciation Night organised by the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) in Lagos. Amaechi said the fund has hit $200 million. The accumulated fund represents a two per cent contribution by indigenous ship owners on every contract done in the maritime domain. The CVFF scheme was created in 2004. Since then, indigenous ship owners have been longing to benefit from the fund after several promises by the successive administrations. Stakeholders urged Buhari to ensure  early dsibursement of the fund this year to boost the activities of indigenous ship owners and creat jobs.   CCCIC The Command & Control, Communication and Intelligence Centre (CCCIC) of the NPA is seen as one of the giant strides taken by the authority to boost government revenue. NPA must improve on the facility to boost efficiency at ports this year. A  maritime analyst, Segun Adejare  said: “The facility is very good because it serves as surveillance for NPA’s activities and for security agencies.”   Single window policy NPA,  Customs, NIMASA, NSC  need   to collaborate with the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) to develop the operational framework for establishing the National Single Window, Ports Community System and Scanning Services to address the chaotic clearance of cargoes from the port. The collaboration must be used by the NPA this year in simplifying and harmonising formalities that impede trade.   Concession agreement review One of the sad news that jolted many within and outside the country’s maritime industry last year was that the Apapa Port, Lagos State, was no longer West Africa’s leading and busiest container port. The report said Lome Port in neighbouring Republic of Togo has taken over. But the good news is that the NSC has insisted that the 80 per cent of cargoes destined for West and Central Africa are discharged at Nigeria’s seaports because the ports are efficient.