BUDDING US-based Nigerian singer, Oboghene Onome Ezaga aka OB has revealed his plans with Afro-Soul genre of music in 2022. The young singer, who is making his debut into the Nigerian music scene, has positioned himself as a star to watch out for in 2022 with his powerful voice, control, and flow. In a recent chat, OB explained that his debut extended playlist (EP) entitled ‘!’ will be released in the first quarter of the year.   AY comedian: I’m happy that people are supporting Nollywood     AMAA calls for entry submission ahead of 18th edition     PHOTOS: Davido, 30BG crew on groomsmen duties in Zimbabwe   On the inspiration behind the EP, he said: “The title of the EP is an exclamation mark and it’s intentional. I am talking about very urgent matters through my songs and these matters include my personal experiences and other life’s experiences.” Continuing, he said, “So, the first song is called ‘Go.’ It is an R&B song, which is about leaving a bad situation. I talked about my experience in the song.  And the second song is Yawa, which is translated to trouble, and it will be released in January 2022. I am not a gospel artiste but I am Christ-minded, so, I made a lot of references to the Bible in the song, especially quoting from the book of Proverbs, where the Bible says that we should go after wisdom and also flee from promiscuous ones.” - Advertisement - On the decision to thrive on the Afro-Soul genre, OB said he is multi-talented in all genres but currently feeling the Afro-Soul and Afrobeats at this point in his career: “I can thrive in all genres but I am an Infused-Soul artiste. I found Afrobeat as the best way to pass the message about temptation and R & B as the best way to pass the message on living in an emotional situation so, I don’t see myself as an artist restricted by a genre. I am preaching love through my songs because that is what the world needs now.” Speaking on managing his music career and education at the North Central Texas College, where he studies Philosophy, he said: “I feel music and my education are two things I can do at the same time. Being a student of Psychology is playing a big role in my career.”