Popular businessman Obi Cubana has spoken on his recent encounter with The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). The billionaire mogul, in an Instagram live with popular On-Air Personality, Daddy Freeze, narrated his ordeals with the anti-drug agency. He said: “In life, in growth, people must face certain challenges and I am facing mine right now, but I think the most painful of them you see I was in detention for four days and three nights I didn’t feel bad because I knew the agency will do a thorough job and if I am cleared I’ll be let to go. “There was no witch hunting, nobody was after me. I’m sure the agencies will do their job very well I’m sure and I have no doubt about that but to link me to drugs I have never felt so low, I wasn’t linked, they later said that… “My own is that anything that has to do with narcotics/drugs to me is repulsive, it is something I have made a covenant with my God, with my children with my unborn generation that I will never support, I will never invest, I will never be part of it.   Olubadan-in-Council to present Balogun to Makinde as next…     AFCON: Nollywood actor, others urge Super Eagles to soar…     Don’t leave your children’s training to teachers –…   - Advertisement - “I will never and I still made the covenant before everybody on this live so the thought of even that invitation, do you understand what I am saying? “Because this is something we fight every day, something that destroys generation, this is something my children can be a victim of so no human being that has brain. “I wasn’t accused, I was never linked to anything but they said that somebody paid money into my account which I believe that the agency in question also is a very responsible one and I know that at the end of the day whenever they are done with their investigation it will be made known to the public and that’s the much I want to talk about it, please. It’s a sad phase I don’t want to go or discuss but I just want to say it and then let’s talk about giving.” The Nation had reported that Obi Cubana was at NDLEA headquarters, Abuja on Thursday where he was grilled over alleged suspicious payments into his account by three convicted drug lords in India, Malaysia and Nigeria.