PETER OLAYINKA: I’m really excited; it’s a dream come true for me.I’m really looking forward to the tournament; I can’t wait to give it my all.”   MADUKA OKOYE: “Like you said ninety minutes fully focused and confident, we are not allowed to be scared. I think we have the quality to stop even players like this not to give us too much danger. Of course, it is a new competition and it feels different because nothing is safe.   DANIEL AKPEYI: As usual Nigerians always expect us to do well in the tournament. I’m very sure that the players that have been invited into the camp, they know what is obtainable and what we need to make Nigerians happy. - Advertisement -   CHIDERA EJUKE: “I just hope that we keep the focus and the most important thing is to take one game at a time so the first focus is the first game which is against Egypt.”   UMAR SADIQ: “First of all I give thanks to God to be part of this team, you know it’s a dream come true, out of millions of people I am among those to represent the country so I feel good and blessed. Keep supporting us and be patient with us and we’ll try to give you all what you deserve.”   AHMED MUSA: “Everyone is talking about Salah but if you look at our team, we have lots of players they will be worried about. So, we don’t have to think about Salah, they have to think about our own players.  They talk about Salah but we have players like Samuel Chukwueze and others on the wings who are very dangerous – so that’s football.”   ALEX IWOBI: “In each tournament, you will always see new players. I don’t think there is any new player going to AFCON that has not been with us since day one. So, we are together, and we know each other but it’s just something little the coach just needs to add into the team.   Sudan coach warns  Eagles     Choupo-Moting: Eto’o, Okocha fuelled my  dreams     Minister: Cameroon ready to host well     MOSES SIMON: “For me, I think we are ready because we have played lots of matches together and like I said we are 100 per cent ready. We are not going to Cameroon to see the beauty of the country but to win. I remember during the qualifiers when we sealed qualification, we said we are not just going to the AFCON we are going to come back with the trophy.”   WILLIAM TROOST-EKONG: “We will miss Balogun, last AFCON I paired with Kenneth. Awaziem is doing fine. Starting shirt doesn’t belong to anyone. We will have good competition among the players.”   CHIDOZIE AWAZIEM: “It has been a wonderful atmosphere in the camp. We are preparing with the few players in camp and training sessions have been good, everyone is giving his best and the coach is doing a good job. We are hoping to get more players as soon as possible so we can have a full team and prepare for the Africa Cup of Nations properly. It’s the New Year and everyone is positive, we believe we can achieve something great this year.”   SAMUEL CHUKWUEZE: “I strongly believe this time around we can go all the way (at the AFCON).I know with the calibre of players we have and the team chemistry and passion, I believe we can get to the finals of the AFCON in Cameroon, nothing except the finals, that’s our mission.”   JOHN NOBLE: For me, I am very happy because it is the dream of every player to represent his country. When I saw my name on the list I was so happy and I returned all the glories to God,” Noble told journalists. I believe in the quality of players the Super Eagles have. We are doing well for our different clubs. I do believe we will qualify from the group stage.”   KELECHI IHEANACHO: “We need to keep doing what we’re doing and do our best and keep showing the world that Africa deserves more and there are more opportunities for good footballers over there. Our competition needs to be looked at as well but I think we need to prove with our play that our competition is underrated by doing extraordinary things on the pitch, by scoring goals, by performing really well so when we do that it will speak for itself.”   KENNETH OMERUO: “For us, it is to go there and do everything for the country. We just finished another training session, getting there step by step and when the time comes we will deliver for the country. It’s been a great session, two times a day since we resumed camp, different drills getting us to the rhythm and getting us ready for the games.”