The presidency and a political historian have disagreed over the security situation in the country. While the presidency said that notwithstanding the challenges bedevilling the country, the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has done well in the area of security, the historian, Dr. Usman Buraje said insecurity has reached an alarming proportion under the current government. Speaking on a programme on Channels Television, Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina said a lot has been done to degrade Boko Haram insurgency and to bring stabilize the security situation in the Northeast. He said with what had been done and other plans in the pipeline, terrorism and insurgency will soon come to an end. He said there is a noticeable difference in the security situation under the Peoples’ Democratic Party’s (PDP) government of former President Goodluck Jonathan and that of his principal since he took over the reign of governance in 2015. Adesina said Nigerians can scarcely hear of bombings nowadays, unlike what obtained under Jonathan when the country was held to ransom by the insurgents. He assured that before the end of the Buhari administration in 17 months time, terrorism and insurgency will be a thing of the past. - Advertisement - He said: “We can’t compare what used to be in 2009/2010 and now. We are at the phase of ending the challenge of insecurity. We don’t hear of bombings as we used to hear them then. “But, Mr. President still desires to put a final stop to bombings by the insurgents. I believe nothing is impossible to achieve between now and the end of this administration. Nigerians can take my words that insurgency can totally be eradicated within the next 17 months left for this administration.” The presidential spokesman said that very soon those behind insurgency will be unmasked. Adesina added “The Federal Government is concerned majorly with insurgency and terrorism. The Federal Government expects the state governors as chief security officers in their states to do their part to ensure security threat within their domain is frontally tackled.”   SERAP seeks probe of governors for ‘misuse of security…     New moon: Sultan directs Muslims to look out for Jumada…     2019 AuGF report: 178,459 arms, ammunition missing from…   On why bandits are yet to be termed terrorists despite a court order declaring them as terrorists, Adesina said: “And very soon, bandits will be treated as terrorists. I believe there are some procedural steps being taken. The attorney general of the federation is on top of the process and once the processes are completed, bandits will be terms as terrorists.” He enjoined Nigerians to be hopeful in the All Progressives Congress (APC) government, adding that Mr. President means well for the country and will continue to do his best for Nigerians. Reacting to the refusal of President Buhari to assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, Adesina said though the federal lawmakers have the right to override the president, “toeing such a path may not be the most expedient thing to do now when there are other options open to the lawmakers”. But, in his view, Dr. Bugaje disagreed with the position of the presidency on the handling of the Boko Haram insurgency, saying the situation is getting scarier under the current administration. He dismissed the claim that the security situation in the country has improved under President Buhari, saying such statements from the presidency constituted an affront on the sensibility of Nigerians. Bugaje said: “Things are getting worse. Every day, the security situation in Nigeria is getting worse.  How can they talk about improved security when many local governments in Borno and some parts of the North are under the control of bandits and terrorists?” He added: “Today, many major routes in the North are not safe. Is it Abuja to Kaduna or name the road that is safe now? With what Mr. Adesina has said, it is obvious that this government is insensitive, incompetent and such statements are an insult to Nigerians.” To Dr. Bugaje, the claim that the security situation has improved is an attempt by those in government to hoodwink Nigerians. He said Nigerians are yet to see such improvements. He said: “With the way things are going, there’s nothing more to expect from this government and I have given up and now looking for another to come.” He called on Nigerians to come together to choose capable and competent Nigerians that can lead the country. His words: “We need to team up to look for competent Nigerians and statemen who can rescue this nation from going down the drain. “We have to change the political paradigm in this country. What we require now is for Nigerians to team up because there is no single candidate who can help us.”