After a visit to Las Vegas, the fun-filled American domain its citizens call the Sin City, Taiwo Abiodun writes about his experience. VISITORS, tourists, fun-seekers and natives milled around. Lover birds of different ages held their hands, with some cuddling themselves in open places. Ladies openly asked for fun while many others kissed away desperately as if kissing was about  to run out of fashion. A half nude man waved a placard with some rude words while others engaged in public smoking of Marijuana. Welcome to Las Vegas Boulevard, the city reputed widely for its Casino and entertainment; the city of vice and indulgence where one is free to commit sin but not crime! All manner of music was blaring from high -powered speakers mounted at the entrances of high rising buildings, causing a cacophony of sounds that kept everywhere bubbling. Armed with fliers were Marketers from    various companies advertising their products and services and calling passers-by to patronise them and enjoy their mouth-watering incentives of attractive gifts and rewards. Little wonder Las Vegas enjoys such nicknames as the Entertainment Capital of the World, the Gambling Capital of the World, the Marriage Capital of the World, the Neon Capital of the World, the City of Lights, the City that Never Sleeps, the City of Second Chances, Lost Wages - Advertisement - Here, gambling is as much  a profession as it is fun. Virtually all the buildings on Strip Street, a major part of Las Vegas, are Casino houses, with Caesar Palace, Santa Fe   Station, Venetian/Palazzo, Dellagio and Trump Building numbered among the popular ones. Gamblers irrespective of sex or nature were seen walking into Casinos including those with oxygen pipes fastened to their noses while they gambled! Indeed, some gamblers were on wheelchairs! Some of the Casino machines are old while others are of the latest versions, computerised and illuminated with different kinds of lights as they dish out songs and beautiful coloured pictures from the machines. While at ‘work’, the gamblers look as serious as examination candidates as they glue to their seats. Assorted drinks are free! Here, it is different strokes for different folks. While some gamblers are smiling and limping for joy as they hit the jackpot, others wear long faces to reflect their ill luck. I counted himself among the lucky ones after playing the Keno machine with five cents and winning a few dollars in the game that thrives on high risk. I drank a choice of alcohol free of charge and danced to the exotic music that blared from the speakers. I watched the show girls wiggling their waists and exposing their erotic areas. Many of the ladies were half nude. In fact these ladies were competing with one another in open places. I saw them smoking medical marijuana in the public and I watched the smoke dancing into the sky. On the road were exotic cars, sport cars and racing motorcycles as well as double-decker buses driven past with the operational traffic lights controlling the drivers. While everything human or vehicular was moving, one thing that stood still were the skyscraper buildings that compete with one another in designs and heights as they battled for space on Strip Street in Las Vegas Boulevard, a major road in the Las Vegas Valley of Nevada, best known for the Las Vegas Strip portion of the road and its Casinos. Some of the visitors made their way through the corridors, behind pillars or up the winding staircases and escalators. While some walked hurriedly, others were did majestically enjoying the cool atmospheric condition. All manner of activities were going on, including smoking marijuana freely. In Las Vegas, it is called recreational Marijuana and it is very legal. At another end, some stripers were busy entertaining visitors with erotic dance. They  know Son of Man’s weaknesses so they expose the ”areas” and  ”angles” that would  make Son of Man to become restless, panting at the sight of their  erotic angles and sin like the Biblical Adam and Eve.   Hunger looms in Benue valley as herdsmen force farmers out…     Kamala Harris is my role model – Mojisola Alli…     HILDA MANYO DICKSON: Life has dealt me with different blows   Of course the atmosphere was rowdy, it was one with a lot of fun. Elsewhere, a minstrel was singing and playing a piano expecting money from passers by. Close to her, a homeless man clutched his dirty clothes, waving his long withered hand as he begged for alms. Another one looked askance with two hands stretched. Poor me, I never thought there were beggars or homeless people in America!. We danced and danced and danced… Some half nude ladies were calling passers-by for shots. On sighting the show girls with feathery hats, I remembered the four wise monkeys and also a carving of the three wise monkeys proudly placed above the door of the shrine since the 17th Century. Made by a sculptor, Hidari Jingoro, the carving is a pictorial maxim of the phrase, “See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil”. No wonder the saying ”Do not see evil, do not hear evil, do not touch evil and do not do evil”. No wonder one would see young and old couples holding themselves in order to avoid disobeying or falling foul of these four rules in Las Vegas! I asked my wife, Ronnie, whether I should obey the three rules of the monkey. She said “Yes, but also obey the fourth one: do no evil. I asked whether I could take pictures with them, she responded, “Of course, if you want.” Then she brought out my iPad and took some shots.   The four wise monkeys When I sighted some of these damsels of different shapes, races and colours I screamed, “Ha, mo gbe! No wonder King Solomon had 700 wives of royal birth and 300 concubines”. Solomon must have encountered the beauty, dressing and brains of these ladies. I now realised why Solomon should not be blamed. I also saw the why the powerful Samson fell on a woman’s lap. I saw the reason why great men who could not control themselves fall flat and have their lives cut short or made miserable. Las Vegas is not a place built for the lily- livered. Even if you were a pastor, you will beg not to be tempted, because if their beauty would not attract you, their dressing would. And if their dressing would not do, they will deploy their magic wand – a beckon with a smile that activates their glittering teeth and sexy eyes. Call them ‘Mother, sorry, Father Christmas as they are all dressed in Santa Claus suits, except that their own Santa Claus would not give out gifts. Rather, they demand for only one gift: money.   Taiwo Abiodun dancing with the ladies ”Come and take a picture with us,” one of them told the reporter. One could see their artificial wings attached to their clothes complemented with sexy chain bra jewellery; some were made of silver, some of gold and some of body chains. Some wore their Father’s Christmas caps but without his customary beard. Their shoes were expensive and enticing. Their faces were bright, their teeth were glittering. They giggled and wriggled their waists. We took pictures and danced and danced. When they demanded money, Ronnie gave them 20 dollars. “They don’t do all this for free; you have to pay them. That is their business,” she said. Looking through the window at night from the 25th floor of the hotel I lodged in, I could see beautiful buildings with lightnings of different shapes and everywhere was as bright as a star. Different thoughts flooded my mind as I tried to convince myself that I was actually in Las Vegas the place widely regarded as the Entertainment Capital of the World, the Gambling Capital of the World, the Marriage Capital of the World and the City that Never Sleeps, among others. Here, it is fun every minute. No wonder they call it the Sin City where gambling, ladies of the night and liquor are all easily accessible.