Nigerian equities still have significant headroom for capital gains and are comparatively undervalued, but investors must be cautious as the market may be susceptible to cyclical reversal in 2022. FSDH Capital, a major investment banking firm, in its latest equities coverage report obtained at the weekend, noted that while benchmark index for Nigerian equities currently shows considerable discounts to its five-year average and global frontier market peers, the outlook for Nigerian equities appeared more downbeat in 2022 than in recent years. The benchmark market index, the All Share Index (ASI) of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) trades at a PE ratio of 9.8 times, a 17.3 per cent discount to five-year average of 11.9 times. Similarly, the ASI trades at a 32.2 per cent discount to the MSCI Frontier Market (MSCI FM) index. “Clearly, the market is undervalued considering the strong growth in company earnings in the past year as well as the additional listing of quality counters in the past 36 months. “Despite the perceived value in the Nigerian market, we struggle to see a sustained rally in the equities market in 2022. First, we reckon that historically, the 40,000–45,000 points range represents a psychological barrier for investors and the index has not pushed past that level since 2008. Technically, we see this resistance level as a tough barrier for Nigerian equities to break in 2022. - Advertisement - “Also, while we expect to see modest improvement in economic growth in 2022, lack of stability in the foreign exchange market and an overvalued naira will continue to keep foreign investors away. For domestic investors, we expect them to be attracted to the fixed income market given expectation of a higher yield environment in 2022 which could fuel asset rotation from the equities market to fixed income assets,” FSDH stated. The report however noted that there would be some bright spots in the equities market in 2022, although these may not be broad-based.   C & I Leasing eyes sustained growth with new…     Fed Govt launches 2022 capital raising with savings bonds     Expert urges investors to take advantage of mutual funds   FSDH advised investors to play actively in the equities market in this first quarter to exploit opportunities available particularly as companies release their full year numbers as well as announce attractive dividend yields. It however cautioned investors to hold light exposures in the equities market in second and third quarters as it expects “the yield reversal and asset rotation to kick into full gear from the end of March”. The investment pundit listed 10 companies as stocks to watch citing current price, lowest and highest prices in one year, all-time highest price, all-time lowest price, current price earnings (PE) ratio, five-year average PE ratio, price-to-book (PB) value, five-year average PB value and dividend yield. The top 10 recommended stocks included United Bank for Africa (UBA), Access Bank Plc, Jaiz Bank, Total Energies Plc, Fidelity Bank, Guinness Nigeria, Okomu Oil Palm, United Capital, MTN Nigeria Communications and Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp) Plc.   According to the report, given expectation of an upward momentum in interest rates, financial services companies, especially banks would thrive in the period ahead as the higher interest environment implies banks would be able to lend at higher rates as well as invest in higher yield government securities in 2022, providing a boost for interest income. “Also, given CBN’s recent policies, capping interest paid on savings and current accounts, the higher interest rate environment is likely to have just a moderate impact on banks’ interest expense, providing a solid base for stronger net interest margins (NIMs). However, we note that increase in interest rate is a three-way dynamic for banks given the impact on trading income. Higher yields imply fixed income instruments decline in price which indicates treasury units in banks must deploy appropriate strategies such as short-selling and securities lending to sustain growth in trading income. As a result, we advise clients to focus on banks with strong loan growth as well as solid treasury strategies which would be reflected in the bank’s trading income,” FSDH stated. The report also noted that the official removal of fuel subsidy slated for July 2022 and supply of foreign exchange to downstream oil  and gas companies for importation of white products would restore earning of both wholesale and retail margin. “Thus, we believe removal of fuel subsidy and resumption of importation by listed petroleum marketers would represent a strong positive driver for their performance and shareholder value,” FSDH stated.