The Chairman-elect of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State Cornelius Ojelabi has urged Lagosians to expect a better 2022. Ojelabi, in a statement, congratulated the people for surviving 2021 despite the many challenges and promised that the party would not relent in providing dividends of democracy to them. He said: “Without doubt, we have traversed a challenging year that has tested our resilience on virtually every front. We have been confronted by socio-economic happenstances that have stretched our perseverance and we have been disturbed by health issues – especially the Coronavirus – which has driven us into a state of fear, especially since it has been showing up in many variants. “I am happy, though, that our usual spirit of never-say-die and the grace of God on us, we have survived them all. Rather than succumb to the downsides of life, we have stood in faith and have resolved to look ahead to a more prosperous and fruitful 2022.   Abiodun: Tackling challenges of development     Why disagreement over Electoral Bill may not be resolved     Major events that would shape politics in 2022   “Fellow Lagosians, our great party, the APC, congratulates you for arriving destination – into a brand new year. We rejoice with you and all yours for surviving 2021. We assure you that we are not relenting in providing those dividends of democracy for you and your family. As you know, the state took immense steps last year to improve the state in many areas. The benefits have started to manifest.  The year 2022 shall be the year of consolidation on those good things that the government has been providing to its citizens. - Advertisement - “As you are already aware, the state budget is packed with many benefits which shall be executed to the maximum. We shall not relent and, for all that concern you, we remain your dutiful servants-in-power.  However, we humbly appeal for your support and prayers. Governance is a set activity for every one of us – the government and the governed. We are all stakeholders in the task of moving the state forward and so everyone needs to play their part to ensure that ours is a state that will continue to remain the envy of others. “We promise to do everything that is necessary and legitimate to consolidate our positions at every level. We owe this to you. You gave us the mandate and we shall never fail you. We are proud to inform you that, in our great state, we have commenced due processes to ensure that fair play and justice prevail at all times, both at the party level and in our relationships with the people. “Thus, as we welcome you to the rewarding year 2022, we promise to remain your dutiful servants. We promise to continue engaging with you at every level. We promise to make your voice heard all the time. We ask that you keep up with the trust you have in us.”