The Federal Government has further extended the deadline for the National Identification Number (NIN)-Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) data verification to the 31st of March, 2022. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Prof. Isa Pantami, in a statement, added that there has been a significant growth in the number of National Identity Number (NIN) enrolments and the increased drive to enlighten Nigerians and legal residents across the country. As of December 30, 2021, the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) had issued over 71million NINs with over 14,000 enrolment centres set up across the country.   Deji of Akure: Blessed are royal peacemakers     MC Oluomo: From unionist to monarch?     Tony Kabaka: No permanent friend, foes in politics   Furthermore, NIMC has also set up enrolment centres in over 31 countries to cater for Nigerians in the Diaspora.  The growth in the National Identity DataBase (NIDB) to over 71 million unique NINs in such a short period, with about three to four SIMs linked to a NIN, reflects the concerted effort of the Federal Government, the Nigerian populace and legal residents and this is truly commendable. - Advertisement - “Following the request by stakeholders, including citizens, legal residents and Nigerians in the diaspora, the Federal Government has extended the deadline of the exercise to the 31st of March, 2022.  This extension would enable the Federal Government to consolidate the gains of the process and accelerate the enrolment of Nigerians in key areas like the remote areas, diaspora, schools, hospitals, worship centres, and the registration of legal residents. “The Minister has, however, implored Nigerians and legal residents to enrol for their NINs and link with their SIMs during this period of extension as more services will be requiring the NIN for identification. He also reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government to support the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the NIMC in ensuring that the objectives of the exercise are achieved.”