The General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry (DCLM), Pastor William Kumuyi, yesterday defended the church’s choice of speakers at its ongoing youth programme. The church faced criticisms on social media following its decision to feature successful business leaders not often associated with it at its ongoing programme, First Global Youth Convocation (GYC), tagged: IMPACT 2022. But Kumuyi explained that although the church’s foundation is rooted in soul-winning, the programme was also targeted at stimulating young people’s minds to enable youths deploy their natural creativity for societal good. This, the cleric explained, made it necessary for them to learn from the experiences of credible, successful experts who could inspire them. Kumuyi is the convener of the GYC holding at the Deeper Life International Conference Centre (DLICC) on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. - Advertisement - It features guest speakers like boardroom guru, Ibukun Awosika; business innovator, Iyinola Aboyeji, and gospel music artiste, Dunsin Oyekan.   Senate probes BPE’s alleged non-remittance of $679.4m yearly…     Extort recruits and face sanction, IG warns police officers     Fed Govt: National Development Plan needs N348.1tr…   Many people had wondered if the DCLM, known for its strict religious teachings, had compromised. But Kumuyi, responding to a question from The Nation at the opening ceremony of the programme, explained that Deeper Life had not compromised. He said: “Let’s say, for example, I need a Chemistry teacher to teach some young people, I will not be looking at ‘is he a member of Deeper Life or not?’; ‘Does he agree with me and dots every I or crosses every T for me?’ “No. I will be looking at someone who knows the subject, the students, who knows how to connect with those young people and who can impact on them and make them love that subject and give them tips that will make them even greater than himself in that field. “The people who might say that we are lowering standards and all that, number one: they do not know the calibre of people we have invited. So, they judge them on their own little understanding of who these people are. “Some of them have not even taken the effort to… If you go on the web, the internet, you can check out their profiles and see who they are. Maybe they just saw their pictures and they said: ‘This is not my kind of person’ and because they think we are compromising.”