There is wide outrage over the attack of an 11-year-old pupil by a senior at the El-Kanami College of Islamic Theology Maiduguri. The JSS 1 student, Jubril Sadi Mato (Ramadan), was said to have been attacked by a senior student who slit his throat for refusing to run an errand for him in the hostel. Some Civil Society Organisations, including the Nigeria Bar Association(NBA) has vowed to take up the matter and ensure the victim gets justice. The Vice-Chairman Human Right Committee and Vice-Chairman (NBA) Borno, Barr. Yahaya Dunoma said his committee is expected to meet with the management of the school and see how the NBA intervene to bring justice to the victim. The little Jubril, who is on admission at the Intensive Care Unit at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital, has appealed to his parents not to make him return to the school because of fear that he may be killed by the senior student. - Advertisement - Ahmed Umar Goni, the SS-II student, who attacked Jubril on January 16, 2022, said he attacked the victim to get an excuse for expulsion from the school. Ahmed, who was paraded by Borno Police Command on Saturday, said he has told his parent several times to withdraw him from the school to no avail.   JUST IN: PDP NWC meets Obasanjo over 2023     Angry youths protest as soldier kills truck driver in     Eight things to know about new Lagos CP, Abiodun Alabi   A family source informed that Jubril, after regaining consciousness, wrote on a piece of paper begging his mother not to allow him to return to the school for fear of being killed. “Mummy, mummy, I’m scared. Don’t take me back to that school he will kill me,” he reportedly wrote. A family source, who spoke in confidence, alleged the school authorities were trying to cover up the incident. He expressed delight some civil society organisations have acted swiftly on the matter. “We are happy that the Network for Civil Society Organisation Borno Chapters, Nigeria Bar Association(NBA), The National Human Rights Commission(NHRC) And The Federation of International Female Lawyers(FIDA) have vowed to investigate the case to ensure that the perpetrator was brought to book. “For us as a family, we want Justice for the poor child as we are also planning to take him to Egypt for proper medical attention,” he said. In a swift reaction, Borno State Government has set up a five-man committee with the mandate “to investigate and arrive at the remote causes of the incident and suggest ways to curtail its re-occurrence in the future”. The committee’s membership is drawn from the Police, DSS, NSCDC with the Director of Quality Assurance in the ministry of Education Hajiya Hadiza Nasir Wali as the secretary. The committee is expected to complete the assignment and submit their report to Commissioner, Ministry of Education within one week.