Air passengers in the country have continued to suffer great losses from failure of flights to take off on schedule. The ugly development has failed to abate in spite of Federal Government’s directive that airlines operators must refund the full cost of travel tickets to passengers after a two-hour delay. INNOCENT DURU reports that the ugly trend may persist in spite of government’s directive because precedents considered, suing airlines for flight delays may yield no meaningful result. A former boss of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN),  Mazi Okechukwu Unegbu, was elated recently when he received an invitation to Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, for a mouthwatering business deal. Without wasting time, he rushed to book a flight and zoomed off to the airport with assurances to people back at home that they would have reasons to smile on his return.  After checking in, he sat down at the waiting room flipping through the pages of newspaper as he looked forward to landing in Abuja within an hour of the aircraft taking off. But while he awaited the boarding announcement, it was a flight delay that was announced. Eventually, he arrived at the agreed venue after his business partner had left. “Nigeria is a migraine-causing country. The  business in question was running into millions of naira.  By the time I got there, the people I was to meet had gone. - Advertisement - “All the revenue I would have made, all the connections I would have used in employing more people in my business were lost. It was a very painful experience,” he said in a voice laced with anger. Apparently worried by the frequency of such incidents, the Federal Government through the Ministry of Aviation early in the year directed that airline operators must refund the full cost of travel tickets to passengers after a two-hour delay. In July, the Aviation Minister, Hadi Sirika, at the weekly State House briefing in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, reeled out some of the rights of air passengers as enshrined in Part 19 of the Consumer Protection Regulations of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations (2015). He then charged them to demand their rights whenever they were trampled upon by airlines. Sirika said: “On domestic flights, for delays beyond one hour, the carrier should provide refreshment, and one telephone call, or one SMS, or one e-mail. They should send you an SMS or email or call you to say, ‘I am sorry, I am delaying for one hour’. “For delays for two hours and beyond, the carrier shall reimburse passengers the full volume of their tickets. “For delays between 10pm and 4am, the carrier shall provide hotel accommodation, refreshment, meal, two free calls, SMS, email and transport to-and-fro airport.” He added that the same rules applied for international flights. It is yet to be seen if any airline has refunded passengers’ money  for  delaying longer than two hours. Bayo Adeoye, a publicist and social commentator, had an experience similar to Unegbu’s when he also missed a business appointment in Abuja. “My flight was delayed for almost 24 hours,” he said with anger in his voice. “I was to leave Lagos for Abuja on a Friday around 11am for a meeting in Abuja. They called and said that the flight had been postponed till 3 pm. “Arriving at the airport before  3 pm in the hope that we would leave at 3, they announced that the flight would be delayed again. The delay continued into the night and I eventually arrived Abuja the following day and could not have the meeting again. “I had to pay for  hotel accommodation that I never planned for so that I could have the meeting done on Monday. It was very, very annoying.” Bayo said he had another unpleasant experience about three months ago when his flight was delayed for about six hours. “All my plans for the period were disrupted. It is not  funny at all,” he said. Just last weekend,  Ozolua, a journalist with this news medium, and hordes of other passengers  had their flight from Abuja to Lagos moved from Friday night to Saturday morning.   At the point when they were famished waiting for their flight to be announced, he said the authorities “only offered us the usual onboard snacks.” He recalled  that  while they were at the airport, pregnant women, aged people, children and other vulnerable citizens were languishing in discomfort. “Nigeria is a jungle. Flight from Abuja to Lagos scheduled for 7: 55 pm is yet to fly at 12: 15 am. No announcement, no apology,” he posted on the staff Whatsapp group. Obviously frustrated, he returned to the platform 15 minutes later and posted:  “We are yet to be attended to as to where to sleep. Aged people, pregnant women and children all wondering where to  rest their heads. It’s almost 12;30 am.” He later told our correspondent that they were taken to a hotel around 2 am without anytthing to eat. “We were not given any food throughout the night.  From 7: 50 pm on Saturday, we eventually left at 8:30 am on Sunday. ” he said. The authorities, he said, hinged the delay on operational reasons as it is always the case. “They said one of their planes rammed into another plane in Benin on that day; that it was the same plane that would have flown us to Lagos,” he said. Such has also been a recurring experience for Gbenga Salau, a Lagos-based journalist. He said: “Recently, I was coming from Owerri to Lagos. The flight was delayed for over three hours without any apologies from the authorities. “It is annoying that when they delay, they show no concern about it. But if you get a little bit late they will tell you the counter is closed. “It once happened to me when I was going to Abuja from Lagos. I was held up in traffic and didn’t get to the airport early enough. When I got there, they said they had closed the counter. “I begged and begged but they refused, insisting that I must pay extra money to go with another flight. How do we describe that? “When they err, it’s no crime. But when a passenger errs, they wield the big stick. It is totally unacceptable.“ Another passenger, Tessy Igomu , also decried the incessant incidents of flight delays in the country. Reliving her recent experience, she said: “My flight was around 12 or 1pm but they moved it to 2 pm.  From 2 pm, they moved it to 6 pm and finally to 8 pm. That was the time we left. They didn’t even explain what happened. “They later brought a bottle of soft drink and a miserable biscuit sold for N100 but I told them that I was not taking it. There was no apology from them. Nothing like that.” I got N50,000 compensation three years after suing an airline – Ex CIBN chief Unegbu The court they say is the last hope of the common man. But that may necessarily not be the case for aggrieved air passengers in the situation under examination. Mazi Unegbu’s experience lends credence to this and might have, in the opinion of some people, fueled the impunity of the airline operators. Unegbu told of how he went to court to see if he could use the instrumentality of the court to put an end to the problem of flight delays in the country but came back highly disappointed. He said: “I tried suing an airline once and at the end of the day, I was awarded a paltry N50,000 compensation, which didn’t make sense to me.  The court wasted three years before they gave their decision. It was very painful. Nobody would want to sue any airline reading my experience. “I want to travel to Owerri this weekend but I have been apprehensive of the airline not moving on time, and apprehensive of so many things happening.   RELOADED: Arterta’s Arsenal tackle Pep’s Man…     Insecurity in Imo politically-motivated -Eze Imo     New Year, new expectations   “It is a pitiable situation. If our judiciary is working very well, you will see many  will take the airlines to court and they will pay  a lot. It is crazy. “There are a whole lot of losses that people suffer when their flights are delayed. There are social losses, environmental losses and economic losses when people miss appointments due to flight delays. “The losses cannot be quantified but they  can be very high.” Road transportation not an option In spite of the unpleasant issues around air transportation in the country, many passengers will prefer traveling by road. They feared that the challenge associated with road transportation is worse. “Road transportation is not an option for some of us because the roads are not safe,” Unegbu, a former CIBN boss said. He added: “A lot of things could happen when you travel by road. The roads are not options at all. Even if road transportation is an option, the roads are bad and that is a bigger cost. “I don’t see the road being an alternative. It is not an alternative. It may be an alternative in other climes, but here, it is not.” Tessy on her part said: “God forbid that I travel by road to Abuja. Most of the people travelling by road would prefer going by air if they have the money to fly. “The roads are not safe. The day we were in Abuja,  there was information that they kidnapped people on that road.”   Challenges of getting redress through court A  legal practitioner, Barrister Ladipo Ojo, in a chat with our correspondent enumerated the likely reasons aggrieved passengers don’t sue airline operators for damages caused by flight delay. His explanations echoed the unpleasant experience Unegbu had suing an airline. His words: “The regulatory ministry, which is the Ministry of Aviation, has come out with a policy that no flight must be delayed for more than 30 minutes. “Where a flight is delayed for more than 30 minutes, passengers are entitled to some comforts like refreshments. “But in a scenario they don’t give them all that, the passengers if they could establish that this was the time the flight ought to take off as written in the ticket but the flight was delayed for no cogent or verifiable reasons, the passengers can institute a court action against the airline and sue for damages, and the damages can only go in respect of man hour loss in the process of the  flight taken. “The challenges we have are because of the way our legal system operates when you choose to enforce such. At the end  of the day, what you may be getting may not be worth it. “That is why most times, people don’t bother instituting an action. The only way to make sure that the airlines ensure compliance with the directive of the NCAA is where there is a court that goes to look into issues like that. “If you go to the regular court, it might take a long time before judgement is obtained. Consequently the person whose flight was delayed for about an hour and wants to go to court might wait for one or two years. Look at the time and the cost implications. “The best person to sanction the airlines is the NCAA. Where the notice is brought to the NCAA and they know that it is erroneous flight delay that causes it, they can decide to sanction them. “That is the best body that can investigate and sanction them. In essence, if you ask me, I will say that I wish that this country gets better in all ramifications.”   Why airlines cannot be penalized – NCAA The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had explained why airline opera tors may always not get penalised for flight delays. In a telephone interview with The Nation, the spokesman, Sam Adurogboye, said:  “I know there was a time the minister gave that directive. But it is not every ticket or every delay that you can begin to refund people. “Our rules allow the airlines to fly until the weather is okay. Secondly, if for technical reasons an airline has an issue mechanically, it has to be safe for an airline to operate. If it is not okay, it has to do something. “But where people are delayed unnecessarily for no valid reason, that is when we can begin to talk about compensation or refund of ticket fare. It is not in all cases that the flight can be delayed and you will be talking of a refund. “ Providing further clarifications, he said: “There is a qualification to that directive. It is not all delayes that are not excusable. There are some delays that are excusable. “By law, if there is bad weather, before an aircraft can take off from one point to the other,  they are required to obtain weather information about  that destination, because the number one enemy of an airplane is bad weather. “The safety regulation requires that the flight should obtain weather information about the route and where they are going. If the weather information says it’s not okay for the aircraft to take off, it has to stay. The law supports them for that. “Most of the time, I don’t see an airlines wanting to unnecessarily delay. There must be a reason. “What the law says is that if you must delay or cancel a flight, you must communicate to the passengers the reason. You must explain to them. “If an airline is delaying because it needs to buy fuel, would you penalise the airline? There has to be fuel before it can take off. “If an airline is delaying a flight on account of bad weather, you cannot punish ity for that. That is why I said there are some delays that are excusable  given by the law and we would support them for that. “If there is no excusable reason and you delay, then that could be enforced. Of course the airlines are being sanctioned from time to time if there are violations.” Asked about statistics of flight delays, he said: “They are not available. It is still being computed.  As at yesterday, I had a reason to ask for it but they pleaded with me to let them have that in December so that everything can be ready. “For now, it’s not ready. We get it on a periodic basis, quarterly, half year. I am waiting for it to be ready.“ The NCAA data according to a newspaper report  showed that 1,871 international flights have been recorded within the country’s airspace from January to March 2021,  562 of which were delayed and nine cancelled. Locally, 14,662 local flights were recorded between January and March 2021. 7,554 of them were delayed and 149 were cancelled.   We’ve been complying  with FG’s directive – ARIK The management of Arik Air said it had been complying with the directive of the Ministry of Aviation on flight delays. The spokesman, Banji Aina, said: “We have been complying with it. It is not just a directive. It is in the NCAA’s regulation.  We have been doing what they asked us to do. We have been complying.” Spokesperson of Air Peace, Stanley, was yet to respond to our inquiry at press time. He had requested that our correspondent should send his questions to him via a text message when the former called him. Dana’s spokesperson’s contact was not reachable when our correspondent called. He was also yet to respond to questions sent to him via text message.