The miraculous has happened as veteran Yoruba actress Iyabo Oko who was declared dead has reportedly come back to life. The 61-year-old thespian’s daughter Bisi Aisha initially announced her mother’s death in several Instagram posts late on Wednesday night. She wrote: “My mum is gone. Rest well mummy. May ur soul Rest In Peace mummy.” Actress Foluke Daramola Salako also took to social media to mourn her much senior colleague. She wrote: “And finally we lost her. RIP Iyabo Oko, we did our best.” - Advertisement - In a new twist, the actresses’ daughter returned to social media to announce her mother, who was reported dead the previous day, had returned back to life, three hours after she died. She made this known via her Instagram page where she posted a photo of her mother with the caption: “Wonderful being, she moved her hand after been confirmed dead 3hrs ago. God we will forever praise ur HOLY name.”   Davido’s father taught me genuine love, says Mr Macaroni     Confusion over actress Iyabo Oko’s health     ‘Ankara’ maker signs Fally Ipupa as brand ambassador   Seeing the twist, Foluke Daramola Salako also shared Iyabo Oko’s photo as she updated social media users on recent development. She wrote: “Updates on Iyabo Oko just heard from her daughter again that she moved her hand that she’s still alive o. “Hallelujah o she’s alive o, it was her same daughter that announced her death to me b4 and she was the one that said she’s alive now.” In the viral video where the movie veteran’s daughter announced her mom’s return to life, she said: “Good morning everyone, this is Iyabo Oko’s daughter. Iyabo Oko is still alive o! My mom is still alive. “I was the one that posted it yesterday when my senior brother called me that she was confirmed dead. And later after three hours, she came back to life. “So we thank God for that. We thank God! Look at my eyes, you can see my eyes, I’ve been crying since yesterday. But we thank God she’s back to life. Born Odukanmi Kudirat, she started her acting career in 1973 under the platform of Eda Onileola theatre troupe. She gained prominence in the movie ‘Oko,’ which was produced by Oga Bello where she earned the nickname, Iyabo Oko. Attachments area