The Defence Headquarters said the troops of the Armed Forces eliminated a total of 1,910 criminal elements, including terrorists, bandits, robbers and kidnappers across the country in seven months. The Acting Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, said this when he briefed reporters on the operations of the armed forces yesterday in Abuja. Onyeuko said the figure was in addition to scores of other terrorists and bandits killed during airstrikes within the period from May 20, 2021, to January 6. He said the troops also rescued a total of 729 kidnap victims across the country. According to him, 912 criminals were arrested, while a large cache of arms and ammunition as well as livestock among other items of economic and security concerns were recovered by the troops during the period. - Advertisement - Onyeuko added that troops had made recoveries of 13.2 million litres of illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) and 3.9 million litres of Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK). He said 38,582 barrels and 6.49 million litres of stolen crude oil as well as 11.6 million litres of illegally refined PMS were recovered and handed to appropriate authorities.   Alumni renovate school lab     Tackle insecurity with technology, says ANCOPSS     Council fetes 200 widows, aged   According to him, the operational performance of the military in 2021 shows that the synergy between the military and other security agencies is succeeding in tackling the security challenges facing the country. Also, in the past eight months, a total of 24,059 terrorists and their families comprising 5,326 adult males, 7,550 adult females and 11,183 children have so far surrendered to troops in the Northeast, between May 2021 and January, the Defence Headquarters has disclosed. It said all surrendered elements have been properly profiled and handed over to appropriate authorities for necessary actions. Also within the time under review, a total of 1, 910 suspected terrorists, bandits, and other criminal elements were killed. Director of Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. Benard Onyeuko, who made the disclosure at the bi-weekly operational briefing in Abuja, maintained that fighting forces across theatres had demonstrated resilience and doggedness in the Armed Forces of Nigeria’s determination to reassert the authority of the state. While warning enemies of the state against continuing on the path of criminality, the DMO called for renewed collaboration between security agencies and the public, in a bid to restore peace across the state.