Super Eagles interim coach Augustine Eguavoen has revealed that he had a sleepless night following the team’s exit in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) round of 16 on Sunday in Garoua. Nigeria were eliminated from AFCON after a shock 1-0 defeat to Tunisia. Tunisia captain Youssef Msakni’s long-range shot at the 47th minute was all the Carthage Eagles needed to secure passage to the quarter-final. Eguavoen admitted that it was painful losing at the stage after an outstanding performance in the group stage.   Lessons from the Magodo brouhaha     NLC suspends Jan 27, Feb 2 nationwide protest over subsidy     Ex-Lagos SSG Adenrele Adeniran-Ogunsanya dies   “I didn’t sleep until 3 am after the game on Sunday. I also woke up early talking to my family who called to console me from USA and Benin City. They told me they were proud of me and the team. I also received calls from the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, NFF President Amaju Pinnick, the NFF Secretary Mohammed Sanusi, Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi, and Shehu Dikko. They were all happy with our performances here. It was painful to exit at the round of 16 and it was a bitter pill to swallow,” Eguavoen told NationSport. - Advertisement - Eguavoen also said that he held a special meeting with the players yesterday at their Hotel Le Ribadou in Garoua to commend them for their efforts. “I am proud of our performance at the tournament. I am happy with what we have been able to achieve since December 29 when I took charge of the team till this moment. I am highly impressed with the players and our progress is commendable,” he added. Meanwhile, Eguavoen said that he would return to his position as the technical director of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), adding he would allow the federation to make a final decision after AFCON’s exit. “What happens next is that; I’m the interim coach and Technical Director of the NFF, I will go back to my position and allow the federation to make a decision on the way forward,” Eguavoen said.