Happy New Year 2022. I thank everyone who thanked me for my role in the fantastic big stage production by Doyenne Circle and the performance of ‘Speaking Out’, the musical, performed from January 1 – 3 at the MUSON. I personally thank Doyenne Circle for producing it and an irrepressible 25-30 strong all-female cast with superstars led by Mama Onyeka Onwenu, Kate Henshaw, Patience Ozokwor, Lota Chukwu and a host of newer talent establishing a similarly enviable reputation- true mentoring -all under the Director Kenneth Uphopho. Wow! The material was ‘written and composed’ by Dr Chukwuma Okoye ‘based on original poetry by Tony Marinho’ That is me, he-he! Thank you. I bow. Permit me to add some relevant historical perspective to this latest performance of my poetry. This is wonderful déjà vu for myself and Dr Okoye as my female-empowerment poetry in Engraved was first performed in the play/musical ‘Speaking Back’ UI, 2002/4. A dream coming true twice. Wow! So ‘Speaking Out’ is the result of a historical  journey to this amazing 2022 performance begun in 1990-2001 with the original poetry collection eventually published as ‘Engraved’ by Mr Bankole Olayebi of Bookcraft, and discussed with Dr Chukwuma Okoye. As with any writer, I have always wanted my work on stage. With no financial assistance, we worked closely on creating a production which I funded/produced and I also was deeply involved in the rehearsal/ artistic flow and diction and emphasis on words aspects. I claim no credit for the music and singing, talents which completely passed me by, but I insisted that not a single word should be lost or drowned by the music. Music must never become noise. It was called by us ‘Speaking Back’ to be different and successfully staged at the University of Ibadan Arts Theatre in 2002/4. Many actresses cut their teeth in that production in 2002, including some witnessing the production of ‘Speaking Out’ today. Chukwuma and I discussed a Lagos/MUSON appearance but funding collapsed. In fact, the 2022 MUSON performance happened only because of the participation and inspiration of one individual when she was a student in ‘Speaking Back’ in 2002 who chooses to remain anonymous. We must all thank her anonymously until she ‘Speaks Out’ about ‘Speaking Back’ and steps forward to take her own bow. She has delivered a giant iroko from the seed sown and grown into a ‘funtastic’ successful stage play tree in 2002. The road started probably in the 1960s when I was in St Gregory’s, becoming Head Boy in 1967. A lifetime of often-traumatic but wide exposure to all human conditions from humour to horror, from tenderness to tragedy, from birth to burial all drove me to use prose, poetry, plays to document our present for the future.  My poetry and other writings document the rollercoaster experience of the female through my role as a human being, doctor and also as an obstetrician and gynaecologist. I have had the fearful privilege, and often terror, of working on the underfunded frontline of maternal care contributing to trying to positively impact girls-to-women, directly and indirectly through medical and social advice and actions – often surgical.   Recycling Cards; Tutu-RIPP; 2022     Gunshot; Christmas; 50 Generals retired     ‘School indiscipline’: ‘Anti-bullying protocol/strategies’   - Advertisement - I remain in fear that ‘Delivery Day Is The Most Dangerous Day In The Life Of A Woman And Her Baby’. Pregnancy and delivery claim too many lives in countries made poor by bad politics and poor health financing in spite of professional and international organisations. Only many amazing doctors, nurses, mortuary staff and the families are aware of wasted mothers’ lives in the ‘War of the Womb’. I did not always succeed in saving life, but always tried. Things were often beyond our control especially poor government policies and necessities being ‘Out of stock’. During my 3000+ Caesarean Sections and tens of thousands of deliveries, I always wondered of the baby ‘What will you be?’– doctor or devil, saint or sinner, butcher or burglar, radiologist or robber , rapper or rapist, mechanic or murderer. A doctor who is robbed or murdered could have delivered his assailant 30 years previously. I meet many adults whose mothers said that ‘He was the Dr who delivered you’. I am humbled to have helped. Still in 2022, we see what girls and women go through from poor life-skill education systems delivering ignorance, being misled by peers and guardians, or because facilities are unavailable due to devaluation of the female.  We set up Educare Trust to help. This double victory with Dr/Prof Chukwuma Okoye through his contacts in Doyenne Circle in 2022 is ‘Wow!’  Is Netflix next like Dr Wale Okediran’s Tenants of the House? I must give respect to the journey and memory of my uncle, Dr Sunbo Marinho, Technical Director at the UI Arts Theatre where we cut our own teeth on stage with Dexter Lindersey and others making me and Dr Cyril Etomi, no strangers to serious theatre, as we performed in The Medea, The Importance of Being Ernest, and After One Time (1960s-70). My play, Why UI? was performed in 1999, and Speaking Back with Dr Okoye in 2002/4. Even now at 72+, I am privileged to still work in using ultrasound as a weapon in the war against diseases affecting girls-to-women and also boys-to-men. My personal take is ‘Aluta continua, vitoria un-acerta’ –‘The struggle continues, victory uncertain’.  But let us offer ‘Speaking Back 2002’ and ‘Speaking Out 2022’ to the joyful survival of all the female gender.