There may well be something rotten about the country’s 2022 budget. This is a familiar narrative.  The integrity of the country’s budget is usually in doubt, which has something to do with the integrity of the budgetary process. Not surprisingly, there is public suspicion of this year’s budget, like several previous ones. In particular, recent information from BudgIT reinforces doubts about the budget. The civic-tech organisation is known for “advocacy for fiscal transparency and accountability in public finance.” “Our preliminary analysis of the 21,108 capital projects in the 2022 approved budget revealed 460 duplicated projects amounting to N378.9bn,” the organisation said in a statement. This is alarming. It is worth mentioning that BudgIT had also observed 316 duplicated projects in the 2021 federal budget approved by the National Assembly. Project duplication in last year’s budget was corroborated by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). Its chairman, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, at the 3rd National Summit on Diminishing Corruption in the Public Sector, in Abuja, in November 2021, said the agency “found that 257 projects amounting to N20.138bn were duplicated in the 2021 budget.” According to BudgIT, the Budget Office also “confirmed the existence of only 185 duplicated projects worth N20.13bn, after which it informed the public that funds were not released for the projects in 2021.” - Advertisement - It is striking that the civic organisation and the two agencies were on the same page on project duplication in last year’s budget, but only differed on the number and cost of the duplicated projects. This showed how the country is shortchanged through the annual federal budgetary process, and how budget padding by some government establishments contribute to the high cost of governance. The ICPC chief said the agency’s discovery had prompted “an advisory to the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning which promptly acted on it to prevent abuse.” It is unclear whether those behind the possibly fraudulent duplication of projects were identified and punished.  The intervention of the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to “prevent abuse” was only one of the necessary actions that should have been taken in dealing with the issue. If the perpetrators were not identified and sanctioned, the authorities failed to do what was necessary to discourage such improprieties. Curiously, the office of the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Dr Zainab Ahmed, played down BudgIT’s observation regarding this year’s budget.  Her Special Adviser, Media and Communications, Yunusa Tanko Abdullahi, was reported saying: ”I am not sure of the ‘alleged’ duplications but if there were duplications, they are not intentional and not impossible to have some few cases. But, that is always sorted anyway in the course of reviews and implementation. It’s a big document so you can understand the pressure to put it together.” This is the kind of thinking and attitude that encourages project duplication in the budget, and explains why the anomaly occurs again and again. It is unacceptable that the same irregularities are observable year after year, and those involved in the budgetary process mainly carry on as if nothing can be done to improve the process.   NDLEA arrests six over drug cookies, noodles     Zamfara: Burying patriotism in the courtyard of bitter…     A week lost to sit-at-home   Another cause for concern is BudgIT’s information on allegedly inflated projects in the budget to the tune of billions of naira. “Examples include the N20.8bn requested by the Presidency to construct a 14-bed presidential wing at the existing State House Medical Centre, N28.72m requested for the purchase of two units of 10kg washing machine and six units of LG televisions in the State House Lagos Liaison Office, among others,” the organisation said. BudgIT  also highlighted the case of the National Agency for Great Green Wall, which was set up to prevent land degradation and desertification in 11 states in northern Nigeria and to boost food security in the country. It quoted the agency as saying N1.3bn or 64 per cent of its capital budget is for motorcycles, street lights and other projects unrelated to its primary role. The organisation observed that four recreational parks under the Ministry of Environment have a total allocation of N67.8m to construct ‘gun armouries’ in Cross Rivers, Kaduna, Borno and Yobe states, “even though the Ministry of Environment is not a security agency.” According to BudgIT, the River Basin Development Authorities under the Ministry of Water Resources, set up to manage water resources for agriculture, are curiously involved in supply of street lights and road construction. “A cumulative total of N6.3bn was allocated to supplying street lights in 73 communities across the 36 states, while N14.8bn was allocated for the construction of 219 roads across 36 states; whereas the majority of the roads are the responsibilities of state and local governments and not the Federal Government,” it observed. The relevant federal authorities have a lot of explaining to do concerning the observed irregularities, including duplicated projects, inflated projects, repetition of questionable items and inclusion of questionable items in the federal budget. Such irregularities are too regular, which makes it difficult to avoid the conclusion that they are intentional.  A strong smell of corruption emanates from the budgetary process and the budget. Corruption thrives because there is room for it to thrive. It thrives because it is allowed to do so. Essentially, there should be effective anti-corruption systems within the federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as well as strong and principled legislative oversight to ensure budget integrity. The yearly budget issues bordering on corruption are bad for the image of the proposers and approvers of the budget. It is significant that BudgIT urged Nigerians, civil society organisations and the private sector to “urgently prevail on the National Assembly and Presidency to urgently amend and eliminate the loopholes in FG’s 2022 approved budget.” The organisation should be commended for its role. A fraudulent budget escalates the cost of governance and denies Nigeria value for money. It also says a lot about why the country is progressing at a snail’s speed. The budget cannot bring about the desired development when it is inspired by agents of underdevelopment. It is lamentable that budgetary rot happens repeatedly.