In its drive to galvanize support for the national team as they continue their hunt for honours at the on-going African Cup of Nations in Cameroon, 33 Export Lager, the official beer of the Super Eagles has rewarded fans with sets of Super Eagles jerseys and other mouth-watering prizes. This was done after coach Augustine Eguavoen’s men sealed their place in the Round of 16 with a 3-1 win over Sudan. “Every win deserves a fine reward and congratulation to our Match Day-two winners who predicted accurately within the shortest possible time before the match as stipulated in our rules #SuperTogether,” said a message that announced the winners on 33exportnigeria Instagram page. The brand has been rewarding the participants since match day one and among the winners are; Oyekunle Kayode, Musab Aliyu Malumfashi, Olaiya Mathew Olumide and Chris Onyah all winners of Super Eagles win against Sudan. While Oluchi Nwadioke, Maureen Ogochukwu, Edeh Nelson Oche, Emmanuel Ivie and Osayi Mathias were winners in the famous lone goal win against Egypt in the opening match in Garoua. - Advertisement - The Senior Brand Manager, “33” Export Lager, Aishat Anaekwe praised the doggedness of the Eagles in their games so far while also reminding them of the ultimate goal in Cameroon.   Branding: NFF assures Coca-Cola on partnership rights     UEFA hails returnee Osimhen     Nigeria vs. Guinea Bissau: Fit again Awaziem ready for…   She said: “We are all proud of what the Super Eagles have done so far against Egypt and Sudan that is why we remain solidly behind them” “For the fans who have continued to keep faith in “33” Export Larger and of course the Super Eagles, we will continue to appreciate their loyalty with great prizes” she assured. Ahead of today’s final group game against Guinea Bissau, the Eagles have been charged not to rest on their oars but push for yet another win. Even though the Eagles are already through to the second round with the maximum six points from their opening group games against Egypt and Sudan, “33” Export Lager wants the Eagles to make it three wins in three games. The brand reckons with the fact that if Super Eagles win the last match, they will emerge as the only team with a perfect score line, as other qualified nations including host, Indomitable Lions of Cameroon, have dropped points to reach the knockout phase of the tournament. The official beer of the Super Eagles notes that a perfect run in the group phase portends a good omen for the three-time African champions, hence they have been charged to tame the Wild Dogs as the Guinea Bissau team are fondly referred to.