FROM my name, it is clear that I am Yoruba and from this point of view alone, it is strange that I should be talking about encounters with what should come to me naturally. But looking back, I can say that I have had encounters with the Yoruba language. I was born at a time when there could be no escape from the language, both at home and later on at school where lessons were taught in Yoruba; and it can be said that I was properly introduced to the language right from infancy and do not remember having to learn it in the same way that I had to learn to speak and write English. I could and indeed took it for granted in the same way that I was never, under normal circumstance, consciously aware that I had a nose on my face. My first encounter took place in the secondary school where Yoruba was introduced to me as an academic subject on the same pedestal as History, Chemistry, English language and other such subjects for which I was to be examined at the end of the school term.  I found this situation strange if only because I did not think that I should be taught to write and speak a language which was fed to me with my mother’s milk. It was therefore a shock to my system when I discovered that I was an inept student of the language. Quite inexplicably, I just failed to grasp the essence of what I was being taught right from the onset and it was not long before I cultivated an aversion to the subject. Yoruba is a tonal language and to write it correctly, all vowels had to be decorated with an accent except that those accents were not a decoration because putting a wrong accent on any part of the word altered its meaning so much that it was no longer the word of your intention and in many cases rendered the word meaningless. In the first term examination which I had to face a few months after this ordeal with language began, the first question was a demand that I put accents on ten words. After shivering uncontrollably for an inordinately long time, I committed the equivalent of lexical murder by putting the wrong accent on all the words I was confronted with. That first step invariably set the tone for the rest of the paper which expectedly, I failed miserably. For the next four years, I struggled to come to terms with my native language and would have dropped it as I would a hot potato when I was choosing subjects for the impending school certificate examination but for a school imposed specification that all students had to choose between Yoruba and Latin. Now, at least I could speak Yoruba and was in fact quite fluent in it but Latin was dense Greek to me as I could make neither head nor tail of Latin vocabulary and any attempt by me at declension, which was the bedrock of Latin scholarship, invariably ended in abject failure. I was, as it were stuck firmly between the proverbial rock and a hard place. The extent of my desperation can be judged when, without a hint of hesitation, I chose to put myself in the hands of those who were to examine my competence, such as it was, in Yoruba. Seeing that I could not see a way out of my language dilemma, I sat down to put in the hard yards in my Yoruba studies and in doing so made the fortuitous discovery that although I spoke Yoruba quite well, I framed my thoughts in English and so one of my major problems was that I could not translate my thoughts directly into Yoruba. The solution to this problem was quite simple in the end. All I had to do was to first of all write out whatever answer I had in my head in English followed by a meticulous translation into Yoruba. Using this method, I was able to do much better in the school certificate examination than I could have hoped for at the beginning of that final year. Without this triumphant conclusion to my Yoruba adventure, there would have been no room for further encounters with the language.   Rewriting the fate of public schools in Nigeria: Old…     Lessons from Osun APC governorship primary     Emelumba’s pathetic diatribe against Wike   My second encounter with Yoruba took place some twenty years after the first, in the English city of Manchester where I had gone to take part in a scientific conference. I had arrived in Manchester from Uppsala in Sweden where I had been spending my one year sabbatical leave and so anyone reading the tag on the lapel of my jacket was likely to have come to the wrong conclusion that in spite of the darkness of my skin, I was Swedish. All the same, I presented my paper to a fairly large audience and of course, it was presented in flawless English which must have added more to the confusion surrounding my true identity. After my presentation, I was gathering my papers to leave the stage when I was ambushed by a gentleman who congratulate me for my presentation both in terms of the science and the language in which it was presented. I would have been pleased had he stopped at the science part of it but I was most displeased by his praise for the quality of my use of English and was going to cut him down to size when he asked with a hint of insolence if I had or spoke a language of my own and in doing so, knocked the stuffing out of me. I quickly gave him the firm reassurance that indeed, I had a language of my own and resolved that from then on, I was going to become a Yoruba language activist. An interesting sequel to this encounter occurred some three years afterwards when I was back in Sweden and invited a Nigerian and Yoruba to my lab. I was determined to use that opportunity to introduce my colleagues in the lab to my language by making sure that we carried on our conversation in Yoruba, just to show that as far as I was concerned, English was no more than a borrowed language, a tool of convenience. My next encounter took place several years later, this time on home soil but far away in Owerri. I had gone to Owerri, in my capacity as a poet, to attend the launch of a book of poems by Peter Umez who had adopted me as a mentor and had involved me in the preparation of his manuscript. There were many dignitaries at the launch and as part of the preliminaries to the launch, the spirit of kola nuts had to be propitiated and as I was told, the language of the kola nut was Igbo in which language the ceremony was to be conducted. I went along with this minor deception knowing that the kola nuts in the saucer were probably obtained from a tree growing near my home town in Osun State. Not long after the kola nut ceremony was over, I was called upon to make a speech in my capacity as an honoured guest. I got up and gave everyone within range a truly benevolent smile and took off in perfect Yoruba. They were all stunned for a moment and then spontaneously burst into applause as if I had made a great point which indeed I had. After a few minutes, I switched to English to the evident delight of the audience as this switch was greeted with another round of applause. My speech set the place buzzing and as I went back to my seat I was greeted on all sides by people who wanted me to know that they not only understood Yoruba but could speak it as well. I then found out that many of them had lived in Yorubaland at one time or the other and wanted me to feel most welcome among them because apart from English, we had another language in common and doing so demonstrated the appeal of a shared language. I noticed on that occasion that all those of my audience who spoke Yoruba were of my generation or slightly younger who had grown up in the Nigeria which no less a person than Chinua Achebe described as another country. It was a Nigeria in which people not only spoke their own language but the language spoken anywhere they found themselves in the wide open spaces of Nigeria. Unfortunately, the language situation has changed drastically to the extent that not only people no longer bother to acquire the language of their host community, they do not bother to learn the language spoken by their mothers. Our irresponsible elite have declared war on Nigerian languages and encouraged the development of something they call Nigerian English or even ‘Englishes’ which will, at some point in the not distant future,  be unintelligible to other English speakers outside this country. I have come to realise that I have been fortunate in having had those encounters with Yoruba at certain distinct times in my life as they have bolstered my confidence in the determination of who I am. I feel sorry for those growing up now who cannot answer in the affirmative if they were asked for any reason and by anyone if they had a language of their own.