Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State has stressed the need for the private sector and well-meaning individuals to partner with the government in developing the education system in the country. Akeredolu said this while speaking at the 60th Anniversary of Akoko Anglican Grammar School (AKOGRAMS), Arigidi Akoko, in Akoko North East Local Government Area (LGA) of the state on Saturday. According to him, partnership for educational development is crucial because government alone cannot fund and develop the sector effectively. The governor commended the old students of AKOGRAMS who organised the Diamond Jubilee celebration for putting their hard earned resources together to embark on several projects in the school which include blocks of classrooms, school gate project and planting of 100 trees within the school compound. He urged the old students to continue to contribute immensely to their alma mater in the area of Infrastructural development. - Advertisement - Akeredolu added that his administration deeply appreciates massive interventions of philanthropists, old students as well as non-governmental organizations in the development of schools across the 18 council areas of the state. He congratulated the principal, teachers, members of the parent teacher association, old students and residents of the community on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of AKOGRAMS.   Constitution amendment: NASS splits Minister of Justice from…     Kanu told me he didn’t issue Monday sit-at-home order…     APC: Fresh dust in Enugu, Rivers, Ogun, Abia, others over…   The governor saluted the great effort of Ogbeni Aregbesola at ensuring that AKOGRAMS wears a new look and had befitting structures. He emphasized that education has been at the front burner of his administration, adding that it was premised on the undeniable fact that the bedrock of any meaningful development in any nation is human capital development through the provision of quality education. Akeredolu said his administration is fully committed to tackling infrastructural deficit in the state, adding that the education sector requires huge financial obligations before any significant impact could be felt. Akeredolu commissioned the AKOGRAMS School Fence and Gate House and joined Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, former Governor of Osun State and the current Minister of Interior, who was one of old students of the school, to plant the 100 trees. Earlier in her opening remarks, the Chairperson of AKOGRAMS’ 60th anniversary planning committee, Mrs Mojisola Ajayi, said 60 years down the lane, the school could boast of men and women of proven integrity who had excelled in their chosen careers. Among other dignitaries who are old students of the school at the event were the State Commissioner for Regional Integration and Diaspora Affairs, Mrs Bamidele Ademola-Olateju, former Head of Service and former Honourable Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, Mr Akin Adaramola. Others were the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Pastor Alex Alake, and some past Permanent Secretaries in the state, Mrs Mojisola Ajayi, and Mrs Oni, who retired as Permanent Secretary in the State Universal Basic Education Commission, SUBEB. The present state Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Dr Julianah Osadahun, who was a teacher in the school and composed the school Anthem, was also present at the event. (NAN)