A former Ondo Commissioner for Culture and Tourism Femi Adekanmbi has urged the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the Yoruba to back Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s 2023 presidency aspiration. Adekanmbi, who served under the Olusegun Mimiko administration, told journalists in Akure that the former Lagos Governor was an exemplary leader who has all it takes to positively transform Nigeria. According to him, Tinubu’s qualities are “undisputable” while his “wealth of experience and skills set” are much required for national growth. Adekanmbi leads what he describes as one of the biggest Tinubu support groups, called the ‘Ondo State Network for Tinubu’. - Advertisement - He said: “His (Tinubu’s) track record when he served as the Governor of Lagos State has shown everyone beyond any reasonable doubt that we have a man who can put the right structure that Nigeria needs in place.   Fuel crisis to end next week, NNPC tells NEC     PDP Govs didn’t travel to Europe to pick presidential…     Gunmen kidnap Abuja monarch’s son   “When you look at Tinubu’s antecedents, it is the right time for APC to pay him. Nigeria and APC are what they are today courtesy of Bola Ahmed Tinubu. When the man was working day and night, spending his resources to the detriment of his family and business, the people who are aspiring today looked away.” He reasoned that it is a normal feature of any democratic politics to have many contestants for a post, but that those who have also declared their interest in taking over from President Muhammadu Buhari are no match for Tinubu. Addressing his relationship with his state governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, Adekanmbi said he holds the governor in high esteem, crediting him with a great performance in the last few years. He said: “Akeredolu is a focused leader who is very determined and committed to leaving a long-lasting legacy in the state through a holistic transformation of all the sectors in the state”. He stated that despite his silence on recent happenings in the state, he was strongly behind the governor. Akeredolu, he explained, had done nothing wrong by facilitating projects in his home town or giving positions to people of Owo descent, adding that a former governor concentrated most of his projects in Ondo (town) and even appointed over 300 persons from the town. SPONSORED