The path to dystopia unfurls, in the end, as a hypnotic daydream. In Nigeria, it is the hovels we run into, to escape reality’s tedious pangs. We covet the distractions. We need them to mask our lives’ dissembling. Thus our retreat into a world of magic and lies.  The type celebrated on TV breakfast shows, political and pornographic reality shows. We live for illusions. We covet the spectacle of shadows cast on the walls of our minds, like the cave dwellers of Plato’s Republic. In The Republic, Socrates explains that the cave represents the world, the region of life which is revealed to us only through the sense of sight. The ascent out of the cave is the journey of the soul into the region of the intelligible, and it requires that the enlightened mind endures four stages of transformation. The first involves his imprisonment in the cave; that is our fascination with materialism and our world of illusions. The second involves his release from chains; that is, our contact with the real, sensual world.  Third, he makes his ascent out of the cave; that is, our flirtation with knowledge and the world of ideas. Fourth, he finds his way back into the cave to help his fellows while wrapped in a beam of light. But what if the supposedly enlightened mind could only deign his fellow cave dwellers shiny, gray beams resonant of darkness? What if, like the sullied press, the shady revolutionary and corrupt oligarchs, he comes shining in brilliant spokes of ambiguity? The process of progressing out of the cave is about getting educated and it is a difficult process requiring assistance and sometimes, force. This encapsulates the struggle involved in acquiring beneficial education or ridding a country of dark tyranny. The allegory of the cave intones our struggle to see the truth, to be critical thinkers. - Advertisement - Millions of Nigerian youths would resist the tyranny of the predatory ruling class if they weren’t enslaved to tokens. The struggle for freedom is often a painful experience. Dreams die and lives get lost as our heavily policed state flounder to insecurity and misgovernance. The person who is leaving the cave is questioning his beliefs whereas the people in the cave simply accept what they are shown. They do not think about or question the veracity of doctored reality. The allegory of the cave shows us the relation between education and truth, bondage and freedom. The battle for freedom and its sustenance is, however, best prosecuted by men and women of catholicity of will, higher learning, and culture. I speak of true patriots and statesmen, ambassadors of Nigerianness and native intelligence. Have we such patriots? Have we such men and women of deep culture? The most pernicious aspect of our quandary is the disintegration of our cultural, moral complex. A land without both is dead to feeling; it becomes prone to rape and colonisation by cultural sovereigns. The history of the world pulses with subtle and bodacious seizures of sovereignty by global ‘superpowers.’ The latter maintain dominance over the so-called ‘third world’ via cultural and political imperialism. The latter oft succeeds the former, where they aren’t launched from twin barrels of an imperialist shotgun. While it is fool-hardy to categorise the world into first, second, and third worlds, such specious and flawed taxonomy of nations – perpetuated by the media, INGOs, and the academia – facilitates easier recolonisation of poorly governed, impoverished nations of Africa and the Middle East, by failing states spuriously depicted as shining lights of the ‘First World.’ Nations of the so-called ‘First World’ are nothing but varnished tombs of the imperial greatness they hitherto symbolised; scared by their imminent collapse, they craftily recolonise Africa, in particular – plundering her bowels to sustain their fading economies and social systems. Having reclassified Africa as the ‘third world,’ they lay siege to the continent, plundering her resources; it’s a familiar plot in which Africans’ greed and ignorance lay the continent open to pillage and trans-generational slavery.   Boy apocalypse     Power is not dished a la carte     The monsters we made (3)   Nigeria’s lack of a humane, visionary leadership, for instance, makes her unbidden offering on an altar of imperialist vultures. If truly we seek freedom, we must take purposive steps to unshackle ourselves from the leash of predatory oligarchs within, and the carnivore nations and international money lenders plundering our bowels from abroad. Nigeria must rejig her cultural foundations and rebuild her moral complex. She must rise from her knees, and quit sucking the rusted end of the wrong spigot. The result of such endeavour would excite a social re-engineering built upon character mending, social and economic restoration in consonance with our peculiar strengths and weaknesses. The result would be felt across several spheres of our existence. Restoring our cultural dominance in our own land would facilitate easier salvaging of our society, particularly the engine and wheels of our industrial complex. China, Japan, Germany, Indonesia, Sweden, among others, attained shades of equilibrium and progress across crucial facets of their national lives by basing their governance styles on personalised pivots cum foundations of culture and traditions. Nigeria, however, encounters her nemesis in materialism; the wild pursuit of status and money has destroyed our souls and our economy. The business and political elite comprising our bourgeois divide lives on ill-gotten wealth. Their survival, continued relevance – amid the chaos that our lives have become – is funded by stolen money and beastly monopolies facilitated by heinous social and political contracts. The middle class fades into oblivion as boondocks families and the working class fight to maintain membership of informal social castes imposed upon them by a predatory political class. The general run of the masses supposedly thinks and speaks, but many do so without any real awareness of the actuality of forms that define their existence. Plato’s allegory of the cave was meant to explain this. In the allegory, he likens people untutored in the Theory of Forms to prisoners chained in a cave, unable to turn their heads. Plato’s allegory speaks to our individual and collective fate as a nation. For Socrates, all virtues were forms of knowledge thus to train someone to manage a business account for PWC is to educate him or her in skill. To train them to debate the ethics of a business venture is to educate them on values and morals. A culture that disregards the vital interplay between morality and power writes Hedges, condemns itself to death. Such existential truths are scorned by the modern fortune-hunter. This disconnect subsists across professions, government, and academia. Nigerian economists, for instance, chant elaborate theoretical models yet know little of how their fancy, soulless economics impacts rural poetry and suburban lives. Our education and social systems must quit churning out such products of a cultural void, casualties of a system that produces graduates to serve the corrupted incumbent system; individuals who have been taught to cheat the system and applaud financial theft as a shrewd corporate strategy. The true purpose of education must be to make minds, not social cannibals. It must be far removed from a system that bullies the populace to pacify and please authority. It’s about time we identified the man who could lead Nigeria’s charge to rebirth. Who among the 2023 presidential aspirants contestants has proved his mettle in private and public service? Whose antecedents excite the passionate tribute of a cheer? Whose past and present exploits incite the passing tribute of a sigh? Who’d be Nigeria’s pathfinder to greener pasture?