Whenever officials of the Buhari administration are challenged on performance, they are quick to point at the strides they have taken in transportation, especially resuscitation of the railway. Standard gauge tracks have been laid in parts of the country, and are being laid in others. Elsewhere, the old track is being rehabilitated. Such is the case with the Port-Harcourt-Maiduguri route. The Lagos-Kano route was, however, never fully abandoned. It has since been put back to use. In these days when death stalks all on the roads, people have taken a recourse to the rail. It has been made even more attractive as the coaches are neater and new ones have been purchased. On the Kaduna-Abuja route, both the high and the low, including the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, are known to patronise the service. Insecurity has been cited as one reason why the rail is popular by those who travel that way because it is one of the most deadly roads in the country, with people in settlements, communities and villages there being slaughtered daily. Kano is somehow safer, but a traveller moving from the ancient city would have to pass through dangerous areas, hence the resort to the railway. But, on January 31, as a train left Kano for Lagos with a full load of passengers, it broke down in the middle of nowhere. The passengers had their hearts in their mouths, as kidnappers, bandits or terrorists could spring from nowhere and either take them into custody for ransom or snuff life out of them. Yet, for more than two days, there was no respite, despite frantic phone calls and reports by the media. This is an indication that competence and empathy are lacking among the top officials of the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC), and even the Federal Ministry of Transportation. In such emergencies, there should be another coach that could be immediately deployed to rescue the stranded and frightened passengers. Even among commercial buses, whenever breakdowns are experienced, the driver ensures that the passengers are evacuated as soon as possible. Government should do better. Such breakdowns have become too frequent even where the coaches are new and on the new tracks. It is not enough for ministers and top bureaucrats to take credit for reviving the railway with loans raised from China, there should be improvement in services.   Julius Berger’s example     Osun primary     A wonky walk   Read Also: Railway services, NECO get $2.81b, N4.96b contracts - Advertisement - Earlier in the year, along the Itakpe-Warri route, a fire outbreak on one of the trains could not be put out by officials who were joined by villagers and passengers in resorting to use of leaves and tree branches to save the coaches. In the twenty-first century, there were no fire extinguishers to deploy for the task. It is not even known if the new coaches that cost the nation a fortune were insured. President Muhammadu Buhari and the federal lawmakers should rise up to this challenge. It is embarrassing, to say the least, that Nigerians could be stranded in the bush for days, with safety, hygiene, food and health concerns. The President should have summoned his minister for full briefing on the development. Lives are still precious in the country despite the attacks that have reduced citizens to preys awaiting predators. Section 14 of the constitution is emphatic that the purpose of government is to guarantee the welfare and security of lives of citizens, All officials of government are sworn to implement provisions of the constitution, and the pledge by President Buhari when he was seeking votes of the electorate was to ensure positive change. This is one area where such change must be visible. As the government has promised to extend train services to the Lagos-Calabar, Port Harcourt-Maiduguri routes, among others, attention must be paid to details and confidence instilled in passengers that their lives are not being put to undue risk. We hope the appropriate lessons have been learnt from this unfortunate incident. SPONSORED