The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has stated it has no reason to shield anyone who may be indicted in the course of the ongoing investigation of a 25kg cocaine deal “involving a gang headed by DCP Abba Kyari.” Kyari, the former Commander of the defunct Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Force Headquarters, is in the NDLEA’s custody alongside four other senior police officers. Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA Headquarters, Abuja, Femi Babafemi, on Wednesday said it remains committed to evidence-based investigation and its resolve cannot be weakened by any misrepresentation of facts. The NDLEA’s response follows speculations that it might be trying to shield its operatives involved in the case. Deputy Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Monday, had said that police investigation also established the international narcotics cartel involved in the case have strong ties with some officers of the NDLEA at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu who are on their payroll. - Advertisement - Adejobi had said that two drug couriers, arrested by the police, confirmed the modus is for the transnational drug barons to conspire with NDLEA officers on duty and send their pre-boarding photographs for identification, seamless clearance and unhindered passage out of the airport with the narcotics being trafficked. “The two arrested drug couriers also confirmed that they have been enjoying this relationship with the NDLEA officers at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport since 2021 and had in this instant case of 19th January, 2022, been identified and cleared by the NDLEA officers as customary, having received their pre-departure photographs and other details prior to their arrival in Enugu, and were on their way out with the narcotics when they were apprehended by the Police,” the police spokesman said. The Inspector General of Police, according to Adejobi, had formally requested the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the NDLEA should ensure the identification, arrest and investigation of the its officers who have also been found to be colluding with the international drug cartel involved in this case towards advancing the anti-narcotics agenda of the federal Government. Reacting to the development, Bababfemi, in a statement, said the agency needs to correct some inaccuracies in the information in the public space that NDLEA officers at the Enugu airport were the ones who received from the cartel details about the mule coming from Addis Ababa.   Court to address disruptions caused by Kanu’s trial…     Police arraign 10 men over alleged extortion     Masari signs Executive Order on Security Challenge   To achieve this, Babafemi said the agency would quote from the transcript of Abba Kyari’s recorded conversation with its undercover officer and a portion of ASP James Bawa’s statement to the police as documented in the police investigation report, a copy of which was made available to the agency. Bawa is one of the senior police officers arrested and handed over to the NDLEA along with Kyari and three others over the alleged drug deal. The NDLEA spokesman said the recording showed that it is an established fact that it is “Abba Kyari’s team that was contacted by the cartel and without doubt the records clearly show how their ring works.” Babafemi said: “Recall that after NDLEA requested for Kyari and others for interrogation, they were questioned by the police, after which they were handed over along with the report of their interrogation. “According to the police investigation report, ASP James Bawa in his statement to the police reveals that ‘he was called by an informant identified as IK from Brazil who told him that a drug courier will be arriving on board Ethiopian Airlines in Enugu. “He explained further that a pointer from IK, the Brazil based informant met with him at about 1420hrs on 19th January 2022 outside the airport and showed him a picture of the courier. Subsequently, they sighted the suspect as he exited the airport terminal after all arrival clearance formalities, and he was arrested with another associate.’” Babafemi said in a recorded conversation with the NDLEA’s undercover officer, Abba Kyari also said the following: “They are greedy, seriously greedy (referring to his informants), we tried to have them accept 40% but they refused, except 50%, they know the rudiment of the deal very well. They are the ones that do the packing. From Brazil, one of the informants accompanied it to Ethiopia. You understand; one of the informants accompanied the goods to Ethiopia, one of the informants that give us information. He is the boy of the big baron. “Addis, from Addis it will be given to those to proceed further with it, he will get their snapshots without their knowledge. Yes, he will reveal those that are conveying it further, get snapshots of theirs without their knowledge and send to us (Abba Kyari’s team). ” So we already know the goods, picture and the cloths they are wearing, hope you understand, we know your name, he will give us everything. So, automatically my team will just be waiting, they will just see you and arrest you.” He added: “Responding to our officer’s question on whether his boys are usually stationed inside or outside the airport, Abba Kyari said, ‘Yes, yes, some are outside while some are inside. They will just allow you to finish arrival formalities and arrest you the moment you come out.’ “The above no doubt establishes who the cartel was relating with and their modus operandi. Again, this is to correct inaccuracies in some reports and assure that the Agency will not deviate from an evidence-based investigation that will spare nobody found complicit.” SPONSORED