Imo Governor Hope Uzodinma has dismissed apprehension over the National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He said the proposed date for the exercise could change if the need arises. The Governor, who spoke to State House Correspondents after a private meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari however, explained that he had no information indicating that the date would be changed or had been changed. The APC had proposed February 26 for the National Convention in its notice to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). There are indications however the date might not be feasible as the main foundations and structures that should guide and facilitate the exercise are not yet in place. - Advertisement - Responding to questions from State House Correspondents on the matter, Uzodinma said: “Of course, that is the decision of the party and there is nothing wrong even if it doesn’t hold, what is important is that we must have our convention. “We have said its 26th, if anything, for any reason tomorrow, it’s not doable in the opinion of the party, we will move. But that does not mean that there is any intention to move. “We shouldn’t worry about little issues. I think our focus and attention should be towards having a workable democracy in Nigeria, like we have shown, supporting government policies and programmes and then being patriotic. “Our democracy will do better if supported with the right attitude. You may not like my face but the Federal Government is Federal Government, State Government is State Government.”   FCTA makes U-turn over plan demolition of Senate President,…     Buhari appoints Koko as NPA MD     Olubadan-designate: I hope to see a younger monarch   He added: “So, I’m confident that our party, contrary to the expectations in some quarters, will be stronger and stronger as we make progress and of course, in the nearest future. “I’m very confident that APC will still be in power because the programmes are the party, the manifesto of the party, the individuals in the party, majority of the political class in Nigeria understands that APC is the party to beat and that is why they are joining day by day. “Don’t forget that the APC is not a mushroom party, APC is a giant, it’s the largest party today in Africa and that is the party that other small parties should copy. “Because small parties come to do zoning and all that does not mean their internal mechanism must not be the same with that of APC. “APC is already the party on ground that owns the Federal Government of Nigeria and up to 21 State Governments. So, the discretion on how and when to do their convention should be an internal party affair and APC is the one wearing the shoe, with a credible leadership, they know when to move and when not to move.” He went on: “So, I think we should just watch because under the constitution of APC, buying form is one thing. We have three modes that we can adopt to elect our officers; either by direct primaries, by indirect primaries or by consensus. “What of if APC has adopted consensus and is not yet to the public knowledge? We don’t need again to begin to sell forms and do that zoning or not zoning. “We are democratic enough to know when to shoot and when not to shoot. I think you should just bring your people who have not joined APC to join the party.” SPONSORED