The inauguration of the Regional Maritime Development Bank (RMDB) and establishment of a befitting secretariat top the list of priorities set by the new Secretary-General (SG) of the Maritime Organisation of West and Central Africa (MOWCA), Nigeria’s Dr. Paul Adalikwu. Adalikwu made this known while presenting his strategic plan for the organisation during his maiden meeting with the host country, Cote D’voire, represented by her Secretary of State for Transportation, Dr. Celestine Doh Serey. According to Adalikwu, the RMDB will take off in a few months immediately the final modalities had been approved. Already, member countries have responded to the establishment of the bank, which is believed would solve a lot of financial problems confronting stakeholders in the maritime sector. The SG, while presenting the organisation’s new organogram and draft budget for the year to the Ivorian Secretary of State, Permanent Secretary and the Chief of Staff of the host country’s government, also canvassed the host country for assistance in securing a permanent and befitting edifice to be used as secretariat for the multilateral body.   Kerosene price declines by 6.60% in January – NBS     RT 200 FX programme requires infrastructure, funding, says…     Nigeria in mixed fortune on grains, oil seeds export   He reassured that the MOWCA secretariat under his watch will keep the host government and all organs of the organisation fully abreast with its activities while welcoming inputs to achieve efficiency and fulfill expectations of member countries. - Advertisement - Responding, Serey who commended Adalikwu, noted that he is impressed with the sincerity and willingness to make things better for the organisation as being exhibited by the Secretary-general. He gave assurances that the government of Cote D’Ivoire is fully in support of the new SG’s administration, especially given that he is a Nigerian and knowing the size and strength of the nation and the ability of its citizens to perform and deliver – a reason he said made his country throw her weight behind the Nigerian during the election that ushered him in. On  the issue of the permanent secretariat for MOWCA, he said it will be looked into and sorted out soon and assured that his technical team will always be available to assist MOWCA anytime the need arises. He also gave assurances on the budget documents presented to him, with a promise to revert once it has been look into. SPONSORED