Leicester City and Nigeria midfielder Wilfred Ndidi is not ready to part ways with Leicester, at least not just yet. The holding midfielder has revealed he is “enjoying” himself in the city amid reports of interest from Aston Villa over a summer move. Steven Gerrard’s side are reportedly willing to pay £50million for the Nigeria international at the end of this season, according to Daily Star. City supporters were not having any of the links, though, with many suggesting that the rumoured fee falls well short of what the club should be asking for. Ndidi has been an ever-present figure in the side this month since returning from a collectively disappointing showing at the Africa Cup of Nations for the Super Eagles last month.   The 25-year-old has also showcased the versatility of being able to play in midfield and also as part of the defence against Liverpool at Anfield last month. He marked his double century appearances for Leicester with a goal in Europa Conference League knockout round play-off first leg against Randers since arriving from Genk in January 2017. And just over five years later, the player has revealed he’s not leaving the East Midlands just yet.   LEON BALOGUN : I’m back, fit, ready to roll     FELIX ORODE : I long to play in Europe, Super Eagles     ALIOU CISSÉ ON RELATIONSHIP WITH SADIO MANÉ   “At the moment, I am enjoying myself in Leicester,” Ndidi replied when asked whether he was settled in the city. “My family is here.” My business degree is on hold. There was lockdown, and then my daughter was born. I want to get my degree. That is important to me and my family.” Ndidi is studying business and management at De Montfort University, a stone’s throw from where the club’s ground and would return as soon as the UK lockdown is lifted. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday lauded the lifting of all remaining COVID-19 restrictions in England as a “moment of pride” as he set out the government’s long-term plan for living with the virus, prompting concern among public health specialists and opposition lawmakers. The move will see the legal requirement to self-isolate for up to 10 days after testing positive dropped a month earlier than planned. The government also controversially scaled back access to free COVIS-19 tests. It comes just one day after Britain’s Queen Elizabeth tested positive for COVID-19.