Nationalism as a political concept refers to patriotism in one’s activities and advocacy of independence for one’s nation. The forces of nationalism turned Nigeria from a British colony into what it is today. Early nationalists considered Nigeria’s independence a primary objective. Sixty-one years after the decolonisation of Nigeria by the British, nationalism as an ideology is no longer valued or considered necessary in the Nigerian political arena. However, the truth is that we need to encourage nationalism now more than ever as regional, religious, and ethnic cleavages threaten to break our country politically. Tribalism has always been a prominent feature of Nigerian politics, doing more harm than good. It has long been the cause of evil conflict and political unrest. Thus, the African Centre for the Constructive Resolution of Dispute ascribes millions of deaths to ethnic violence between 1999 and 2021; the Sha-sha market crisis in Ibadan between the Yoruba and Hausa is an example. Worse still, tribalism impedes democracy. A report revealed that the outcome of the 2015 general elections was heavily influenced by tribal affiliations, especially in Lagos State.   Equipping learners with tools to succeed     Setting standards for PWDs: My story, by Corps member     Eschew unethical practices, students told   - Advertisement - It is needless to say that ethnic divisions are detrimental to us.  During the colonial period, the British hammered on our divisions to make Nigeria weak and easy to rule. We need to  unify our country to maintain peace and democracy. Nationalising our local industries and encouraging the growth of domestic enterprises will remedy our problems and defend us against  unpredictable global economic climate. Nationalism begins with all of us. No legislation or government policy can inspire national consciousness. It must come from the people because nationalism only exists because of cooperation and unity. We ought to stop voting along ethnic lines. It is important to  avoid nepotism in our day-to-day dealings, political or not. Finally, nationalism might be the cure for our country’s many woes. This will provide political stability and promising economic prospect and guide us towards a beautiful future