The bye-elections conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), to fill vacancies in Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency and Akpabuyo State Constituency both in Cross River State, Pankshin South State Constituency and Jos North/Bass Federal Constituency in Plateau State, Ngor Okpala State Constituency in Imo State and Akure North/Akure South Federal Constituency in Ondo State held yesterday. While a massive turnout of voters was reported in Cross Rivers, voters’ apathy allegedly marred the exercises in Imo, Ondo, Voting started early in various polling units at Ngor-Okpala Local Council Area of Imo for the vacant state constituency seat of the area. Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) arrived in good time, with sensitive and non-sensitive materials ready, voting began by 8.30am. Meanwhile, the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Imo State, Prof. Francis Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, raised the alarm of abduction of some ad hoc staff of the commission during the bye election. Prof Ezeonu who disclosed this on Saturday while briefing newsmen, said that the abducted ad hoc staff were taken to unknown destination where they were forced to thump print some hijacked ballot papers. “We have received the report of violence of election and corruption of polls on some polling units and attacks on our personnel. So far no casualty has been reported. “Some of our abducted adhoc staff were blindfolded and taken to unknown destination where they were compelled to thump print the ballot papers. We wish to reassure the general public that the results manufactured from unknown places will not be collected. The number of votes cast must be tallied with the number of accredited voters,” he maintained. The Imo State Commissioner of Police, CP Rabiu Hussaini personally monitored the by-election. CP Rabiu was seen in a convoy of police officers driving slowly and monitoring compliance of his men who are strategically placed at parts of Ngor Okpala Local Government Area to provide security for the election. Apart from a reported incident of failed ballot snatching at about 10:25am in unit 2 of Umueche Ward by thugs, the election has been largely incident free. Voters were said to have resisted them and succeeded in repelling the attack. A Golf vehicle belonging to Sunny Osita, said to be one of the assailants, was severely damaged by angry voters. Meanwhile, INEC has denied disqualifying the APC candidate from participating in the Ngor Okpala bye-election. Story of his alleged disqualification by the commission trended on some social media platform while the election was going on. Speaking to the Nation, the INEC Head of Department, Voters Education and publicity, Emmanulla Ben- Opara said “If there is any statement it will emanate from me and so it is not true. We did not disqualify anybody.”   2023: Tinubu’s presidential ambition should be…     Dummy lawmakers of the South-South     IGP appoints Bala Senchi acting DIG, redeploys three AIGs   There was low voters turn out in the by-election into Akure North /Akure South Federal constituency. Voters arrived many polling units monitored by our reporter in Akure Soutb local government as early as 8am. Some officials of INEC were seen with sensitive materials being conveyed on motor cycles to their various polling units. Some of the motorcycles were seen driven by policemen. Two major political parties, the ruling All Progressives Congress and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party contended for the seat even though seven political parties fielded candidates for the election. A former Ondo Commissioner for Justice and Attorneý General in the State, Eyitayo Jegede, who spoke to journalists shortly after he voted, complained that agents of the PDP were driven out of polling units in Iju, Akure North local government area. He said he has reported the situation to security agencies. There were no complained over functioning of BVAS in many polling units visited. Also, candiate of the APC, Lawson Alade, was almost mobbed by supporters of the PDP in a mild drama. He, however said, there was no problem and hailed the voting process as peaceful. There was tension in Ward nine, unit three, Oba Ile community, Akure North local government when some voters protested presence of the State Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa. The protesting voters said the Deputy Governor was not supposed to be seen around the area as he hails from Okitipupa, Ondo South senatorial district. Explaining, Aiyedatiwa said, “I live outside government house. I live among the people, so I don’t live in government house for now. So if anybody says they see me, maybe around my area. I don’t understand what they are saying.” In Cross River State, massive voters turn-out was recorded across the areas where by-elections held. Across Ogoja urban up the Mbube area in the same Ogoja local government, the turnout was impressive and there was peace and orderliness. Similar records of large turnout of voters were also seen in Okpoma, Okpodu, Ugaga and many other areas within Yala local government area. Voting commenced early in many areas between 8.30am and 9.30am. Senior Special Adviser, Political Affairs to Governor Ben Ayade, Chief Peter Ojie, who spoke shortly after casting his vote said he was happy that the exercise was peaceful and hitch-free and no complaint whatsoever has been reported. Low turnout of voters marred the election in Jos, Plateau State. In most polling units visited by our correspondent, INEC ad-hoc staff were on ground but the electorates are nowhere to be found. At Jenta Adamu polling unit, with code number 023, along Hill station, only 15 people out of over one hundred registered voters were said to have come, made accreditation and cast their votes. Speaking to reporters immediately after casting vote in his home town, Kissaloi polling units in Rukuba chiefdom Bassa LGA, Hon. Joseph Abbey Aku who is the flag bearer of the APC in the bye-election, said “you would all agree with me over the years that bye-election always witnessed low turnout. As I am speaking to you there is voter apathy, the turnout is not encouraging. But at the end of the day we believe people will come out and vote.” Senator Istifanus Gyang, while speaking on the exercise, said “from the reports so far, people are turning out but as it is now we cannot say this is the percentage of turnout yet. By afternoon one will be in a better position to assess the percentage of voter turnout.” Hon. Esther Simi Dusu said the massive cancellation of votes witnessed during the 2019 general elections in the area may be responsible for the indifference of the people to the bye-election. “We will continue urging them to come and vote,” she said. Reacting on the development, the INEC National Commissioner in charge of Plateau State bye-elections, Prof. A.A. Zuru said “in all the places I went the process of the elections peaceful, card reader machine is functioning well and the turnout is good.”