There is plenty of football action coming up this weekend, let’s look at the weekend’s biggest clashes and what games to look out for. With both Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) and English Premier League action, chances are that there will be lots of excitement to keep football fans happy this weekend. You can follow all the drama live and keep up to date with all the live betting and odds with betway mobile .To sign up simply go to Betway, sign-up with all your details and once they are confirmed you are ready to enjoy the world of sports betting in the palm of your hand.   HOW TO DEAL WITH PROSTATE ENLARGEMENT OR CANCER NATURALLY…     Before buying bitcoin, here are 7 things you should know     Best 3 verified sites to sell gift cards to naira in Nigeria…   With log leaders Plateau United only playing in midweek next week against Gombe United, their title contenders with games in hand have an opportunity to close the gap at the top of the log. In the case of second place Rivers United who host Enugu United, they have the chance of going top of the log if they can dispatch their 5th place opponents. This game won’t be easy as Enugu harbour title ambitions themselves and if they can win this game, the title race is wide open, but Enugus form of late means they will have to work hard to topple The Pride of Rivers. 2019 champions Enyimba, who sit seventh on the log, take on MFM. The Aba Warriors lost their last game to Kwara United thanks to a goal by Kwara player Alao Danbani. Kwara took on 14th place Sunshine Start and will also look to win this one to keep in touching distance at the top. Reigning Champions Akwa will hope for an easy match against 18th placed Dakkada if they are to keep alive the faint hope of retaining the title. In the English Premier League action we have a highly entertaining encounter when Manchester CIty play host to Tottenham Hotspur. Man City have been in sensational form, while Spurs have been indifferent. Spurs will want to win this to maintain pressure on their other top four rivals. Elsewhere on saturday Arsenal face Brentford, who might field Christian Eriksen in his first competitive match since Euro 2020. Norwich City travelled to Liverpool, who left it late to dispatch Inter Milan in their midweek game. Crystal Palace host Chelsea in a London Derby, while Manchester United will try to cement their top four position when they face Leeds United.  Sign-up on Betway to get a full list of fixtures to plan your football weekend. SPONSORED