To many, birthday is an opportunity to celebrate by organising parties to bring together loved ones. But, to some, it is an occasion to reflect on one’s journey so far on earth and allow the day to go by without any formal celebration. Apparently, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, the present Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment belonged to the latter category as he used to do every 4th of February. Despite his refusal to celebrate his natal day, his friends and associates had always teamed together to celebrate him. So, this Friday, 4th of February, 2022 may not go without a celebration by his associates and friends who look up to the day to celebrate one of their own. Adebayo, the first elected civilian governor of Ekiti State had over the years been  seen as a man who personifies the values for which an average Ekiti is known for. Apparently, this was the reason many of his teeming followers called him the Omoluabi Ekiti At a young age, he shouldered the responsibility of laying the foundation for the development of the newly created Ekiti State. He had inherited a new state with virtually nothing for its takeoff. The state only depended on its share of federation accounts, with very little from internally generated revenue for its survival. - Advertisement - It was the era when allocation from the federation account was barely enough for the payment of salaries not to talk of funding developmental projects. Coupled with this was the fact that many local governments in the state were credited with zero allocations from the same federation account and looked up to the state government for survival. As soon as he settled down to work, he focused on building regular sources of internally generated revenue for the state. This he did by approaching the capital market to source for funds. It is on record that he was the first governor to approach the capital market to raise funds to execute developmental projects. Based on his transparent and efficient management of state government accounts, his attempt at raising funds from the capital was hugely successful. The funds were used in executing various development projects and widening the sources of internally generated revenue. It is on record that through the funds raised, he acquired choicest properties for the state in Victoria Island, Lagos and Abuja. Besides,  under his administration, Ekiti made a very loud presence in Abuja with the construction of the then imposing Ekiti House at the Central Business Area. Legal Luminary and a respected Ekiti elder statesman, Aare Afe Babalola had during his inspection of the building project in 2003 lauded the vision of Adebayo, thanking him for giving the state a befitting presence in the Federal Capital Territory. His administration entered into partnership with the United African Company (UACN) to develop the Ikogosi Warm Spring and the bottling of the water from the spring. One of the products of the partnership is the popular Gossy table water. While notable indigenes celebrated his vision for the  state, his decision to acquire properties for the state was used to vilify him. It is on record that the rent from these properties helped his immediate successor, Mr Ayo Fayose to fund some of his programmes. As a shrewd businessman which he was before venturing into politics, Adebayo knew he had a lot of responsibilities, including taking care of party members who were disillusioned by his unceremonious exit from power. He revived his law practice and went into business to cater for thousands of his followers left behind. No wonder that his father’s house was a beehive of activities whenever he was around during major festivals. Less than two years into the administration of his successor, pressure started mounting on him to contest the 2007 governorship election in the state. He however rejected the move saying he had nothing left to pick at Oke Ayoba government house. His position has always been that younger elements should be given the opportunity to govern the state.   Has APC caretaker committee lived to expectation?     INEC and challenges of 2023     Fresh hurdles for re-worked Electoral Bill   Following the unrelenting pressures, he opted to support the incumbent governor of the state, Dr kayode Fayemi who had assisted his administration in getting the Department for International Development (DFID) now Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office to partner with the state on developmental programmes. While Adebayo opted not seek any elective office, his associates and the ordinary man on the streets continue to celebrate him as the ideal Ekiti man, even when they do not share the same political sentiments. After leaving office, he had served at the national office of his political party, All progressives Congress (APC), rising to the position of the  Deputy National Chairman before his present appointment. Since his appointment as a minister, the Omoluabi Ekiti has not disappointed Nigerians, particularly the business community. He played a key role as a member of Mr President’s economic team charged with the duty of navigating the economy and indeed the country past the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting recession. Under His watch, the ministry led the sustenance of production of essential commodities and safeguarding of jobs and livelihoods of MSMEs through the successful delivery of the Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan’s MSME Survival Fund. He is also championing the full implementation of the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan which aims to domesticate the production of key commodities to the Nigerian economy. He led Nigeria’s successful ratification of the AfCFTA Agreement. Under his leadership, Nigeria has recorded improvements in the business regulatory environment by removing several bottlenecks that made doing business difficult in Nigeria as evidenced by its World Bank Ease of Doing Business Ranking. Other notable achievements included ongoing revision of Nigeria’s trade policy to ensure the nation has better leverage before entering trade agreements with any country, establishment  of the National Quality Infrastructure Programme to help improve the quality of products manufactured in the country. He also saw to the establishment of Nigeria National Accreditation System (NiNAS) to eliminate rejection of products and provide wider markets for Nigerian manufactured products. The ministry successfully revised its model Bilateral Investment Treaty (BIT) to highlight the economic development objectives of the government and balances investors rights with obligations in a bid to ensure the nation attracts responsible, inclusive, balanced and sustainable investments. Under his supervision, the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) produced the Book of States which captured the competitive advantages and key investment opportunities being promoted by the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory in an easily accessible format to help investors to appreciate Nigeria’s investment potentials. Born on 4 February 1958, he was educated at the Corona School, Yaba, Lagos, (1962–1968), University of Lagos Staff School (1968–1969), C.M.S Grammar School, Bariga, Lagos (1969–1974), Davies Tutors, Hove, Sussex, England (1975–1977) and University of Lagos (1977–1981) where he studied Law. He is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association, the International Bar Association, the Nigerian Institute of Management, a Fellow of the Institute of Public Administration of Nigeria and a Director of the Sickle Cell Foundation Nigeria. He is a member of the Royal Commonwealth Society, Nigeria. He is an honourary life member of the Lagos Polo Club and a member of the Lagos Motor Boat Club. He is also the patron of the Inland Club, Ado-Ekiti. He became the First Executive Governor of Ekiti State on 29 May 1999. He was also the Pioneer Secretary of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, NGF. A recipient of the Nigeria National Honour Award of Commander of the Order of the Niger (CON), Adebayo  is happily married with children and grandchildren. His  hobbies include tennis, football and walking.