The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has been asked to disclose the identity of the top military officer it claimed owned the N10.9 billion assets recently forfeited to the Federal Government. The EFCC had on February 14 claimed to have obtained a final forfeiture order from the Federal High Court in Abuja in respect of the assets it claimed were unlawfully acquired by a “top military officer.” The agency, according to a press statement issued by its spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, failed to identify the supposed “top military officer” and provided no reason why it chose to keep the identity secret. But a group, the Coalition for Truth and Justice (CTJ) has demanded that the EFCC and the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) disclose the identity of the person involved. CTJ’s National Coordinator, Barrister Timothy Charles, argued that the EFCC decision to keep the identity of the military officer secret was capable of sending wrong signals to the military, which might bring about unnecessary and unreasonable suspicion amongst military officers and the attendant impact it might have on their productivity level. - Advertisement - Charles said in a statement that “the Coalition for Truth and Justice views the actions of the EFCC as an affront on our sensibilities by electing to act like it is unaware that the monies and the principal suspect have their origin from the Office of the National Security Adviser. ”Therefore, the coinage ‘military officer’ by the EFCC is bewildering because the indices are clear as regards the fact that the said military officer was acting for a powerful interest in the Office of the National Security Adviser.   Two killed, nine injured as truck crashes into Anambra…     Court remands four men for allegedly burning…     APC govs pressure state chairmen to shift convention   ”We are also alarmed that the EFFC, either by omission or commission, elected to be clever by half. But they failed to realise that their actions have the tendency to affect the psychological state of those in the trenches fighting and sacrificing themselves for the country. ”The EFCC must tell the truth to the country regarding the identity of the military officer who was able to amass properties worth billions of naira. “It is our considered opinion that the EFCC is economical with the truth by not stating expressly that the funds used in purchasing the said properties were from the Office of the National Security Adviser. ”The Coalition for Truth and Justice is using this medium to demand the truth regarding the source of funds used in acquiring the said properties. “The blanket use of “Military Officer” is deceptive, mischievous, and a mockery of the anti-corruption crusade of the Muhammadu Buhari administration. ”The EFCC must not be seen as complicit in this case. As such, it must, as a matter of urgency, reveal the identity of the military officer as well as the source of the funds used in acquiring the confiscated properties. ”It is our position that the term military officer is an embarrassment to the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which tends to paint a picture of military officers engaging in corrupt acts, therefore, dampening the morale of our fighting troops involved in various operations across the country. ‘’The Coalition for Truth, as a result of this, calls on all well-meaning Nigerians to demand the truth from the EFCC in this case before us in the interest of peace and tranquility, for a lot would be at stake in the country if matters like this are treated with utmost disrespect for the sensibilities of Nigerians who have continually bore the brunt of the actions of unscrupulous elements in positions of authority in the country. ” SPONSORED