Not less than five oil firms operating in Akwa Ibom State face imminent shutdown if the threats by the Movement for the Survival of Izon Ethnic Nationality in the Niger Delta (MOSIEND) are anything to go by. Indications emerged after the inauguration of MOSIEND clans’ executives of five local government areas of Oron extraction. Those Inaugurated were Comrade Okon Okon, Osung-Oron Clan Chairman;  Comrade Godgift Edet Inyang, Urueoffong/Oruko Clan Chairman; Comrade Nathaniel Kingsley Etifit, Mbo Clan Chairman; Gideon Effiong Unananwi, Udung Uko Clan Chairman and Comrade Victor Okon Uyah, Okobo Clan Chairman. The socio-economic, cultural and political crusaders, decried the alleged high level of marginalisation, neglect, deprivation and oppression being meted out to the people of Oro ethnic nationality by the multinational oil firms. The Chairman, Urueffong Oruko Clan, Comrade Godgift Edet Inyang, who spoke on behalf of other chairmen shortly after the official inauguration, said that in spite of the numerous oil companies exploring oil and gas within their communities, there was nothing to show for it.   Crisis in Owo FMC as consultants reject CMD’s extended…     UPDATED: Why we released Odili’s seized passport, by…     Court to hear Nnamdi Kanu’s fundamental rights suit Feb. 28   - Advertisement - Inyang claimed that their concerns were about the firms’ zero compliance for corporate social responsibility (CSR), lack of employment quota for their people, doing all employments and contracts in Lagos as well as allowing underdevelopment and poverty to ravage their entire communities. He also alleged that there was a total disconnect between the companies and communities as well as the alleged refusal of the Federal Government to intervene and give justice to the people of Oro. He warned that if the oil companies failed to address the environmental injustice and neglect of their communities, they would be left with no other option but to shut down their activities in the state. He urged the Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, and GMD/CEO NNPC Limited, Mallam Mele Kyari, to prevail on the oil firms to commence the implementation of Petroleum Industry Act (PIA) without further delays. He hoped that the recently signed PIA would be tailored towards accelerating the socio-economic development of the oil-bearing communities in the Niger Delta.