The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Osun Command, says it has deployed its personnel to protect the critical infrastructure and residents in the state. The NSCDC Commandant, Mr Emmanuel Ocheja, made this known in a statement by the command’s Spokesperson, Atanda Olabisi, following the Thursday’s violent attack on Rauf Aregbesola’s Campaign Office in Osogbo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that suspected armed thugs on Thursday, at about 5.30 p.m, attacked the campaign office of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, popularly known as “Oranmiyan House”in Osogbo. The wall of the building was reportedly riddled by bullets, while the gunmen set alight some canopies within the premises Ocheja, condemning the attack, warned miscreants and hoodlums to stop their criminal activities or leave the state, saying that criminal acts would no longer be tolerated in the state. - Advertisement - “The commandant visited the attacked building for inspection yesterday,Thursday, following the report of the sporadic shooting on the critical infrastructure, perpetrated by unknown gunmen,” he said. Ocheja sounded a note of warning to the miscreants and suspected hoodlums, advising them to consider relocating out of the state.   Onitsha traders protest illegal shops construction     Evans denies kidnapping businessman, collecting $420,000…     Air Peace to resume direct flights to Dubai, March 1   According to him, this kind of untoward criminal act will not be tolerated henceforth, in the state. Ocheja, however, said that the corps was working in synergy, with other security agencies to ensure a peaceful atmosphere was restored, warning that any one caught acting against the law would not be spared. Similarly, the Nigeria Police, Osun Command’s Spokesperson, SP Yemisi Opalola, said that the situation had been brought under control. Opalola said that the state Commissioner of Police, Olawale Olokode, had visited the scene of the attack for on the spot assessment. She said policemen had been drafted to the area, saying that the commissioner had assurred the residents that the perpetrators would be brought to justice. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that suspected armed thugs on Thursday, at about 5.30 p.m, attacked the campaign office of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, popularly known as “Oranmiyan House”in Osogbo. The wall of the building was reportedly riddled by gunshots while the gunmen set alight some canopies within the premises (NAN)