Stockbroking firms need to be innovative in product development and marketing while leveraging cutting edge technologies in order to achieve sustainable growth in the current operating environment. Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Sam Onukwue, at the weekend advised dealing member firms to review their operational models, create new products and deploy technology to upscale operations and skills. According to him, the Nigerian capital market has been moderated by the inclement operating environment, characterised by impacts of COVID-19 and its variants on corporate earnings, misalignment of monetary and fiscal policies, high production cost and low purchasing power of consumers, currency devaluation, forex scarcity and high inflationary pressure among others. He said the current investment climate required innovative approach that meets the needs of clients. He urged dealing members to deepen their research and development and create innovative products, especially to attract the millennials and Generation Z in order to widen customer base and ensure business continuity.   Notore grows turnover by 43% to N27b     PZ Cussons pays N992.6m dividend to shareholders     ‘Digital assets can stimulate capital formation’   - Advertisement - He pointed out the need for deployment of modern technology to enhance operational efficiency noting that COVID-19 pandemic has institutionalised digital transformation for every business. He noted that millennials and Generation Z engage via digital channels as they do virtually everything on their smartphones. “Our members have realized the imperative of digital transformation of our operations. With the impacts of COVID-19 on our business environment, demutualisation of the former Nigerian Stock Exchange to Nigerian Exchange Group ( NGX) Plc and tough operating environment, our operational models have to be reviewed. “We must create more innovative financial products that attract millennials and Generation Z. They are digital natives that do almost everything on smartphones. Our business models must take this critical class of investors into consideration. We need to deepen our research and development base to be on top of the latest development in the global financial market. We appeal to our regulators to address the observed impediments to full digitalisation of our market such as the issue of identity management,” Onukwue said. He noted that many investors have not recovered from the meltdown of 2008, urging dealing firms to sustain efforts at rekindling their confidence towards  bringing  them fully back to the market through investor education. “As a trade group, ASHON shall continue to join hands with other market operators, platforms and regulators to ensure harmonious relationships among the stakeholders in the capital market ecosystem. The capital market remains a veritable platform for wealth creation in any economy. We shall continue to appeal to the government to leverage the market to raise medium and long term funds to fix the economy as there is a nexus between the economy and the market. This is why enabling environment is key,” Onukwue said.