The American University of Nigeria (AUN), Yola, has moved 100 children off the streets into its Feed and Read basic literacy programme. The university, in pursuit of its social responsibility obligation, identified 50 girls and 50 boys, all of them never in any formal education programme, and enrolled them for the programme. The Feed and Read intervention in which the enrolled pupils will eat a square meal each day as they are put through basic reading and writing course over a one-year period, was relaunched at the weekend along with Global Centre for Out-of-School Children, a new department of the AUN to coordinate the initiative and generally carry out advocacy for out-of-school children. The two were inaugurated at the AUN’s North Campus in Yola Town by their initiator and the institution’s President (Vice Chancellor), Dr Margee Ensign. Dr. Ensign recalled that the programme started in 2015 with the desire to reduce out-of-school children roaming the streets and begging for alms. - Advertisement - She said the relaunch started with the total of 100 pupils drawn from host communities and surroundings.   Lagos, U.S. Consulate host drone training     COEASU workers to AOCOED management: don’t shortchange us     Mouka rewards workers, partners with N120m scholarship,…   She said the large number of out-of-school children in Nigeria (between 11and18 million), Dr. Ensign indicted stakeholders in education and government. “The fact that we have difficulty in finding precise data about how many beautiful children are out of school means we have not taken the issues seriously. “There are an estimated 2.8 million out-of-school children in our region, the northeast and in addition to that, 802 schools remain closed, and another 1,392 are damaged and cannot be used,” Ensign added. She said, however, that although the picture is bleak, the AUN community would ensure it achieves its aim of reaching out to many children and teaching them basic literacy and numeracy. Also, Dr. Jacob Udoh-Udoh Jacob, the Dean of Graduate School and Research of the AUN, said the alarming number of out-of-school children should be treated as a global issue. He said AUN, through its new Global Centre for Out-of-School Children, would liaise with other institutions across the globe to share data as well as enhance its teaching models and processes.