Plantashun Boiz former bandmate, Ahmedu Obiabo aka Blackface, has alleged that some persons have been responsible for keeping him away from his two children. In an Instagram live recently, Blackface spoke about his separation from his ex-wife and children. “That issue is really delicate, that’s the reason I haven’t talked about it for a very long time because you know kids are very sensitive you know. “You do not want to make them have a very bad thought in their head so I kept them out of my drama number one, you don’t even know if these are my kids or not, they move freely, you don’t have to know I just let them be and then you know the way it is like Kanye West was complaining like they didn’t let him visit his kids or pick his kids up or go to the party, you know they are people that control those things that happen and trust me those people that control those things that happen are in Nigeria right here, and pinpoint somebody like me and said don’t let him see his kids. This is because of the legacy you know because what you own belongs to your children and belongs to your family.”   Actor Yomi Fabiyi welcomes baby boy     Mercy Aigbe promises to be mother-of-the-day for fans     Why my marriage to Kanye West failed, by Kim Kardashian   - Advertisement - Blackface further noted that he last contacted his son and daughter six months ago. Continuing, he said: “They do not spend time with me because these people will not let them spend time with me, because whatever I tell my kids they are going to put it in their heads. If something happens to me today, my kids will know what their father owns, and what their father doesn’t have especially my intellectual properties. “So, I think these people that are doing this thing are trying hard to cut my kids off me so that my kids don’t know what their father has so if something happens to me today my kids are not going to know what they have. So it’s all still the plan of this cabals in quotes.” On the option of getting a lawyer to fight for his right to be with his kids, Blackface said: “I will when the time comes, but not right now, I am in a new relationship I’m just starting and I don’t want to distract my head you know because right now it is all about the music, it is all about what I want to put out, so I am having that bond with my music right now and I don’t want to have any kind of distraction. “It doesn’t mean that I don’t have somebody in my life right now, of course, I have somebody in my life right now but if that’s what they hope to achieve by not letting me see my kids well stories will tell.”