Dame Patience Jonathan, the wife of Nigeria’s former President, Goodluck Jonathan, has sent a protest letter to the Bayelsa State Police Command over an alleged illegal demolition of her property, Aridolf Resort Wellness and Spa. It was learnt that the fence of the five-star hotel located at Okaka area of Yenagoa, the state capital, was allegedly demolished by the state government officials led by a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and the Chairman of the State Physical Planning and Development Board, Alabo Gideon Ekeowe. The former First Lady in her protest letter to the Police demanded the arrest of Ekeowe over alleged abuse of office, criminal demolition, and contempt of court processes. It was gathered yesterday that the demand for the arrest of Alabo Ekeowe was provoked by Friday’s destruction of the fence of the hotel without allowing the management of the hotel and the Police to respond to the court order arising from the Motion on Notice instituted by the Physical Planning Board. Investigation showed that while the court was expected to rule on the Motion on Notice on Monday and the police expected to jointly implement the received copy of MoN in the morning of Friday, the officials of the board demolished the property at about 3 pm on Friday without the police. It was learnt that the law establishing the board stated that such demolition could not be done without police approval.   Why we want to shut down varsities, by SSANU     NURTW queries MC Oluomo over alleged insubordination     Anger in Niger Delta over Ijaw leader’s call to end…   It was also gathered that, though the demolished fence allegedly encroached on the legal line in the state’s physical development plan, the action of the Ekeowe-led board was a “violation of court processes and abuse of office.” A source within the board confirmed that the protest by the former First Lady was creating uproar and that Governor Douye Diri seemed to have washed his hands off the board’s action. It was also reportedly said that another property located in Otiotio area of Yenagoa was allegedly demolished illegally. Attempts to contact Ekeowe for his response on the allegation met a brick wall as his mobile phone indicated it was unreachable. But an official who is close to the board’s boss acknowledged the complaints of Mrs. Jonathan, declaring that the action of the officials of the board was backed by the ruling of the Physical Planning Tribunal Development tribunal headed by Justice Emmanuel Ogola (rtd.). “I am not aware of any disagreement between Mrs. Jonathan and Alabo Ekeowe. I don’t know if he is calling for his arrest. But all I know is that a tribunal ruled against the property and it was executed,” the official, who craved anonymity, claimed.