The Nigerian Exchange (NGX) yesterday inducted a total of 133 authorised dealing clerks from 63 stockbroking firms with a charge to uphold the highest level of ethics and responsibility. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX), Mr. Temi Popoola congratulated the inductees who had passed through the Exchange’s Automated Trading System training faculty made up of seasoned capital market regulators and operators. “This induction is evidence of years of dedication, adaptability, and hard work, and symbolises your commitment to uphold the highest ethical standards and to always put the interest of the market first,” Popoola said. He advised the new clerks to embrace the culture of continuous learning in the fast-paced environment that is the capital market.   Women have strategic roles to play in nation building, says…     Learn Africa plans merger to drive growth     Stock Exchange lifts suspension on Niger Insurance   “As the market deepens with the launch of new products, I encourage everyone to seek for better understanding of various aspects of the capital market as well as new developments. The X-Academy, our specialised learning centre is equipped to fill this gap by offering a wide range of courses geared towards bridging the knowledge gap of capital market professionals, investors and the general public, about how the capital market works. Please ensure that you maximise the opportunities presented by X-Academy to stay up to date on market developments,” Popoola said. - Advertisement - Doyen of Stockbrokers, the oldest trading stockbroker on the floor, Rasheed Yussuf, called on the newly inducted dealing clerks to live up to the creed in the capital market “our word is our bond” as this would engender confidence in the capital market and lead to growth in the various firms being represented. Similar words of wisdom were presented by Mr. Sam Onukwe, chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), and Mr. Olatunde Amolegbe, president, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers. Others at the event were   Mahmud Muhtar, Commissioner, Registrations, SEC, who represented the Director-General, SEC, Mr. Lamido Yuguda, and the CEO, Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS), Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri.