The police have rescued 113 people, mostly children, who were being kept in an illegal rehabilitation centre in Kano State. One of the inmates, Aminu Ado, 22 years old of Na’ibawa Quarters Kano was reportedly tortured to death on January 29 by one of the operators, 18-year-old Abdullatif Musa, it was learnt. Six suspects who allegedly run the illegal rehabilitation centre have been arrested. Police spokesman Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, a Superintendent of Police (SP), gave the names and addresses of the suspects as Usman Abdulrauf Imam, 19 years, of Nyanya Abuja and Mustapha Bala, 20 years old, of Azare, Bauchi State. Other suspects are Sadiq Ismail, 19 years old, of Unguwa Uku Quarters, Umar Bako Abdulwahab, 38, Kureken Sani Quarters, Kumbotso Local Government Area, Musa Safiyanu, 55 years old, of Na’ibawa Yan Lemo Quarters and Abdullatif Musa, 18 years old, of Na’ibawa Wailari Quarters, all of Kano State.   Two killed, six injured in Lagos-Ibadan thruway tanker…     Bandits kidnap ASUU chair’s relations     Gunmen kidnap 11 Abia council workers   - Advertisement - Read Also: Police arrest 37 suspects over alleged banditry in Sokoto Some of those rescued who have various degrees of injuries resulting from torture were taken to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital Kano where they were treated and handed over to the Kano State Government, police said. SP Kiyawa said: “On January 30, at about 11:00 p.m., a report was received from 10 escaped inmates of an illegal rehabilitation centre, that one Musa Safiyanu is running an illegal rehabilitation centre. “That he chains, tortures and locks up inmates, from where they escaped. On receipt of the report, the Commissioner of Police Sama’ila Shu’aibu Dikko instructed a team of detectives led by CSP Abdulkarim Abdullahi to mount 24-hour surveillance, verify the report, rescue the victims and arrest the culprits. “Suspects will be charged to court for wrongful confinement, child abuse, running illegal rehabilitation centre and culpable homicide,” police spokesman Kiyawa said.