The Plateau State Government said it is ready to begin the building of the N18 billion flyovers. The project has been a subject of controversy between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). With barely 17 months remaining before the end of the tenure of Governor Simon Bako Lalong, critics have posited that Lalong is set to add the proposed flyover project to the litany of abandoned projects in the state. To this end, the traffic diversions earlier announced by the Plateau State Ministry of Works have finally taken effect as the contractors moved to the site yesterday to block the required areas that will enable them to break ground. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Communication Dan Manjang stated that at the site around 4:00 a.m. was the Commissioner for Works Pam Bot-Mang, the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Works Alexander Plangnaan the Site Engineer of the contracting firm Mr Charbell, to ensure that the exercise was carried out seamlessly. The Commissioner for Works Pam Bot-Mang said the exercise was very crucial to the commencement of the project. He reiterated his appeal to the citizens to co-operate with the situation and bear the inconveniences that will occur as a result of the diversions.   El-Rufai to receive Kaduna security report Tuesday     Centre treats 36.1m Plateau, Nasarawa chemotherapy patients     Kogi councils provide free Medicare for 300 communities   - Advertisement - Bot-Mang said: “We are excited that the contractors are moving to the site to commence work. This is significant for the government and people of the state who have long yearned for relief to the gridlock at the British-American junction. Bot-Mang also called on motorists to use the alternative routes earlier listed out and be patient because such pains will eventually give birth to the joy of the new infrastructure that will greatly impact the well-being of the people and the economy of the state. The Site Engineer of the contracting firm Charbell appreciated the efforts of the government in sensitising the public towards the smooth take-off of the project, assuring them that the company will operate professionally and with the highest consideration for safety and caution. According to the statement, motorists are advised to find alternative routes to their destinations some of which include the following: Tudun Wada Ring Road to Domkat Bali Road, Secretariat Junction through Plateau Hospital Road; Plateau Hospital Roundabout through D. B. Zang Way, Abattoir-Dogon Karfe through Plateau State Dental Hospital Road. Also, Abattoir-Dogon Karfe Roundabout through Hopehill Hospital to Ministry of Lands and Survey-ECWA Headquarters Road, Rayfield to Lamingo Road, Gold and Base through Shiaka to Liberty Boulevard Road. The same will apply for those leaving Jos Township to Bukuru and beyond.