The 33rd  edition of the Africa Cup of Nations has been an electrifying and entertaining soccer tournament since its commencement for football fanatics around the globe. It has produced great performances and goals from various teams that participated in the competition. The competition is coming to a close as host nation, Cameroon after failing to beat Egypt in the semi-finals in a penalty shootout battle it out with the Stallions of Burkina Faso in a match to determine the third-placed team. This encounter will be a repetition of the match opener of the tournament. Cameroon will have no excuse to give their fans should they fail to win this match. A win would be some sort of consolation to the fans after failing to reach the finals. But the question is, will Burkina Faso lose against this Cameroonian side two times in this tournament? Jean-Charles Castelletto of Cameroon was forced out of the semi-final game against Egypt due to an injury and his availability to feature in this game will depend on a medical clearance from the medical staff of Cameroon.   Messi ‘unhappy’ with life in Paris     Spurs plot £70m summer move for Osimhen     BROTHERS AT WAR: Salah, Mane set for AFCON final showdown   For Burkina Faso, there’s a concern about Herve Koffi, who sustained an injury against Senegal and will be a huge loss for his side should he fail to pass a late fitness test. - Advertisement - All other players are in contention to participate in this showpiece. Cameroon is most likely to stick with the system they have been using in the competition. With a 4-3-3 formation in their recent games, Antonio Conceicao’s side have had fluidity and they have created a lot of chances with seeing much of the ball. The pace from the attackers has always been key to their play even during the qualifies. For Burkina Faso, they will likely set up in their normal 4-2-3-1 formation, playing a double pivot to protect the back four and also control the game. Burkina Faso would see much of the ball as 3 attacking midfielders will be in front of their double pivot to create a lot of chances for the lone striker in the attack. This system gives them much freedom to move the ball fast and also catch their opponent on counter-attacks. A tough and physical game is expected today.