A subsidiary of Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited has attributed the scarcity of petrol in parts of the country to the discovery of contaminated product. The Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) in a statement, said methanol above Nigeria’s specification was discovered in a limited quantity of petrol in the supply chain. The agency said the supplier had been identified. NMDPRA explained that methanol is a regular additive in petrol and is usually blended in an acceptable quantity. It said: “To ensure vehicular and equipment safety, the limited quantity of the impacted product has been isolated and withdrawn from the market, including the loaded trucks in transit. - Advertisement - “Our technical team in conjunction with NNPC Ltd and other industry stakeholders will continue to monitor and ensure quality petroleum products are adequately supplied and distributed nationwide. “The source supplier has been identified and further commercial and appropriate actions shall be taken by the Authority and NNPC Ltd. “NNPC Ltd and all oil marketing companies have been directed to sustain sufficient distribution of petrol in all retail outlets nationwide. “Meanwhile, NNPC has intensified efforts at increasing the supply of petrol into the market in order to bridge any unforeseen supply gap.” The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited said on Monday that there was no need for panic buying. Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Garba Deen Muhammad, said NNPC had sufficient PMS stock to meet the needs of Nigerians but did not mention the contamination. “The public is, therefore, advised not to engage in panic buying of petrol; and to ignore all rumours that may suggest otherwise,” he said. It was learnt an NNPC mother vessel laden with about 50, 000 metric tons of fuel (over 100 million litres) brought in the contaminated fuel. According to the sources, Total was the first to discover the “off spec” supply. Other marketers said to have received the contaminated consignment, though not supplied across all their stations, include Enyo, Northwest, Pinnacle and NIPCO. A source said: “Total discovered the contaminated fuel because the company usually tests any product it received before releasing same into the market. “So, when it got to Total and was tested, it was discovered to have been contaminated or ‘off spec’, hence it notified their neighbour Ardova that also received the consignment and that was how the bubble burst.” The source said NNPC advised marketers that loaded from that particular cargo not to sell. “Over 100 million litres of this batch of petrol is in circulation so it may take a awhile to recall it. If a station is not selling fuel presently, it is definitely affected. “A lot of people have already complained that their vehicles have been damaged by the fuel already,” the source said. The Nation learnt that the NNPC has promised to replace or refund marketers for the contaminated product. For some marketers who take fuel on credit and pay after 45 days, NNPC will retrieve the bad supply and replace it. For those that pay upfront, NNPC will refund them and take back their bad fuel. For marketers used as throughputs, they will simply take back their fuel. Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, NNPC, Garba Deen Muhammad, could not be reached for comments on the developments. Executive Secretary, Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Clement Isong, confirmed the “contamination” of some of the products in the supply chain. He told The Nation: “The current situation we are experiencing can be blamed largely on operational reasons. It is operational. There was some contamination in the products that entered the supply chain. “It was identified, captured and quarantined or isolated and it is now being withdrawn from the system. So this is what has disrupted the supply chain flow.” According to him, the cleanup process should be completed by this weekend and normalcy restored to the supply chain by Monday, “all things being equal.” Isong, however, reiterated the need to diversify the importation of the product. According to him, leaving the importation of fuel to one entity is dangerous and a very big risk the country is taking because the Nigerian market is too big for one supplier. “We have also said that as a business principle, you don’t put all your eggs in one basket. “The Nigerian market is too big for you to risk having one supplier; the risk is too high. “We shouldn’t have only one supplier of PMS and there will always be challenges if we have one supplier of petrol. One way or the other, something will always go wrong.   Nigeria’s future will depend on science and tech…     Don’t remove Labour from Exclusive List, NLC warns     JAMB shifts UTME registration kickoff by one week   “That is why statistically speaking nobody has one supplier of a very important product like fuel,” he said. Some marketers said the scarcity may persist until depots are restocked with quality products. The marketers, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), blamed the scarcity on the supply of a wrong specification of petrol in some parts of the country. They noted that the directive to withdraw the product from the market even after distribution to many filling stations and other areas created a supply shortfall, thereby, leading to panic buying. “As we speak, the NNPC Ltd is working to ensure that this disruption to the supply chain is addressed as soon as possible. “However, there is the challenge of logistics and how to compensate those who were supplied with the adulterated products. Read Also: PIA: Reps move to transfer assets of defunct NNPC “The NNPC is working with marketers on this and once the depots are restocked, tankers will start loading and supply will improve across the country. “Until we are able to achieve this, queues will remain at the petrol stations because of the panic already created,” one of the top marketers told NAN. An independent petroleum marketer said there had been complaints from some motorists on the fuel quality, which made his station stop selling for now. “Some independent marketers are not hoarding products as is being alleged. “Some of us were affected by the supply we got and we are trying to resolve the situation so that we can continue our business,’’ he said. Only a few filling stations were selling fuel at Ikeja, Iyana-Ipaja and Abule-Egba areas of Lagos. Others, especially those owned by independent marketers, were not open for business. The stations sold at between N162.50 to N165 per litre. In Abuja and surrounding states, some fuel stations were locked; those open had long queues. The queue at the main NNPC station on Obasanjo Road stretched to the GSM Village entrance. On the other side of the road, a Forte Oil station also caused a similar gridlock. Our correspondent observed that none of the stations sold above N162 to N165 per litre. The Total station beside the Nigeria Customs Service headquarters sold petrol for N162.2 per litre amid a long queue. On major expressways, black marketers sold the product in cans for between N2,500 and N3,000 per litre. In Abia State, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu inaugurated a 17-member special task force to crack down on illegal dealings in petroleum products. He urged them to stamp out all forms of malpractices in the sales and distribution of petroleum products. Represented by his Chief of Staff, Prof. Anthony Agbazuere, the governor said: “Your job is clear. It is to ensure that you eradicate illegal depots in private compounds and premises. “You have to ensure the eradication of the use of the wrong meter by petrol service stations. “Find out if dealers are either under dispensing, overpricing or hoarding petroleum products and stop such acts. “The issue of petroleum products has been deregulated, so anytime you are confused about it, try to get proper clarification because we do not want to run afoul of the law.” The All Progressives Congress (APC), South African Chapter, said those responsible for the contamination must be punished. Chairman of the chapter, Mr Bola Babarinde, said in a statement: “This importation of poor quality fuel is a grave concern to well-meaning Nigerians. “Members of APC in Diaspora are concerned that bad products were successfully imported and even allowed to be distributed to consumers. “The officials involved should be investigated and all culprits should be tried and sanctioned. “This type of behaviour is negative to great work the administration is doing to restore confidence in APC government despite enormous challenges facing our country,” he said. The APC chairman believes the development was avoidable, adding that there was no excuse for it. “The Federal Government should quickly make a statement and apologise to Nigerians whose cars and equipment were damaged due to the carelessness of the people we entrusted with the management of our petroleum ministry. “Compensations must be given to all Nigerians affected by this dastardly behaviour,” the party added.