‘“‘Not my child in 2022 political thuggery’ Recently this column emphasised efforts preventing ‘harmattan fires’ through governors and local government officials institutionalising ‘Normal Market Fire Protection Strategies’. Sadly Mokwa Central Market had a recent fire. Was it preventable, better controllable? Was there poor application of ‘Fire Prevention Strategies’ by ‘Market Mangers or Elders’? Even as we sympathise, we must warn against more fires as all markets lack adequate ‘Fire Safety Practices or Precautions’. Harmattan is the season of fires. Governors and LGA chairmen should ensure zero fires in 2022. Why does the court imposed jail-time almost never fit the crime? Why don’t all judges fall into some kind of equal justice/equal crime timeline? Where is the justice logic for fining someone N750,000 and two years for a N22b+ multibillion naira theft and seven years for a goat theft? Why are massive white collar and also political crimes so under-assessed in impact, under-punished, while non-political stealing of objects is so over-punished by the courts? Stealing billions adversely affects millions in income and the ability to conquer life’s expensive amenities, and probably actually kills thousands from lack of those funds for medicines for example. Deprived of their earned rights, they suffer as much trauma and social deprivation as if they had been in thousands of violent robberies with murder victims. Sadly, that suffering is unseen, unfelt, unrecorded and under-researched by social science departments and judges because it is hidden by families ashamed and stigmatised as harbouring ‘penniless pensioners’, who refused to make money in office, a social crime, while next door, the pension thieves are living big, well into old age! What a peculiar pension paradox. Also sadly the auditors and bankers who failed in their duty of monitoring and reporting excessive outflow and incomes through private and public bank accounts, and those who sold houses without due process all go free to keep their bank charges and promotions and house sale proceeds and to ‘sin again and again’. There are many ‘billion naira fraud cases’ against those running ‘funds’ by any name -Police, Pension, NSITF, NNDC, etc, etc, etc! - Advertisement - Nigerians ask why these multi-billion fraud and corruption cases last so many years with so little to show for the consequent suffering of the citizenry? Nigerians ask: ‘why should businesses in their millions still pay billions into the NSITF when such horrendous fraud was perpetrated by staff’? Are the billions paid in monthly suddenly safe from fraud now? Will the fund ever be put to good use or just stolen again and again by chosen conduits? What is the recovery plan of the stolen funds? Should Nigeria’s companies not be given an NSITF tax break while the company is brought to auditor order? But above all the messages are mixed from the various tiers of the courts.   Women and national security discourse     Soludo’s promises     Our fallen heroes   Of course courts themselves are confused by huge number and subsequent changes in the charges and counts, ‘SANish’ legalese interpretation of the same words by ‘SANstars’ defending the deities or devil in unequal measure, absent witnesses, regular director of theatre supervised caustic comedy theatrics of collapsing or slumping accused, plaster cast covered accused wheeled in on stretchers, and months of dubiously acquired ‘Sudden Post Accused of Stealing Sickness’ of the accused who receive ‘Sick Leave’ and a demand to be ‘Treated Abroad’ -all recommended by accomplished amiable members of the medical profession, who are often accused in turn of being accomplices. The courts appear even further confused by the number of fraud-accused who require immediate five-star hospitalisation for months during trial and for years on conviction. What is the evidence of court calamity or confusion? Steal N58,000 in a yahoo scam, jailed six months. Steal a goat get seven years jail. Steal N32.8billion pensioners funds, ‘forced’ to pay back N22b in a plea bargain and get two years in prison and ‘an option of a N750,000’ fine. He paid the fine and walked. After outrage and a new trial, sentence was upgraded to two years +N20b fine, yes billion, two years + N1.4b fine, two years+ N1.5b for the counts 17,18,19 to run consecutively amounting to six years jail with a cumulative fine of N22.9b. The convict is now appealing the six years as being ‘too harsh’ and ‘double jeopardy’ again. What happened to the nearly N10billion difference between the N32.9b and the ‘hopefully to be refunded N22.9b?? That difference amounts to 1,000 pensioners’ losing nearly N1m/pensioner leaving them dependents in abject poverty, monetary misery, hopelessly inadequate health support for illness of operations and cancer care, drowning in debt and becoming an unnecessary burden on their children, and depriving the aged of their honoured role in family life since they have no money to buy even sweets and gifts for grandchildren- an essential ‘Grandparent function’. Sadly, Nigeria is out of the Africa Cup of Nations 2022 – a distraction from our suffering. Let the youth not turn to political thuggery. Finally, grandparents and parents must organise a nationwide campaign to dissuade their children and grandchildren from 2022 thuggery. Nigeria does not need a 2022 generation of political thugs. If a politician wants protection, let him approach a registered private security outfit for such protection activities. The politicians must be stopped from buying lives cheaply. No one’s child or grandchild should die in the coming 2022 election cycle. ‘“‘Not My Child In 2022 Political Thuggery’!