Nigerian and the West African maritime environment recently received global acknowledgement on the reduction in piracy and other maritime crimes in the Gulf of Guinea. The International Maritime Bureau (IBM) in its 2021 statistics on piracy noted that there were 22 reported incidents in Nigerian waters and 30 within the Gulf of Guinea (GOG), a departure from the 14 and 44 cases in 2020 respectively. This reduction which is no mean feat, to the Nigerian Navy (NN) is attributable to sustained operations and visibility at sea made possible by the acquisition of more patrol boats, crafts and other maritime security assets. A key player in the security of the 2,874nm coastline that stretches from Angola in Southern Africa to Senegal in West Africa, the NN ensured dedicated naval operations and initiatives to counter piracy/sea robbery attacks in its maritime environment, just as it extended hands of fellowship to its neighbouring sister navies, foreign allies whenever the need arose. Reviewing its activities for last year, the Navy noted that there were significant successes in bringing the rate of piracy to the barest minimum, adding that several attacks on vessels during the last three quarters were aborted with the help of its Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) infrastructure like the Falcon Eye and Regional Maritime Domain Awareness Capability (RMAC). According to the Director of Naval Information (DINFO), Commodore Suleman Dahun, the induction of new platforms by President Muhammadu Buhari enhanced the scope and depth of the service’s operations within Nigerian waters and the GoG region. - Advertisement - “The surveillance capability of the Nigerian Navy was enhanced with the commissioning of the Falcon Eye state-of-the-art Maritime Domain Awareness Surveillance System by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), in July 2021 at the Naval Headquarters Abuja. “The system incorporates various sensors located along Nigeria’s enormous coastline. During the commissioning, the Vice-President pointed out that Nigeria loses around $26bn a year to criminal activities, particularly piracy and sea robbery and this fact underscores the need to enhance maritime security in Nigeria’s waters,” he said.   Fashola: our road reconstruction progress amid challenges     Bayelsa govt slams Sylva over attacks on Diri’s…     PWDs to Soludo: carry us along same way Obiano did   Dahun, who recalled the words of the Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo during the Falcon Eye equipment launch, said it translated to complete coverage of the country’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) with data generated from sites strategically located in Abuja, Lagos, Yenagoa and Calabar being regularly monitored and analysed. “He added that the coverage of the satellite aspect of the Automatic Identification System of Falcon Eye extends beyond Nigerian waters to Cote D’Ivoire in the West, Cameroon in the East, and Angola at the South East. “Pertinently, the system, combined with the various sea and air platforms as well as well thought-out strategies and vigorous leadership have resulted in a steep decline in criminal activities within the nation’s maritime domain and the GoG in 2021. “The Nigerian Navy, working with foreign navies conducted three major exercises which include OBANGAME EXPRESS, GRAND AFRICAN NEMO and SAFE DOMAIN 1 in 2021. Records indicate that 44 vessels involved in illegal bunkering were arrested last year leading to the recovery of 1,664,628.61 barrels of crude oil and 45,752.91 Metric Tons of Automotive Gas Oil valued at N55.1 billion and N11.8billion respectively. “In October, the Nigerian Navy arrested a Singapore flagged bulk cargo ship, MV CHAYANEE NAREE with 32.9kg of smuggled cocaine. The 22 crew of the CHAYANEE NAREE, all reported to be Thai nationals, are being detained onboard the ship at the Lagos Port Complex while investigation continues. “The International Maritime Bureau (IMB) Global Piracy Report of 14 July 21, indicates the lowest total of piracy and sea robbery against ships in 27 years. Notably, there has been a marked decline in piracy in the GoG in 2021 with 11 pirate incidents recorded compared to 44 in 2020. “Similarly, there was a decline in pirate attacks and sea robbery in Nigeria’s water where the country reported only 11 pirate incidents and three sea robberies in 2021, compared to 22 pirate incidents and 16 sea robberies in 2020. “These figures convey proof of the effectiveness of the Nigerian Navy’s maritime security engagements. The security and economic implications are quite enormous not only for Nigeria but the sub-region as efforts to neutralise activities of criminal elements and economic saboteurs will stimulate and accelerate maritime trade and commerce, reduce costs including insurance premium and hopefully put an end to the smuggling of crude oil which the country depends so heavily on,” he said. SPONSORED