Four unions in the aviation industry have notified agencies of a proposed strike beginning on February 8, 2022 over failure to release negotiated Conditions of Service since 2013. The unions, according to their spokespersons, Comrade Ocheme Aba, Francis Akinjole and Abdulrasaq Siedu, said they were disappointed over the Federal Government’s non-implementation of Minimum Wage/Consequential Adjustment since 2019. The unions are National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP). , Amalgamated Union of Public Corpòrations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE). According to the unions, the ultimatum issued to government expired January 31, without the demands being met in any form and have notified all airlines, ground handling, aviation security/logistics, inflight catering, and other aviation related businesses as well as the travelling and general public that aviation services will be unavailable as from the given time until the issues are fully resolved. - Advertisement - The statement reads: “As you are all aware, our Unions variously issued ultimatums to the Federal Ministry of Aviation and the six aviation agencies over the vexed issues of failure to release negotiated Conditions of Service of the Agencies since 2013 and non-implementation of Minimum Wage/Consequential Adjustment since 2019. All the ultimatums expired  January 31,  2021  without the demands being met in any form.   Emefiele to rice millers: embrace backward integration     50,000 barrels of crude lost to oil thieves daily, says…     Omodayo-Owotuga joins FBN Holdings board   “The meeting called by the Federal Ministry of Aviation on the same  January 31,  2021  did not resolve the issues as there was no clear assurance from the Ministry/Managements’ delegation towards meeting our genuine demands. “In this circumstance, our Unions are left with no choice but to take the next obvious step. In this regard, all aviation workers are hereby directed to commence total withdrawal of services from midnight of Tuesday  February 8, 2022 unless, and until, otherwise directed in this same manner. “May we advise the managements of FAAN, NCAA, NAMA, NIMET, AIB and NCAT, in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Aviation to utilise the one week window so provided to avert this huge crises by prevailing on the relevant government agencies to act jointly to ensure that our twin demands are met. “All Conditions of service of NCAA, NAMA, FAAN, NiMet and any other aviation agency pending before the Ministry of Aviation, National Salaries, Incomes and Wages Commission, the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, or any other organ of government or Management of the agencies must be released wholly for implementation with the effective date of the signing of the agreement between our Unions and the respective agencies, and The new Minimum Wage/Consequential Adjustment must be immediately implemented with effect from the Law’s effective date of April, 2019. “Accordingly, all branches and State Councils of the undersigned Unions are to commence joint and individual mobilisation of aviation workers nationwide and ensure total compliance with this directive in all stations of operations of the six aviation agencies without fail.” “By this notice, all airlines, ground handling, aviation security/logistics, inflight catering, and other aviation related businesses as well as the travelling and general public are hereby notified that aviation services will be unavailable as from the given time until the issues are fully resolved.”