Actress and film producer Omoni Oboli has explained why she stopped doing giveaways. She said it was because many fans feel entitled. She reacted to an Instagram follower who accused her of not rendering help when she reached out via Instagram direct messages. The follower claimed she had asked Oboli to come to her financial aid when her husband lost his job but got no response. She lashes out at actress for ignoring her DM. - Advertisement - Replying the follower, Oboli said: ”I came across this in my dm a few days ago and it seriously dampened my spirit. “If you followed me during the lockdown, you will testify to the fact that I did giveaways everyday! ” Millions were given away on this platform. As a matter of fact, I decided I was never doing giveaways anymore after that period for so many reasons. “It’s the entitlement that kills me! Like seriously! Do you know how hard I work! I’m up when your ass is in bed! Working!   Don Jazzy heartbroken over Rihanna’s pregnancy for A$AP…     Mr Macaroni: I don’t hate any government official but…     Excitement as Davido acquires car for PA   “I don’t sleep as many hours as most people because my bills won’t pay themselves and my goals and dreams are bigger than most people! “So I grind! Constantly working on several businesses including my day job which is film! “Right now, I’m in pre production for 2 jobs! About to shoot one in a couple of weeks while running my other businesses and being a full time wife and mother with no help! “Went to bed at 4:30am cos I was doing bulk cooking for my family! So nobody is entitled to my money except my kids and last I checked, I have just 3!!! “I started the #OmoniBusinessGrant this year because I still wanted to give (givers never lack. Believe that) but I wanted it to be targeted more at hustlers like me cos sometimes all you need is someone to believe in you. “So keep pushing your business, never give up! Never stop promoting yourself and your hustle no matter how small. I see you! God sees you! “PS: Adetutu, I’m glad my ignoring you (even though I never even saw your initial message. You should see how full my dm is) taught you a very vital lesson in life. “Nobody is coming to save you! It’s left to you and God to design the life you want. Always remember that I love you”.