The Nigerian Business Coalition against AIDS (NIBUCAA), a coalition of private organisations in Nigeria with the aim to complement government’s effort in combating the HIV/AIDS epidemic, has tasked the Nigerian news media to deepen their support and collaborate further with all relevant stakeholders in efforts to eradicate HIV in the country by 2030. This was the charge to journalists when NiBUCAA Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Isaiah Owolabi, led a delegation to The Nation’s head office in Lagos recently on a courtesy visit. With over 1.5 million Nigerians currently living with  HIV, the NiBUCAA boss said it is imperative to seek the help of the media to create more awareness about HIV/AIDS and to stop stigmatisation issues. According to him, the media has a huge role to play in changing behaviours and improving health-seeking behaviours and also providing the right information. To help the media achieve in this regard, Owolabi said his organisation will be working to train the media or train representatives from the media on reporting HIV. Speaking on stigmatisation as one of the biggest crisis frustrating efforts to eradicate HIV, he admitted that Nigeria is yet to be where it should be, but a lot of progress has been recorded. “Technically, Nigeria is not where it should be in terms of responses to stigmatisation because if you compare countries like South Africa, you’ll see a lot of people taking excuses in offices to go and get their anti-retroviral. We were in the HR training last year and I was asking about over hundred HR professionals that what do you think make people absent at workplace; some of them said headache, malaria and other sickness.   Rotary Club provides sanitary, hygiene kits to 300 school…     20 medical diagnostic centres closed in Nasarawa     MeCure revolutionises cancer treatment with modern facility   “And I asked one of them, has anyone ever come to you to say I want to go and take my anti-retroviral and he said no. Do you think there’s no one that has HIV and is on anti-retroviral in your organisation? Definitely they are, but why aren’t they confident enough to do that? It’s because of stigmatisation. Another thing that also drives that is the inequality of the response to HIV for the poor and for the rich is quite different. “The rich can afford anti-retroviral; they don’t necessarily have to queue for it. They can go into the health facility and get it whenever they want. However, the poor cannot afford a lot of things. What they have to do is this: they have to join this huge long queue, which is already over-burdened in many cases and when you also consider the fact that many health care professionals are not even trained to respond to the needs of persons living with HIV. “One of the things at national level and some of the programmes that we are supporting is also focused on the fact that we need to support healthcare professionals and we need to also support people to come out more and create a pipeline of support for people.” - Advertisement - He reeled many programmes his organisation has carried out since he assumed leadership of the private sector body. In 2021, Owolabi said NIBUCAA started HIV awareness programme in Abuja, Ebonyi, Edo in 2021, with the first phase of the ‘’I know My status’’ project successfully. The project, which was developed from the End HIV Campaign, was designed and implemented to increase the knowledge of vulnerable people on their HIV status and enough safe sexual practices through HIV Testing Services and dissemination of Sexual and Reproductive Health information. “The I know My Status Project is expedient to reduce the incidence of HIV in Nigeria, there is a need for continuous dissemination of sexual and reproductive health information; HIV prevention and treatment information; continuous HIV Counselling and Testing especially among adolescent and young people, women, and transport workers. This is because these populations fall within the high prevalence age bracket.” SPONSORED