President Muhammadu Buhari returned to Abuja yesterday after a three-day outing in Brussels, the capital of Belgium, attending the 6th EU-Africa Summit. The President, who arrived the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja at about 5:25pm, was welcomed back home by some senior members of the administration as well as heads of security and law enforcement agencies. Among those who received the President on arrival at the airport were his Chief of Staff, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari; Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Mallam Mohammed Musa Bello; Inspector-General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba; National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Rufa’i Abubakar. President Buhari departed the country on Wednesday, February 16, to join other African and European leaders to discuss issues of mutual concerns to both continents, including Financing for Sustainable and Inclusive Growth; Climate Change and Energy Transition, Digital and Transport (Connectivity and Infrastructure); Peace, Security and Governance; and Private Sector Support and Economic Integration.   Outrage as Kenyan teenager accused of stealing radio is…     Osinbajo opens Southern Ijaw link bridge in Bayelsa 60 years…     2023: Sanwo-Olu rallies support for Tinubu at…   Others are: Education, Culture and Vocational Training, Migration and Mobility; Agriculture and Sustainable Development and Health Systems and Vaccine Production. - Advertisement - He also used the opportunity to attend some bilateral engagements with regards to various issues of interest to Nigeria. He was accompanied on the trip by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire and Minister of State for the Environment, Sharon Ikeazor. The National Security Adviser, Maj.Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd); Director-General of National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Rufai Abubakar and the Chief Executive Officer of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa were also part of the entourage. SPONSORED