There is an urgent need for leadership education in Nigeria, President/Chairman of Council of the Professional Leadership Practitioners Institute, Prof Charles Ogbulogo, has said. He spoke during the induction of new Fellows into the Institute. The event, which featured awards and luncheon, had the theme: Emergent issues in contemporary leadership practice. Ogbulogo emphasised the importance of effective and quality leadership in national development. “All the people aspiring to positions of vice-chancellors, chief executive officers, financial officers, directors of marketing, human resources, among others, will need specialised leadership training,” he said. - Advertisement - He blamed underdevelopment on a lack of effective leadership due to inadequate training. Ogbulogo said: “Indeed, countries with weak educational foundations manifest deficits in managing relationships, following instructions, working with commitment, using modern gadgets, sustaining employment, and enjoying quality health. “Our universities owe us a duty to reverse the present trends and point us in the direction of a prosperous future.   Estimated billing: Residents threaten to sue minister,…     Ndokwa group urges Buhari to sign FUATA bill     New Radio begins operations   “Perhaps, more than our universities, deserving professional bodies like ours should lead the way in designing leadership programmes that will change our narrative.” Ogbulogo said the event, held at the Faculty of Science Auditorium, University of Lagos, Akoka, was about raising the next level of leadership for Nigeria. “We are inducting fellows who are practising leadership in their different fields and we are trying to do some refreshing courses to let them know there are new trends in leadership and optimising their leadership practices. “We intend to sensitise people to know that leadership is not about a position; it’s about the mindset and once we cultivate that mindset, we can make our country and the world better,” he said. Chief Executive Officer of the institute, Dr. Nathan Obasi, urged leaders not to be selfish, adding that the institute aims to help reduce leadership deficiency in the country. “I have looked around and noted that the next profession that will help the world is the leadership profession. “Most people are interested in leadership for their own gain and not for the benefit of the society,” he said. Chairman of the occasion, Mr Godwin Odah, said some people use leadership as a tool to oppress others, emphasising the need for a change in the philosophy of leadership.