UKEJE: I am DSC Ukeje. I have been going to Stanbic IBTC Pension for the payment of the 7.5 per cent approved by President Muhammadu Buhari for pensioners. I urge  PenCom to order them to pay me. Even the Nigerian Custom Service where I retired 2016 has forgotten me and my colleagues. PENCOM: Please forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA), PIN, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as well as other information to enable the commission expedite action on the matter. Thank you. SUPOL BROWNSON: Hello, I am SUPOL Brownson. I retired from the Nigeria Police on January 4, 2019.  Earlier in August 2018, I did the verification  by PenCom at the University of Port Harcourt, Port Harcourt. - Advertisement - It is two years and eight months. Yet, I have not been paid. Please help me. PENCOM: Please forward your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) PIN, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to the commission for action. SHELLE: Greetings. I am Shelle, a retired civil servant from the Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC), Zaria after 35 years. My complaint is on the non-payment of arrears arising from 2.5 per cent okayed by the Federal Government by Premium Pension since last June. Now I am with Leadway Assurance Anuity Pension. I will be grateful if you can order Premium Pension to pay. Looking forward to hearing from you. PENCOM: Investigations have shown that the 2.5 per cent arrears   have been remitted into your Retirement Savings Account (RSA). This was in August 2021 prior to your purchase of a retiree Life Annuity Plan last November. UWEM: Good day. My uncle, Mr Godwin Uwem, was a teacher at Poly Staff School, Ibadan for many years. He was compulsorily retired five years ago without any gratuity.   Fresh hurdles for re-worked Electoral Bill     FAQ: Governance and integrity of new pension scheme     CPS: 12,877 pension contributors, retirees change PFAs   At present, he is languishing in hunger. He has turned into a street beggar and his children roam the streets of Ibadan in search of what to eat daily. Efforts to meet the Provost of Ibadan Polytechnic proved abortive. Please, how can you help to savage the elderly and his suffering children? PENCOM: Please provide your uncle’s PFA and RSA PIN to enable the commission probe the matter. HASSAN: I am Hassan. My RSA shows that there was no remittance by my employer in 2015, 2016, 2017 and part of 2014 and 2018. Please  find out why. I was billed to retire last year. PENCOM: Please write to the commission, stating non-remittance of your pension contributions by your employer. ANNONYMOUS: I retired in June 2016 from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. I was paid my benefits in July 2017 through my PFA, Premium Pension. I then transferred to Leadway for Annuity. Thereafter, the Federal Government  released cash to pay 2.5 per cent it was owing out of its 10 per cent. I am being owed 24 months.When and how will this money be paid? PENCOM: Please be advised that if the amount payable is less than N100,000 it will be paid into your bank account. However, for payments above N100,000, you are advised to purchase a second annuity from a Retiree Life Annuity (RLA) provider. GIMBA: Good day, my complaint is about the non-release of my pension since October 2020 till date. My name is Gimba from Federal Polytechnic, Bida. PENCOM: You are advised to kindly forward your details such as your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) Pin, Pension Fund Administrator (PFA), full name as well as other valid information to enable us investigate further. Please be advised that retirees of Federal Government Tertiary-Funded Ministries, Departments And Agencies are required to undergo a verification and enrolment process prior to retirement. if you are yet to undergo this process, kindly visit http://www.pencom.gov.ng to initiate the process and then proceed to your PFA for physical verification and enrolment. In addition, please be informed that the Commission has paid the benefits of retirees who retired from January to December 2020. AKEREDOLU: Good day, greetings to The Nation newspaper. God bless you more for the good works you are doing for pensioners. Please, I want to know the reason why the PENCOM or PFAs are not paying the arrears of money of retirees that retired in 2014, 2O15, 2O16, etc up till now. My PFA, Legacy FCMB Pension does not send me any information or alert till date. I want to know what they are doing with my money. PENCOM should warn or sanction my PFA for not communicating with me. PENCOM: Please visit your Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) as the payment has been effected from the commission. thank you. ANNONYMOUS: I am a police officer. I want to know if PENCOM has a branch office in Ibadan, Oyo State. I would like to make some verifications. PENCOM: Please be advised that PenCom does not have an office in Ibadan. However, our nearest office located in Lagos is 88A, Oduduwa Crescent, Ikeja GRA, Lagos State.