IN the early days of January 2022, popular music producer Samklef alleged that a lot of young Nigerians are into crime and ritual because of Nollywood movies. Samklef stressed that images and stories from Nollywood films were responsible for the increase in crime rate and ritual among Nigerian youths. “These Igbo Nollywood, English and Yoruba movies are the reason why a lot of young boys are doing rituals. They keep promoting fetish stuff in all their movies. Nigerian movie producers can do better. Everything must not be based on juju and religion,” Samklef submitted. The conversation returned after some teenagers were arrested for beheading and killing their friend’s girlfriend for ritual purposes. While some members of the public insist Nollywood stories and the interpretation by practitioners are responsible for the increased rate of rituals and crime, others insist Nollywood should not be held responsible for increased rate of crime and rituals. - Advertisement - A mix of Nollywood practitioners shared their views on the conversation. Tunde Olaoye “Nollywood is deeply rooted in societal drama and no Nollywood script is written out of vacuum, the stories are written to reflect the life of the people, that is, their history, beliefs, traditions and cultures. Nollywood did not invent money rituals or just brought it from nowhere into their themes and then the society is copying it, it is the other way round. Nollywood is mirroring society. It is therefore disingenuous to claim that Nollywood is aiding the practice of Money rituals. “In fact, there is no Nollywood movie on money rituals where the villain will not suffer destructive repercussions. So Nollywood has only been able to discourage an evil practice that existed in our society long before the advent of Nollywood. “We have heard about a lot of Money ritual cases in our society since the days of investigative Journalists like the late Kolawole Olawuyi, his program “Irinkerindo” on Radio and “Nnkan mbẹ” on TV told us many gory stories of ritual killings. We witnessed the Otokoto and Ezego stories, all these were not motivated by Nollywood stories. “What we need is a better criminal justice system that can always make sure that Justice is carried out without any tolerance for crime. We need parents to pay more attention to thier kids, Clerics to stop promising their congregation that there is miracle money somewhere and ultimately, people in government delivering good governance wherby the economy becomes friendly and there is reward for hardwork and ingenuity. Nollywood should not be the scapegoat for the perennial evil hanging on our necks. It is a very embarrassing socio-cultural albatross that we must get rid of by all means.” Etim Effiong “The role of art is to imitate life but many would argue that the converse is the case, that art imitates life. So it’s a bit of a Chicken and Egg situation. However it is my belief that great art not just imitates life…it foretells life also. Don’t blame the prophet, Nollywood saw it coming and thus predicted it. “I disagree with this opinion. Everyone is responsible for their actions, young people have taken to such diabolical acts because they’re not been questioned about sudden wealth by family and close friends, instead they are instantly celebrated. Charity begins at home. “It’s the society we live in. It’s really sad that it has come to this but the first responders are parents, school teachers and religious preachers. Collectively we have to do better and applaud honest labour rather than instant wealth. Thieving politicians, drug barons and fraudsters shouldn’t be role models and heroes… young CEOs of startups and creatives in the entertainment industry should be celebrated. We have to make organic growth cool again. Ijeoma Imoh “Very laughable. When was the last did you watch such movies though? Do we still shoot such movies? And if “yes”, don’t they watch the concluding story(ies)? “Our job is to bring to light or show the society some of the gullible myths some of our people have been brainwashed to believe in and we as well show the possible repercussion(s) that comes with it. “Since Nollywood is being blamed, why didn’t they turn to witchcrafting, or any other stories we’ve told so far.”   51 monarchs receive Staff of office in Imo     ALEX O: Wizkid, Burna Boy, Davido are achieving unbelievable…     APC chair: Al-Makura, Akume, Mustapha, Bwari in hot race for…   Abubakar Yakub “Our films are produced with a theme, just as we try to show the bad side of what is happening, a film must end with a solution. Our members are only acting in a film, we don’t write the script. It is a script given to them that they will act. Every film is censored by the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) before it is released or shown on television. “Therefore, somebody might just pick negative acts from films. For instance, we watch foreign movies like American, India, Chinese and others in which some of these films have money rituals, rape and sexual harrasment, cultism, robbery scenes but at the end of the day no evil act is celebrated. So, we only bring out societal issues and try to proffer solutions to it by educating viewers that crimes do not pay. “Nigerian films have lessons but you can not proffer a solution without looking at the source of problems. Just like you cannot take paracetamol tablets without having a headache, you must first show or feel that you have headache or body pain then you take pain reliever so that’s the way our films are. “As a guild, we use our member’s staff power to talk to people through our symposium especially during the coronavirus. We have been trying to talk to students and viewers that many of the themes they see in films are not practicable, we are just showing you so that you can learn from them. They should alway look for a massage they can learn from. “Again, all these films are classified, so parents should endeavour to follow classification. There are films that are not meant for children that are under 18 and even if they are showing films on television, they’ll boldly write the age grade. “So, we should try to comply with this because the brains of the little ones are not comparable to the mature brain. They might not look at the solution part of the movie, they might  be looking at what they can do. When they see an actor kidnapped or perform rituals in films they might want to practice that and many of these actors have acted like a pastor or imam in movies that have taught a good lesson.” Art imitates life. Nollywood only shows society as is, hence the reason the entertainment industry should not be blamed for the increase in money rituals and criminal activities, Seun Kentebe. Victor Osuagwu Nobody in the right sense can support such evil things. The youths are seeing it as the norm because you cannot tell me why a 14 or 16 years old boy can deceive the mother or plan to use the woman that gave birth to them for ritual and what is that person thinking of at age 14 to become a billionaire? Obviously it cannot be that they were influenced by what they watch in Nollywood because they should understand that we are only creating reality. What we do is to re-enact some of the ills in society. That is the story we talk about. The stories are told from the angle of informing about what is going on, what is about to happen, then  please be careful about these things. At every situation and in every story, once you open the cankerworms, the thematic things that are involved in the film, you try to approach it from different angles looking at the people that are affected by it, the people involved and at the end of it, there must be punishment for offenders. If they say it was what they see in the movies, it is wrong because what we do is only trying to create reality, educate, inform and entertain people. I don’t believe that. Our work is supposed to inform the people of what is going on. Emeka Rollas As far as I am concerned they are talking rubbish because film is not the only thing they are watching in Nigeria. How can they say it is a film they are watching that is making them begin to do yahoo, yahoo and involve themselves in rituals? It is the height of their ignorance and trying to free themselves from the crime they have committed thinking Nollywood would save anybody. Nollywood will not save anybody at this point. Everybody who commits a crime should face the music and the government. I have never seen anybody who has come out to say he has scored 100 per cent in school because he is watching Nollywood movies. You are created with an analytic mind and you decide what you can do. What is the role of the family? Muhsin Muhammad  “The debate on whether or not films influence the behaviour of their audience shall never end. Nevertheless, Kannywood filmmakers should stop glorifying thuggery, especially in their recent productions. “Similar portrayals used to be trendy in the early days of the film industry. For some reason, I can forgive those nascent movies. The filmmakers were immature at that time. Moreover, Kung Fu films were more popular then. Thus, ‘adapting’ them might not be very wrong. “Kannywood has evolved today. The fictional rogues they show may directly or indirectly inspire some illiterate, jobless, hopeless youths to commit similar crimes in our communities. And there are many of such young folks. “Of course, other factors are responsible for the menace of phone snatching, robbery, kidnapping, and banditry today. They include irresponsible parenting, unemployment, lax security apparatus, etc. The films may somewhat contribute, too. “The government and all other stakeholders ought to come together to stop this barbarity. They should not rule out anything, including those films. But, for God’s sake, how can we be this unsafe and unable to use/own as basic as smartphones in our communities?”