The police command in Delta State yesterday confirmed that five persons were killed in a cult clash in Agbarho community, Ughelli North council of Delta State. The incident reportedly happened in the wee hours of yesterday. The president-general of Agbarho-Urhobo Improvement Union, Chief Monday Igho-Odiphri, confirmed the clash and the casualties though he did not say how many people were killed. He said the situation was under control as security operatives, including the community’s local vigilantes, were on the hunt for the culprits. - Advertisement - He also said the incident was not connected to the arson attack on the palace of the Osuivie of Agbarho kingdom last week. Police spokesman Bright Edafe could not be reached for comments before press time.   NDLEA seizes 22,160kg drugs in Lagos     Hoodlums sell hard drugs at bus stops     Woman kills husband’s nephew with knife   In Ilorin, Kwara State, one person was reported killed in a violent street brawl between cult members. The fight was said to have occurred last week Friday in the Surulere area of the metropolis. Residents said they heard sporadic gunshots between the cult groups during the clash. Police spokesman, Ajayi Okasanmi, confirmed the incident, decrying a resurgence of cult clashes in the metropolis. Okasanmi said the command had arrested three persons in connection with the incident, adding that the command also recovered one tricycle and motorcycle used by the suspected cultists. “A report of sporadic shootings by suspected cultists was received in Surulere, Ilorin around Total fuel station on February 5. “On arrival at the scene, a team of detectives dispatched by the commissioner of police Kwara State was faced with an unidentified body of a young man lying in the pool of his blood, having been shot by suspected cultists. “About three days ago we arrested some confirmed cultists in the aftermath of the recent killing of a suspected cultist by a rival cult group along Emir’s Road, Ilorin about three days ago.” Okasanmi said.