In a few months from now, the tenure of the elected members into the House of Representatives and the Senate would come to an end. Stakeholders and interest groups are already taking stock of the period under review to access and evaluate how well or otherwise the outgoing officials have performed. It is a period for stocktaking and a time to shop for replacements. Expectedly, the die is cast; the performance and antecedents of contenders to the various positions in their various constituencies will no doubt provide a veritable platform for stakeholders, interest groups and the electorates to critically evaluate their preferences, using the same benchmark for determining their eligibility and suitability for the offices of their choice in the coming elections that may portend varying degrees of surprises for contenders. Some of the contenders have been able to display leadership qualities through selfless service, putting the people first before other considerations. - Advertisement - It is a well-known fact that humans, the world over, are generally attracted to benign individuals, as their dispositions are captivatingly and indubitably alluring and therefore attractively unavoidable. So, it is not surprising, therefore, how some individuals can walk their ways into the hearts of people so effortlessly, while some others struggle to curt people’s attention. One person who has been able to achieve so much for himself and his community through selfless, but people-oriented service is Jimoh Ijegbai. Ijegbai, a legal luminary, has greatly influenced the course of history through excellence, courage and relentless dedication to the pursuit of worthwhile ideals that are in tandem with the upliftment of the ordinary man on the street. A man of good and distinctive social position and disposition, he has been able to power and enhance public and private service delivery for the common good of all through distinctive innovations in human capital development. Ijegbai, who is currently the Chief of Staff to the Edo State Government, Office of the Deputy Governor, has served in various capacities. He was a Supervisor for Health and Environment, Owan East Local Government. He was Secretary of, Edo State Petroleum Monitoring Team before he was appointed Secretary to Owan East Local Government, Edo State.   2023: Intrigues as PDP govs, presidential aspirants battle…     APC chairmanship: I’ll return power to youths –…     Anambra APC crisis deepens as Ngige, Uba lock horns   He later contested and was elected Chairman of the council. His successes and passion for hard work made him to be appointed as Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs and later as Commissioner of Education. He was also chairman of the Local Government Service Commission. Under his administration as the Owan East council boss, he was the cynosure of other local governments in Edo State. Ijegbai prudently managed the resources of the council to achieve great results. Education got a boost in several communities as he ensured what was termed the ‘Oshiomhole’s red roof’ revolution was replicated in several communities. The schools were equipped with toilet facilities and other learning aids. He constructed drainages, graded roads and never owed local government workers. His achievements earned him numerous awards. He was honoured as the best chairman due to his diligent and prudent management of resources. Ijegbai is one of the finest and most humane politicians of the Owan extraction. His transparency and disposition to peoples’ welfare, irrespective of political affiliations have endeared him to the people. Born in Ohanmi, in Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State in 1967, he started his education early at Ivbigun Primary School and thereafter proceeded to the famous Ikhin Grammar School, Ikhin and St Patrick’s College, Asaba for his Secondary and Higher School Certificate (HSC) in 1986 where he distinguished himself in morals and in learning as the Overall Best Student. The amiable lawyer was undeterred by the unavoidable negative socio-economic climate, but braced every storm, pushed boundaries and made positive strides to etch his name in gold on the sands of time. Armed with the realisation that education was indisputably indispensable to the attainment of his dreams, he decided to enrol at the Prestigious Bendel State University, now Professor Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State where he studied law and obtained his LLB degree. He attended the Nigerian Law School, Lagos and was called to Bar on December 15, 1993. Ijegbai has well over 20 years of experience practising law before venturing into the undulating terrain of Nigerian politics. To be able to restore hope to the Owan constituency that has over time been inadequately represented and to put the region on a sure and sound footing and be repositioned for better prospects, a vibrant representative is, therefore, a matter of urgent necessity. A representative with admirable God-given virtues; courage, valour, temperance, restraint, liberality, magnificence, honestly and zeal for party supremacy and in-depth understanding of party and grassroots politics of Edo state, all of the aforementioned and more are what Jimoh Ijegbai is unarguably and immensely, without contradiction, endowed with.