It was all smiles for pupils of L.E.A Primary School, Jabi, Abuja as a charitable group, Project Aileru, distributed books and other items to them. The group also awarded scholarships to two pupils of the school on February 14, a day set aside to show love to humanity. The Chief Executive Officer of the Group, Mr. Miracle Aileru represented by the secretary, Tayo Lawal, visited the school on Monday. Speaking on behalf of the CEO, Lawal appreciated the headteacher of the school, Kama Elem for granting the group the opportunity to show love to the pupils, noting that the group will be willing to come to the aid of most pupils. “We are here to celebrate with these children. This is a period to share and extend love. We know that what we have given to the pupils is what their parents give to them but this is special as it enables us to put smiles on the faces of these children. - Advertisement - “We will also want to find out what role can the group play in helping these children access good and quality education.”   Gen. forfeits N10.9b properties to govt     No plan to exclude senators, Reps from national convention,…     Tinubu mourns Ahmadu Bello’s grandson Danbaba   - Advertisement - Elem commended the group for the donations and for their sustained efforts to educationally improve the lives of the pupils. She pleaded with the NGO to look into paying the Parent Teachers Association, PTA levy fee; 1200 of every pupil, noting that the NGO has pledged not to do so anymore. The highlight of the visit was the presentation of the books, rulers, pencils and so on amid jubilation from the children. Two pupils, Ibrahim Auwal and Abubakar Rukayat, were rewarded with 5,000 and gifts for being the nearest pupils in the school. Another two sets of pupils, Joseph Moses (an orphan) and Abdullahi Hauwa (least brilliant in her class) were given scholarships into Air Force Comprehensive Secondary School, Jos. Speaking with our correspondent, Moses said: “I am very happy about this opportunity. I want all my friends to continue reading their books and keep working hard.”   SPONSORED