It initially struck as one of those fake stories that inundate the social media space. Those conversant with proceedings in the Catholic Church would have found difficult to believe that one of its priests could ban songs in any language (foreign or local) during mass services. But that was the news that made the rounds penultimate Sunday. In the social media platform I saw the initial story; commentators including a Catholic Priest Rev. Fr. Ben Amuchie had expressed doubt on the authenticity of the story when he wrote – “Is this really true? Please if that’s true, report him to his bishop. No bishop in Nigeria will tolerate such unclerical behaviour from any priest”. This writer had also commented: “Even in my kindred Catholic Church, Hausa and Efik songs are freely sung and happily too. This sounds strange but not impossible”. Our consternation could be imagined when the Archbishop of Lagos Archdiocese, Alfred Adewale Martins confirmed the story. In a prompt statement, the bishop suspended Rev, Fr. James Anelu of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church Ewu-owa Ikorodu for “unsavoury remarks that do not represent the Catholic Church’s position on common brotherhood of peoples of all tribes and religions”. Timely intervention by the bishop cleared doubts that the priest had verily banned Igbo songs and choruses in the church he superintends. He was reported to have angrily stopped a soul-lifting chorus during the second collection with remarks that the Igbo cannot continue to dominate other people even in his ‘own’ church. - Advertisement - Citing his home diocese, Benin, which he claimed the Igbo dominate to the point of becoming the Bishop, Fr. Anelu claimed the spirit of God in any place recognizes only languages indigenous to that geographical location. This drew the anger of worshippers who rose in uproar that brought the mass to an abrupt end. That was the incident at Holy Trinity Catholic Church Ewu-owa to which Archbishop Martins appropriately responded. With the prompt action of the archbishop, there is the temptation to allow the matter rest. But that will be dangerous given the weight and sensitivity of the issues involved. A trending video captured by one of the worshippers obviously from afar, showed the embattled priest striving to defend his decision by citing instances that further exposed the irredeemable tribal bigot he is. There are issues thrown up by the development that cannot possibly escape public interrogation. The priest; apart from claiming that the Igbo dominate other people in his ‘own’ church cited the case of Benin diocese where an Igbo bishop holds sway to buttress the danger of Igbo domination.   Democracy and the ‘right’ to choose our leaders     Will false rape accusers get the punishment they deserve?     IPOB and the clangers of confusion   So he was not just reacting to the singing of Igbo song during the church service. An animosity nursed over time just found ventilation during the church service. Igbo domination! This is the first time I am hearing of Igbo domination in this country.  What I hear all the time is the marginalization and alienation of the Igbo. So there is a sphere of life in this country-the Catholic Church where the Igbo dominate others? That is pleasant to hear. But what kind of domination is that when the Igbo are making individual sacrifice, deploying their resources to develop churches outside their ancestral homes? What do they stand to gain from such huge human capital and financial sacrifice except perhaps, reward from heaven? The high number of Igbo found in churches, bears positive correlation with their material being. The lure to escape from scorching injustice, domination and alienation may have compelled them to seek divine supplication. Let nobody add to this frustration. Even then, can the mere singing of Igbo songs in the church be construed as sufficient evidence of Igbo domination?  If the reference is to the predominance of Igbo population in Catholic churches, why is the priest also not worried by their huge financial contributions that sustain his work? Why receive their money with cheers only to scorn their songs during offerings? If the truth must be told, most Catholic churches in the country are what they are today because of the huge population and huge financial contributions of the Igbo. As a predominantly Catholic population, most of the Catholic churches across the country will be ghost of themselves without Igbo support and patronage. This is just the truth and they owe nobody any apology. The second plank of the priest’s decision is the curious that the spirit of God in any place only recognizes languages indigenous to that geographical location. That is totally false. Even as it is unclear the part of the scriptures he is referencing upon, the Catholic Church has over the years been very eclectic in the languages church services are conducted. For a very long time in this country, Latin was the predominant language for church services followed by English. It was after local translations were made that our local dialects came into use. Even then, Latin, English and local dialects have continued to be used interchangeably during such services It is even a policy of the Catholic Church to have songs and choruses rendered in a variety of languages and dialects to make for inclusiveness. In my kindred Catholic Church that is populated by three large families, songs are rendered by the choir in a variety of Nigerian languages even when you can hardly find a single person from other ethnic groups in attendance. It remains to be imagined where the erring priest got the warped notion that God only hears the language of the local population? And the same God ‘receives’ offerings from people of other languages in the same church? That is heresy! The catholic leadership must rise to the challenge of priests bent on politicizing its activities. That the faithful are cultured not to question whatever their priests say should not be exploited to assail their sensibilities. Things are changing. Stereotypes and bigoted indoctrination are giving way to new ideas, new practices. SPONSORED