Sokoto Governor Aminu Tambuwal has assured the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) will soon receive defectors from other parties ahead of the 2023 general elections nationwide. He spoke on Tuesday during the third leg of his consultation visit to decide his options on seeking the PDP presidential ticket in Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State. The Governor had visited Bamaina in Jigawa State and Gusau, Zamfara state respectively since last week. Tambuwal, accompanied by former Sokoto Governor Attahiru Bafarawa; former Sokoti Deputy Governor Mukhtar Shagari and former Minister of power, Engr Bello Suleiman, appreciated the unity of purpose displayed by the Kebbi PDP stalwarts and followers during the recent local government election. “The PDP in Kebbi state is united. The PDP in Kebbi state is compact and strong. I appeal to you to work together as a family to attract more members from the opposition because there is a lot of trouble in the other house. - Advertisement - “I know they will leave and come here. When they come I implore you to be very magnanimous so that when they come, you should be accommodating and carry everybody along, so that together, God willing, we shall win the elections here In Kebbi State and in Nigeria come 2023,” Governor Tambuwal said. Turning to the situation in the country under the control of the APC, Tambuwal lamented Nigeria is on the verge of collapse as a result of the preponderance of insecurity, debilitating healthcare system, poverty, falling standard of education, corruption and other ills that have become the hallmark of the APC administration thus far.”   No more impersonators in Rivers APC leadership, says…     ‘I’ve no plans to contest for Lagos…     Youths canvass support for Tinubu’s presidential bid   Bafarawa, who described the visit as homecoming, expressed happiness with the integrity displayed by the Kebbi PDP during the local councils election in the State. Recounting Tambuwal’s antecedents, as Speaker of the House of Representatives and Governor of Sokoto state, he said “this is why we are backing you to fly the PDP Presidential ticket in 2023. “The success of this quest is predicated upon the choice of party delegates. We’re sure Kebbi PDP delegates will readily vote for him,” just as he recalled that in 2019 three of them- himself, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki (SAN) and Tambuwal all sought the same position of flying the PDP Presidential flag; and, Tambuwal emerged second,” Bafarawa stated. Now, he posits, both him and Turaki, who supported Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, who clinched the ticket then, are now ready to work for Tambuwal. Former acting National Chairman of the PDP, Alhaji Bello Halliru Muhammad expressed gratitude to Gov. Tambuwal and his entourage for the visit, pointing out that Nigeria needs a competent, trustworthy and courageous leader like Tambuwal. “Nigeria is in bad shape after years of (misrule) by President Muhammadu Buhari. The country has never been so divided along ethnic and religious affiliations like now. If a worthy person doesn’t take over the it risks breaking apart,” Halliru noted. Kebbi PDP Chairman, Alhaji Bello Usman Suru, said: “historically we in Kebbi are one with the people of Sokoto. You don’t need to campaign here. All the state delegates, chairmen of local government wings and members of the executives in the state will vote for you. “When it is time to decide who becomes our party’s Presidential candidate, we may exceed even Sokoto state. I say this because there may be some black legs in Sokoto, but here we are behind you one hundred per cent.”