Bargain-hunting for banking stocks is dominating transactions at the stock market as investors increased buy orders for banks ahead of the release of their audited reports and dividends. Trading report by the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) at the weekend indicated that transactions by banking stocks pushed the financial services industry’s contribution to overall market turnover to more than 62 per cent. Transactions on the trio of Access Bank Plc, Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO) and Fidelity Bank accounted for more than 29 per cent of the total turnover for the market. Most major banking stocks, including GTCO, Zenith Bank International, United Bank for Africa (UBA), Access Bank and Union Bank of Nigeria, had opted for a filing regime that mandates them to submit their audited financial statement not later than 60 days after the end of the 2021 business year ended December 31, 2021. The deadline for quoted companies that chose the 60-day filing regime is thus Tuesday, March 1, 2022. Already, the boards of directors of the leading first tier banks-UBA, Zenith Bank, Access Bank and GTCO have approved the 2021 financial statements.The reports have since been submitted to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), including dividend recommendations by the boards of directors. The financial services industry topped the activity chart last week at the NGX with a turnover of 1.064 billion shares valued at N12.201 billion traded in 11,708 deals; thus contributing 62.14 per cent and 39.66 per cent to the total equity turnover volume and value. - Advertisement - The three most active stocks – Access Bank, GTCO and Fidelity Bank accounted for 500.778 million shares worth N7.455 billion in 3,603 deals, contributing 29.23 per cent and 24.23 per cent to the total equity turnover volume and value. Total turnover at the NGX increased to 1.713 billion shares worth N30.764 billion in 24,767 deals last week as against total of 1.331 billion shares valued at N22.700 billion traded in 27,822 deals two weeks ago. Public companies operating in Nigeria now have to choose one of two options in filing of their annual financial statements. According to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), public companies now have the option of filing the unaudited fourth quarter financial statement within 30 days after the end of the quarter and file annual audited financial statements within 90 days after the year-end. Alternatively, public companies may not file the fourth quarter unaudited returns but file the yearly audited financial statements within 60 days after the year end. Every public company is expected to adopt a filing regime and strictly adhere to its preferred filing option. Any public company that fails to abide by an adopted filing regime will be deemed a violator of Section 60 of the Investments and Securities Act, 2007. “In the coming weeks, we expect the NGX floor to be flooded with corporate earnings as more companies publish their audited 2021 full year numbers, accompanied by dividend declarations. We believe this would provide a catalyst for buying activities even as risk-averse investors are likely to remain cautious due to medium-term expectations of an uptick in fixed-income yields.  Overall, we advise investors to seek trading opportunities in only fundamentally justified stocks as the weak macro story remains a significant headwind for corporate earnings,” Cordros Capital stated in a weekend investment advisory note. Analysts at Afrinvest Securities said they anticipated that bargain purchase activities would drive a modest positive performance in the market in the days ahead. Meanwhile, banks in emerging markets face the risk of lower performance and asset deterioration in 2022 as financial institutions struggle with rising political risks and macroeconomic constraints.   Nigeria earns N36.67tr on local content retention     IYC urges Buhari to probe N20b ghost contracts by NDDC     Zoning: Nnamani, Ekweremadu clash over 2023 Enugu…   In its latest outlook on emerging markets at the weekend, S & P Global Ratings stated that inflation, lower and more expensive liquidity, and political and geopolitical risks will dominate the credit story for banks in emerging markets (EMs) in 2022. According to the report, the impact on banks could materialise through lower-than-expected business volumes, higher-than-expected deterioration in asset quality, or some deterioration in banks’ funding profiles through 2022. The report, which analysed 15 of the largest emerging markets, stated that while there may not be major disruption relating to Turkish banks’ access to external funding sources in 2022, they are considered to be the most vulnerable among the 15 EMs due to their high, albeit declining, external debt. S & P Global Ratings had lowered its 2022 real GDP growth forecast for emerging markets, excluding China and India, by 0.1 percentage point to 3.5 per cent, largely reflecting a 0.5 percentage points downward revision to Latin America’s growth. Forecasts for 2023 and 2024 remain broadly unchanged, averaging 3.1 per cent. According to the global rating agency, most economies in EMs should grow at above-trend rate in 2022, given that recovery from the COVID-19 related downturn hasn’t been completed and some sectors continue to operate below capacity. ” Risks to our growth outlook are squarely on the downside and include a delayed exit from the pandemic, a deeper slowdown in China, and bumpy transition from recovery-related ultra-accommodative policies to generally tighter steady-state expansion policies,” S & P Global Ratings stated. The rating agency noted that inflation continues to rise in many EMs because of higher fuel and food prices, and supply chain disruptions. According to the report, imported inflation is an important factor, as export prices across major trading partners have shot up, and this effect is in some cases compounded by weaker currencies. “Unlike in advanced economies, the food’s share of the consumer price basket is higher in the EMs. The U.N. FAO Food Price Index was 133.2 in October, having risen for three consecutive months and is currently at its highest level since July 2011 with little signs of receding in the near term. “At the same time, exporters and factories are struggling with supply-chain disruptions, shortages, shipping delays, and chronic port congestion. Imported inflation is also an important factor, because export prices in major trading partners have shot up, and this effect is in some cases compounded by weaker currencies,” S & P Global Ratings stated. The rating agency however noted that inflation would soon peak as there are  signs that inflation is  starting to slightly ease as supply bottlenecks unjam, higher prices weaken demand, and base effects start to wear off. Although S&P Global Ratings analysts recently raised its oil price assumptions and now expect Brent oil prices to average $65 per barrel (bbl) in 2022, up from $60/bbl previously, this still marks levels lower than $70-$85/bbl the last three months. FBNQuest Capital, a subsidiary of Nigeria’s oldest financial services group, FBN Holdings Plc, has also stated that 2022 would be a challenging year for Nigerian banks. In its 2022 outlook titled: “A gentle but steady recovery,” FBNQuest Capital stated that Nigerian banks would continue to grapple with funding income pressure as a result of “low asset yields, a competitive landscape and discretionary Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) debits.” “2021 was challenging for the banks. Due to low asset yields, a competitive landscape, and discretionary cash reserve ratio (CRR) debits, they had funding income pressure. As a group, the banks sold off by around seven per cent in 2021 on average. Moving into 2022, we do not expect these problems to subside,” FBNQuest Capital stated. SPONSORED