The Senate on Tuesday confirmed five nominees for appointment as Executive Directors of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA). Those confirmed include Francis Alabo Ogaree, Executive Director, Hydrocarbon Processing Plants, Installations and Transportation Infrastructure; and Dr. Mustapha Lamorde, Executive Director, Health, Safety, Environment and Community. Others were Mansur Kuliya, Executive Director, Midstream and Downstream Gas Infrastructure; Bashir Sadiq, Executive Director, Corporate Services and Administration; and Dr. Zainab Gobir, Executive Director, Economic Regulations and Strategic Planning. The confirmation of the nominees followed the consideration of a report by the Committee on Downstream Petroleum Sector. Chairman of the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), Senator Sabo Mohammed (Jigawa South-West), in his presentation, recalled that the Senate on Tuesday, 8th February 2022, considered President Muhammadu Buhari’s request for the confirmation of the nominees. - Advertisement - He explained that the President’s request was in accordance with the provisions of Section 34(3) of the Petroleum Industry Act, 2021.   Scores injured as hoodlums go on rampage in Kwara     BREAKING: Court grants NDLEA’s request to detain Abba…     BREAKING: Court sentences former Minister Sarah Ochekpe, 2…   According to the lawmaker, the Act empowers the President to make appointments with the board of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) subject to the confirmation of the Senate for a period of five (5) years and may be reappointed for a second term and no more. Senator Mohammed said that the nominees while appearing before the Committee for screening, responded to a wide range of questions regarding the Petroleum Industry and measures that should be taken to reposition the industry for the benefit of the Nigerian economy. “The nominees responded to the questions asked in an intellectual; factual and convincing manner. “They exhibited a high-level understanding of the challenges, complexities and opportunities inherent in the Petroleum Industry. “Their knowledge and experiences will be of great benefit to the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority and the oil and gas sector in general,” Mohammed said. He informed the Committee did not receive any petition against the nominations, adding that they were cleared by the Nigeria Police Force, Department of State Services (DSS) and possess the Code of Conduct Acknowledgment slips.