Fifteen battle-ready home teams and another fifteen visiting teams are massing up in Lagos as the highly anticipated 2022 Lagos International Polo Tournament blasts off from February 8 through February 27 in the South West Ikoyi suburb of Lagos. Reputed as the premier polo tournament in the country, the prestigious festival is spread over a month-long of high octane polo showpiece and top-class entertainment, with four major prizes and a handful of subsidiary prizes up for grabs by the winners. Major titles at stake include the Silver Cup, Low Cup, Lagos Open Cup and the event’s biggest prize and one of Africa’s most wanted trophies, Majekodunmi Cup. Lagos Polo President Ayo Olashoju stated that for the first time in the rich history of the tournament spanning over a century that the festival would be decided over three weeks, with eight equally-matched teams jostle for the Open Cup between February 8 and 13. The highly-revered Majekodunmi Cup will take the center stage between February 14 and 20 with five highly fortified teams from Abuja, Kano, and Jos and host Lagos battling for the top prize. - Advertisement - The last week of February 22 through 27 would feature 17 teams drawn from major polo centres across the country locked in a battle royale for the champions of the Low Cup and the Silver Cup respectively.   Ogunjimi:  challenges facing supporters clubs are enormous     Ogunfuwa: Uniqueness of Football Fans Club of Nigeria     Eight countries that have never qualified for AFCON   Billed for the foremost Ribadu Road Polo Ground in Ikoyi, Olashoju said that the prestigious polo extravaganza promises to be a real treat with the organizers, traditional sponsors and partners working flat out to deliver a most memorable fiesta. Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola, equally said that for the first time in its rich history, the international festival would be decided over three weekends of high-class polo and entertainment. Oyinlola, who confirmed that all is set for the glamorous event,  promised that this year would get better as it has always been over the years adding:  “it’s going to be three weekends of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.” He stated that having gained a reputation as the biggest polo tournament in West Africa, the Lagos Polo Club looks forward to delivering great values for the sponsors and participants during the glamorous fiesta. Lagos Polo Captain, Rotimi Makanjuola disclosed that professional players from Argentina, United Kingdom, South Africa, and professional umpires will also feature in the tournament, with upstart players and female players joining the regular Natalie Allen in the campaign for honours. With invited dignitaries loaded with top politicians, business tycoons, diplomats and polo enthusiasts arriving from around the world, the Lagos 2022 extravaganza is guaranteed to be the most exciting and memorable in years.