Nigeria international striker Odion Ighalo would be eyeing his second goal with Al Hilal as the Saudi Arabian side face off against Chelsea in today’s semi-final tie at the FIFA World Club Cup fixed for the Mohammed bin Zayed Stadium. The former Manchester United who was among the goals when Hilal beat Al Jazira 6-1 at the FIFA Club World Cup game on Sunday , reckoned it was first of many goals to come. “Destiny child on assignment. First of many goals,” Ighalo said as much on Instagram page ahead of today’s high profile clash against Chelsea. Meanwhile, Ighalo has been listed as one of the players the Thomas Tuchel-led Chelsea must watch out for following his rich vein of form in the Saudi Arabian. “Chelsea’s first opponents in Abu Dhabi will be Al-Hilal, who qualified for the Club World Cup by claiming victory in last season’s Asian Champions League,” posited the influential British tabloid,Daily Mail. “The Riyadh outfit, who are managed by former Monaco boss Leonardo Jardim, currently sit fourth in the Saudi Professional League – and they have a few familiar faces in their ranks.   Lagos to host 2022 African Fencing Championship     Coach lauds Aribo’s Rangers after Heart’s thrashing     2022 NPA/ GTBank Lagos International Polo Tournament   - Advertisement - “Ex-Manchester United and Watford striker Odion Ighalo is now at Jardim’s disposal after completing a move from city rivals Al Shabab last month, while former West Brom and Watford stars Matheus Pereira and Andre Carrillo are also in the side. “Ighalo, who only left United to join Al Shabab last year, is the Saudi Pro League’s top scorer after bagging 13 goals in 19 appearances this season. “The Nigeria striker hit the ground running on his debut in Sunday’s second-round showdown with Al Jazira, opening the scoring in a comprehensive 6-1 victory for Al-Hilal. “Pereira and Carrillo also got on the scoresheet for the Asian champions, meaning all three former Premier League players will be full of confidence heading into their meeting with Chelsea. “The Blues will have to be on point defensively if they want to reach Saturday’s final, as Jardim’s men have registered 21 goals in their last seven matches in all competitions,” the tabloid warned.