All Progressive Congress (APC) gubernatorial aspirant Professor Terhemba Shija, has said, if elected governor in 2023, he would rescue Benue State from the scourge of insecurity, cultism, HIV/AIDS and ignorance among other issues that may have held it captive. The aspirant, who disclosed this during the presentation of his manifesto, ‘The Benue Rebuild Agenda’ at an interactive session with stakeholders in Makurdi on Friday, alleged that in recent years the state has gone down to “ground zero.” He stated that one of his determinations was to also tackle, unemployment, poverty as well as secure justice that was preventing the people of the state from realising their potentials. Shija also said that his administration will ensure even, just and equitable distribution of wealth for all citizens of the state. He pointed out that “Apart from a few flashes of hope in the past, notably the regimes of Aper Aku, Moses Adasu and Senator Dr. George Akume, Benue State has virtually gone back to ground zero. - Advertisement - The inhabitants are still very poor; key industries that could have brought wealth and employment to them are lacking.   Katsina denies Mahadi Shehu’s allegation of corrupt…     Why Buhari should sustain ongoing pipeline security deal, by…     APC chairmanship: Buhari rejects proposal from two governors   “I want to assure you that the ‘Benue Rebuild Agenda’ is predicated on the letters and spirit of the manifesto of the APC as well as the directive principles of State policy enshrined in the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended.” Shija further stated that “This document, ‘The Rebuild Agenda’ therefore encapsulates our vision of a new Benue State for the governorship election of 2023. “The 2023 general elections provide yet another opportunity for us to reclaim back our state. We wish to work assiduously to rescue the State from its chains of mediocrity so that the Benue environment shall boom again with productivity and excellence as well as attain world-class infrastructural development. “We are determined to rescue our people from the scourge of insecurity, political thuggery, cultism, HIV/AIDS, ignorance and other deprivations which are preventing them from realizing their full potentials. “We are geared towards fighting poverty and unemployment, securing justice and creating a compassionate society in which our people entitlements, salaries, debts and pensions are paid promptly. “Unlike most dreams, the Rebuild Agenda is not a mere fancy. We have clearly identified areas of comparative advantage of the State, reviewed earlier attempts at tapping such potentials and advanced specific ideas on how actions could be carried out,” he said. SPONSORED