On the march again to Olembe stadium There was curiosity over CAF’s decision to allow matches to be played at the Olembe Stadium following a tragic incident at the multi-purpose stadium in which eight persons died and many were injured. The 60,000 capacity was temporarily suspended following the unfortunate incident but CAF lifted the suspension to allow the AFCON 2021 semi-final and final games to take place at the venue as originally planned. But here is the good news. As an early arrival at the stadium before the decisive second semi-final tie between hosts Cameroon and Egypt, it was discovered that the Organising Committee has put more measures in place to prevent such an ugly incident. The security situation and fans arrangement were top-notch as more gates were opened for the fans to have entrance to the stadium The stop and search on individuals and vehicles before gaining access to the stadium was of the standard and anybody that does not have a valid ticket or proper accreditation was denied access to the stadium. Motorcycles which is a major form of transportation here were stopped one kilometre from the stadium by security personnel while all cars were directed to an open field to park so as to allow free movement devoid of any commotion. - Advertisement - Spying Drones Egypt national team’s last training session before their semi-final clash against Cameroon was temporarily disrupted on the eve of the match following the hovering of an unwanted guest.  Egypt team manager Carlos Queiroz, suspecting the spying mission of their training, called off the Pharaohs’ training session at the Olembe Stadium after a drone appeared on the sky space because he felt uncomfortable with the drone. Although the mission of the drone at the training ground was not clear, the Portuguese doesn’t want to leave anything to chance as he wanted to keep his tactics to his chest before the make or mar encounter against the Indomitable Lions.         Inside Cristiano Ronaldo’s garage     Ogunjimi:  challenges facing supporters clubs are enormous     Ogunfuwa: Uniqueness of Football Fans Club of Nigeria   Bance’s  unpalatable conduct  Wednesday’s semi-final clash between Burkina Faso and Senegal has come and gone with Teranga Lions impressive 3-1 win over Stallions of Burkina Faso at Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium in Cameroon’s capital city Yaounde. But one thing that caught the attention of spectators was the lack of sportsmanship attitude on the part of former Burkina Faso forward Aristide Bance.   Bance who was in the Stallions side that lost to the Super Eagles in the 2013 Finale in South Africa, was one of the Burkina Faso delegates at 2021 AFCON but his behaviour during the game was devoid of a legend he should be. There were two penalty awards for Senegal in the first half but both were overturned after the decision of referee Bamlak Tessema of Ethiopia was reviewed by VAR. But at every call for a penalty by the Senegalese players, the 37-year old Bance protested even before the referee made his final decision and directed his anger on the Senegalese journalists who sat beside him at the stadium. At a point in time, he nearly had a scuttle but he was stopped by the security personnel on duty at the stadium.     Language barrier Language is the hub of society and most Nigerian journalists here at the AFCON Cameroon 2021 have since found out. In fact, one of the Nigerian journalists has vowed to learn French by all means before the next edition of the Africa Cup of Nations in Cote d’Ivoire in 2023. Samson’s drive to learn the French language was based on his unpleasant experience at the ongoing AFCON in Cameroon. In one of his visits to the Super Market in Yaounde, he ended up buying shaving cream rather than perfume because he could not understand what was written on the bottle. Preparing to go to the stadium for a game the next day, he picked up what he thought was a perfume only to spray on his cloth only to discover it was shaving cream.