Between Amokachi and Mboma Former Super Eagles striker Daniel Amokachi was among the commentators on duty during 2021 Africa Cup of Nations Quarter Final games at the Yaounde Ahmadou Ahidjo Stadium on Sunday. The former Everton forward was seen running commentary with his colleagues at the media tribune and it is understood he was working for an international cable network. Apart from Amokachi, other notable figure at the commentary box on Sunday, were Cameroonian football legend Patrick Mboma and former Cameroon coach Claude Le Roy. The duo was reportedly working for a cable network. At the end of the match, many people were seen rushing to them for photographs which they gladly obliged to.   With love from Mfoundi market A visit to Cameroon without a visit to the popular Mfoundi market in Yaounde is like visiting Paris without a whistle stop at the Eiffel Tower. Indeed, Mfoundi market is a good place to be. It is a big market where every type of goods can be found. It is a daily market where things can be bought in pieces or in most massive wholesale. In fact, there’s something for everybody within the precinct of the market. From food stuffs to football Jerseys; from fruits to vegetables; from smoked fish to meat; from used clothes to creams and the list goes on and on.   Nigerian Emegha joins Royal Antwerp     Liverpool’s duo Salah, Mane may face-off in AFCON Final on…     Awoniyi’s return boosts Union Berlin   Yet a visit to the market on Monday gives me a better idea about how big Mfoundi market look like as everywhere was bursting at the seams . In fact, Nigerian journalists were at the market to buy food stuffs in order have a different taste of food besides the routine hotel menus they have been served since entering the country. Though food stuffs are expensive, fruits at the Mfoundi markets come cheap.   - Advertisement - Traffic hell in Yaounde One of the notable identities of Lagos State is the usual and uncomfortable traffic snarl and this of course, bore similarity with Yaounde. This is quite unlike Garoua which housed the Super Eagles until they crashed to Tunisia in the Round of 16. Though, there are more cars and trucks on the roads ,the roads are narrow and this inhibits vehicular activities. On several occasions, taxis who take us out is forced to find alternate routes in order to reach our destinations. Frankly, it is a tales of two cities as far as Garoua and Yaounde is concerned. Whereas there is ease of movement for vehicle in Garoua, it is hectic to navigate around Yaounde just as it is in Lagos.   Cameroon’s unique transport system since I arrived in Cameroon, one of the things that got my attention is their good transportation system. There are few taxis in Garoua unlike in Yaounde, the capital city and Douala which is the country’s epicentre. But one thing that is common and unique about them is their uniformity and coordination. The taxis in Cameroon are painted in yellow colour (just like the famous Lagos buses) and they are numbered for a proper identification. In fact, they have a control system. All taxis are under the government unlike in Nigeria. One thing that you notice when you enter a taxi is their numbers which is boldly written on the car and their badges as a means of identification. This is conspicuously hang in front of their cars for everyone to see. Their inter-state transportation system is also excellent. You can’t enter any luxury buses without a proper means of identification.