President Muhammadu Buhari, former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi and his Kano State counterpart, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as some other eminent Nigerians have suggested ways the nation should take to overcome its current challenges and attain greatness. President Buhari urged Nigerians to look for quality leadership who are driven by vision and experience, while Dr. Gowon said the country requires a leader with a mindset that sees beyond the 21 century. Both leaders agreed that the vision of the nation’s founding fathers had not been realised, but said it is work in progress and hoped for a better future. Dignitaries at the event included All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Chief Bisi Akande, Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Abubakar Bagudu (Kebbi), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola (SAN) and Dr. Tope Fasua (who represented APC stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu). Others are: former Ogun State Governor Ibikule Amosu; Finance, Budget and National Planning Minister, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed; Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo (SAN); Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor; and Minister of State for Mine and Steel Development, Uchechukwu Ogah. Fayemi said the nation needs purposeful leadership with the capacity to harness its potentials and address its challenges. Ganduje urged more intellectuals to be involved in governance and quit seeing politics as a dirty game. The eminent Nigerians spoke yesterday in Abuja at the public presentation of a book, titled: Unfinished Greatness: Envisioning A New Nigeria, written by Fayemi.   AGF withdraws cybercrime charge against ex-Imo Governor…     Russian’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine sparks fear     MultiChoice Nigeria restates commitment to Creative industry…   President Buhari, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, hailed Fayemi for writing the book and for his contributions to governance in the country. On the importance of visionary leadership, he said: “Practice and politicking without a vision can also become extremely unproductive for a country that needs to move forward. “So, it is a combination of people of vision, intellect and practice; experience, record of achievement in public service, that, in my view, qualify people for leadership. “It is not a question of a choice between practitioners and intellectuals but a combination of vision for a society; a combination of experienced people who have demonstrated capacity in articulating the need of a society and helping to implement that.” Gowon, who chaired the event, argued that although the nation may not have adequately addressed its leadership question since Independence, it should not be deterred from its search. “The second notion of envisioning a new Nigeria addresses the leadership question. Our country may not have got this right for much of our 62 years as an independent nation, but I think we have all done our best; that this should not undermine our search for quality leadership – the kind with a mindset that sees father than even the 21 century. “We speak of leadership that seeks to make our unity and diversity work. We speak of leadership that makes our borders – internal and external -safe for everyone,” he said. Fayemi noted that although no country is immune from challenges, state and nation-building, all over the world, remain a permanent work in progress but driven by committed and visionary leaders. The keynote speaker and Research Director at the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Prof. Adebayo Olukoshi, urged Nigerian leaders to evolve local solutions to the nation’s challenges. The book reviewer, a visiting lecturer at the Maastricht Graduate School of Governance in the Netherlands, Dr. Joe Abah, noted that the book makes a compelling argument for the need to restructure Nigeria and for decentralisation and devolution of powers, predicated on an honest national dialogue.