Intercontinental Park, developed by Aimart Realtors, is a hub for social, economic, business, religious and recreational activities in the Ibeju-Lekki axis of Lagos State. The mixed­used development has a layout of about 20 acres of land. OKWY IROEGBU-­CHIKEZIE reports. THE Atlantic City is conceived to be within another city with the reality of being part of a hub with multiple streams of income flowing in within a layout of about 20 acres (approximately 139,000 square metres). It has the Central Business District harbouring the maritime school, hospitals, schools (which Holy Child has keyed into), hospitality, residential apartments, and resort centres. In the city is Intercontinental Park being developed by Aimart Realtors. The Chief Executive Officer, Aimart Realtors, Martin Iluyomade, said the estate is guaranteed to be among the best in terms of ambiance, spotlight, and developmental delivery.   Why l approved tertiary drainage squad, says Sanwo-Olu     ‘We fulfil our obligations’     Lagos NIS seeks law on periodic monitoring of buildings   “It is conceived as an eco-friendly and environmentally sustainable gated community offering exceptional facilities and services that will foster qualitative living, better health, improved communal relationships, a five star hotel and social engagement within the most affordable and cost-effective means. Suffice to say we mean business and will deliver on all projected works to be done on-site, Intercontinental Parks holds full land title with Certificate of Occupancy,” he added. - Advertisement - Chairman, Ibeju­Lekki Local Government, Sesan Oluwa commended the mixed­used development in the ‘new Lagos’, adding that it is strategic with the deep seaport, rail line, cargo airport and the Dangote Refinery about three-minute drive away. He said the Federal and state governments are committed to providing competitive infrastructure in the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFZ) such as planned expansion of the road and a rail line. Chairman, lkorodu West Local Government, Lanre Sulaimon also corroborated his colleague on the commitment of government to support the private sector to thrive. Managing Director Aimart Realtors, Bukola Iluyomade said they were working with some financial institutions such as the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) and Lagos Building Investment Company (LBIC) to provide financial instruments to help prospective clients. “In our retail component we ensured we came up with our residents’ needs such as malls, recreation areas, schools, among others. Our anchor tenants are already visible and before the end of the year, the picture will be clear,” she added. Earlier, Aimart, Business Development Manager, Azeta Abahi said the project would encourage a tech hub and will also be self-sufficient for residents to work, live and play.