Had the Federal Government decided to go the way of post-civil war Nigeria, the slogan today would be, ‘to rebuild the North East is a task that must be done’. This probably informed the establishment of the North East Development Commission (NEDC) in 2017. The devastation wrought upon the region by the insurgency that has raged since 2009 has reduced many towns, institutions and initiatives to rubble. Only recently, the governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Zulum, lamented that at least two of the local government areas of the state are desolate as all the people have fled to escape from the Boko Haram and Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists. What is called the Buhari Plan for Reconstruction and Rebuilding the region has to be given fillip now that the President and the six governors of Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Taraba, Adamawa and Bauchi states appear to be speaking the same language, and at a point that the project has the support of the international community. So far, the World Bank, African Development Bank, European Union, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United Kingdom Agency for International Development and the United Nations are all in support of ensuring that life returns to the region. This is the way to go. We must, however, point out that there is no need rebuilding areas that are still under incessant attacks by the enemy. As some of the governors have rightly noted, there are projects that have been constructed and destroyed over and over again. Apart from the waste of resources on rebuilding such unsettled areas, human lives are also at risk and the misery indices are higher. There are states where the military have secured the peace for some years now, and the towns, in terms of physical and social infrastructure, are still in ruins. These areas should be given priority attention, with the people moved back to regain their livelihood. Many children from such communities who were uprooted by the war should be resettled and assisted to begin the journey to civilisation once again – with children who have missed schooling returned to regain the quest for knowledge.   Culpable levity     Among the laggards     Excess bank charges   The NEDC should step up its activities. It has the duty of stepping up advocacy for the reconstruction process and encouraging the private sector to participate fully. But it can only do this by being transparent in the application of resources mobilised from national and international bodies. It, being a product of law, has responsibility of continually getting professional bodies to ascertain the quality of jobs being done and basic human needs provided before returning the people to their ancestral homes. All key actors in previous schemes such as the General T.Y. Danjuma-led Victims Support Fund and the defunct Presidential Initiative on the North East (PINE) still have roles to play. Having been enlisted in the project at some point, their interest should not be allowed to wane. They could be involved in some of the commission’s activities. - Advertisement - President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise to restore peace to the region before he hands over to his successor in May, next year, can only be meaningful if the towns and villages are occupied again by the indigenes who are fully mobilised to contribute their quota to the national economy. General Paul Tarfa who heads the board of the commission has his job cut out for him. If he discharged his task creditably, history would remember him for good. The commission should not be allowed to go the way of similar intervention agencies that only had abandoned projects to show for their decades of existence, despite funds allocated. The people of the North East have roads, water supply lines, electricity transmission facilities, schools, medical centres and other monuments that tell tales of Boko Haram devastation, reminding them that life is yet to return to normal. General Tarfa and his men should wipe tears off the faces of the hapless and innocent people. They have Rwanda as one source of inspiration. Since Paul Kigame took office as President in 2000, the country has secured the respect of the international community with its massive rebuilding efforts. With modest resources and about 12 million people, the President mobilised his people to put the past behind them and work for a country that the future generation would be proud of. Nigeria can do better, especially as ours is not a civil war with the effect of rupturing social relations among the people of the North East. The 2016 Recovery and Rebuilding Assessment that put the required funding needed at $6.7 billion should be revisited and the masterplan drawn up adhered to. If the NEDC men work at it, the ashes of the North East could yet be turned to beauty.a