Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has confirmed that Sadio Mane may make his return to the squad for tomorrow’s Premier League clash with Burnley. The Senegal international recently celebrated becoming Africa Cup of Nations champion and was not involved in the 2-0 win over Leicester City. Mane is now back in the country, though, and Klopp has urged caution over his return but has confirmed that he may be able to play a part at Turf Moor. “Will Sadio be available? We have to find out. Sadio will come [in] this morning for training and I assume he will be in full training and then we make a decision after that on how he feels and all that stuff,” Klopp told reporters at his pre-match press conference. “He will probably still be emotionally high-flying, but physically we have to see how intense the last few days were for him.” Klopp did welcome Mohamed Salah back to the team off the bench against the Foxes, as Diogo Jota’s brace ensured a comfortable win over Brendan Rodgers’s side. - Advertisement - Meanwhile, With doubts surrounding the futures of Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino, the Reds have already started to assemble the next generation The present is good enough, but Liverpool fans got a glimpse of the future too on Thursday night.   Adewale Sapara: A new Super Eagles player in waiting     WHO RULES THE WORLD? Chelsea, Palmeiras in crunchy Club…     Cristiano Ronaldo Jr signs for Man United   And that looks pretty promising as well. It is hard to imagine a world without Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane, but in Diogo Jota and Luis Diaz, the Reds appear to have found two players around which the next great Jurgen Klopp team can be built. It was Jota’s double which eventually saw off Leicester. Salah may be the go-to man for Liverpool – and he might have had a hat-trick himself on the night – but if he wants a third Premier League Golden Boot, then his biggest challenge may well come from his Portuguese team-mate. Jota now has 17 goals in all competitions, 12 of them in the league, and so many have been decisive. This was the 10th time he has scored Liverpool’s first goal in a game this season. His penalty-box prowess, with both feet and with his head, rivals anyone around right now. “I just want to keep helping the team,” Jota told BT Sport afterwards. He’s certainly doing that. It’s not only his goals which make him vital to what Klopp is building at Anfield, it’s the whole package; the hunger, the tenacity, the sharpness, the willingness to press and to work and to sacrifice. There he was, heading a Leicester corner away in the final minute of the 90. There he was, chasing down a lost cause in stoppage time, forcing Daniel Amartey to clear the ball into touch when he wanted to do anything but. Klopp applauded that more than he did either of Jota’s goals.