The European Union (EU) has pledged 820 million euros support for Nigeria’s digital economy. The pledge, according to its Executive Vice President, EU Commission, Margrethe Vestager, follows on the heels of an announcement by the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, of a Global Gateway Africa-Europe Investment Package worth 150 billion euros. The package, expected to subsist till 2024, will help enhance secure connectivity, digitalise public services, support entrepreneurship and build digital skills, while developing a human-centric, democratic governance framework for technology. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who described the initiative as impressive, noted that the use of digital technology is crucial to Nigeria’s recently released National Development Plan. Besides, Osinbajo emphasised the importance of a renewed Nigeria-EU partnership, including expectations for a successful EU-AU (European Union – African Union) Summit holding in Brussels later this week. - Advertisement - Osinbajo, who spoke while receiving a delegation of the EU Commission led by Vestager, at the Presidential Villa, also expressed the relief of the EU’s support for the country on gas as a transition fuel.   Insurance total assets hit N2.14tr     ‘Using data key to transforming SMEs’     Lagos to hold summit on youth unemployment   He noted that Nigeria has been in the forefront of the international advocacy on the issue and the Vice President had spoken and written about it in different international fora. “It is a relief that the European Union (EU) supports the view canvassed by Nigeria that gas be considered a transition fuel as the global community moves towards net-zero emissions targets,” Osinbajo said. Prior to the visit to Prof. Osinbajo, the delegation of European Union officials had met in Lagos with members of the European Business Chamber Nigeria (EuroCham) to discuss opportunities and challenges of doing business in the country. EuroCham is a business group uniting the main European investors and corporate organisations in Nigeria. It was launched at the EU-Nigeria Business Forum in October 2018 by the EU ambassador. “The meeting gave us the opportunity again to underline the fact that trade and investment are very much on top of our priorities and they are also key priorities in the partnership between the European Union and Nigeria,” said Samuela Isopi, the EU Ambassador in Nigeria. She assured that the EU would continue its dialogue with the Nigerian government on how to reinforce the economic partnership between the two entities. “The European Union as a bloc is already Nigeria’s largest trading partner and also the European Union is a very important investor in Nigeria. We have European companies that have been here for a long time, that contribute to creating jobs and to the economic development of the country,” she said. In similar vein, John Taylor, EU Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS’ Head of Trade and Economics Section, said as Nigeria’s largest trading partner, the EU is committed to supporting the Nigerian government in developing its economy. “When you look at the statistics produced by the National Bureau of Statistics in Nigeria you don’t see that because they are collected by country. So we have exports from Nigeria to Spain, Germany, Netherlands, France, when you add up all those countries referred to as the EU we are actually the largest trading partner,” said Taylor.   SPONSORED