Gunmen yesterday again attacked the Okomu Oil Palm Company’s plantation in Ovia Southwest Local Government Area of Edo State, a day after two suspects were paraded by the state’s police command on their involvement in the February 1 this year’s attack. The sudden attack by the suspected criminals led to the death of two staff of Okomu company and the burning of 90 hectares of rubber plantation and three excavators. Okomu oil palm company’s Communication Officer, Fidelis Olise, yesterday in Benin, disclosed that the gunmen also carried out an attack at the plantation on Tuesday, thereby making it two attacks in three days. Olise noted that the gunmen, whom he described as terrorists, carried out the latest attack, in retaliation for the arrest of two of their supposed members. He said: “The same terrorists, seemingly angered by the arrest of two of their supposed members, carried out further attacks on innocent workers on the Okomu Oil Palm Company’s property, to avenge the arrest of their accomplices, who apparently confessed to the theft of rubber lumps. - Advertisement - “The suspected thieves were arrested by the marine police in a boat, after it had left Okomu Ijaw community, on its way to neighbouring Delta State. “Killing of innocent workers of Okomu company, who are performing their legitimate duties, and have no conflict or disagreement with any person, is strongly condemned. The powers that be should immediately take action against the terrorists responsible for the murderous crimes.   Minister to INEC: Improve on faulty BVAS machine     FG reforms to meet demand for additional 15,262Mw     17 die as tanker explodes on Lagos-Ibadan Expressway   “Attacks on companies like Okomu call for concern, as terrorists are now focusing on such establishments, intent on bringing them to their knees, and in so doing create an impression that the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led government is weak. The attacks also pose great threat to the current and future investments in Edo State and Nigeria, especially the agricultural sector, which is the focal point of diversification of both the Obaseki and the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administrations.” Okomu’s communication officer also stated that the time had come for the Obaseki and Buhari’s administrations to take decisive actions against the terrorists, declaring that otherwise, investments in the agricultural sector would be greatly affected, as it was the case with pipeline vandalism in the past, with the resultant negative effects on livelihoods and revenue accruing to both the state and federal government’s coffers. He urged the police to thoroughly investigate the incessant attacks on the company’s facilities and bring the perpetrators to book, in order to serve as a deterrent to others. Olise admonished the authorities of the military, especially the Nigerian Army and Navy, to deploy their personnel in the area, in order to ensure adequate security for residents of Ovia Southwest LGA, their property and investments, with the terrorists and cultists to be dislodged from the area. It will be recalled that police in Edo state on Thursday at Gelegele near Benin in Ovia Northeast LGA of Edo, paraded two arrested men: Destiny Tibhor, 22, and Lucky Clark, 52, for invading Okomu oil palm company, and stealing rubber lumps belonging to the firm, while they were apprehended on February 15. The suspected criminals were paraded by the state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bello Kontongs, a Superintendent of Police (SP), who noted that Edo Police Commissioner, Phillip Ogbadu, facilitated the arrests, in an attempt to unravel the persons behind the attacks. Kontongs revealed that the marine police component, led by Courage Ogonmwan, SP, while on patrol in the area, intercepted the suspects on Okomu waterway, while adding that further investigation would determine whether the two suspects were among the criminals who were involved in the attacks on Okomu oil palm plantation or not. SPONSORED