Newcastle United are in pole position to become one of the best clubs in the world following their multi million pound takeover by the Saudi Arabian Public Investment Fund in October. But securing their Premier League status this season and climbing out of their current relegation battle is a first on their list of priorities. Should they achieve that, then their upcoming summer transfer window could be one of the biggest and most impressive the top flight has ever seen. And now that they are the wealthiest club in England, they certainly have the funds to bring in whoever they like, including Manchester United ‘s Paul Pogba, who is out of contract at the end of the season. But former Crystal Palace chairman Simon Jordan has issued a reality check to the Magpies should they try and attempt to lure the French midfielder to St. James’ Park this summer. - Advertisement - With Pogba’s United future looking as though it will come to an end this season, the Magpies are already being linked with an outrageous move for the midfielder in what would be a statement signing. And the north east club, along with the likes of Paris Saint-Germain and Real Madrid who have also been linked with the 28-year-old, are one of very few clubs who could probably afford his wages.   La Liga chief backs Real over Mbappe, Haaland pursuit     Maguire denies rift with Ronaldo over captaincy     Beto: my life working at KFC   He said: “If Newcastle were to make a statement, those are the kind of statements that you would think they’d make. “But I just don’t think Newcastle have enough pedigree for Pogba to go there now. “If he goes to Newcastle, they are going to be a powerful club if we are led to believe that the money available is going to be spent. “But if there is going to be a period of time like at Man City where, before you get the lights on, you’re going to have to build, make some mistakes and change some management criteria. “Pogba’s looking at this and going: ‘I’m Paul Pogba. I’ve played for Juventus, France, and I’m a World cup winner. I’m still 28 and I’ve got another big move in me – is Newcastle going to win me something in the next three years?’ “There’s an argument to suggest maybe it isn’t.” Despite this, one key advantage that works in Newcastle’s favour is that Pogba is reportedly open to moving to another Premier League club, according to the Telegraph . SPONSORED