The Managing Director, Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu, said the authority  plans  to terminate non-performing concession agreements and engage new concessionaires. Besides, the authority is set  to  sanction private airport terminals for the non-payment of various services rendered by the authority. He said plans were underway to ensure that the financial difficulties of FAAN were brought to the barest minimum if actions were taken to ensure organisations indebted paid up what they owed. Yadudu spoke at the weekend during the oversight visit of the joint Committees on Aviation of the National Assembly to Lagos airport. Yadudu said the Authority has shifted its focus from the aeronautical sources of revenue to the non-aeronautical so as to further improve its  revenue performance. - Advertisement - To this end, he said the authority has started an aggressive sensitisation on areas at the airports where investors can come in.   ‘Despite insecurity, investors still prefer Nigeria’     EU pledges 820m euros digital package for Nigeria     Telecom operators lose 4.75m telephone users   He said: “Specific areas where effort is being focused on include advertisement, car parks, private airport terminal operators and  revenue sources. “We hope to make significant progress before the end of the second quarter. Car parks automation at the various airports is ongoing. Before the end of the year, we should have achieved a great result.” Capt. Yadudu also  said the Authority is proposing a Revenue Budget of N188 billion for 2022 as against N125.4 billion approved for last year, translating to an increase of 50.4percent. According to him, the projection was arrived at with the hope that the effect of the pandemic would have been over thereby leading to an increase in passenger traffic, as well as boost in the non-aeronautical revenue base of the Authority. Capt. Yadudu noted that FAAN is faced with some challenges on debt recovery especially debts owed by ARIK Air which constitutes a significant portion of the Authority’s debt portfolio. While commending the effort of the Committees on Aviation with respect to intervention so far in the recovery of ARIK debts inherited by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Yadudu called for further assistance to bring the issue to a logical conclusion   SPONSORED