Details of the intrigues that played out at Tuesday’s primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the by-election for the Akure North/Akure South federal constituency seat in the House of Representatives have emerged. The Ondo APC primary, according to sources, was a proxy power play between Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Tayo Alasoadura, Ondo First Lady, Betty Anyanwu-Akeredolu and Babajide, a son of the Governor and Director General, Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPIMU). A political greenhorn, Mayokun Lawson-Alade, won the primary with a wide margin of 305 votes while his closest rival and former Ondo Commissioner for Women Affairs, Hon. Omowunmi Olatunji-Ohwovoriole got 196 votes. Other heavyweight aspirants in the race were a former two-time member of the House of Representatives and Secretary to the Ondo State Government, Hon Ifedayo Abegunde; former member of the Ondo House of Assembly, Hon. Ademola Adegoroye, Director of Administration in the office of the Senate President, Mr. Dennis Fadairo, former lawmaker, - Advertisement - Hon. Abiodun Derin Adesida, a member of the Ondo House of Assembly, Hon. Sunday Olajide and Mr. Owoyemi Emmanuel Bukola. It was gathered that the outcome of the APC primary has caused a sharp division within Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu camp as aspirants supported by members of the first family lost out. Alade, whose victory was a shock to many, was backed by Senator Alasoadura; Hon Omowunmi was reportedly backed by the First Lady while Hon Adegoroye was backed by Babajide. Sources said Governor Akeredolu met with Senator Alasoaduran and urged him to play the role of an elder by not supporting any of the aspirants. The source said Governor Akeredolu had wanted a rancor- free primary without interference from leaders. Despite the Governor insistence of being impartial, news filtered to the Governor that this name was being mentioned as backing certain aspirants.   OPEC approves 1,718,000b/d for Nigeria     Buhari will leave Nigeria better than he met it – BMO     VIDEO: Passengers stranded as Army, kidnappers exchange fire…   It was learnt that Governor had to address the delegates on the day of the primary to prove that he was neutral. Governor Akeredolu, who urged the delegates to vote for aspirants of their choice, debunked insinuations that he was in support of certain aspirants. He said: “I have said it over and over again that I have no candidate. I’m supporting nobody, go and vote according to your conscience.” A top government official said the comments by the Governor dealt a blow to aspirants backed by his wife, his son and members of kitchen cabinet. Some chieftains of the Ondo APC said Senator Alasoadura acted against the Governor’s advice to prove that he remained the leader of Akure politics. It was also learnt that the move by Alasoadura was to strengthen his political base ahead of the 2023 general elections. A total of 715 delegates were accredited for the primary which held at the held at the International Event and Cultural Centre otherwise known as the Dome in Akure. Accreditation and voting commenced at about 4:15pm. Chairman of the APC Akure by-election Committee and Anambra Deputy Governor, Dr. Nkem Okeke, who declared Lawson-Alade winner, said it was a free and fair process. He had earlier assured of conducting a free and fair primary. According to him: “This is my first national assignment since I joined the APC. I am here to conduct a transparent primary. The party wants a transparent process. “I am not going to allow any mess up. I will not want any commotion during the election.”