Diya will not die; it is Abacha that will die!” – Bishop Francis Wale Oke (1998), President Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) The small and unique gathering was in the city of Ibadan, Oyo State capital of Nigeria. It was in 1998 aftermath of the tribunal judgement on the phantom coup involving Lt. General Donaldson Oladipo Diya and other military officers. The military tribunal sitting in Jos, the Plateau State capital, sentenced Diya and other officers culpable to death by firing squad! Major newspapers’ headlines of that particular Saturday, the day of the gathering, were all agog laced with gory pictures pinpointing the judgement of the tribunal. The gathering was called by the President of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries International (SOTSM), Bishop Francis Wale Oke. It was aimed at building capacities of pastors in SOTSM. In opening the meeting, Bishop Wale Oke, now the President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), out of the blues and without recourse to the context of the training, jolted virtually all of us when he declared: “Diya will not die; it is Abacha that will die!” It was irrational and illogical to human reasoning! Most of us present were flabbergasted and did not want the referred man of God to be in trouble knowing the ruthless antecedent of the dark – googled general, Sanni Abacha, the then Head of the military junta. All said and done, there was a mysterious divine twist and turn resulting in the sudden death of Abacha. Ultimately, Diya was let off the hook and he is still alive! This brings to mind the words of Ezekiel in the Holy Writ: “So when it comes to pass—as it most certainly will—then they will know [without any doubt] that a prophet has been among them.” Ezekiel 33:33 (Amplified Bible). Adeboye and Nigeria – Great Sense of Patriotism I have been a keen follower of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, the Ifewara – born, Osun State, cleric for over a decade. The uncommon love, bond, devotion and faith in his service to God and humanity cannot be gainsaid. He shared these traits together with his one and only beloved wife, Pastor Mrs. Folu Adeboye (Mummy GO). Particularly, the monthly Holy Ghost Service holding at Redemption Camp, along Lagos – Ibadan Expressway on the first Friday of every month; the October edition is usually resplendent with the thousands of singers (Mass Choir) in sartorial splendour of green – white – green replica of the Nigeria’s flag – national colours! Daddy GO, as he is affectionately called by millions of his spiritual sons and daughters globally, together with his wife, Mummy GO, as if acting in symphony and synergy, adorn the same green – white – green attire synonymous with strategic branding in organizational dynamics. What an open display of love and affection for one’s country! No, doubt, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye is a true patriot who is passionate for Nigeria to emerge as one of the best globally. Pastor Adeboye: Passion for Nigeria   What next after WHO’s nod for vaccine production in…     Osun APC primary: I bear no grudge against those who…     ‘How to vaccinate every Nigerian against COVID-19 in 100…   This columnist remembers with nostalgia that it was in the early 1990s that RCCG was involved in 100 days praying and fasting solely for Nigeria. Many of us in Christendom were seemingly mocking the believers then in RCCG as if they were the only disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Annually, the church fasts and prays for Nigeria. Any wonder, the crème de la crème of Nigeria today belongs to the denomination, RCCG? What a man sows he reaps! This columnist was a participant in a particular Advanced Ministers’ Seminar in Ibadan where Bishop Francis Wale Oke told all participants that Adeboye’s life laced with fasting could only be akin to fish and water. Adeboye believed so much in fasting and praying that at almost 80 he is still going strong in the art, with many days without food, while many younger Christians are avoiding fasting. What a peculiar man of uncommon grace! There was a time when a former Head of State felt the vitality and efficacy of Baba Adeboye’s prayers even in Aso Rock! It was during the time of General Sanni Abacha mentioned earlier on in this article. He was then surreptitiously scheming a life – presidency project in which he was planning to initially transmute to a civilian president and then keep himself in power in perpetuity. Adeboye was joggled when someone tapped him on the shoulder that it was time to hide or run! Why? He was told that Abacha’s marabouts pointedly told him the only impediment on his way was a man in the person of Adeboye dwelling in Redemption Camp. The informant told Adeboye to prepare for a visitation of some men signaling seeming bad omen. What was he to do: run or hide? Pastor Adeboye borrowed the wisdom of Nehemiah, who in such dire straits declared: “Should a man like me flee [in fear and hide]? . . . I will not go” (Nehemiah 6:11 Amplified Bible). The renown elder statesman resorted to what he knows best – seeking the face of God aggressively. His Daddy, as he fondly calls God Almighty, spoke to him, that he needed not to worry as it was the man looking for Adeboye’s head that would rather lose his. He then directed him to tell his congregation at the monthly Holy Ghost Service of the month of June of that year to vociferously and vehemently yelled to one another: “Happy New Year!” Would it not seem abnormal or look strange? Yelling “happy new year” in June? Apparently unpredictable, so is the way of a prophet! It could be strange as prophets operate in the unseen word of the spiritual!! The sermon was acted as it was scripted, and within 72 hours the whole Nigeria was shocked and shaken as the dark – googled general mysteriously kicked the bucket! There is indeed a prophet among us even though Pastor Adeboye himself most often declares he is a pastor and not a prophet as he only hears God occasionally. This is just depicting and displaying the humility and meekness inherent in Adeboye that set him apart from many influential men and women of God in Africa and even globally. Adeboye and Dream of Glorious Nigeria In concluding this part of the series on Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, this columnist would want to draw attention to a one-time vision of this great but humble man of God. He once shared the vision of Nigeria’s International Passport in green colour, presently and apparently being disdained at immigration counters of developed nations. In the vision, he saw many peoples of diverse nationalities that were surprisingly spotlighted struggling to behold the colour and content of Nigeria’s green passport! This smacks of a vision of a glorious country hereafter!! Could this come to pass within this generation taking cognizance of the seeming socio-economic cum political quagmire Nigeria is currently confronting? Will Nigeria survive disintegration, if it takes place at all? Will self-determination take place within Nigeria’s context? It would be recalled that Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye was one of the voices that clamoured for restructuring of Nigeria to avoid a break up. This was in October 2020. As a true elder statesman, and a patriot, with access to the seat of power, he met President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock in August 2020 behind closed doors. The outcome of that meeting was not divulged to the public but analysts believed that issues such as insecurity and restructuring of the country were on the front burner in their tête-à-tête. This is one indication of passion for Nigeria that runs in Adeboye’s veins knowing that with God all things are possible. He has such unwavering faith and confidence that Nigeria will reach her promised land despite countless crisis, challenges and constraints analogous to the Biblical Israelites reaching Canaan even though their trajectory traversing through the wild wilderness was both wearisome and worrisome. They made it! Nigeria will make it too!! However, it will take passionate, patriotic and progressive leaders who know and value the true prophets amongst them to emerge so Nigerians would not wander and waste in the wilderness as the journey of forty days took the hard – hearted and rebellious people of Israel forty years. Are we not on the route to that wilderness wandering whereas there is a true prophet amongst us? This is wishing Daddy GO, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, a blessed and bountiful birthday. My prayers, and that of many Nigerians, are: as your days so shall your strength be, with many more years to serve God and humanity; your head will not lack oil; fresh oil of the Lord be upon you daily; you will be fruitful, fulfilled and flourish; and finally, may you finish strong and gloriously in Jesus’ mighty and matchless name. Amen. John Ekundayo, Ph.D. – Harvard-Certified Organizational Strategist, and also a Leadership Development Consultant, can be reached via 08155262360 (SMS only) and drjmoekundayo@hotmail.com