Mixta Africa, one of Africa’s largest indigenous real estate companies, has announced plans to introduce more revolutionary solutions, including construction of additional luxurious homes. The company also hinted on plans to enlist mortgage finance schemes aimed at encouraging prospective home ownership. Reflecting on the company’s sterling performance in 2021, the Country Manager, Mrs. Sade Hughes, said Nigeria with an estimated housing deficit of over 17m residential units require robust strategy to tackle. She stated that housing deficiency gap in Nigeria and Africa at large remain a focal point that top-notch solutions will address. “We are working round the clock to ensure more and more Nigerians own properties at the best of deals. - Advertisement - “Our purpose is to build communities and provide enough homes for different classes of Nigerians and Africans. “Part of this strategy is our decision to develop more affordable houses and engage mortgage providers to make more Nigerians to own homes with easy payment plans,” she explained.   Alaro City to host talent city     Brookstone Property names edifice after Okotie-Eboh     ‘Only collaborative effort will keep Lagos clean’   Speaking on the company’s achievements in 2021, Head of Marketing, Ms Onome Umukoro hinted that the company’s estate projects such as the Obudu Villas, Beechwood Park 1 & 2, Adiva Plots and Cove Lofts are all sold out while Lakowe Heights, Marula Park, Expressview Estate in Abuja, Adiva Plainfields/new release, Commercial plots and the Residence Goree located in Senegal are all selling and on high demand. Umukoro shared: “Our vision is to deliver urbanized and modern cities across the continent of Africa and we have garnered appreciable milestones in our estate projects. “Our company has successfully developed more than 13,500 residential and retail units across 8 countries on the continent. “We are currently present in 8 countries across Africa with full operations in Nigeria, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Morocco, and Tunisia but projects in Mauritania, Algeria and Egypt.” She highlighted other achievements of the company to include the provision of affordable houses within the developing township programme tagged: Lagos New Town. “Lagos New Town is a development concept where we host some of our most notable products including Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate, Beechwood Estate and Adiva Plainfields. “The idea is to provide housing for a different cadre of homeowners with exquisite and luxurious aesthetics with comfort and convenience in mind,” she stated.