THE Oyo State Government yesterday restated its position not to compromise on the delivery of quality infrastructure. Its Commissioner for Works, Public Infrastructure and Transport, Prof. Daud Sangodoyin, who made the declaration yesterday, said the government remained committed to projects with qualities that would stand the test of time. Sangodoyin spoke during an inspection tour of the Ajia-Airport Road with spur to Amuloko. He was accompanied by the Quality Assurance Unit of the Ministry and site engineers of the Peculiar Ultimate Concerns. A statement by Governor Seyi Makinde’s Special Assistant on Print Media, Moses Alao, said the commissioner tour of the project was triggered by a resident who drew his attention to a portion on Odeyale-Amuloko axis of the road. He declared that the state government and the contractors had noticed the challenge on the spot on the 2.9 kilometre Ajia-Amuloko axis since October 2021 and had since mandated the contractors to address it. - Advertisement - The failed portion was attributed the convergence of water, saying the contractors has been instructed to adjust the design to de-flood the area. He added that the contractor had been directed to increase the stone base on that axis of the road from 100mm to 120mm and that this was in addition to increasing the hard rock base of the project, among other improvements.   ‘It was tough being UNIOSUN VC’     NDDC denies payment of N20b to ghost contractors     Protesters block Ughelli-Asaba road over neglect   The Commissioner stated that the contractor will also put a binding course in place after the stone base had been increased, noting that the fears expressed by the resident had since been taken care of before the alarm was raised. The Commissioner equally stated that contrary to fears that the road might be handed over with challenges, the section of the road is only about 56 per cent completed and that residents should rest assured that the government will deliver a quality project. He said: “We are here to inspect the 21 kilometres Ajia-Airport road with a spur to Amuloko following a complaint by a resident. The person advised us to come and check what they are doing. increased the stone base. Our specification for this road is 100mm stone base. But for this section, we have increased it to 120mm so as to accommodate the water level. “After the stone base, we will put the binding course. For the road that we are here now, the completion rate is 56 per cent. “Nobody has told any resident that we have completed this road. It is an ongoing project, which the quality assurance team of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport including the engineers and our independent advisory team have been here to check, and we are satisfied with what they are doing. As a matter of fact, we have pictures of what they have done. “In the light of this, I would like to advise members of the public that we are a listening and pro-active government but people should not do politics with things that they don’t really understand.” SPONSORED