Some of the aspirants seeking to become the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are kicking over the zoning of the office to the North-Central as preparation for the party’s national convention on February 26 gathers momentum. The aspirants want an open contest as against the decision of most of the governors elected on the party’s platform and other party leaders to cede the seat to the North-Central. The APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) is understood to be mulling the scrapping of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) in addition to some other fundamental amendments to the party’s constitution. North-Central governors of the APC are said to be sharply divided on the issue of zoning of national chairmanship to the zone. Governors Yahaya Bello (Kogi) and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger), according to party sources, are not keen on conceding the national chairmanship to the North-Central while their Kwara State counterpart, Abdulrahman Abdularazaq, is disposed to it coming to his state. - Advertisement - Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State is similarly disposed to his state clinching the post. The Nation gathered that Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong is preoccupied with the 2023 presidential bid of his friend and mentor, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation. Sources said some members of the APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) seem to be in agreement with those clamouring for an open race. Some leaders have however warned that the party risks running into crisis if the chairmanship seat is not zoned. Many party faithful are looking up to President Muhammadu Buhari, who the governors have conceded the choice of new chairman to, to save the party from what is fast turning into a stalemate. There were indications yesterday that some party leaders had made representations to the President on why every aspirant should be allowed to contest. Those in the race are ex-Governor Abdulaziz Yari;  Mallam Saliu Mustapha (Turaki Ilorin); ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura; Senator  Sani Mohammed Musa and ex-Governor Ali Modu Sheriff. Others are Sunny Sylvester Monidafe; Mohammed Estu; ex-Governor George Akume; ex-Governor Isa Yuguda and Dr. Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi. Also speculated to be interested are ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu and a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bawa Bwari. Investigation by our correspondent revealed that the tempo of the race changed yesterday following agitation by some aspirants against zoning the office to the North-Central. It was learnt that Governor Yahaya Bello and some aspirants like ex-governors Isa Yuguda, Abdulaziz Yari, Ali Modu Sheriff, Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi and Sunny Sylvester Monidafe prefer an open race. A reliable source, who spoke in confidence, said the concession of the chairmanship seat to the North-Central has not gone down well with some aspirants. The said aspirants have been lobbying the CECPC and party stalwarts to give everyone equal stake. Some leaders of APC were also said to have kicked against North-Central which they claimed has produced more chairmen of political parties in Nigeria than any other geo-political zone in the country. A reliable party source said: “Zoning is breeding a cold war in APC. This is why the CECPC, led by Governor Mai Mala Buni, has not made any pronouncement on it. Our leaders have not been able to reach any compromise. “We are facing this zoning dilemma because President Muhammadu Buhari is exiting power in 2023 and he comes from a geo-political zone with a huge voting strength. We have to be meticulous in managing elective offices to appeal to all the six geo-political zones. “For the office of the APC national chairman, the President, the governors and party leaders will soon meet to work out a zoning template which can assuage the feelings of all the geo-political zones in the country. “I can tell you that zoning is an issue we have not resolved. Whichever zone produces the incoming APC chairman will go a long way to shape our permutations for 2023 poll. “Already, zoning is causing disaffection among all the aspirants for the office of national chairman. Some are not happy over speculations that the slot may go to the North-Central. Yet, the party has not made any pronouncement.” A chairmanship aspirant said: “Leading parties is not the birthright of the North-Central. That was how the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost its bearing. “The North-Central has produced many chairmen of political parties in this country. Can’t they aspire to other offices? “In any case, the people of North-Central have said that they will want presidency more than party chairmanship. “Any person talking of North-Central is an enemy of APC. As we speak, the North-East is managing our party and it should be allowed to complete its tenure. The party has already identified who will lead it from the North-East. “Why are they even jumping the gun? Have you seen anybody that has come out to say that the chairmanship is zoned to North-Central?” Another aspirant warned APC against alienating the North-Central if it wants to win the 2023 poll.   Between Aregbesola and Oyetola     Don’t toy with Nigerians’ emotions     Abba Kyari: PSC delays verdict, orders investigation by…   The aspirant said: “We have just heard that the CECPC is under pressure to throw the chairmanship race open after most of our governors and leaders have conceded it to North-Central for equity and justice. “Look at the APC present zoning structure; what is the status of North-Central? The Presidency is from the North-West, the Senate President is from the North-East, the Speaker belongs to the South-West, the Deputy Senate President hails from the South-South and only Deputy Speaker from the minority part of North-Central. “The same North-Central has not benefitted from other political appointments like other zones. President Muhammadu Buhari should allow our zone to produce APC national chairman.” It was gathered that Governor Yahaya Bello is opposed to the national chairmanship coming to the NC because of his own presidential ambition while Abubakar Sani Bello does not want the party position for the zone on account of his plan to be the running mate of the APC presidential candidate. A source said: “It is no longer news that the Kogi State governor is aspiring to be President and he is averse to any discussion on APC national chairman. “Despite having two chairmanship aspirants from his state, the Governor of Niger State is seeing a better prospect in being vice president in 2023. “A presidential aspirant is closing in on him. He is not on the same page with Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (Niger East Senatorial District). “Although a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon. Bawa Bwari enjoys the confidence of the governor, the state may go for vice presidency if there is any opportunity. “While Governor Abdullahi Sule is behind ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura as the next APC national chairman, his Kwara State counterpart prefers a former Deputy National Chairman of the defunct CPC, Mallam Saliu Mustapha for his state. “It is not clear how long Governor Sule can cling to Al-Makura if President Muhammadu Buhari supports ex-Nasarawa State Governor, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, as the next national chairman of APC. “Governor Simon Lalong is on his own because he is more concerned about the presidential prospect of his friend and mentor, the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi. “So, you can see that the centre does not hold in North-Central. Speaking with our correspondent last night, a national chairmanship aspirant, Dr. Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, said: “If the party goes for consensus, I will have no objection; I will submit to party supremacy. But when the party starts to have an anointed candidate, it has lost its moral ground. “What I will advise the party to do is to make it an open race. There is no provision or any chapter in 1999 Constitution that has given room for consensus. It is alien to our constitution. “And if the party decides to go for consensus, it has to come out with parameters. But in equitable democratic setting and according to Oxford Dictionary, the meaning of election is a contest which cannot be narrowed to a particular area or zone. “I am ready to slug it out with moneybags, especially those former governors who are suffering from psychological trauma.” A governor, who spoke with our correspondent last night, said: “There have been agitations and representations to the President and governors on the choice of a new national chairman. “In fairness, we have left everything to the President to decide for the party. If he seeks our opinion, we will make some recommendations. And if he does not, we will respect his choice. “All I can tell you is that Buhari has a mindset and he will tell us at the end of the day. “As a sitting President, he has more security information and intelligence report on all the aspirants than the governors and party leaders. “He knows where he wants the party to go. Buhari will definitely break the ice at the right time. “He is enjoying how all the aspirants are trying to outwit one another. But by his style, Buhari does not follow the crowd.” Caretaker committee mulls scrapping of BOT Sources also said yesterday that the APC Board of Trustees (BOT) may give way to a National Advisory Council (NAC) being proposed by the party’s Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). This will be in addition to some other amendments to the party’s constitution expected to be ratified at the national convention. The CECPC has already served notice of the proposed amendments to the constitution on members of the National Convention as required by Article 30 (iii) of the document. Article 30 (iii) stipulates that such  notice be served at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the National Convention at which the proposed amendments are to be considered. The Caretaker Committee had earlier established a Constitution Review Committee (CRC) under the chairmanship of Prof. Tahir Mamman (SAN). The Committee adopted an all-inclusive approach which led to the draft proposals. The proposed amendments seek to fill gaps in the existing guiding document. The proposed amendments also seek to recognise and expand platforms for the participation of critical groups such as women, youth and persons with disabilities in the activities of the party.