Two glittering Lagos polo prizes, the debuting Adedapo Ojora Cup and the traditional Oba of Lagos Cup will be the star attractions as the first week of the prestigious Lagos International Polo Tournament enters its grand finale. The debuting Adedapo Ojora Cup to be played today in the everlasting memory of the late Lagos Polo Club captain, pitches the Lagos Dangote team against visiting Malcomines polo team from Jos in a fierce five chukkas clash that would decide the first ever winners of the prize that is dear to the heart of every polo player across the country. Lagos Polo Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola who confirmed the schedule, said the memorial prize was introduced by the club in appreciation of the late polo legend who contributed immensely to the promotion of the noble game within the country and internationally. Meanwhile, the traditional Oba of Lagos Cup is scheduled for tomorrow with the Special Guest of Honour , His Royal Majesty Oba Rilwan Akiolu expected to witness the grand event with his entire Traditional Council members . The battle for the royal crown of Lagos cup promises to be a fierce confrontation as defending champions, Leighton Saopolo powered by Seyi Oyinlola and Bowale Jolaoso take on the highly ambitious Centaurs in a local derby with Bode Makanjuola as the commanding officer. - Advertisement - While Bode has previously won the Oba of Lagos Cup with his Caverton team, the title holders, Lagos Leighton Saopolo polo team became the first team to win a major prize in 2020 edition after defeating STL 9-8 in a tense final decided before a full house at the foremost Ribadu Road polo ground in Ikoyi.   Edo Cricket League hits Super Four     North Central female team targets trophy     Revealed: why Ekiti female team dominates south west   Expectedly the royal father who is a regular visitor of the foremost Lagos polo tournament will lead other top dignitaries and family members of the late legend fondly called “Baba Polo” within the polo circle, to give out prizes to the winners and runners-up. The much-anticipated Lagos International Polo Tournament galloped-off Tuesday with Golden Alchemy from Kano defeating Stratabase Solotone of Port Harcourt 13 – 6 1/2 in the first game of the tournament. Six-goaler Tom De Bruin was the star of the Stream 2 encounter, as he accounted for six of his team’s goals, the highlight of which was the backhand he scored in the second chukka to make the scores 4 1/2 – 4. Stratabase formed by Abubakar Kollere, Kabire Seidu, Ibrahim Mohammed and Ahmed Umar started the match on a 3 1/2 handicap goals advantage, but were roundly beaten by the Kano based team. It was also gathered that the final of the Open Cup that attracted eight teams from across the country, will bring down the curtain on the first week of the tournament that is spread over three weeks of bumper to bumper polo actions. The highly revered Eko Polo Festival continues next week with Lagos biggest polo prize, the Majekodunmi Cup taking the center stage with a record five teams fortified with foreign professionals and intimidating horse power bracing for epic polo grand slams.