Ghana Vice President Mahamudu Bawumia has charged Black Stars to beat Nigeria’s Super Eagles and qualify for the Qatar 2022 World Cup after a disappointing AFCON outing in Cameroon. Ghana failed to go beyond the group stage at the 2021 AFCON and the Vice President believes they should put the tournament behind them and focus on qualifying for their fourth World Cup outing at the expense of their archrival Nigeria when both teams clash on March 24 and 29 in Cape Coast and Abuja. Bawumia told an Accra-based PAV Magazine that he is optimistic that the Black Stars under coach Otto Addo has the wherewithal to dump out Nigeria from making their seventh World Cup appearance in Qatar. “I am always proud of the Black Stars for going out and representing Ghana, regardless of the result, especially during the pandemic which has been a difficult time for all,” the VP said. “It was of course a disappointing AFCON tournament for us, and I know we are capable of achieving much more.   NWFL Premiership resumes for final lap     Eagles Tracker: Aribo gets crucial goal for Rangers     Napoli sweat on Osimhen for Cagliari   “Now it will be important to work together as a team especially as our focus turns to the vital World Cup qualifiers in the coming months. I will always be cheering them on,” Bawumia added. - Advertisement - Also, a former Black Stars, Princeton Owusu-Ansah, has charged the team to prepare adequately ahead of the titanic World Cup qualifier against Nigeria next month. “Nigeria has come under a lot of pressure at home – and just like Ghana, would want to make amends, after the Nations Cup disappointment. “The Super Eagles will, therefore, storm Ghana with all the ammunition at their disposal in an attempt to chalk out a decent result into the reverse fixture. That’s why I’m urging the Stars to gird their loins firmly well for the fierce battles ahead,” said Owusu-Ansah, who featured for Ghana during the 1998 and 2002 Africa Cup of Nations tournaments. “Irrespective of Ghana’s insipid performance in Cameroon, we all know that a Ghana v Nigeria game follows no form guide. For me, it’s a 50-50 affair that the Stars can win if they prepare strategically and adequately well,” the 45-year-old, now domiciled in the UK, told the Times Sports at the weekend. SPONSORED