The Police Service Commission (PSC) has suspended two police officers over their alleged involvement in illicit drug trafficking. The officers, Sunday Ubua, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) and James Bawa, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) have been handed over to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) for investigation. Mr Ikechukwu Ani, the Head of Press and Public Relations of the commission made this known in a statement issued to newsmen on Thursday in Abuja. Ani said that the officers were working under the suspended Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Abba Kyari, who was also arrested and handed over to NDLEA in connection with same allegation. Kyari was the Commander of the Intelligence Response Team of the Force Investigation and Intelligence Department of the Nigeria Police Force before his suspension. - Advertisement - The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Kyari was suspended following his indictment by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Ani said that the suspension of the two officers was with immediate effect, adding that the decision was contained in a letter to the Inspector General of Police, dated Feb. 16. He said the letter was signed by Justice Clara Ogunbiyi, retired Justice of the Supreme court and Commissioner 1 in the Commission for the Chairman, Alhaji Musiliu Smith.   Police arrest student for alleged criminal intimidation in…     Man held over policeman’s beheading in Delta     Three die in Plateau attacks   Ani said the letter was titled: “Re- Investigation into a seizure and Transfer to NDLEA of 25 kilogrammes of Cocaine by the Office of DCP, Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Nigeria Police Department of Force Intelligence Bureau.” It reads further, “The commission, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Rules 030406, has approved the suspension of the officers until the outcome of the investigation into the allegations leveled against them. “The commission also directed the Inspector General of Police to also note that Kyari, who prior to this allegation was on suspension, shall remain so until the conclusion of investigations. “The Inspector-General of Police was requested to place on suspension, Insp. Simon Agrigba and Insp. John Nuhu in accordance with the Powers of Delegation.” According to the statement, the I-G has also been requested to inform the commission of the arrest of John Umoru, an Assistant Superintendent of Police who is currently at large to enable it to take necessary actions. Ani said the commission had directed the I-G to furnish it with information on further development on the matter for further action. (NAN) SPONSORED