Before Super Eagles technical head Austin Eguavoen visited Nigerian eligible Michael Olise last week at Crystal Palace, U.K, the England born with Nigerian father, had made noticeable impact in the Premiership club he joined last year.  He won Palace’s Player of the Month award after four sensational performances in January. The summer signing featured in all of Palace’s games last month, playing 291 minutes and scoring twice. He scored in the 90th-minute against West Ham United and then against Millwall during a second-half display that relentlessly tested the Lions’ backline. He also bagged assists in both games. Olise’s efforts saw him named Man of the Match against Millwall and Liverpool, and he scooped the Player of the Month accolade with an impressive 69.6% of votes. Conor Gallagher and Odsonne Edouard came second and third, with 6.4% and 4.3% respectively. Sharing a message for fans, Olise said with a smile: “I just want to thank the fans for voting for me – I appreciate it”. The FA Cup is quickly becoming Michael Olise’s favourite competition as the youngster was once again Palace’s best player as they advanced through to the next round. Against Millwall, Olise first curled the Eagles’ opener into the corner of the net from inside the box before setting up Jean-Philippe Mateta to score the winner moments later with a similarly pinpoint ball. This time around, against Hartlepool, he was once again involved in all of Palace’s best passages of play. It was his free-kick with his left foot that curled into the box and found Marc Guehi unmarked ready to prod home the opener, and every time he got the ball thereafter he looked to make things happen. His goal came about via good fortune as Hartlepool lost possession in their own half, but his instinctive flick to get past Timi Odusina and decisive finish into Ben Killip’s bottom corner was emphatic. Once again Vieira praised the winger effusively after the game, calling him a “special player”, but added there was still a lot he could learn after wasting a handful of chances on goal during the second half. “The more games he will play will help him to improve,” Vieira told reporters at full-time. “There are some tactical elements in the game he needs to understand. The decisions he makes defensively and offensively will make him a better player. “We want him to be decisive in the last 30 yards and he has the quality to do that. He was really dangerous today and could’ve scored more today and made better decisions. That will come with more experience and playing more games.” Bigger picture This is the roller-coaster form the 20 year old has found lately that is attracting his father’s land- Nigeria and other big clubs in Europe. Arsenal and Chelsea are among the clubs keeping tabs on Olise, who may leave Selhurst Park in the summer. According to a report from The Sun, Crystal Palace are set to face a major battle in their bid to keep hold of the skilful player. The young attacker has emerged as one of the most in-demand talents in the Premier League, with a bunch of top clubs across Europe interested in securing his services in the summer transfer window. Arsenal and Chelsea are among the Premier League clubs monitoring the progress of Olise, who joined Crystal Palace in a €9.3 million deal from Reading last summer. Olise’s tally of two goals and four assists in 18 league matches might not be particularly eye-catching. However, the youngster has made a solid impression with his technical skill and chance creation, making him a crucial asset for the team. He was notably the star performer in the FA Cup wins over Millwall and Hartlepool and is expected to play a vital role in the club’s quest to finish in the top half of the table. Olise’s performances have not gone unnoticed, with Arsenal, for one, mulling over a summer swoop for the French youth international. Currently vying for a top-four finish in the league, the Gunners are expecting a busy summer ahead, with Mikel Arteta keen on binning some of the unwanted players in the team, including Nicolas Pepe and Eddie Nketiah. It could open up an opportunity for the club to make a move for the Crystal Palace starlet, whose ability to play at right midfield or even as a number eight could make him a useful outlet for Arteta.   WILFRED NDIDI: I’ll leave Leicester after getting…     LEON BALOGUN : I’m back, fit, ready to roll     FELIX ORODE : I long to play in Europe, Super Eagles   However, Arsenal are set to face stiff competition from London rivals Chelsea, who are also preparing a major overhaul. Christian Pulisic, for one, is facing an uncertain future at Stamford Bridge and was even linked with a January move to Barcelona. Olise, to that end, could prove to be an ideal replacement given his skill and versatility in the final third. However, Olise isn’t the only Crystal Palace player linked with a move away from Selhurst Park next summer. In addition to the Frenchman, the Eagles are facing a battle to keep hold of Eberechi Eze, another Nigeria eligible with Newcastle United preparing a major assault for the former QPR starlet. Hence, it could be a busy summer ahead for all parties involved, including Olise, as he looks to take the next step in his career after a fantastic start to life in the Premier League. CHELSEA TO PALACE Indeed Olise has come a long way from the young boy that graced the academies of Chelsea, Arsenal and Manchester City. Olise has shown he is back where he belongs. Indeed, his instant success at Selhurst Park has come as no surprise to Sean Conlon, who first met him when Olise was playing for his local side Hayes in west London at the age of seven. Conlon says of him: “He’s always been someone who scores goals because his control is so good and he is thinking so many steps ahead of everyone else. Michael also has so much variety in his technique that allows him to see the picture and means he is able to make the decision on what is the most appropriate finish.” Conlon had just left Chelsea as a coach and was working as a scout for QPR but was so impressed that he recommended Olise to his former employers. “Michael was also training with Arsenal at the time because before you move into the under-nines, you’re allowed to train with multiple teams,” he says. “But he probably lived closer to Chelsea and they obviously have a great academy so he ended up signing for them.” While at Chelsea Olise also received individual training from Conlon’s company ‘We Make Footballers,’ which specialises in developing players between the ages of three and 12, and turned out for his grassroots team. “I’ve always said that from the age of nine Michael has been the best player for his age in the country,” Conlon says. “He’s always been very graceful and elegant in the way that he moves. But it was when he went into the academy setup at Chelsea that his technique began to shine and all of his ability on the ball started coming through. And then as he has got older his football IQ developed so he answered almost every question that was asked of him.” Although Olise always appeared destined for success, his departure from Chelsea at 14 – described as “a mutual decision” by Conlon – was a reminder that there are never guarantees in football. Having spent a few weeks travelling to Manchester to train with City, he went six months without a club. Talking about his game, Olise says he loves to dribble and get into the box. “I’m the creative type. I love to dribble and simply express myself. It is no surprise then that his childhood icons are Ronaldinho, Lionel Messi, and Neymar. “I watch them a lot when I was younger and still do. I want to play like them, kind of free and expressive. I want to be that kind of midfielder scoring goals and assisting too. The Premiership is one of the biggest leagues in the world and I hope I will score more goals and see where it takes me. At this moment I’m learning and enjoying my game.” He considers his father, Vincent, a great influence on his career. “He (dad) inspires me. My mum too but my dad gave me hints and helps me keep focus. We talk a lot. My parents are the biggest influence on career. HIS DILEMMA After Eguavoen’s visit to U.K, Olise may be close to taking final decision on his senior national team future. Since his father is a Nigerian and has been a great influence on his football career, it is wise to say that the Super Eagles will be uppermost on his mind.