Two persons have died in the early hours of Wednesday while six others escaped unhurt when a tanker laden with Premium Motor Spirit exploded in front of CDK Company located a few kilometres away from Sagamu interchange along Lagos – Ibadan expressway. The multiple accidents, which occurred around 6.05a.m, involved Mack truck, Howo Sino truck, a mini truck and Bajaj motorcycle – with all of them having no registration numbers. Operatives of the Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) and Fire Service were seen battling to contain the fire, rescue victims and clear road obstructions. Superintendent Route Commander Florence Okpe, who is the FRSC Public Education Officer for Sector Commander, Ogun Sector Command, Umar Ahmed, attributed the likely cause of the multiple crashes to speed on the part of one of the trucks. - Advertisement - She said firefighters had put off the inferno while traffic had also been diverted to the Ibadan-Lagos section. Also, a crash involving a Mazda bus occurred around 08.20 am at Olumore bridge, Abeokuta, leaving a lady dead and two other persons – males, with grave injuries.   MC Oluomo qualified to be Oshodi monarch, says royal family…     Why Amaechi didn’t hand over to me, by Wike     Heavy security as Court rules over suit challenging Osun APC…   Florence Okpe said the injured victims were taken to General hospital Abeokuta and the corpse of the lady was deposited at the same hospital morgue. In a related development, three persons – two male and female, died on Tuesday when a Volkswagen bus rammed into an unmarked truck parked along Lagos – Ibadan expressway. The accident occurred at Ogere corridor of the expressway and left three other people with injuries. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State sector Command attributed the likely cause of the accident to road obstruction and speed. The FRSC Public Education Officer for Sector Commander, Ogun Sector Command, Umar Ahmed, Superintendent Route Commander Florence Okpe said the obstruction was caused by the Mack truck that was stationed along the road and the Volk Sharan, which lost control due to excessive speed, rammed into it. She explained that the injured victims were taken to General hospital Isara while the female corpse was deposited at FOS Ipara. According to her, other corpses were taken away by their family members.