Until the bubble burst, following his alleged involvement in a series of illegal and unethical dealings with the popular alleged fraudster Ramon Abbas a.k.a. Hushpuppi who is currently facing charges of money laundering levelled against him by the United States Government last year, Abba Kyari was regarded as a super cop to the core. He was a dedicated police officer diligent at his duties, patriotic, fearless and hardworking. At least so we thought until July, last year. And, for all of these, he was admired by many people, including the high and the mighty, while his name was a household name in many parts of the country. In fairness to him, he did bust quite a number of high-profile crime syndicates and his exploits in unravelling some knotty criminal activities endeared him to many Nigerians. He was, until his present travails began last year, commander of the elite Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP). While many Nigerians held him in high esteem until his travails started, the reality, as at today, is that the once-upon-a-super cop has been demystified and he has come crashing, just as he had climbed the ladder, exponentially. Hushpuppi punctured whatever was going for Kyari on July 29, 2021, when he alleged that Kyari was involved in an international scheme to defraud a Qatari school founder with a view to laundering about $1.1 million in illicit proceeds. This was sequel to a disagreement that broke among members of the syndicate which made one of them, Chibuzo Vincent, to contact the victim and told him that Abbas and one Juma (another alleged fraudster) were engaged in fraud. Abbas, in response, allegedly arranged to have Vincent jailed in Nigeria with the help of Kyari. Money was allegedly paid into Kyari’s account to facilitate the arrest and imprisonment of the said Vincent. Kyari was also said to have travelled to Dubai to see Abbas during which he had a nice time at the latter’s expense. Although Kyari has denied these allegations, the United States Department of Justice issued a warrant of arrest on him and has ordered his extradition. The IGP however suspended Kyari in August, last year, pending the outcome of the committee set up to investigate the matter. The Nigerian authorities have so far refused to extradite Kyari.   Air passengers reduce as fare rises by 64%     IPPIS unsuitable for varsity system, says JAMB Registrar…     2023: Emefiele best candidate to succeed Buhari –…   - Advertisement - This was the situation until Febryary 14, when the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) released the outcome of a sting operation carried out on the super cop, implicating him in an international drug syndicate that  operates the Brazil-Ethiopia-Nigeria illicit drug pipeline. The deal involved 25kg of cocaine which had been intercepted by the NDLEA but which Kyari allegedly wanted released, and allegedly offered the NDLEA officers about $61,000 cash. Definitely the last has not been heard about Kyari; and although he is yet to be prosecuted and convicted of the crimes he has been accused of, home and abroad, the fact remains that he cannot emerge smelling like rose when the dust finally settles on these issues. Definitely, some things do not add up about the Abba Kyari persona. The question that readily comes into mind, even given what is now in the public domain about our ‘super cop’ is: what is the process of recruitment into the NPF? What kind of background checks are carried out on prospective officers before they are signed on and kitted? It would seem not much background checks are carried out, and this explains the presence of all manner of persons parading themselves as officers of the NPF. Perhaps more worrisome is the fact that, until America opened our eyes to the unfolding personality of the police officer we have been celebrating, nothing in our system triggered to warn us that we were playing with fire celebrating a man like Kyari. Imagine such a man ultimately becoming IGP, a thing he was looking forward to (and many of us would readily agree he merited, given the accolades ha had been receiving), if these sordid aspects of his life have not been exposed! Imagine the implications for our drug war, our efforts to deal with high profile crimes, etc? It’s high time President Muhammadu Buhari took charge and arrest the tide of incompetence, corruption, lethargy, etc. that have been hobbling his administration for long. What has been playing out in the Kyari case is enough indication that the man is not alone; he is only probably a scapegoat. Otherwise, we cannot find justification for the foot-dragging in his matter on the parts of the Federal Government officials that should have dealt decisively with it. Here, we are talking of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who seems not interested in extraditing him, the IGP, among others, whose only response was to suspend him. Someone under suspension for such grievous allegations should be sober enough. We cannot see that in Kyari. Indeed, that he is free to attend social parties and even had the temerity to coordinate drug crimes under suspension tells a lot about his kind of suspension and the Buhari government’s anti-corruption crusade. It is enough evidence that Kyari has some powerful interests backing him. Nigeria may be on the way to being treated to a can of worms if a thorough investigation is conducted on this singular case. Even the NDLEA will not escape unscathed because drug syndicates cannot operate successfully without the collusion of some unscrupulous elements in the anti-narcotic agency. They all need to be exposed for the country to have a breather and regain its respect that has been lost over the poor handling of the Kyari incident. SPONSORED