The abiding peace and harmony that permeated the Southwest progressive bloc in the days of defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) appear to have vanished. Under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the progressives, particularly in Osun and Ekiti states, are locked in protracted feud over the governorship ticket. In Ekiti, where Governor Kayode Fayemi is winding up, those itching to succeed him have complained about the primary that produced a former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Biodun Oyebanji. But, unlike their Osun brethren, the aspirants in Ekiti are not working towards the liquidation of their party. In Osun, some aggrieved chieftains are up in arms against Governor Gboyega Oyetola, who is seeking a second term. They are telling party supporters and the opposition that he has not performed. They are threatening fire and brimstone. But the governor is unperturbed. He is strengthening his structure and forging ahead for today’s primary with optimism and confidence. The major factor in the discord may also be the participation of the Southwest in mainstream politics and the misuse of key chieftains’ exposure to federal power and resources. - Advertisement - In Osun and Ekiti, APC chieftains, who took off from Afenifere/Alliance for Democracy (AD) and crossed the AC/ACN bridge to the ruling APC, may have forgotten their past ordeals and tribulations when they were in the opposition, particularly the agony of stolen mandates and the titanic struggles to reclaim them. In the days of political adversity, they were united, focused and cohesive. But having got power, they now appear incapable of putting their house in order. The fired shots from the opposition have been somewhat curtailed. But APC is obviously waging a war against itself in the two critical Yoruba states. The respected progressives seem to have shed the godly spirit of forgiveness and internal settlement to wash their dirty linen in the public glare. During the three years of struggle – from 2007 to 2010 – lives were lost. The rescue mission had financial implications. The cost of justice from the tribunal to the Appeal Court was enormous. An innocent girl was violated in Osun for identifying with the platform. In Ekiti, the decomposing limb of a party faithful was tendered as an evidence of the brutality and violence by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the protracted litigation against the progressives. The judges, clerks, litigants and others in the court could not stand the odour. The weight of evidence was overwhelming. Have Osun APC stalwarts forgotten the Justice Thomas Naron Tribunal? What about the legal fireworks kick-started by Kola Awodein (SAN) and the dribbling by Kunle Kalejaye? Have they forgotten also the Adrian Forty saga and the controversy over time analysis? Isn’t the memory of the moving train that could not be stopped at Osogbo still fresh? What about the Oroki Day mayhem? The declaration of Rauf Aregbesola as a wanted person? The detention of party leaders, including former Chairman Moshood Adeoti? The agony of being left in the cold, following the declaration of loser and winner during the 2007 governorship poll? The chilly media war? The suspense? The anxiety? The palpable fear? Since the two camps in Osun APC dispute are now enveloped by collective amnesia, it may not be out of place to remind them that power did not happen in 2010 on a platter of gold. Ahead of today’s governorship primary in Osun, there has been mayhem in Osogbo, the state capital. There is still tension as the two antagonistic camps are set for the much expected primary. It has now paled into a supremacy battle between Oyetola and Aregbesola, which the governor, nevertheless, is expected to win. What will come after is a sort of post-primary crisis, which could have been avoided or prevented, if the house was cohesive and reconciliation had worked. Even ahead of the primary, the two camps are already preparing for post-primary litigation. The bane of the progressive bloc in the Southwest is its weak conflict resolution mechanism. Crises are allowed to fester for too long. When elders try to wade in, the warring chieftains have a clever way of intensifying the conflicts by pretending that they have embraced truce. Oyetola and Aregbesola have the same political background, being disciples and associates of the highly esteemed leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. But, despite the fact that the former Osun governor and Interior Minister enjoyed the endorsement and total support of the former Lagos State governor, who made him Works Commissioner for almost eight years before embarking on the Osun project around 2004, Aregbesola was not inclined to transferring the same love and affection to Oyetola, his Chief of Staff for eight years, who became the party’s standard bearer in 2018.   Rivers council constitutes taskforce against illegal…     Osun primary: Oyetola, Adeoti, Lasun battle for APC ticket     APC govs pressure state chairmen to shift convention   The election was hectic. It was a narrow victory for Oyetola, a quiet technocrat and silent worker who immediately hit the ground running, following his inauguration. Yet, the succession could also be described as a victory for Aregbesola, who was not succeeded by a PDP governor. If a PDP governor had succeeded ‘Ogbeni,’ the opposition would have insisted on a pound of flesh. Aregbesola and Oyetola parade contrasting traits. The former governor is an aluta man; an idealist. He is also cerebral, charismatic, charming. The minister is an orator, a music composer, a lover of colour and drama, a mobiliser, a crowd puller, a moderate populist. His successor is a self-effacing administrator: meticulous, methodical. He is an office person with a knack for details. The governor is highly composed, reticent. He is a great listener and achievement-driven captain. A combination of these extreme traits should have been converted to an advantage by the party during electioneering and in the course of governance. However, these personality traits have defined their contrasting approaches to politics and governance, despite the similarity of ideas and goals. Ideally, these ought to pass as the aesthetics of the political space. Regrettably, they may have also accounted for the opposing pressures on them by party men and stakeholders, as well as their clashing reactions to the pattern of influence. While the Oyetola government is perceived as one of continuity by the APC, a section of the crisis-ridden Osun chapter thinks otherwise; all within the same party. But there is a change of style, which the aggrieved camp is resisting. Oyetola has focused on certain activities, including regular payment of salaries, debt settlement, infrastructural development, and review of some educational policies. These were not meant to despise his former boss. Analysts have averred that the governor was being realistic, contending that he, more or less, was responding to public yearnings. But the cold war of succession in 2018 had been carried over. The result was the deepening of gulf and resurgence of a curious predecessor-successor crisis, which has polarised the Osun chapter. Although party elders, including former governor, Chief Bisi Akande, have tried to broker reconciliation, it was futile. The peace move hit the rock. A group, known as TOP (The Osun Progressives), which drew inspiration from Aregbesola, then entered the scene. Its goal is to make the governor lose the ticket and disgrace him out of office. But the group may have exaggerated its strength. Observers have berated its members for a shortfall in strategy. It could not take the party machinery away from the governor, whose camp triumphed at the state party congress. The acrimony within intensified due to the loss of the critical structure. As Aregbesola openly identified with the group and its battle cry, tension escalated in the party. Amid the flexing of muscles, attention has shifted to Osun APC as a battlefield. The effect is that if there is no effective reconciliation after today’s contest, Osun APC will go to the poll as a divided house. Post-primary defection cannot be ruled out. But the greatest danger is the likelihood of subverting the interest of the party. Indeed, some aggrieved chieftains may still tarry within the fold for the purpose of undermining it on Election Day. As a foregone conclusion, the cracks may strengthen the equally crisis-ridden PDP to challenge APC to a duel with greater confidence. Did Aregbesola’s outbursts at Ijebu-Jesa signal the parting of ways? To many chieftains, it is worrisome that loyalty is tested by the storm and stress of political life. But the great leader, his former boss, being a very accommodating and tolerant politician, is not likely to shut his door at associates, should they show remorse and retrace their steps. To observers, the ego of the faction would be further bruised, if Oyetola, after winning re-nomination, also triumphs at the second term poll. The plot to stop or postpone today’s primary collapsed few weeks ago. The factional chairman’s lawyer had submitted a petition to the national leadership of the party to put the screening of aspirants on hold. The request was not entertained. The reason was that the National Caretaker Committee, led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, recognises Gboyega Famodun as authentic Osun APC chairman and not Lowo Adebiyi, who Aregbesola is backing. SPONSORED