A Federal High Court in Abuja on Friday struck out a suit seeking to void the appointment of Professor Abayomi Sunday Fasina as Vice Chancellor of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE). Justice Inyang Ekwo, in a judgment, held that the plaintiff – Tableland Society For the Oppressed (TSFO) – lacked the locus standi to institute the suit, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/250/2021. Justice Ekwo further held that plaintiff failed to establish that it was registered by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) to engage in public interest litigation and question the activities of government’s agencies. The judge, who upheld the defendants’ preliminary objection, denied jurisdiction over the case and proceeded to strike it out. Listed as defendants in the suit are the Minister of Education, the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti; the Chairman of FUOYE’s Governing Council; the institution’s Registrar; the Chairman, National University Commission and Prof. Fasina. - Advertisement -   17 roasted to death as tanker explodes on Lagos-Ibadan…     VIDEO: Aggrieved passengers disrupt Arik Air operations over…     Court to address disruptions caused by Kanu’s trial…   TSFO had argued among others that Fasina was not qualified for the appointment having allegedly been indicted for wrong doing and having also not done well in the interview during the selection process. It accused the university’s Governing Council of manipulating selection process to favour Fashina. The plaintiff prayed the court to among others, void Fasina’s appointment and order the conduct of fresh appointment process. The group stated, in court documents document stated  that “the 6 defendant (Fasina) was indicted by the committee set up by Ekiti State University Ado-Ekiti for collecting double salary from both Ekiti State University Ado-Ekiti and Federal University Oye-Ekiti. “Section 42 of the Constitution has been violated by the appointment of the 6th defendant, who failed the selection interview organised. “The defendants have all endorsed and unjustly conferred the position of the Vice Chancellor on the 6th defendant who is not qualified at the expense of qualified candidates purely on the basis of discrimination. “The 6th defendant was the worst candidate at the interview, but was unjustly favoured by the 3rd defendant contrary to section 2: 14C of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti Regulations governing the condition of Service of senior staff.” SPONSORED