AFTER a successful debut outing, The annual Coal City Film Festival sets to roll out the best of movie showbiz in African entertainment. The theme of this year’s edition is the “Glocalization of Africa Cinema” set to hold from 24th to 26th of March in Enugu, the historic capital of southeast Nigeria. The festival first made its wave into the galore of theatrical ceremonies in March 2021 when it celebrated locally renowned and impressive filmmakers, actors, actresses, screenwriters, directors, producers involved in the movie-making with accolades for their great cinematic endeavours in the Nigeria film industry. Similarly, it also featured tourism visitations, as it recorded an entry of whopping 62 selected films submitted by different numerous filmmakers all over the world.   What I do after shooting X-rated movies, by Alesh     AGN partners StarTimes for content production     Laolu Gbenjo set for one of kind US Tour   Coal City Festival Director of Communications, Sammy Ajufo, stated that everything is in place to ensure another successful outing for this year’s film festival. - Advertisement - According to him, new additions to this year’s edition are the inclusion of Palm Wine & Bush Meat Round table and the Coal City Film Festival Hall of Fame among others. Attendance at the Festival will be by registration which grants participants free unlimited access to the above-mentioned activities and registration remains open till the Festival ends. “This year about 50 films were carefully selected by our jury team headed by the indefectible, multi-award-winning Nigerian filmmaker, Obi Emelonye, currently based in the United Kingdom. Other members of the jury include Professor Dr. Mohan Das from India, Tiffany Thomas and John Henry Richardson; USA, Leonard Amanya; Uganda, Emem Isong and Judith Audu; Nigeria, he said. He also stated that this edition will likely feature Beginners’ Classes for Actors, Classes for Filmmakers, Scriptwriters, Master Classes, Panel Discussions, Film Screenings, City Tours, and Award Gala Night.” SPONSORED