One of the fallouts of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic is that a lot of brands have had to devised means and ways of weathering the storm created by the pandemic thus far. The beginning of the pandemic heralded a period of uncertainty, deprivation and anxiety, while billions of people globally searched for a sense of the ‘familiar’. Certain studies have also shown how brands have emerged to provide structure and meaning, which is related to a higher perceived relevance and a stronger tendency to connect brands to the self. Present in restaurants and eateries to kitchen cabinets and white plastic containers across almost all Nigerian homes, there is hardly, arguably, a better brand that could provide a sense of what appears true and familiar than Unilever’s Knorr brand. Most importantly, it is one of the most popular brands in Africa – one that has successfully carved a niche for itself in the market even amidst intense competition. It is obvious that companies are adapting their strategies to appear cause-related, but Knorr’s focus on addressing sustainability has been evident for decades. The brand has been a purveyor of innovative foods for over 175 years, and has actively worked with farmers, suppliers, and chefs to achieve its commitment to source all vegetables, herbs, and cereals sustainably. At the beginning of 2021, the food and seasoning brand launched ‘Eat for Good’, a global campaign encouraging people to change the world by swapping one ingredient in their routine meals for a nutritious food that is better for the planet.   Moody’s acquisition of majority stake in African firm…     Ministry gets N210b SUKUK funding for roads     Fed Govt eyes N50b from Onitsha River Port concession   As the country gradually reopened last August, the leading seasoning brand announced the launch of its 2021 consumer promo where 24 winners carted away a cash prize of N12,000,000, with N500,000 given out weekly over 12 weeks. Through the Knorr Nigeria ‘Unwrap and Win’ consumer promo, over 20,000 consumers walked away with instant gifts such as microwaves, blenders, cooking sets, aprons, chopping boards, umbrellas and more. According to the brand, the promo was aimed at rewarding loyal consumers while also encouraging more households to sample its range of products made with natural ingredients. The weekly live grand prize draw was held across different cities, including Port-Harcourt, Enugu, Owerri, Ibadan, Lagos, and Onitsha. Mrs. Fatobure, one of the winners of the N500,000 grand prize said, “Winning this promo has really changed my life. It came at a time when my family was very broke, but now I can cater for them and also buy more fish to expand my business.” Interestingly, these activities become more effective when they connect with the authenticity of the brands that initiate them. During last year’s International Women’s Day, Latasha Ngwube, a media practitioner and celebrity influencer said: “In my research on who Unilever is, and its stance in this ever going battle against gender inequality, I discovered that for a company that has over 149,000 employees among 10,000 managers globally, the company has succeeded in maintaining a 50-50 men-to-women ratio, giving them 5,000 male managers and 5,000 female managers.”