Plateau Governor Simon Bako Lalong has welcomed the decision of the Senate to create a Campus of the Nigerian Law School in the State. He said the Bill amending the Legal Education Act to create six new campuses across the country was a welcome development. Lalong said the decision by the Senate is highly commendable as it will further strengthen the training of legal professionals and reduce the challenges faced by graduates in attending the Law School, which is a prerequisite for call to the Bar. He said: “I strongly commend the Senate for this decision and the choice of Plateau State as a host of one of the new campuses. “This is a right choice considering the fact that Plateau has been a leading producer of lawyers in Nigeria with the University of Jos churning out many graduates who have gone ahead to make the nation proud in the Bench, the Bar and other sectors.   APC Governors extol Fayemi at 57     Pressure on Buhari to reject reworked Electoral Bill     ‘We need a secure nation to produce candidates for political…   - Advertisement - “Only recently, we finalised plans to establish a new Law Faculty at the Plateau State University Bokkos to expand the training of lawyers in the State and nation at large”. While expressing optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari will not hesitate to give his assent to the amended law, the Governor assured that Plateau State is ready to host the new Law School Campus as it is a home of learning supported by good weather, hospitable people and enough infrastructure to support the Institution. Lalong, in a statement by his spokesman, Dr. Makut Macham, commended Senate President Dr. Ahmad Lawan, the leadership and entire members of the Senate; Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters; as well as the Sponsor of the Bill Senator Smart Adeyemi for doing the needful to pass the amendment creating the new Law School campuses. The Governor is also happy that the efforts of his administration in working assiduously to restore peace to the State are yielding positive results as Plateau is now substantially peaceful which has continued to attract not only investors and visitors, but Federal projects and Institutions. The Federal Government last year approved the establishment of the Federal Polytechnic Ny’ak, Shendam; Karl Kumm University Vom; ANAN University Kwall and the Federal University of Education Pankshin, all in Plateau State.