One minor scandal is enough to down the ordinary police officer from his flight. Some other officers need more than one major scandal to make a dent on them. It has taken two major scandals to draw reasonable attention to the life and career of Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Abba Kyari, until his suspension, leader of the controversially celebrated Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT). Hopefully, notwithstanding his gilded position in the Police Force, the scandals will acquire enough amperage to down or irreparably damage him. Last July, the Police Service Commission (PSC) ordered his suspension after the United States Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) indicted him together with notorious fraudster, Ramon Abbas, alias Hushpuppi. Between last July and when Mr Kyari went on another caper this January, the police dilly-dallied over the controversial officer’s case, particularly the request by the FBI to have him extradited to the US. After what seemed interminable investigations, the PSC, citing unsatisfactory reports, ordered another round of investigations. The second round of investigations was still in the works when, like a villain fated to destruction, Mr Kyari embarked on a drug scandal captured on video by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). What makes Mr Kyari’s case extraordinarily outrageous is not that it has taken two scandals to undo him, one of which was his self-immolating and audacious January drug gambit, but that the police pussyfooted for nearly seven months to take decisive action on his case. They had ignored series of complaints against him while he led the special anti-robbery squad in Lagos. Secondly, and perhaps even more perverse, for an officer on suspension and facing an international indictment, it was curious that Mr Kyari still had enough latitude during that suspension to continue to perpetrate all sorts of malfeasances. The implication, in case this image disaster is lost on the police, is that Mr Kyari was treated with kid gloves because of his connections, or because he had compromised many other officers. What does this do to the morale of diligent, ethical and hard working officers? Another implication is that while still suspended, his case was inexplicably not handled by the police hierarchy with the sobriety and gravity it deserved. In short, it could be interpreted to mean that favoured police officers are hardly or often not properly supervised. Worse, for Mr Kyari to continue carrying out selected duties in one form or the other during suspension, and with some of his subordinates acquiescing to his orders, knowing same to be illegal, implies that the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) is not as tight and disciplined a professional law enforcement body as it publicly presents and sometimes asserts vehemently. Compounding this abominable and nationally embarrassing situation is the jostle between the police and the NDLEA over a fairly straightforward case. The police did not demonstrate enough outrage, and should not have spared Mr Kyari at all, assuming other extraneous considerations had not intervened. It enabled the NDLEA, just emerging from its own lethargy and years of somnolence, to exult over the matter. But if the drug agency had not publicised the case through a press conference, would the police have surrendered their wayward officers? And rather than quietly lick their wounds, the police again pushed the envelope by insinuating the culpability of NDLEA officers in the drug caper that finally brought Mr Kyari down. Not one to suffer fools gladly, the NDLEA responded in kind by asserting the sanctity of their investigations and reiterating the indictment of the arrested police officers. The scandalous fact that the suspended Mr Kyari led the ill-fated operations should have restrained the police authorities from seeking to make NDLEA an institutional co-accused. It is humbling enough that the police felt mortified by the adverse public perception expected to follow the unusual scandal; but what they needed to do was not to seek illicit relief in involving the NDLEA in the saga, but to pursue brilliant and effective ways of reassuring the public that Mr Kyari did not typify the police force, nor that the police routinely brooked favouritism in handling malfeasant officers. - Advertisement - Unfortunately, the presidency cannot also be absolved of blame in the saga. Nigerians witnessed the spectacle of the PSC crossing swords with the police in late 2020 over the recruitment of constables into the Police Force. The battle, which ended in litigation, quickly became one of who really controlled the police. The Court of Appeal resolved the matter in favour of the PSC. However, if the presidency paid attention to the disaster unfolding over the Kyari/Hushpuppi/cocaine cases, it would have been alert to the urgent need for a presidential overview and review of the Police Force in its entirety. The presidency probably hid behind constitutional provisions to allow agencies such as the police enough latitude to function without constraints. But the men involved are appointees of the president.   NAFDAC impounds 120 tons of deadly imported ponmo     Female Genital Mutilation: The hurt, the deprivation, the…     Enugu shuts markets, offices for council polls   Now, much more than the police, the nation is affected by the sordidness of the case, a sordidness that has sadly assumed global dimension. In the eyes of the world, the case portrays the Nigeria Police as an undisciplined organisation, the government as incompetent and inadequate, and the presidency itself distracted or, worst, conniving. It has led to speculations that there is a grand plot to help the ‘favoured’ Mr Kyari evade extradition. Whether true or not, and whether justice is served in Nigeria or abroad, the case calls for a more attentive, disciplined and objective government, atop which sits the presidency. If they could respond fiercely and promptly to the killings of 22 Ondo-bound Muslim travelers in Jos last August, they have a responsibility to maintain the same tempo in all other cases involving threats to law and order.  Dissatisfied with the lack of result from their many meetings in Nigeria, some PDP governors, reported this newspaper, travelled to Accra, Ghana, last week to continue their deliberations over how to zone the 2023 presidential ticket. The governors had gathered in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State to celebrate Governor Duoye Diri’s second anniversary, and spontaneously decided to hop to Ghana in search of a consensus. If the air in Nigeria was not salubrious enough, might that of Ghana be of help? The meeting, which according to the report held between Tuesday and Wednesday, probably thought so. Agreeing to a zoning formula, particularly in reference to the presidential ticket, has been especially difficult for the PDP. So far they have toyed with zillion scenarios, and have drawn blank. Those from whose palms the party feeds are interested in running for president. To them, if not now, when. Their collective answer is ‘now’. This explains why northern governors are pitched against southern governors, with hardly a room between. They will eventually hammer out a deal in the nick of time. Since they can’t all be president at the same time, something must therefore give. But for now, for as long as there is still elbow room, the PDP governors will play hard ball. And as time goes on, they will realise that their disagreements have nothing to do with the air they breathe, and that until altruism takes over, there would be no balm in any Gilead, no matter where it is located on the map. As Shakespeare elegantly put it in his play Julius Caesar, “The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars/But in ourselves, that we are underlings”. The governors are responsible for their own stalemate. SPONSORED