The Bishop of Arch Province of Lagos Most Rev Dr Humphrey Olumakaiye has dedicated the building of the Nubian American Advance College at Chevron Drive Lekki, Lagos. Named Barak House, the dedication is preparatory to the take-off of the revolutionary system of education. The dedication attracted several dignitaries, including Chairman Board of Trustees and Chief Promoter of the College, Dr. Azhinoto Ikpah and other board members. They include Ven. Kiri Wakama and his wife; Prof. Adetunji Amusa; Mrs. Mobola Fashola; Prof. Oyekhare; Dr. Femi Osiyale; Mrs Oge and Mrs. Sarah Osedo (Nubian Foundation Lawyer and others). Olumakaiye appreciated God for the vision to establish the college and prayed for a successful take off of the Nubian American Advanced College in resounding health, good staff and students that will take the institution to a greater height. - Advertisement - He prayed that in the shortest time possible, the name Nubian American College will be a household name in Nigeria and the worldwide. After, the dedication and cutting of the tape to declare the building open, he sanctified the ground floor lecture room. The chairman of the Board and Chief promoter of the college, Dr Ikpah said: “Education is the key to unleashing the potential of the youths of today” and the Nubian American Advanced College is determined to rise up to the challenge and give the best education to the students the way it is done in America where they have the holistic education system, empowering students with leadership, economic and social skills, where there is a defined relationship between education, industry and the society.”   Old boys relive school memories     BSU, Ashi Poly sign MoU     ‘Make Yoruba compulsory’   The Nubian American Advanced College is initially modelled after the American 2-year community college where students can transfer their semester credit hours to any of our partner Universities in the US or Nigeria. It also offers Associate Degree, Certification and Certificates for students that wish to work after 2 years of vocational training. The College offers professional, pre-professional and will commence with: Arts & Sciences, Agriculture, Technical & Vocational Studies, Engineering, Health Sciences and Nursing, Engineering Technology and ICT and Pre-professional courses in Medicine, Law, Pharmacy, Density etc. “Part of the uniqueness of this college is that it offers work/study and cooperative programs for those that need the extra funds to afford their education and internship programs with companies and Industries to provide students with hands on education and familiarity of the quality of students with the private sector to facilitate jobs at graduation. “The motto: is no student is left behind. If a student cannot afford the tuition he or she can enrol in the work study program. NAAC also has an endowment fund to support scholarships, research, infrastructure and award-winning instructors,” Ikpah added. Guests were taken on a tour of the three-floor building to showcase what the Nubian institution has in place for the community. Some of the facilities include: a first class fully equipped lecture rooms that can conveniently accommodate about 100 students at a go for physical and online lectures; a comfortable student’s lounge for relaxation after their lectures and an assignment corner for them to do their assignments before closing for the day; a library that will take care of the physical and online library use of the students including provision of laptops; tastefully furnished offices for staff as well as lecturer’s cubicle to enable them prepare well ahead of lectures; standard laboratories that can conveniently accommodate not less than 50 students in each Laboratory and others.