The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has raised the alarm over alleged incessant abductions and killings in Imo and other States in the South East. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB called on the international community and other Human Rights Organisations to send an investigation team to the affected communities. It regretted that the incessant killing of the youths had turned the affected communities into Ghost towns, warning that it was time to expose the atrocities. The statement reads in part: “We raise the alarm over the incessant, abductions and killings going on in Imo State and other states in the South East region by Nigeria security agents employed by the Supreme Court Administrator of Imo State Hope Uzodinma and his criminal allies. “The criminal gangs of the infamous Ebubeagu security outfit with the joint task force of compromised Nigeria Army and police have eliminated scores of innocent youths in many communities in Orsu and Orlu LGAs of Imo State. - Advertisement - “Those who were lucky to escape their bullets they chased out of their ancestral land. Women and children were not spared in this brutal wickedness.   Air Force security stops Ortom from receiving Osibanjo on…     Tinubu visits Ogun monarchs, seeks blessings for…     Oxlade: Putting it all on display   “The list of hapless communities affected include but not limited to the following: Oboh Umutanze, Attah, Okporo, Amaifeke, Ihioma, Ama-aza, Amannachi, Nnempi, Akata, Orsuihiteukwa and Umutanze. “Mortuaries across Imo State especially in Owerri are filled with unclaimed corpses who are burred in a mass graves or destroyed with acid from time to time. “We call on the United Nations, America, British High Commissioner, Israeli Ambassador, German Ambassador, French Ambassador, Canadian Ambassador, Japanese Ambassador, Australian Ambassador, Amnesty International, Intersocity groups, Human Rights Watch and all Human Rights Organisations across the globe to send an investigation team to these communities and find out what the situation is. ” They will confirm to their amazement that nobody is dwelling in these communities. Imo youths and people have been indiscriminately and mercilessly killed by terrorist soldiers deployed in Imo State by the Federal Government in collaboration with Hope Uzodinma. “The incessant killing of the youths of these communities has turned the affected communities into Ghost towns. “It’s too appalling that Ebubeagu security outfit would join hands in killing our people and call them unknown gunmen. History will judge them all.”