Jennifer Douglas Abubakar, the third wife of former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has given reasons for the controversies trailing her efforts to divorce the politician. Some reports on several social media platforms and some sections of the media that Jennifer asked Atiku for divorce, following his decision to take a new wife. In a statement, titled: Putting the Records Straight, Jennifer explained that she had asked Atiku for a divorce on June 26, 2021, “in light of the breakdown of our marriage”. In a statement to The Trent, an online platform, she dismissed the claim and described it as “a campaign of calumny to total discredit and put me in bad light”. The lawyer said she had asked Atiku for a divorce on June 26, 2021, adding that contrary to rumours, the union hit the rocks after a disagreement over her continued stay in the United Kingdom (UK) with their children. - Advertisement - The entrepreneur said she was already aware that Atiku had a new wife, even though he did not inform her. “The core reason for the divorce was disagreement over my continued stay in the United Kingdom, to look after my children and several other long-standing issues,” she said. “I needed to play the role of a mother at this time to the children who have gone through the absence of both father and mother growing up, especially with the passage of my elder sister who used to look after them.   Pension complaints and solutions     Fresh hurdles for re-worked Electoral Bill     Suit dismissal clears way for Balogun as Olubadan   “Furthermore, in light of COVID times, choosing to stay with the children was nonnegotiable. And, in line with Northern culture, the new wife takes up the baton, so I can also focus on giving the kids more care. “Despite not informing us officially, according to northern/Islamic culture, I knew about His Excellency’s new wife from the time His Excellency was dating her and when His Excellency eventually married her. “I have graciously invited our new wife to my son’s wedding in Dubai in 2018 without any ill feelings and congratulated His Excellency when our new wife put to bed. “I was already aware that His Excellency had got married to our new wife but that did not deter me from supporting His Excellency and, indeed, we went through a most rigorous electioneering campaign and garnered massive support for his election in 2019. “That His Excellency married a new wife was never the cause of our problem, as many have said. His Excellency is a Muslim and I have never questioned him about his wives or intended.” Jennifer also dismissed claims she attempted to take over properties belonging to the former presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nigeria and Dubai. She said after her request for divorce, the politician asked her to return the house and other properties he earlier gifted her. The lawyer also said she decided to give her own account of the issue to address the various speculations trailing her efforts to get a divorce.