The newly appointed Managing Director, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mr Mohammed Bello Koko, has assured stakeholders in the maritime industry and the general public  that his administration will  boost revenue generation, ensure rehabilitation of decaying port infrastructure, improve patronage of eastern ports as well as ensure timely completion of Lekki Deep Seaport. Speaking with reporters, Bello-Koko also said that he would work to have a fully automated port system that will fit into global best practices and boost trade facilitation at the port. He assured stakeholders that he would also  improve port efficiency and block revenue leakages and ensure rehabilitation of decaying port infrastructure. “Fencing and deployment of security access control gates at all ports to reduce porosity of the ports, reduce thefts and safeguard the ports and collaboration with other government agencies like NCS to improve efficiency and put up measures to reduce cargo waiting time. While giving glory to God for his appointment,  he said: - Advertisement - “I’d want to thank Almighty Allah, then express my profound gratitude to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for this incredible opportunity to serve the nation as the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority. “A special appreciation to the Honorable Minister of Transportation, Rt. HR. Rotimi Ameachi, whose recommendation played a significant role in my confirmation.   Lagos mulls ethical bonds to fund infrastructure     Jiji: We’re committed to accelerate growth     Fed Govt signs pact with eight solar developers for…   “With my experience as the Executive Director F&A and later Acting Managing Director, I will continue to work with all stakeholders to create an institution that is responsive to the expectations of the government, maritime industry, and the general public. “As we move to complete the Lekki deep seaport, we are open to investments to develop other strategic deep seaports in the country.” “While also pursuing rehabilitation of decaying ports infrastructure, improving marine services, cutting down expenditures, improving revenue, and pursuing aggressively, recovery of debts, we will however not relent on our core mandate ?-? trade facilitation; easing gridlock in the ports, and encouraging the full utilization of the Eastern Ports. “Our vision is to have a fully automated port system that will fit into global port standards. “I’m not unaware of the enormity of the task reposed on me. I will, therefore, carry it out with utmost diligence and put the national interest ahead and above anything else. ” I want to extend my profound gratitude to the Board, Management, and staff of the Authority for their support and professional relationship. “Special gratitude to my friends and family especially, for their understanding and perseverance, and the general public for their kind words and best wishes. I feel greatly honored and do not take your words for granted,” he said.   SPONSORED