Merely by the ululations and the backslappings that have greeted the ‘suspension’ of the removal of the controversial fuel subsidy, one would be forgiven to think that the brouhaha has finally been laid to rest. Thanks to the mother-of-all-strikes threatened by labour cheered on by the hordes of emergency ‘experts’ who have done little else that trade in the familiar fixations, another great opportunity to fully and exhaustively interrogate the options that the country faced such that it could emerge a win-win for all may have unfortunately again been missed. In a clime where populism thrives, I perfectly understand the familiar labelling of contrarian viewpoints as being somewhat ‘treasonable’.  It does not help when those who ordinarily should know would conveniently frame issues around clichés, the run-of-the mill polar continuums of ‘we versus them’ or ‘masses versus the government’ while issues are conveniently stripped of context in its broadest sense for better appreciation of the governance issues involved. The refrain -by now familiar – it is the government’s mess and so it must find the money to clear the mess! So much for the problem-solving-savvy activists of our time, that mess, it turns out, will cost, not the obtuse government, but you and me – the ordinary tax paying folks – a whopping N3 trillion in the current year! Did I hear someone suggest that the government go ahead to print new notes to cover the difference? And that from a government that is already borrowed to a hilt? That’s how banal sometimes things can get! So much for a reprieve – a case of an uneasy peace of the graveyard; the removal now off, is supposed to deserve celebration, never mind that the embedded folly of a nation that would rather cut its nose to spite its face would soon be revealed in the course of time. Imagine the same puritan activists to whom borrowing is also an anathema now chanting the hallelujah chorus since apparently the devil of subsidy has been put to shame! Sorry to disillusion them; this devil is going nowhere. In fact, it is not about to be exorcized. Make all the right noises about the poor choices of the past; add to it the sermon on the mount on the subject of the road not taken and with it, anecdotes on the delinquency – or if you like – the criminal predilection of the political elite; it does nothing to alter the cold reality of the mess we are in! - Advertisement - Like they say, when you are in a hole; you quit digging! Some Nigerians, it would appear, not only insist that we continue digging, but pray that with some tough luck we might somehow drill our ways out! Part of that is living in the denial that we are not down and out yet; and that should the inevitable happen, the world will somehow show understanding until things calm down. And now that the nation is already on the election mode, everything else – save politics – should also be pause mode!  Most regrettable. Too bad that the rest of the world have chosen to see the tell-tale signs of a metastasizing malignancy hence their unwillingness to entreat a financially delinquent nation to a fancy profligacy course of petrol subsidy after ratcheting up a staggering public debt of N38 trillion ($92.626bn). Ask the Chinese who have suddenly grown cold to our insatiable appetite for loans. If in doubt, call Rotimi Amaechi, the administration’s point-man in everything Chinese for corroboration; Nigeria, it is increasingly apparent, is fast becoming a creditor’s nightmare! Now, let’s not talk about our familiar sparring partners – the Breton Woods Institutions and their satanic tales. Their concerns, although of a different kind, boils down to the same point: our country is on the verge of bankruptcy.   Futility — and stupidity — of military rule     El-Rufai, local engineers and Kaduna’s turnaround     Nigeria’s need for political entrepreneurs   Funny how some people still pretend otherwise. Some compare us with Saudi Arabia, a country that could afford the luxury of a stupendous life of luxury without the daily grind of work. Imagine the incongruity of comparing a country of 210 million people with foreign reserve of $35 billion with another of some 35 million people with a $501.8 billion in foreign reserves. Truth is Nigeria is actually in good company with the other oil-producing basket case country of Venezuela! Eighteen months, we are told will soon be here (really) – and with it the Eldorado. By this they mean the arrival of the 650,000 barrels per day Dangote Refinery without as much a thought to how that transition to the liberal regime will take place.  In any case, would it matter, if between now and then, some N4.5 trillion gets blown away on the subsidy? Do we have the funds? Where will it come from? I wish the answer is that straightforward. A respected friend and colleague, who I prefer not to name, holds strongly to the view that the current conundrum actually serves this particular government right! Moreover, that no single administration exists to solve all problems. He’s probably right – although in a different kind of way. The first count would be on the administration’s rather cynical reading of the subsidy economics and which underlay its initial public posturing, and more crucially, its failure to wash its hands off fuel trade shortly after taking office! Isn’t it ironic that the same government which is the number one problem of the sector is now being sought after to help clear the mess it created – a nigh impossibility? Surely, the problem did not start yesterday. It started when the power drunk federal government took the first refinery built by Shell under its wings and thereafter rolled out other decrees – the most notable of which is the Petroleum Equalisation Fund Decree – and with it the gross distortions from which the nation has not been able to escape. See why fundamental changes have become nigh impossible? The states of the refineries are at best a symptom of a more organic ailment. Those who had the money and technology apparently knew better than to help Nigeria out. It didn’t happen under Babangida; Not under Sani Abacha when things actually hit the nadir. Obasanjo is today better remembered as the leader who made the tough call of selling two of the refineries to a consortium led by Dangote which sadly Yar’Adua reversed. Today, many with the benefit of hindsight, believe it was the best course to take. With Goodluck Jonathan came the prospect of the refineries being handed over to their original builders but even that soon fell apart before it could come to fruition. To those who had expected things to be different under President Buhari, it has been a tragic lesson in wishful thinking. Of course, it would take more than the clichés or even the measured sound-bites of a Mai Gaskiya to get those contraptions back into action! The current TAM, like those before it, is money down the drain! Expect nothing to change anytime soon or even in the future -until that time when government decides it’s time to let go of the refineries. A return to status quo ante, as against stale and utterly unhelpful effusions by labour and their allies, may not necessary be the perfect route to the Eldorado we so desire; it seems in the current circumstances, a path informed by wisdom. With good bargain strategy in place, we might just be able to hive off a huge chunk of the N3 trillion subsidy-gate in a public scrap auction.