Napoli coach Luciano Spalletti said Victor  Osimhen  can still offer his side quality after the Nigerian  scored with a wonderful header  on his return  in the 2-0 away win over Tyronne Ebuehi’s Venezia in the Serie A yesterday The Partenopei welcomed back Osimhen for his first start since November 21, when suffering multiple facial fractures in a clash of heads, but Hirving Lozano, Axel Tuanzebe and Adam Ounas were injured, with Kalidou Koulibaly and Zambo Anguissa still at the Africa Cup of Nations. Napoli took the lead when Politano whipped a ball to the back post, where Osimhen peeled away from his marker to steer the header back across the face of goal into the far top corner. He celebrated with a Mark of Zorro gesture to go with the protective mask. “I’m delighted to get back out on the pitch and to have found the net. I’m finally fit again. I felt ready to do my bit for the team and I’m thrilled to have opened the scoring. The team has helped me so much and this win is fully deserved,” Osimhen told the club’s website.  “It wasn’t easy to take on and overcome Venezia. They’re a good side that know how to make it difficult for you. We did very well to take control of the game.   Al Hilal 6-1 Al Jazira: Ighalo grabs first  Al-Hilal goal     SUPER EAGLES JOB: No contract yet with Peseiro, says Pinnick     Fury backs Wilder to knock out Joshua   - Advertisement -  “Now we’ll focus on Inter. It’ll be a really important match against a fantastic side and we want to give it our all. Our aim is to battle for the Scudetto.” But it really was not Tyronne Ebuehi’s day, as in stoppages he saw a straight red card following a VAR on-field review for his very high tackle on Dries Mertens. Speaking after the important win over their host, Spalletti was full of praises for the 23-year-old Nigeria international. He said: “Osimhen has the qualities and characteristics, it is we who must improve to serve him better. It is we who do not always have to dribble and crush the opposing team by sending the ball deep faster without giving the defenders the possibility to defend on its qualities. Meanwhile, Spalletti said  Napoli was  in the race for the Scudetto against the  likes of  Inter Milan and AC Milan. “I know that you want 17 teams to win the Scudetto,” he said.“We must have a serious attitude, with the grin of someone who wants to win all the games. However, there are strong teams we have to deal with.”