Former Deputy President of the Senate, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, in this interview with our guest writer, Dr. Ephraim Ugwu, spoke on his gubernatorial ambition and warned that it is dangerous to sacrifice competence and experience just to allow puppets to occupy political offices. He also explains why some past leaders are so scared stiff out of office. Excerpt. Why is there so much opposition to your gubernatorial ambition from unexpected quarters? It is unfortunate and the tragedy of our time, that we sacrifice competence and experience for mere puppets, who definitely would fail their political ‘god fathers ‘, with such alacrity that bewilders. History is replete with such oddities. Shouldn’t the people of Enugu learn from history? Let’s cursorily delve into the past. The Great Zik of Africa, former President of Nigeria, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, whom I hold in awe and highest respect, was said to have picked Chief Jim Ifeanyichukwu Nwobodo as the candidate of the Nigerian Peoples Party (NPP). We know too well how that relationship ended. Ex-Governor Jim Nwobodo also from Enugu East, chose Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani. It is common knowledge how they parted ways and the so called ‘god father’, ran away from the state and hardly visited Enugu throughout the tenure of Chimaroke. Nnamani picked Barrister Sullivan Chime; it ended disastrously. The ex Governor now a senator, ran away from the state and hibernated in the United States and had to be helped back and given a life line politically by the present Governor, Ugwuanyi. In all these, it is crystal clear that anointing candidates and forcing them down the throats of the electorate and people or the state, has its concomitant consequences and always created bad blood in the end. Not only do you deny the people the right to choose their leaders, but they are hoodwinked and boxed to a corner to sing praises just to get their daily bread. We are saying no to such archaic processes. Let’s have a level playing ground and let the best emerge through a universal suffrage of the people’s choice and votes respectively. Are you worried you could be shortchanged? The state is a PDP stronghold. Anyone who gets the nomination, of course, the party is his, at the beck and call. Besides, my structures are intact, well oiled getting set for the race. No one should play God in our state. Only God gives power to whoever he so decides. Severally in the past, people have always tried to stop me, but the God of mercy that I serve knows it all and has ever put them to shame and I triumph at the end. There is no going back. We are resolute and I am enamoured by the genuine messages, private visits from the young and old, men and women, the youths and especially Enugu citizens in Diaspora, urging me to remain steadfast that victory would be ours eventually. Those in Diaspora mince no words about it, they think am better placed to replicate and complement what Anambra did by electing an experienced technocrat politician like me to give the Iboland, its desired place in the comity of other states in the federation. We intend to provide good governance, unfettered access from the people to the leadership, tackle headlong insecurity, roads, create massive employment opportunities, revitalise moribund industries and establish new industries. Employment takes the youths out of crime, out of the streets, and ensures good security for the people and the state in general. In our first four years, we intend to establish two industries each in every Local Government of the state. With Tourism and Sports and Film industry, Enugu will be the cynosure of all.   ANALYSIS: Parties, aspirants walk tightrope     Voter apathy, violence mar bye-elections in Imo, Ondo,…     Kinsmen mount pressure on Wike to run for President   We want to change the sad story of our people, the neglects and employ the methodology of developmental and creative politics to develop the welfare of our people, reaching out to all on equal proportions. Are there areas you believe are touch stones of your contributions to the state? Too many to mention. The present approval to site a Federal University at Mpu, having been okayed in the Senate, now pursuing it at the House of Representatives, is one major milestone. It will definitely serve also the bordering States of Imo and Abia, the merits unquantifiable. We had lost a Federal Polytechnic, two of such were approved but the President signed that of Daura and left ours. Unfettered, we have finally gotten this University, and we cannot thank God enough. We have done several roads in Aninri, Akaeze and beyond, Mpu- Ebonyi Ishiagu, Nduma Nenwe- Agwu Mgbowo to Ozara Agwunta and beyond   Ugwuoba – Udi  Abor Opi junction Ring Road, Egede Afor Mbulumbu   Nenwe qNomeh Nara. In Enugu North Senatorial zone outside my constituency, the Iheaka Igbo Eze South also done roads in Isi-Uzo. Few days ago, we sent cash donations and food stuff to tens of hundreds of Eha-Amufu people displaced by Fulani herdsmen and bandits. We have delivered boreholes in Iheaka, Ovoko, Nsukka and parts of Igbo-Etiti including building over 30 boreholes. One has been in the struggle that helped give Enugu the status of an International Airport and also making sure that Ethiopian Airlines resumed and extended flight operations to Akanu Ibiam International Airport Enugu. We have followed up the awards of crucial work on the 9th Mile Corner to Enugu Onitsha and Enugu Portharcourt roads, the Civil Defence Training School at Oji River and the Open University complex built in Agwu now also housing the Department of State Security DSS Training School in the whole South East, the list is endless. Why has it been difficult for the President to assent the Electoral Act? Should he refuse the second time, can the National Assembly veto him? The Electoral Act is one major achievement of the National Assembly and if it becomes operational, would checkmate lots of electoral lapses. It is a major development in our electoral reforms. The delay indeed is not good for our democracy and it is scary to our electoral partners and agencies of democratic systems world over. It took care of pre electioneering mix ups, giving enough time to sort out election complaints, appeals etc, allowing INEC to announce date of elections 365 days ahead, parties would have six months to do their primaries and complete not later than 180 days to the election proper. I have been pushing for at least that full 365 days circle as prevalent in, Ghana, Sierra Leone Togo, Niger and a host of other African nations. We have all worked hard on this Electoral Act, we should not lose what we have toiled and gained by this new Electoral Act now awaiting assent by Mr. President. I am a realist, with the greatest respect, with the composition of the present National Assembly, I do not see it vetoing Mr. President. It is germane to commend INEC for being steadfast in its conduct of elections. The Edo and Anambra Elections clearly pontificate a neutral umpire, gone are the days, when people will flaunt Federal might and intimidate the electorate. INEC should keep it up and improve on areas of lapses. How do you relax considering your very tight schedule as usual? I apologise to my friends but once in a while we bond together, have drinks and share conviviality. I like swimming, and love listening to music once I am in my car. Of course I am addicted to watching sports of fast moving cars. I find time to go to church and thank God for good health and blessing one to weather the storms of life as they come.