Many women experience unexplainable emotional changes after childbirth, one of which is post-partum depression. However, depression after childbirth often worsens because some live in denial while others cannot seek help because of the fear of stigmatisation. OYEBOLA OWOLABI reports that conversations about mood swings after childbirth, and the need to ensure access to help, are scaling up Omotola Uti, a mother of one, knew nothing about postpartum depression (PPD) till a few weeks to her delivery date. It was mentioned briefly during one of the ante-natal lectures, and this prompted her to further research into depression after childbirth – an illness that affects nothing less than 20 per cent of mothers in developing countries, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). This, however, did not exclude her from the experience. “I did not know about postpartum depression until few weeks to my delivery date, and that was because it was mentioned briefly during ante-natal. I then read further to get more understanding. And yes I experienced it after delivery. I was lost; I could not come to the reality of having just delivered my baby. I felt so strange that I avoided my baby sometimes. However my husband and mum gave the needed support, and because I had read about it, I was able to work on myself,” she said. Praise Agboola is a mother of two who also experienced PPD after giving birth to her first child. She wept profusely during her christening, though she couldn’t explain the reason for her sadness. “I couldn’t eat well, I couldn’t sleep well, I was sad for no reason, I always felt like crying and, some days, I just wanted to walk away because I didn’t want to see anybody come visit me or the baby. But I had a very supportive husband and mother who helped me in all ways and I gradually snapped out of it.” While Uti and Adeoye were lucky and are now sharing their stories to help others, some others are not. One of such is Bola Olorunyomi (pseudonym) who had one child before she died. This only child she could not even nurse because she died due to postpartum depression. Perhaps, her condition worsened because she was married to a cleric and they were too ashamed to seek medical help. They maybe lived in denial or thought the world would say they didn’t pray enough. Dolapo Olaoye didn’t experience any of this, but she lost someone to the condition. “Is postpartum depression real? Yes, most definitely! I know someone who had it; so I know it is real. She is late now following some complications. And even if she was alive, she won’t be willing to talk about it because she lived in denial.” According to medical experts, PPD can occur during pregnancy or after the birth of a baby. Postpartum depression is usually diagnosed within a year after the woman has given birth but can extend beyond that. Postpartum depression suffered by a mother following childbirth, typically arising from the combination of hormonal changes, psychological adjustment to motherhood, and fatigue; postnatal depression. It is estimated that 10 to 15 per cent of new adult mothers develop PPD within the first year after giving birth, and the percentage increases up to 26 per cent in adolescent mothers, according to monsenso.com, an online health magazine. However, it often remains undiagnosed. Postpartum depression and its causes explained According to medical practitioners, depression after childbirth falls under types of mental illnesses that affect human beings, especially women. Mental illnesses are disorders, illnesses, conditions and challenges that affect the way we think, act and behave, says Dr. Maymunah Kadiri, a mental health advocate, psychiatrist and psychotherapist, who is also the Medical Director of Pinnacle Medical Services, Lekki, Lagos. Dr. Kadiri, however, laments that women are generally twice prone to developing mental illnesses, one of which is depression. “Women generally are twice more depressed than men and there are some types of mental illnesses that are common in women than men, the most common being postpartum depression and this is because of our hormones. “Studies will tell you that one out of every 10 women suffers postpartum depression. What most women experience is postpartum blues within the first three days of delivery, and over 80 per cent of women experience blues. But if a woman is still repulsive of her child after one week, then it grows into postpartum depression, and if not managed well, can lead to psychosis even after the baby has grown older,” she said. Dr. Adebayo Awoniyi, a gynecologist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba, explains the diversity in the moods experienced by new mothers. “The spectrum starts with baby pink, baby blues, depression and the extreme, which is psychosis. Postpartum pink occurs a few days after a woman gives birth and this happens to all women. The new mother has elevated hormones, excitement, happiness, is hyperactive, and is sometimes unable to sleep. “Postpartum blues occurs in almost 80 per cent of women, especially after returning from the hospital and has no help. Symptoms could include the inability to sleep because of the baby and the pressure is on. This, if not taken care of properly, depreciates into depression, which could present as low mood, lack of interest in what you enjoy, low energy. Psychosis is the extreme leg of the spectrum. You know it has gotten to this level when the woman hallucinates; some have delusion; while some might even talk of killing the baby.” Causes of depression after childbirth could vary according to realities, but one generally-accepted cause remains life stressors. According to Mrs. Khadijat Hameed, a traditional health attendant of over 15 years, PPD could be hereditary when it is in the bloodline. “When a pregnant woman breaks certain taboos, either in her family or husband’s, she could suffer postpartum depression. For instance, some women are not allowed to eat anything with salt, pepper and other condiments until seven days after delivery. If she does otherwise, it could result in postpartum depression, and sometimes death. There are also indications of spiritual undertones to it, especially those ones that refuse all forms of treatment. However, this condition is mostly caused by life stressors.” Prophetess Mary Famojuro, who runs a government-approved maternity home at Igando-Egan, Lagos State adds her voice to the reasons why women develop PPD. She said depression after childbirth can be acquired in three major ways: spiritual attack, hereditary factors and stress. “The spiritual attack is not very common, but sufferers will take treatment for life because the condition never really leaves them, it comes and goes seasonally. The woman will become pregnant while experiencing the condition, be delivered of her baby, get sane for a while, and become pregnant again in the condition. “Sometimes, it is hereditary like normal illnesses which affect the bloodline; meaning it could be in the third or fourth generation. I had a patient whose elder sister experienced it for all her pregnancies and they had to always visit Yaba or Abeokuta for treatment. The husband also explained that the condition lasts for the first six months after delivery. His wife was however having it for the first time. If this is traced through their bloodline – paternal or maternal line – it could be discovered that one of their mothers had the problem. If it doesn’t happen in the first to the third generation, it would in the fourth generation. “Some develop it suddenly perhaps after experiencing life stressors, perhaps following a fight with the husband while pregnant. Women who are maltreated by their husbands during pregnancies are especially prone to developing this condition. However, it takes a lot of spiritual searching to know the source and cause, whether hereditary or otherwise, to be able to understand how to tackle it.”     WHO, UNICEF, others hail FG over COVID-19 vaccination     Liver cancer, a silent epidemic – expert     Lagos unveils new health insurance products to improve…   Dr. Kadiri agrees that PPD could be hereditary, but lists other risk factors that could cause the condition. She said PPD can be the result of exposure to certain environmental hazards – exhaust, toxins, alcohol. Others are life stressors – traumatic experiences, which could be relationship-driven, economic or financial challenges, sickness, as well as school or work challenges. Blood chemistry can also cause it, she added. “There are certain mirror transmitters that cannot be seen in the brain, but when they malfunction, they cause chemical imbalances which trigger maladaptive behavioural issues. They could also be underlying medical conditions such as depression, diabetes, pre-menstrual disorder (which happens during our menstrual cycle) and some others. “Other major causes of post-partum depression are the physiological changes that happen during and after pregnancy, such as the fluctuation of the hormones which cause very profound chemical changes in women. These changes get regulated with time but could also wreak havoc, especially the estrogen, which is significantly elevated during pregnancy and then rapidly returns to normal within 24 hours of childbirth. “The estrogen moves from one to 10 during pregnancy, but within 24 hours of having a baby, it goes back to one, that is a rapid return to normal. It is huge for a woman’s brain chemistry to process and that is a primary contributor. Not all women will experience it, but some do and because they cannot cope, they start to behave abnormally. “Another all-important factor is our lifestyle. In reality, women need more sleep than men, but we don’t sleep. Lack of sleep and the stress associated with it (market runs, child care, school runs and others) force most women not to be intentional and deliberate about their wellbeing, and this can trigger a breakdown. There is also of course the social factor. Poverty is higher in women because most are not gainfully employed; women are not as empowered and employable as men. For example, some establishments do not readily employ a pregnant woman because of the fear of maternity leave. These factors can make women develop mental illness.” Postpartum depression: Myth or reality Is PPD real, or is it a social construct following modernisation and technological advancement? Traditional medicine attendants argue that PPD is definitely not new to the Nigerian, nay Yoruba tradition. According to Mrs. Hameed, depression after childbirth is not a new phenomenon. Conversations about it are however not common because society sees it as an abnormality that should not be discussed in the open. “Postpartum depression, in the Yoruba tradition, is called abisiwin, a condition which forces a woman to temporarily lose her sense of self after childbirth and so she is unwilling or unable to care for her herself or the child. Such a woman misbehaves and speaks incoherently. She could say she wants to throw the baby away. Some could start praying unnecessarily, maybe she was a prayer warrior, but she does it abnormally now. Some could also start cursing. “Women who suffer it do so in silence, having to lick their wounds in private because they don’t want to be seen as lazy or otherwise. Another reason people keep quiet is because of stigmatisation, cultural beliefs and societal attitudes. Someone close to me was a victim but before she died, she opened up that her husband and siblings were always fighting and, in the process, the one who usually helps them died, and she was pregnant at the time. This caused her a lot of pains and she developed abisiwin which later led to her death.” Prophetess Famojuro provides a spiritual/religious perspective to it. “I am a midwife with the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) and I can tell for sure that abisiwin is not new, it has been with us for ages but we usually don’t talk about it because it was viewed as a disease and so should not be discussed. But as we get more knowledge in this job, we realise it is not a disease, but a disorder, the outcome of a particular situation/experience. “A woman can develop ‘abisiwin’ after childbirth if her husband’s attitude toward her changes during pregnancy, or the woman couldn’t get some baby items; these things could make her moody and destabilise her thoughts. The woman might begin to nag a lot; she reacts excessively to everything and her actions negate the reality of conversations. “The child might cry and instead of petting the baby, the mother shouts on it as if dealing with a three-year-old. She might even handle the baby anyhow and dress the baby in about six clothes. When we have such people, we pray for them and follow up medically. Some misbehave to the extent their baby is taken from them, and some women won’t experience it until the second or third or even last child. Fear of stigmatisation breeds silence Because of the fear of stigmatisation, and sometimes self-denial, many women who suffer postpartum depression in Nigeria cannot speak out so they are not perceived as lazy or not women enough. This is perhaps why there is no readily available data to measure its prevalence statistically, and so it is under-reported. According to Dr. Awoniyi, the data available is underreported even in the world. “People who have depression are about 15 to 20 per cent; almost all women experience postpartum blues, while it is about 0.1 to 0.2 per cent for psychosis. However, we might not have the actual figure here in Nigeria because people are not confident enough to share their experiences for the fear of stigmatisation. But, as a gynecologist, we try to address these issues from when the woman starts attending the ante-natal clinic. We ask if there is any family history of mental disorders, is she having enough rest, is there domestic abuse, etc. It is after these questions that we know how to help the woman. We try as much as possible to work towards prevention.” Treatment and management of postpartum depression Just like any other medical condition, PPD can be remedied, according to Mrs. Hammed. “The condition can be remedied with herbs and roots. Some they boil and drink, bath with, while some are used to prepare meals and they sleep off after eating. However, most young ones like me in this profession don’t handle it because it is believed the condition could affect the caregiver if payment is taken for service. But the very elderly in age and experience, who understand the way and nature of the spiritual, have their methods of handling such cases.” For Prophetess Famojuro, handling a case of PPD requires both spiritual and medical approaches. “In as much as we believe in the power and efficacy of prayers, we do not take the medical perspective for granted. One has to move with modern trends to remain relevant. We have had about five patients here and they all got well, even having more children without experiencing the condition. Some women would willingly open up to you during the discussion, though not stating it outright. And when we hear such, we encourage them to return for the medications after delivery while we support with prayers.” Dr. Awoniyi, however, breaks the treatment plan into three steps. The first is identifying those who are at risk; the second is breaking them into help groups – education, medication, rehabilitation, support, and level three is for the government to seek ways to deal with the problem, a major one being to encourage women empowerment. “We identify those who are at risk and then decide how to help them. If they are smokers, we try to dissuade them from smoking. Do we need to collaborate with a psychiatrist, psychologist, or involve the community and religious leaders? After this, we educate, give medication, rehabilitate and give support where needed. “The third level is where the government should come in. There is a great need to establish special clinics where specialised services would be offered to these categories of women. There is also a need for rehabilitation centres. But, above all, we need to encourage women’s empowerment. Women should be cared for because they are the backbone of every society; they need to be empowered financially because social status also plays a big role in why women suffer postpartum depression.” ·This article was produced with the support of the Africa Women’s Journalism Project (AWJP) in partnership with the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ) and through the support of the Ford Foundation.