Two persons, including a boy, died on Friday in a motor accident along Ihialla-Onitsha expressway, Anambra state. Nine persons, including four women sustained varying degrees of injury in the crash, which involved seven vehicles including an articulated truck. An eyewitness said the crash occurred around 11am when the driver of the truck, who was on speed, lost control while approaching a police checkpoint. “The driver rammed into six vehicles on queue at the checkpoint, killing several passengers and injuring ofhers inside the vehicles,” he said. Confirming the incident, Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Adeoye Irelewuyi said the corpses of the deceased were deposited at the hospital morgue. - Advertisement - He commiserated with the deceased family, and prayed for quick recovery of the injured, just as he warned motorists to avoid speeding and keep to recommended speed limit.   Niger Gov’s brother leaves APC, joins PDP     12 new comprehensive schools take-off in Lagos on Monday –…     BREAKING: Blessing Okagbare gets 10-year ban for doping   He said: “Unidentified driver of an orange Mercedes 911 truck UWZ556XA had a Fatal road traffic crash with 6 other vehicles at Ken Maduako’s oil and gas filling station by Ihialla-Onitsha highway today 18th February, 2022 at about 11:02hrs. “Details of the other 6 vehicles include: Toyota Hiace with Reg number JJT 07 ZI; Toyota Hiace Reg No: ENU 589 XB; Nissan Caravan with reg no :GOD 21 YM. “Others are Nissan Mini Truck with Reg No: ATN 787 XB; Suzuki Mini Pick-Up with reg No: AKL169 XE and Toyota Hiace bus. “63 people compromising 52 male adults, 10 female adults, and 1 male child were involved in the crash. “1 male adult, and 1 male child were killed, 9 people compromising 5 male adults, and 4 female adults sustained varying degrees of injuries, while 52 people were rescued unhurt. “FRSC rescue team from Ihiallia Unit Command rushed the victims to Our Lady of Lourdes hospital Ihiallia where a male adult and a male child was confirmed dead. The dead victims were deposited at the hospital morgue. “FRSC Rescue team on ground managed the traffic and ensured obstruction caused by the crash was removed.” SPONSORED