The announcement by the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Emmanuel Jime, that the Federal Government will soon set up a shipping sector support fund to boost maritime trade has attracted reactions from stakeholders. In this report, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA looks at the significance of the fund to the sector. The visit by the executive members of the Nigerian Shipowners’Association (NISA) to the Executive Secretary, Nigeria’s Shippers’ Council (NSC), Emmanuel Jime, provided the latter the opportunity to unveil the Federal Government’s plan to set up a shipping support fund, implement the zero import duty of vessels and abolish the controversial temporary importation permit imposed by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). To many stakeholders, this was sweet relief. They, however, urge the government to match its words with action as soon as possible.   Funds for shipping industry The shipping industry has the potential to be a major revenue spinner for the country and that was why the Federal Government set up the direct funding for shipping through the Ship Acquisition and Ship Building Fund (SASBF), Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), and the Cargo Reservation and Outright Cabotage legislation to grow the indigenous shipping business. - Advertisement -   Nigeria lost $45 billion as freight charge in five years  But findings have shown that between 2015 and 2019, Nigerians paid $45 billion as freight charge on wet and dry cargoes because the country does not have the ships. For example, in terms of ship owning and operation, findings show that only about eight per cent of vessels that berthed at the port belongs to Nigerians. Of the 200 vessels needed by the oil industry, only few vessels are certified for cabotage shipping. This has negative implication for the growth and viability of indigenous shipping firms as they lack adequate capacity to operate competitively based on lack of support from the government and banking sector. Hence Jime, who is also the Chairman of the Nigerian Fleet Implementation Committee, said indigenous ship ownerships are the mainstay of the industry. He added that if Nigeria must be recognised as a hub, ship ownership must top the industry. He noted that unless the shipowning grows and becomes competitive enough to take centre stage in the business, the country will not derive maximum value from the sector.   Fleet Implementation Committee The Nigerian Fleet Implementation Committee is saddled with mobilising the public and private sectors in a bid to establish a strong ship ownership community in the country. “We have been mandated to develop a framework that would support the establishment of a sustainable Nigerian fleet. Also, we are given the responsibility to develop strategies that will incentivise. In other words, incentives that are needed to be put in place. These are strategies that will engender incentives for ship owners. “We are also saddled with the responsibility to set out action items that would encourage the development of shipbuilding and ship repair facilities. Then we will provide guidelines and recommendations to augment the maritime manpower capacity. “We believe that the key incentive is the Shipping Sector Support Fund. We are talking of shipping and it is an area that is highly capital intensive. So, if you can put the fund in place as an incentive, other things would be easier. We also believe that waiver of export tariffs for the use of Nigerian ships is also key,” Jimi said.   Ship financing Ship financing takes vessel charter fees as the principal source of repayment, while various collateral structured around shipbuilding and charter agreements are assigned to mitigate the credit risk involved in the business. Shipping finance also provides clients in the maritime shipping markets with support and customised lending solutions.The assets that need finance include, among others, tankers (crude oil, gas, chemical, product), dry bulk vessels, container vessels, container boxes, car carriers, and ferries.   Access to capital Access to capital is central to building a shipping community and because it is capital intensive, ship-owners are expected to know how to get funding. Shipping is such an old industry, with a history of continuous change, sometimes gradual and occasionally calamitous. Financing is an important stage in starting an asset-based company such as ship-owning companies. Knowledge of financing and capital can be a prerequisite for the ship owners to create innovative products and services. A manager of one of the shipping companies in Apapa, who craved anonymity, said finance is an area of focus among shipowners, yards, classification-companies, suppliers and insurance. “The industry, which ship-owning companies are a part of, is a knowledge-based industry and important for the trade. For instance, Norway is a global leader in the field and almost 90 000 people are employed by the industry directly. If developed, the industry is essential to keep Nigeria’s gross domestic product on a high level. “According to the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fishers, the maritime industry represents six to nine per cent of the value creation in Norway. “Unfortunately, activities in the shipping sector in Nigeria are dominated by a few foreign firms which afford the enormous capital required,” the official said.   What the CBN must do A former Executive Secretary/CEO, NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello, urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to provide funds of between two and nine per cent yearly to the shipping sector to stimulate growth. Bello stated that other industries had received attention from the Federal Government, especially the agriculture and entertainment sectors. His words: “I said other industries have received attention, especially agriculture, even Nollywood. So, what we are saying is that the Central Bank should look at our sector. “In 2018, 4,691 vessels berthed at the ports, but only 365 or 7.8 per cent are Nigerian vessels. We cannot continue with that and that is why it is important we seek the consent of the Minister of Transportation. In my handing over note, I emphasised the need to the new Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’Council and he has been briefed and I think very soon, the meeting with the ship owners who are significant members of this committee will be held so that we can go ahead.” In terms of shipment, especially Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) and Free on Board (FoB) as it relates to freighting of crude, Bello said they had made stringent efforts. “We met with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and some of its subsidiaries to see that these things are done. “The national fleet is not bought over the counter. You will need to have the political will. When you have it, as represented by the Minister of Transportation, we need it to be all-high; including support from the CBN, Nigeria Customs Service, economic growth and the Ministry of Finance and so on and so forth,” he said.   Lessons from other countries Export credit agencies (ECAs) is a stable source of financing to the industry, especially to the companies which order vessels at their domestic shipyards. ECAs relate with the government regulatory bodies. The world’s largest ECA, Export Import Bank of China (CEXIM), is governed by the Chinese government. Before the financial crisis, ECAs accounted for 10 per cent of shipping and offshore-related debt finance; now, their share has increased to more than 33 per cent, amounting to $15 billion yearly. In July 2015, CEXIM provided financing worth $1 billion to French liner CMA CGM   Capital market can assist The industry gains an added advantage from capital markets, since it can issue debts with longer maturities and fixed interest rates. Traditionally, initial public offers (IPOs) are popular among investors. However, as freight rates remain low, so also is the attractiveness of IPOs. Private equity (PE) funds are focusing on opportunistic investment options. Certain capital management companies are creating funds worth billions, which are focused on the industry and real estate market. PE funds provide flexibility in extending credit. They also extend loans to riskier projects that banks are restricted from providing.     Why Customs should focus on ease of doing business     UN commends Nigeria over first-ever piracy conviction in…     NPA: A transition to full digitalisation   Shipping is volatile, cyclical  Shipping has been a volatile and cyclical business.The changes in revenue, operating cash flows, and asset values during the last financial crises have upset the means of financing shipping firms. While bank debts will remain important in the future, the new regulatory environment has been forcing shipping banks to shift these risks from their balance sheets to capital markets through instruments such as loan securitisation. “As a result, the shipping industry will look to capital markets for external funds. And shipping banks are likely to change from being commercial bank lending institutions to becoming more like investment banks that arrange a variety of financing solutions, including high yield bonds or public equity. Risk management will be central to shipping companies in this new environment. Shipping companies can manage their own risks by modifying operations, employing freight and vessel price derivatives, or adjusting their capital structures. “To arrive at the value-maximising combination of these three basic methods, they must decide which risks to bear, which to manage internally, and which to transfer to the capital markets. These decisions require shipping financial managers to assess the effect of each risk on firm value, understand how each contributes to total risk, and determine the most cost-effective way to limit that risk to an acceptable level,” said an expert, Mr. Kayode Adekunle. Findings have shown that more than 80 per cent of the external financing of the shipping firms consist of debts, of which 75 per cent comes from banks and the balance from the bond and equity market. The number of banks active in the industry has significantly decreased over the years, following the COVID-19 pandemic.   Financing difficulties “Momentum for shipping industry is not too optimistic. Findings have shown that the Baltic Dry Index (BDI) is almost 100 per cent up in the last few years but even though dry bulk vessels barely achieve operating break-even rates. Assets prices, especially for dry bulk, are very low. Apart from the significant decline of the freight market the vessel asset prices are also materially influenced by several factors, availability of cheap capital being the primary driver among them. “Shipping industry financing remains expensive. Most shipping banks have left shipping and a few more have been divesting shipping loan portfolios as fast as possible. Banks selected concentrated credit risk when interest rates were low. Consequently, banks focused on very specific projects. “Central banks and various regulators request high credit assets as collateral, pushing banks to do business for what it is considered safe and not necessarily economic. In the bank’s point of view, over-concentration on one account and asset class is clearly preferable. For the above reasons, shipping companies are exploring alternative financing options,” Adekunle added.   Collaborative financing An increased number of collaborations between the majority of European banks and Asian financial institutions to establish themselves in the Asian growth market, other stakeholders said, took place in the last few years. The collaborations, another expert, Mr. Dare Solomon, said, enable Asian companies to finance new-builds and purchase new ships. For instance, HSH Nordbank collaborated with EXIM Bank of Korea to finance Korean and international shipping companies, and provided export financing, loan syndication and refinancing. But the financing landscape, it was learnt, depends on the performance of the industry. However, along with the changes that are requested from the banks side, the industry, we learnt, has to explore more seriously alternative sources of financing to secure the funding of new vessels and remain competitive.   Why banks stopped funding ship acquisition  Solomon said there were indications that banks have stopped financing ship acquisition following underhand dealings leading to their loss of funds to bad loans in previous deals. ”Banks were willing to give loans for ship acquisition in the past until some operators devised a means of using the loans to get old refurbished ships at far less than the amount collected from the banks and afterwards, abandoned such ships on the grounds that they were unserviceable. Several banks were affected before they realised the fraudulent ship owners’scheme.   NIMASA reacts Sources at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) said  apart from a few ship-owners, the majority were involved in the fraud. The source explained that the banks’ losses ran into hundreds of millions of US dollars as such transactions are dollar-denominated. ”Many banks are no longer willing to invest in shipping because of fraud and failures they suffered in previous investments; the shipowners get refurbished ships, trade with it for a while before paying off the crew and abandoning the vessel on the waters as wrecks.   “When the banks approach these shipowners, they look at your collateral. They take possession of the vessel. That is why there were several abandoned ships on our waters then,” the official said. Past efforts of the govt Special intervention policies but unproductive were initiated by the Federal Government in the past to correct the imbalance.These include direct funding through Ship Acquisition and Ship Building Fund (SASBF), Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), cargo reservation and outright Cabotage legislation. Experience from developed countries  But as is the tradition in developed maritime nations, ship acquisition and fleet expansion is better done through debt finance which can only be provided by the banking institutions. This fact questions the commitment of the banking institution, especially the commercial banks in providing entrepreneurial finance to small and medium scale enterprises in the sector. Domination by foreign shipping lines The shipping business is predominantly run by foreign shipping lines who have a lot of vessel in their fleets to the detriment of Nigerian ship owner who does not have the financial muscle to acquire vessels and compete with their foreign counterparts. The banks are not engaged in shipping finance like their counterparts in other developed countries, largely due to lack of specialised skills in ship financing, the large amount involved, the long repayment period and the risk involved. Also, stakeholders said there is lack of policies to fast-track the development of the sector, especially in ship financing. Even where little efforts are made like the Cabotage Act 2003, implementation and enforcement have been very poor. But one of the stakeholders and former General Manager, Public Affairs, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Chief Michael Kayode Ajayi said Nigeria has all it takes to position itself as a shipping hub considering its huge population, position, human resources and above all the freight to be carried and the market that demands for finished products knowing full well that Nigeria is a consumer-based economy.  Tax incentives Ajayi said: “That foreign shipping company has devised another method of ship financing apart from the traditional ones. Their countries of origin have helped them in no small means by giving them tax incentives where appropriate. “There is ship financing alternatives available to shipping companies and that there is a significant relationship as regards to ship financing methods and the predictor variables. “Over the years the Nigerian shipping companies and some government agencies have failed to do things rightly. This has robbed Nigeria as a nation of billions of dollars in terms of revenue which would have accrued to our people through a robust foreign trade. “The country is blessed with a population of over 200 million and the biggest economy in Africa who are dependent on finished products from Asia, Europe and America to get them right here in Nigeria. “These products would need to be supplied down here and this is where Nigeria’s shipping line would have come in handy. In reverse, they would carry petroleum products, agricultural produce and other manufactured products to other parts of the world where they are needed. This would have resulted in huge revenue earnings for Nigeria. It is believed that the maritime sector is one of the highest money spinning ventures all over the world.’’ What the banks and Nigeria shipping lines should do The banks need to be reminded that their core responsibility is to lend to the critical sectors of the economy which create wealth and of which maritime is one. “Nigeria shipping lines could also look at the option of equity capital financing via initial public offerings (IPO) through the capital markets. This remains the only surest bet when it comes to financing through equity. The classical and best-known form of the capital market issue is the distribution of the shares on the stock exchange. The initial public placement is known as IPO or “going public”. Via the public trade of shares, a wider potential circle of investors with a multitude of private and institutional investors can be reached. The IPO raises the degree of publicity and the image of the company. The most important motive for an IPO is the financing of internal and external growth equity and the establishment of company succession.Through the sale of shares, fresh capital becomes available to the company, which can be invested in the steady expansion of their own shipping fleet. Equally, this cash inflow can be used to repay loans or shareholders loans. This repayment possibility can secure independence from banks and other capital sources for the listed company in question. If a company is listed, equity increases can increase cash inflows in the future,” Ajayi added.       SPONSORED