Pioneer Technical Director of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Tunde Disu has urged  the football house to dissipate more energy at ensuring that the Super Eagles get quality preparation for the all-important Qatar 2022 World Cup Play-off against Ghana’s Black Stars. The Eagles will engage their Ghanaian counterparts in a two-leg play-off on 24th March and 29th respectively in Cape Coast  and  Abuja to pick one of Africa’s five tickets  for Qatar 2022. Disu, however, lauded the appointment of Emmanuel Amuneke to join Augustine Eguavoen as the national team technical crew, describing it as a good development especially with the quality and experience of the former Super Eagles stars.  “I think the focus of NFF now is how to ensure we have quality preparation for the play-off,” declared Disu.“ When I was with the Eagles under Clement Westerhof, we used to have a training camp in Holland out of sight of all where we prepare for major matches like this.   Morocco 2022 race: Waldrum, Ebi eye big win against Cote…     Birmingham 2022: 300 judokas  battle for 17 slots at…     Sportsville: Itemuagbor dedicates award  to Obaseki   - Advertisement -  “Now that they have settled the issue of coaching crew, what should be at the forefront now is how to ensure that the players arrive early  before the match so that they can train together for at least a week before the first leg. - Advertisement - “This will surely give them the needed confidence and get them used to themselves on the field of play,” Disu said. Meanwhile, Disu blamed  the poor state of the domestic league  on inclusion of few local –based players in  the  Super Eagles.  “When I was with the Eagles, we used to pick a second-team mainly from the top  four teams in the league and this showed the quality in the league then but unfortunate nowadays our league is nothing to write home about,” he quipped.“ The quality has drastically dropped and we don’t have the kind of quality we had in those days. That is why our former German coach Gernot Rohr turned the idea of picking players from the league.”   SPONSORED