Football followership in Nigeria  has for long been  an art beyond the ordinary.  From the 1960s  to the   late 1990s, there was only one recognised body  under the auspices of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club led at one time or the other by late Deacon George Osho and Dr. Rafiu Ladipo.  But  there have been  several  breakaway factions  in recent years  with both  Kemi Ogunfuwa-led  Football Fans Club of Nigeria (FFCN) and Prince Abayomi Ogunjimi-led Authentic Nigeria Football and Allied Sports Supporters Club (ANFASSC) holding their ground against the  established ones.  Both Ogunfuwa and Ogunjimi share  their world as the new super fans behind the Super Eagles…  Oluwakemi Ogunfuwa was the star attraction at every Super Eagles match at the 2021 African Cup of Nations (AFCON).She was always donning  traditional attires made in the national colours of Nigeria as she led her team under the umbrella of the Football Fans Club of Nigeria (FFCN). The FFCN president brings fresh panache into football supporter-ship across Africa, culminating in her being voted the best fan at the 2018 African Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) in Ghana. In this interview with OLALEKAN OKUSAN, Ogunfuwa explained that FFCN is one of the new faces of football supporters in Nigeria.   Oluwakemi Ogunfuwa, popularly referred to as ‘Mama Nigeria’, became an Internet sensation especially after Super Eagles’ AFCON tie against Guinea Bissau. Her pictures went viral on social media with her traditional attires, especially with her unique headgear and a green feather fan, cheering and rejoicing distinctively among hundreds of Nigerian fans at the continental football showpiece event as Nigeria took the whole of Garoua by storm. Ogunfuwa‘s Aso-Oke attire was made with a green Iro (wrapper) and Buba (top) with a white lace attached in the middle to form the Nigerian national colours of Green-White-Green. - Advertisement - But she recalled her foray into football support started over two decades ago straight from high school. “In 1995, three years after my secondary school education, my mother wanted me to have a feel of vacation outside the country and she was looking for the best way to travel for me,” she said with a breathy purr. “She was a banker then and it was one of her clients, a regular traveller, who suggested that I should join the supporters club to be able to travel regularly with the teams. “That was how I joined in 1995.” Over the next nine years, Ogunfuwa supported the national teams on home soil. Then came her first international trip with the group in 2004 at the African Women Cup of Nations in South Africa, an experience she would forever cherish. “I’m very fashion-conscious and I love dressing and looking good,” the fashionable Ogunfuwa said of her élan. “At the 2018Africa Women Nations’ Cup which Nigeria won in Accra Ghana, I won the fan of the match award which is the first to be awarded and I am the first Nigerian fan to win it. “On that day, I wore our Super Eagles regalia. I did not even wear the team’s jersey rather, I wore this crown that I had designed to look different among thousands of people. “I guess that swung the award in my favour. “I was given the award and it was a big celebration and I took it around Nigeria. I went as far as going to see the Vice President of the Republic of Nigeria, Yemi Osinbajo, to present the award to him. “At every tournament, I look forward to bringing something new. “During the 2021 AFCON in Cameroon, I decided to look different by bringing the runway to the stadium, something unique and different, quite different from what you normally see in the stadium. “In as much as I want to fly the green-white-green colours, I actually wanted to look very elegant amongst all the people at the stadium.”   There are a plethora of supporters clubs in the country but Ogunfuwa was quick to highlight the uniqueness of FFCN: “There are a lot of things that are unique about our supporters’ club. “The first unique thing is that I am the only President General or the National President, the only female among the other factions of the supporters’ club. “Also, I have been supporting the national teams at all levels, both male and female, from U-17 to the national senior teams for the past two decades. “Another thing is that we are better structured and better organised; you don’t see us in unwanted places and what makes us more unique is that we care about our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “We are very passionate about the less-privileged. Every year, we try as much as possible to reach out to the needy.   Eight countries that have never qualified for AFCON     We want to offer the world very pleasant match, says Egypt’s…     My players are motivated to win, Cameroon coach says   “We always go to Odion Ighalo Orphanage Home to support the kids as well as Children Hospice in Surulere. We visit Mercy Children Hospital to see the sick kids, especially during Christmas to let them know that they are loved. We also go to the Ikoyi Correctional Centre to talk to the inmates and let them know that with sport, they can get off the street. “With sport, they can do a lot for their family; they can be as rich as they want instead of doing things that are against the law. This is what we do and we know how to do best as we do it passionately.” Yet Ogunfuwa rued the early exit of the Super Eagles at AFCON 2021 even as she described the journey to Garoua which housed Nigeria throughout their stay in the competition as scary. “Judging from the trip, I will say this is the worst I have been to because there was no direct flight to Garoua where we played our first group matches (and the Round of 16),” she explained. “We had to travel all the way from Lagos to Abuja then to Yola because there was no direct flight to Yola from Lagos. “From Yola, we took a boat for almost two and half hours. It was adventurous but I really liked that. “It has been a long time I had that experience. After two and half hours on the flying boat, we took cars to Garoua town which is about four hours away. “The roads were bad. It was the bush part that was so scary and we were so scared. But then, we felt that the easiest way was passing through that route to Garoua. “We felt a little bit safe because the indigenes told us that there was nothing to fear about, that we were going to be alright.” If the journey to Garoua was hazardous, Ogunfuwa reckoned that living even during their few days stay in Garoua was horrific due to the high cost of goods and services. She continued: “Then, my experience within the city of Garoua itself was crazy because every price was doubled for us as long as you are a Nigerian; they felt you are very rich. “They are very low-income people so they see us as very rich. The hotels also charged double the cost of lodging up.  Even if you went to the market to buy food the prices were doubled. “The experience was awesome, just that everything was doubled up and sometimes they will tell you the real prices of something, once they see you that you are a Nigerian, they will just double it up. “In the market, if you want to buy meat and they tell you it is 5,000. Once they know you are a Nigerian, they say it is 10,000. It is funny and they are serious when they say that. “It wasn’t a pleasant one because you are a Nigerian and they will tell you ‘Dangote is Nigerian, Davido is Nigerian!’ “Our return trip back was also tough because we had to travel through the same route. “But this time, we didn’t come by water; we came through the road and it was broken into two trips. From Garoua to Bele which is about three hours. From Bele to Yola, another four hours before taking a flight to Abuja. “Of course, it was not all of us that came by flights.  Some had to come from Yola to Lagos by road which was a 48-hour journey and it was so stressful for some of my members, these are things we go through to stand by our teams.   “Yet a lot of people feel we are being sponsored by the government; they cannot just understand that we are doing this just to support our team, just to be there for them in any part of the world. “We are great ambassadors of this country; and I pray that someday, our government will open their eyes and see what we do as the 12th player on the field for the Nigerian national teams,” she added.