The Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN), has said the crop production has exceeded 40 per cent from eight million tons in 2015 to 20 million metric tons in 2020. The association, which is planning a maize pyramid in Kaduna State as part of its loan repayment for the 2021 wet season farming under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), said the pyramid is aimed at showcasing the success of the programme. National President of MAAN, Dr Abubakar Bello, who attributed the increased production to the ABP said, farmers have access to inputs and technology. Bello who stated this while addressing journalists in Kaduna said, the maize which was sourced from across the country is the second pyramid erected by the maize farmers since the commencement of the ABP in 2015.   U.S., Nigeria collaborate on food security     Customers transfer N8.6tr via mobile platform     Sterling Bank, Bayelsa others partner on healthcare   - Advertisement - He said: “Before 2015, we only had 8 million tons of maize, but by the end of last year, it was 20 million tons and apart from that, farmers now have access to inputs without their money but as a loan, they get the technology under the ABP. “Where farmers were getting 20 tons of maize, now they are getting 50 tons of maize, there is a new technology of farming, there are extension services under ABP, mechanisation and monitoring and evaluation, the farmers are benefiting and they have increased their production. “The maize mills we have in the country have increased, the processors have more companies now, they now employ more people, these are the success stories of the ABP. In one season more than one million people get jobs under ABP. “We want to set up this pyramid in order to showcase the success and the achievement of the Anchor Borrower Program under President Muhammadu Buhari.” “I want to appreciate the effort and support of the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai who embraced this program and promised to support us, we have seen the reality”. The Commissioner of Agriculture, Kaduna State, Ibrahim Hussaini said the pyramid is symbolic and will go a long way in convincing Nigerians that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) programme and the association are ensuring that Nigeria achieves self-sufficiency in food production.