Former Director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) Salihu Lukman has endorsed the new group of eminent Nigerians working to ensure credible leaders in the 2023 general elections. He challenged all patriotic Nigerians to support the group, maintaining the emergence of the ‘association’ presents an opportunity to critically assess the capacity of political parties to serve as effective and competent negotiating platforms for the emergence of ‘quality leadership’ in Nigeria. Last week “The 2022 Committee,” an association of about 100 eminent businessmen, political, media and civil society leaders, including 14 current Governors, 13 former Governors as well as three former Senate Presidents took off. Throwing his weight behind the emergence of the association, Lukman in a statement in Abuja, lamented the capacity of political parties to produce the kind of leadership Nigerians aspire to is weak. He bemoaned a situation where individuals with strong financial muscles, whose vision may be narrow, hardly going beyond access to public resources would have an advantage. - Advertisement - He also frowned at situations whereby politicians reduce issues of national development targets to partisan rivalries and demanded that such practice must be discouraged.   The Asiwaju Tinubu I know, by Finnih     2023: Group canvasses experts in Tinubu’s campaign team     Sanwo-Olu on course, says IPAC Chairman   “Every patriotic Nigerian should commend the initiatives of the ‘association.’ In addition, Nigerians should encourage members of the ‘association’ to do everything possible to force internal negotiations, which should lead to agreements within political parties leading to the emergence of ‘quality leadership’ in 2023 at all levels in Nigeria. A stitch in time saves nine! “Therefore, the new political value potentially being created by a group such as the ‘association’ is the possibility of opening the political spaces in the country, including within the current big parties (APC and PDP) to produce higher-quality leaders that what would have ordinarily been the case in 2023. ” It will require some superior organising to produce such a higher quality desired different outcome, which is why such an initiative requires the support of all patriotic Nigerians. “The other dynamic is also the question of providing a level playing field for candidates from all parts of the country. Many leaders across the country and in both PDP and APC could have qualified to emerge as candidates with all the ‘quality leadership’ credentials being envisioned concerning any leadership qualification. “But the absence of level playing field in our parties is discouraging these individuals from presenting themselves for consideration. “This is partly responsible for why across every part of the country, and in virtually all our political parties, the most qualified candidates for ‘quality leadership’ are hardly in the race for 2023 contests. “How is the ‘association’ going to open up the space within our major political parties to ensure that the best and most qualified ‘quality leaders’ are in the race for 2023 electoral contests?” The former PGF boss advised leaders of the two major parties – APC and PDP and indeed every politician, across all political parties to organise their campaigns based on honesty.