Marlian music act Ilerioluwa Oladimeji aka Mohbad has said raised the alarm over attempts on his life by suspected members of the Marlian group. He said should anything untoward happens to him, Naira Marley and the crew members should be held responsible. The singer raised the alarm on an Instagram live video hours after his release from National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) custody. In the Instagram video obtained by The Nation, the singer speaking in his local dialect(Yoruba) mixed with English, said NDLEA arrested him with Zinoleesky and others but he was released. He further said when he returned, members of the Marlian music tried to harm him. “I’m just trying to ask like am I a bad boy? I don’t really mean it from my mind. So I don’t know these people have been hating on me.   Boat club member seeks reversal of election exclusion…     Two women get 28 years for selling children     BREAKING: Gunmen kill one, abduct two in Anambra night raid   “They have been doing bad things on me, I went mad because of this issue, now they are trying to kill me. Everybody in the whole world please help me, if I die woh na Marlian music and Naira Marley kill me. “Abeg if I die like this, God, please help me. Look at all these people sha my God will never fuck me up, never. I’m in Idado estate,” he said. In another live video, Mohbad in a vehicle, said: “I’m going to the hospital right now, Oh my God. I’m fucked up by many people, I don’t trust anybody.” Marlian music Boss, Naira Marley, confirmed Mohbad’s release in a series of tweets. “NDLEA have released Mohbad after physically assaulting him, Zinoleesky is still in custody. The boys are under a lot of stress after being ambushed in the middle of the night with no warrant. I’m urgently returning to Lagos now now now.” In another tweet, he wrote: “What is happening to my brothers is disgusting. The injustice is unfair and this is beginning to look like a pattern. First me now my artists. Free Zinoleesky, free shubomi, free micee and dosky.”