Lagos State government has closed a major chapter of the 21-storey building that collapsed on Gerrard Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, on November 1, 2021. The government’s White Paper is out, with the state government adopting 26 of the 28 recommendations of the panel set up to probe the unfortunate incident. The panel was headed by Mr Toyin Ayinde, a town planner. About 50 persons were killed in the tragic episode, including Mr Femi Osibona, the promoter of Fourscore Homes, the developer of the ill-fated building. The panel’s recommendations are far-reaching, and it is gratifying that the state government accepted almost all, with the exception of the two that it considered “nebulous”. Even then, the 26 recommendations accepted addressed almost all the areas needing attention and which, if faithfully implemented, would go a long way in checking building collapse in the state. We commend the government for a transparent approach unless the habitual tempo rising and dodgy coverups of many Nigerian governments. The recommendations as well as the White Paper easily confirmed systemic breakdowns in virtually all the processes involved in the construction. To start with, Fourscore Homes was both the builder and architect of the structure, a misnomer and negligence which led to avoidable loss of lives, and for which the company is to be prosecuted. The state government has consequently directed the Office of the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice to institute appropriate charges against the company. The developer is also to forfeit the project site to the state government, in accordance with section 25(4) of the revised LASBCA regulation 2019. Moreover, the remaining of the high-rise buildings will be pulled down through controlled demolition. Also, two other structures being simultaneously constructed in the vicinity are to be demolished because they failed structural integrity tests. The point is; even if the structures had passed integrity tests, it is doubtful if they would pass commercial tests because potential customers would think twice before parting with their money on such high-risk buildings. The White Paper also recommended the “evacuation of all occupants within a 45m radius from the extreme boundaries of the blocks in the interest of public safety.” Unsparing but fair, the White Paper said “All the various participants, including civil/public servants, found culpable are to face disciplinary actions and prosecution, where applicable. “These included all those that were involved in the 2019 approval of the collapsed building. The civil servants are to first face the personnel management board, in line with the public service rules. The disciplinary process is to be set up immediately and concluded within 14 days.” The document chided three civil servants for allegedly lying on oath. They are consequently to be prosecuted for preparing a consultant’s report through a dubious method.   Imo APC, PDP, APGA trade tackles over Saturday’s by-election     Lalong extends resignation date for public officers     Katsina to complete Kofar Kaura/Quaya Interchange Road   In addition, other professionals involved who are not civil servants have been referred to the appropriate  professional bodies for disciplinary actions. These included engineers, town planners, and architects. In the same vein, some companies have been referred to the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria for disciplinary actions while others, such as the urban primer have been blacklisted. There is also going to be an audit by an independent consortium of professionals who would scrutinise all high-rise buildings in the state. This is good in that we do not know how many of such structures are disasters waiting to happen, having passed through similar shoddy processes under construction. But it was not all sticks. There were also a few carrots as one Oluwole Oludimu of Prowess Engineering Limited was highly commended for exhibiting professionalism in the project despite the challenging circumstances, and for standing firm despite intimidation by the developer, a thing which led to his subsequent removal from the site. Moreover, the state government has accepted the need to train officials involved in the building approval section, as well as the recruitment of more personnel where necessary for agencies that are short-staffed. We commend both the Ayinde-led panel and the committee chaired by Mr. Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, the state commissioner for special duties, which reviewed the panel’s report, for the dutiful manner they conducted their assignments. Equally praiseworthy is the state government’s political will to deal with the scourge of building collapse. Without doubt, these are bold and welcome decisions, especially in view of the pervasive influence of the promoter of Fourscore Homes (a thing which led to the serial impunities witnessed during the construction of the structures) and the usual cover that governments provide for their own when such incidents occur. The Lagos State government has, by agreeing to implement 26 of the 28 recommendations, demonstrated its resolve to cleanse the Augean stable in the agencies involved in the built industry in the state. The government has talked the talk. We expect it to walk the walk. It is only when this is done, and the respective professional bodies that the government has referred some of their members to for appropriate sanctions do the right thing, that Lagos State would have set a new and safer template for the building industry and the incidence of buildings collapsing would be reduced in the state. Yes, sanctions may not bring back the dead but they are necessary to bring the appropriate closure to the Gerrard Road building collapse and to serve as deterrence to others that it is, henceforth, business unusual.