ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes on how things have fared one month after the beginning of full compliance with the ‘no testing, no road worthiness’ certification in Lagos. Dare Matthew (pseudonym), a senior Marketing Executive, who lives within the precinct of Ikeja, the state capital, loves to be on the right side of the law. Even before his vehicle particulars expired a fortnight ago, he was at the Ojodu Berger, office of the Lagos State Vehicle Inspection Service (LACVIS) to have his vehicle checked, in obedience of the new policy of the state government code-named “Operation no test, no road worthiness permit” for vehicles plying the state roads from January 1, 2022. His vehicle particulars, including the road worthiness, expired on January 15. Last month, the Lagos State Government came up with a new policy to have vehicles tested before their road worthiness certificate would be issued. - Advertisement - The government said about 27 computerised testing centres, scattered round the state, are already in place to ensure that motorists irrespective of their places of residence can have their vehicles tested and certified fit for the roads. Unveiling the new policy at a stakeholders’ meeting in December, last year, the State’s Commissioner for Transportation Dr Frederic Oladeinde said the new policy is to ensure that the roads are safer and reduce the carnage resulting from faulty vehicles that populated the roads. Last week, he released more damning verdict, which underscored the need to continue the testing to avoid making the state a killing field by reckless uncaring operators with faulty vehicles on the roads. In the report, which captured data for the only month of its operation, no fewer than 10,444 vehicles, according to Oladeinde, failed the minimum safety standard tests, adding that a significant number of these failed vehicles had reported for a retest. According to the Commissioner, this is out of about 26,442 that were inspected in the month, of which 15,998 vehicles passed. He said the government has extended the window of retest from 30 to 60 days, to reduce the panicky feedback which was clogging the various testing centres across the state. Also, the Director of the state Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Akin-George Fashola, said the new policy is to address the issue of ensuring that vehicles are actually tested and certified fit for the roads before they are issued the road worthiness permit (certificate).   Youths canvass support for Tinubu’s presidential bid     Need to revive declining cocoa industry     The Bashir Tofa we never knew   He said the practice hitherto, where vehicle owners circumvent the system by acquiring the certificate by presenting the old one for renewal at VIO/licencing offices no longer obtains because it exposes the government to vicarious liability in the event that such vehicles eventually causes grievous damage to lives and property in an accident. Fashola, who lauded the government for extending the time frame for retesting to reduce the panic, said 27 centres are providing same baseline services to motorists, which makes patronising just one centre as the last month test case has shown avoidable. He said while the Ojodu pilot centre recorded more patronage in the month under review, the same cannot be said of other centres, some of which did not record as much. He said the reason why the government had the centres scattered round the state is to create easy access to all motorists, adding that the plan is to have 57 centres, with at least one centre in each of the 20 local governments and 37 development centres of the state. Fashola said the policy is not targeted at generating revenue and the agency will not be pursuing motorists or forcing compliance. He appealed to motorists to embrace voluntary compliance of the policy as the agency would not shirk its responsibility to collect fines from defaulters of the state’s traffic law. The Managing Director of Temple Group, the operators of the Lagos Computerised Vehicle Testing Centre (LACVIS), Segun Obayendo, said the centres are out to ensure that motorists know the status of their vehicles thereby erasing guess works that compounds the faults. He said motorists are free to take their vehicles to their mechanics for repairs as LACVIS do not operate repair workshops. Though the centres presently operate on weekdays, his men are geared to commence weekend services. Obayendo explained that LACVIS is working round the clock to reduce backlogs of motorists’ on queue to be attended, even as he said people can book online for vehicle testing at any of the various centres around them. Also available, he said, are personalised services for fleet operators for their testing vehicles. Obayendo said the task of keeping the roads safe is a collective responsibility and it begins from knowing the healthy status of the vehicle before putting it on the road. The beauty of computerised testing, according to him, is that it erases guesswork as it limits to the barest interaction with the vehicle. The following are tested free: electrical fitting – lightings (headlamps, rear lights, brake lights, directional/pointer lights, etc), braking systems, absorbers, axle, tyres, emission – except the road worthiness permit, which is paid for at any approved centre. Fashola asserted that the computerised testing is encompassing, and is conducted on  classes of vehicles. He listed the vehicles for which tests are carried out to include commercial buses/cars, private cars, trucks, articulated trucks and trailers, petrol tankers; indeed four-wheel drives. LACVIS Ambassador, Mr Adeyinka Adebayo, said it is no brainer that vehicles must be checked periodically to reduce their accident-prone rate. Adebayo, who along with other ambassadors are at the forefront of campaigns for voluntary compliance to the policy, said it is “unthinkable that motorists and vehicle owners could willfully circumvent the rule by avoiding vehicle checks saying this is the bane to having safer roads in the country’’. Though the citizens are demanding better road quality from the government, such could provide any escape from the owners’ responsibility to ensure they keep their vehicles in top shape.