Reality TV star Tacha has reminded trolls that sugar daddies don’t bankroll her. In October 2021, Tacha said married men could never be her source of income, a statement she made to clarify the perception that a good number of female celebrities are being bankrolled by married men. In a recent post, the social media personality via a TikTok video reiterated that she earns her income legitimately as she’s not being bankrolled by any sugar daddy. In the video, the influencer bragged about her achievements before her appearance on the BBNaija show which shot her to limelight. She wrote: “I make legit money and you call it sugar daddy. Okay hold my beer. - Advertisement - “My life before BBN. I started making and selling wigs after (using ) in 2016. Launched my own eyelashes line ‘Simply Tacha’s’ eyelashes in 2017. Got my own makeup studio in 2017 and training students in make up artistry and wig making. “Travelled to different states for freelanced make up artistry. Started making influencer money all year, 2017, 2018, 2019.” Reacting to her post, while a fraction of social media users argued a person who truly earns legitimately doesn’t need to always try so hard to explain their source of income. Others maintained that as long as she’s a Port Harcourt babe, it proves she legitimately works hard for money. blazedarlington said: “If you make your money legit…you shouldn’t be troubled by what people say…try rest.”   Most wealthy Nigerians into rituals, Seun Kuti alleges     I’m not in a haste to win Grammy- Bella Shmurda     How to make it big acting, by Ini Edo   nonye_fortune wrote: “Na port Harcourt babe be this, her money na legit #period.” trinah__hairs stated: “Tacha REST we all know how that money comes period.” chisomuaga_ said: “Abeg .. why the explanation always?? A clear conscience fears no accusation!!” _udy1_ wrote: “Her money is coming from sugar daddies period.” nzubeaa stated: “It’s so sad that every successful woman feels the need to justify their earnings and hard work because of some blinded stereotypes against women. Girl go on and live your life! Keep doing you and try not to give a damn about nay sayers.” jesuschic_mirabel said: “If you are from PH, you will understand better. Not a BBN fan but this girl is legit hardworking.” Chineduilorah wrote: “Smiles..the videos of your legendary but humble beginnings are all over the cyberspace so I can relate to the so much energy you put in trying to prove how you make money..no one cares abeg. I await d attacks.” uptown_boy0 asked: “Who get sugar daddy go agree say them get before?” rejae_effa stated: “Once they start to shalaye know na lie. Someone that was half naked online. Jumping from one nasty hotel to the next. Pls rest. All of you are in same business.” gift_blackgirl said: “Tacha had like 3 studio in PH where she taught makeup, held tutorials for them, and started her eyelash line and anklet, waist beads, pink lip kits and all. So u guys should stop attributing a woman’s hardwork to men.” SPONSORED