Emir of Katsina, His Royal Highness Dr. Abdulmumuni Kabir Usman has lauded the 2022 Lagos International Polo Tournament that climax this weekend as one of the most prestigious polo events in the world going by the record number of entry, quality of play and participation by high-ranking professionals. The life chairman of Nigerian polo who was the Special Guest of Honour in the finals of the second week of the festival also singled out host, the Lagos Polo Club , for its unalloyed commitment to the noble game of polo that has positively impacted on the promotion of the game around the country. Emir Usman maintained that the unequalled involvement of Lagos Polo Club in the promotion of the King of games and the promotion of tourism for over a century now has helped in redirecting the energies of the youth and engaging them positively. Emir Usman alongside His Royal Majesty, the Elegushi of Ikate Kingdom, Oba Saheed Elegushi were part of the distinguished personalities that cheered on as Lagos Leighton Kings emerged winners of the maiden edition of the Lagos Heritage Cup with a 8-6 win over Malcomines polo team from Jos.  Indeed, the Lagos Heritage Cup final was one of the highlights of the second week of the Eko Polo Festival that saw outsiders Kano Lintex team pulled the biggest upset of the polo fiesta, defeating defending champions, Leighton Kings in sudden death chukka.   Covid-19: NFF regrets Falcons’ shabby treatment     OKAGBARE: NADC MUST RENEW WAR AGAINST DOPING     Troost-Ekong: ‘I’m passionate about eradicating NTDs in…   Visiting Lintex team boasting Zadik Dantata, Bashir Dantata, Chris Mackenzie and Silvestre Donovan had earlier defeated Lagos Caverton to win the Italian Ambassadors Cup a day earlier, were in the cloud when Mackenzie sent Lagos to sleep with a superb golden goal. “This is awesome; indeed we are in the cloud and I want to thank my teammates for their commitment and this achievement,” declared Lintex patron, Bashir Dantata who went through seven agonizing final attempts to win his first Majekodunmi Cup title. Meanwhile, Murtala Laushi powered Jos Malcomines and Bode Makanjuola’s Caverton teams were the other top finishers of the second stage of the international polo festival reputed as the biggest in Africa. They both earned Italian Ambassador’s Cup and Heritage Cup runners-up prizes. The Eko Polo Festival that galloped off with fanfare 8th February enters its finale this weekend with seventeen ambitious teams expected to display their horsemanship and playing talents as the month-long extravaganza winds down to its grand finale. Lagos Polo Tournament Manager Seyi Oyinlola confirmed that the final stage will climax with pomp and ceremony on Sunday with nine Lagos’ teams and eight visiting teams gunning for three major prizes, the Silver Cup and the Lagos Low Cup and the Chief of Naval Staff Cup respectively.