As part of measures to create family-friendly films, Steve Gukas’ Natives Filmwork has set aside February 25, 2022 as the release date of the film, ‘Cake.’ The film, which was in collaboration with Michelangelo productions, features Patience Ozokwu Tope Tedela, Sophie Alakija, Folu Storms, Koloman, Philip Asaya, and Saskay among others. Speaking during a media briefing, Executive Producers, Gukas and Olakunri noted that ‘Cake’ is a family-friendly film and the first among 12 films that have been arranged to grace the cinema in subsequent times.   I don’t see anything wrong with two adults recording…     Nollywood responsible for correcting social vices, says…     Tunde Kelani plans Ayinde Barrister’s biopic   While speaking on what film lovers should expect from the film, Prosper Edisiri, the director of the film noted that the film is exceptional. He further remarked that the film would appeal to the general audience in terms of laughter, love. “We went through an intensive process while making this film. We had a lot of professionals who shared their ideas and experience with us. We were opened to a vast bank of knowledge. With the likes of Madam Patience, Saskay, Folu Storms, the movie is a breather. Cake is a movie that talks about how experimental a baker can go in terms of going after the love of his life or who he believes to be the love of his life and how experimental it is in terms of the recipe. It is a family-friendly film. Working under Natives Filmwork and Michelangelo productions is no less than an excellent result”. - Advertisement - While appreciating the opportunity unlocked by the film and what the audience should expect from the film, Saskay, one of the casts in the movie disclosed that this is her first time on set.   “To be candid, it was a wonderful experience. This film makes it my first time on set. It is a lot more than I expected. Normally, I knew that being on set would be stressful and all but it was different. I’m very thankful to the producers, the director, and all the cast and crew because they made it a lot easier. For someone who has not been on set before, it went really smoothly. I can’t wait for y’all to see the magic we created. I put in my best and I hope the viewers would enjoy it.” SPONSORED