SuperSport viewers on DStv and GOtv can look forward to Fifth Round Proper action from the FA Cup, with matches scheduled to be played from today through  Monday 7 March 2022. The FA Cup is renowned for producing fairy-tale stories about minnow teams going deep into the competition, and this year’s sensation is Boreham Wood, who play in the National League (fifth tier) and stunned EFL Championship side Bournemouth 1-0 in the previous round. Boreham Wood are the first non-league team to make the Fifth Round since Sutton United and Lincoln City in 2017. Incredibly, the Hertfordshire club are yet to concede a goal in five FA Cup rounds.   BREAKING: FIFA, UEFA suspend Russian national teams     IOC’s executive board recommends ban on Russia,…     Jonathan David: Lille striker faces Chelsea with…   Manager Luke Garrard says he is delighted to be facing Premier League side Everton at Goodison Park: “I love Frank [Lampard, Everton manager], Ashley Cole [Everton coach] is the best left-back Arsenal ever had. To be able to pit my wits against them, it hasn’t sunk in yet,” said the Boreham boss. Elsewhere, Championship clubs Luton Town and Peterborough United will look to cause upsets when they host heavyweights Chelsea and Manchester City respectively at 8pm, while Middlesbrough – who eliminated Manchester United in the previous round – will welcome Tottenham Hotspur to the North East at 8:55pm on SuperSport Variety 3 and SuperSport GOtv Football (DStv channel 205 and GOtv channel 31). “There’s no downside to going through,” said Boro manager Chris Wilder. “We got a couple of breaks and took advantage of them, and it was a fabulous night for everybody at the football club. We’ve got an incredibly interesting and tough second part of the season to look forward to. We’re in the mix and we’d love to stay in the mix, and getting the result [against Man United] will have done us the world of good.” There are also two all-Premier League clashes to look forward to, as Liverpool welcome Norwich City to Anfield at 9:15pm on SuperSport Premier League, while Southampton and West Ham United will battle at St. Mary’s Stadium at 8:30pm no SuperSport Football (DStv channel 205 and GOtv channel 31) on Wednesday, and on Thursday, all-Championship match sees Nottingham Forest (slayers of Arsenal and outgoing champions Leicester City) taking on Huddersfield Town at 8:30pm on SuperSport Variety 3 (DStv channel 208).