Young members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under the aegis of Youth Movement for Asiwaju Tinubu’s Agenda (YOMATA), has thrown their weight behind the aspiration of the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to contest next year’s presidential election. A statement by its National Coordinator, Mayowa Alakija, said the group’s inaugural general meeting was dedicated to unveiling the personality of the APC National Leader, which members of YOMATA believe is the best man that can fly the party’s flag during next year’s presidential election. Alakija said the meeting, which took place under the theme, “What’s and What’s Not About Tinubu”, dispelled the lies and the negative portrayal of the APC in the media, particularly social media in recent times and that the onus is on Nigerian youths to go beyond such negative portrayal to see the true personality of the former Lagos State governor. The statement said: “There are so many youths out there who formed their opinions based on what they read on social media; unfortunately many of such ‘news’ are lies aimed at tarnishing the personality of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Many of these people have nothing to contribute to the political space but are ready to destroy what is on the ground with their negative energies. We should be ready to confront this set of people, not by physically fighting them, but with superior arguments, facts and figures.” The guest speaker at the event, Babatunde Abdulazeez, the statement added, said Tinubu remains the best option for Nigeria at present. Abdulazeez, a young APC chieftain from Ejigbo, Lagos, said Tinubu has sacrificed a lot both for Lagos and Nigeria.   Vehicle testing: Achieving safer roads     ‘Infrastructure battle is Imo governor’s…     Need to revive declining cocoa industry   - Advertisement - The speaker took participants down memory lane, by highlighting “some of the political adventures that Tinubu had undertaken that has brought Lagos to the enviable position it currently occupies amongst other states in Nigeria”. Abdulazeez said: “Tinubu remains the best option for Nigeria at this present time. Unfortunately, the sacrifices that he has made to liberate so many people are not being reciprocated by such beneficiaries. “The only genuine offence that Asiwaju has committed is that the people he had lifted have refused to lift others. If the leaders that Asiwaju had made had in turn raised and lifted other people to also attain greatness, the story would have changed.” The highlight of the meeting was the interactive session coordinated by Comrade Gideon Balogun where members were encouraged to ask serious questions that require clarifications or answers concerning Asiwaju. One of the questions that an online participant asked bothered on how Tinubu made his money. Abdulazeez said long before venturing into politics, Tinubu had already made his money, having worked with so many international organisations in the United States of America. He said even before the APC National Leader joined Mobil, he had worked with so many organisations. He added: “Asiwaju was and is still the owner of many successful businesses, some had been in existence before his emergence as Lagos State governor.” In attendance were members from various local government areas in Lagos, Ogun, and Jigawa States. These include other state coordinators and members that joined via zoom. The participants were urged to equip themselves with adequate information to educate those that had been misinformed.