TOP industry giants and icons showed class at the weekend following their induction as ambassadors of the Marketing Edge prestigious Hall of Fame. The event, which held in Lagos, had in attendance major players in the organised private sector as well as public service. A total of 19 corporate leaders including Prof. Pat Utomi of the Lagos Business School, Dr. Biodun Shobanjo, Chairman, Chairman of Troyka Holdings, Sir Steve Omojafor, Chairman, STB-McCann, Dr.Lekan Fadolapo, Registrar/CEO, Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), were amongst the A-List of eminent inductees. Others also enlisted on the premier edition of the Hall of Fame include personages like Dr.Akinade Ogunbiyi, Mr Udeme Ufot, Mrs Iquo Ukoh, Mr George Thorpe, Mr Steve Babaeko, Mr Lanre Adusa ,Mr Ayo Oluwatosin, Mr Emeka Okeke, Mr Rotimi Bankole ,Mr Felix King, Mr Tunji Adeyinka,Mr Dozie Mbanefo, Alhaji Bello Garba Kankarofi.   How technology is helping skilled labour attract jobs     PRCAN to announce new practice standards for PR consulting     Wema Bank empowers over 60 young Nigerians   The event with the theme, ‘Leadership and Greatness’ was thrown with a keynote speech by Prof. Utomi who spoke on the dialectics of nation-building as he urged corporate leaders o lead by examples. - Advertisement - Justifying the need for the awards, the organisers led by Mr. John Ajayi emphasised the need for the society to recognise leaders who have shown grit, good virtue and excelled in the area of good corporate governance. According to him, operating in an environment as complex as Nigeria and still excel is no mean feat considering the challenges that beset businesses in Africa’s most populous black nation across the globe. The prestigious awards, which is the maiden edition, Ajayi said, would be an annual event to extol the good works of corporate leaders in order to encourage them to do more. Speakers after speakers including some of the awardees thanked the organisers for being recognised even as they assured that the awards would spur to do more in their chosen areas of work. SPONSORED