The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has introduced self-registration outlets in Abuja and Lagos for the 2022 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and Direct Entry (DE) examinations. The board said the system would ultimately reduce the crowds at computer-based test centres (CBTs) in the cities. “This system would, in the long run, reduce the crowds at CBT centres in these cities. The conception of this noble idea is to, besides advancing the digital competence of candidates who feel they can do the registration on their own, expand the registration access points in line with COVID-19 protocols,” JAMB said. In its weekly bulletin released to reporters yesterday in Abuja by its Head of Media and Information, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, JAMB said it was leveraging on the digital competence of its increasing number of computer-savvy candidates to ease registration processes. The board said the service provider, Bankfort, expressed optimism about the immense potential of the seamless registration mode, adding that it is the norm rather than the exception in more-developed climes.   Nigeria surviving on extra time, says Sanusi Lamido     Court to hear Nnamdi Kanu’s fundamental rights suit…     Why we released Odili’s passports, by Immigration   - Advertisement - Also, JAMB said it has adopted 66019 as an additional and optional USSD code, besides the 55019 code that had been in operation since 2018, for UTME/DE registration and other essential services offered by the board. It explained that this was done to facilitate a hitch-free 2022 UTME/DE registration by ensuring that candidates do not experience any difficulty in the creation of profiles, especially in a situation where many of them would be sending their requests via just one USSD code, as was the case hitherto. “In essence, the 55019 and 66019 are to be used to create their profiles for registration by candidates sitting the 2022/23 UTME/DE. “As usual, candidates are required to send their National Identification Number (NIN) via either of these USSD codes for their details to be pulled from the NIMC database before they proceed to any accredited centre for biometric capturing. “It would be recalled that the board had earlier given indications that, in its efforts to eliminating all bottlenecks associated with the creation of profiles, it was perfecting arrangements aimed at adopting an additional USSD code (66019) besides the 55019, which the Board had used exclusively since 2018 for its UTME/DE registration and examination exercise,” the bulletin said.