Works Minister Babatunde Fashola was put to the strictest test of his loyalty when he appeared before the Senate for screening sometime in October 2015. The question came out of the blue from a senator who wanted to know how loyal he would be in the discharge of his duties to the nation. The senator’s question was borne out of Fashola’s relationship with his principal and former Lagos State Governor Bola Tinubu, who he succeeded in 2007. Somewhere, along the line, their relationship was said to have become strained. These things tend to happen in politics. The best of friends become estranged and the mentor and his mentee become sworn enemies in the contest for power. Till today, nobody can pinpoint what happened between Tinubu and Fashola during the latter’s tenure in office which gave rise to the rumours that he may not be given a second term ticket. ‘Haaa… have you heard, there is no second term for Fashola. Baba has said so’, the rumour-peddlers went to town, telling whoever cared to listen. Mostly, they spoke in Yoruba as they tried to give what they considered a ‘vivid account’ of the backroom intrigues that may deny Fashola a second term ticket. Despite everything, Fashola did his constitutionally guaranteed two terms as governor and has been a minister in Abuja since leaving the executive mansion in Lagos in 2015. The senator who asked him the question on loyalty wanted to know the story, if any, of what transpired behind closed doors between Fashola and Tinubu to determine his suitability for the ministerial job which includes keeping ‘secrets secret’. He wanted to know if Fashola could be trusted not to reveal too much when the chips are down. If you are disloyal then you can be anything, the senator must have reasoned. Fashola, like the lawyer he is, skirted round the issue. He denied his interrogators the joy of knowing what they had preened their ears to hear of his relationship with Tinubu. ‘All I will say is that may our loyalty never be tested’, he cleverly said to the consternation of the senators who were waiting to hear from the horse’s mouth the untold story of his ‘turbulent’ days in power and encounters with his predecessor. - Advertisement - Is it possible for a man’s loyalty not to be tested one way or the other in life? We face the loyalty test virtually everyday. As a spouse, we face the test; as a worker, we face the test; as a parent, we face the test; as a student, we face the test; as a sports person, we face the test; as a child, we face the test; as a disciple, we face the test. Anywhere we turn, we face the loyalty test. But in politics, the test is a big deal. It is the ultimate test. You are either loyal or not, that is you are either for those who made you or you are against them. So, it is not a curse to tell a politician or anybody for that matter that ‘may your loyalty be tested’. It is to prepare that person for the day he will face such a tricky situation. It happened to Peter despite being forewarned by Jesus. As Tai Solarin noted in his 1964 New Year letter to the nation: ‘May your road be rough’, it is not a curse to send a friend, family member or a loved one such a message, it is to prepare them for the tough journey ahead.   Hanifa: Slain in her prime     It’s a free world     Date with destiny   In politics, a protege must remain loyal to his master, till death do them part. So, he must protect the interest of the master, come rain, come shine. In political circles, he must forever be beholden to the master, who is seen as his godfather. Things may end up not working that way. The reason for this is obvious: power. After coming into power, the protege perceives himself as equal to his master. He places himself on the same pedestal with the godfather. His hangers-on do not help matters. They goad him on, saying with the power at his disposal, there is nothing he cannot do, including taking on the one who made him. Some public officials are at that juncture of their political life now. Tinubu’s decision to run for the 2023 presidential election has altered the political equation. Some of his loyalists are also interested in the race. Names have been mentioned, but, unlike him, none of these persons has publicly spoken about their ambition. Tinubu’s entry into the race may have put them in a tight corner. What do we do now that Oga has made his intention known? Do we go into a contest with him for the presidential ticket of our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC)? As they ponder these questions, their aides are busy doing all the dirty job for them. Tinubu is being attacked right, left and centre, with the hack writers, giving reasons why the former governor should not be president. The disturbing thing is that many of these people used to be Tinubu’s right-hand men too. When did they know that Tinubu is not a leader to be associated with? Should who become president cause a rift between Tinubu and his loyalists? Has Tinubu done anything wrong by deciding to run for President? The fear of Tinubu is the cause of their panic. They know that with the Asiwaju of Lagos in the race, it will be difficult selling their man to the party. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is a well known Tinubu man. Although, he has not said anything about his presidential ambition, the portent shows otherwise. Should he run or not? How should he go about it? With Tinubu in the race, should he also contest? I do not know what is going on in Osinbajo’s mind, but from goings-on around him, it is safe to say that he is interested in the presidential race. I will not be surprised if he comes out to say so. That is his right. With the media adverts and the children, who  carried placards when he visited Katsina last weekend, urging him to run, Osinbajo may be set for the contest of his life. This is his own test of loyalty. Will he pass? As a pastor, he knows the story about Jesus’ test of faith in the wilderness after fasting for 40 days and 40 nights, will he act Christ-like in handling this loyalty test? Our loyalty, which is not only to God, but also man will always be tested. It is how we handle the test that distinguishes the strong from the weak. At the end of the day, we will all answer our father’s name and not that of those asking us to keep on dancing as they are behind us.