Yet-to-be-identified armed thugs have attacked the Soka residence of the Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho in Ibadan. An aide of the embattled Yoruba nation agitator Chief Sunday Adeyemo (aka Sunday Igboho) simply identified as Kokoro killed by hoodlums during a violent attack on his supporters. Igboho’s lead counsel, Chief Yomi Alliyu (SAN), confirmed this to The Nation last night. The deceased was said to have been killed at Soka area of Ibadan at about 3pm on Saturday as a confrontation between Igboho’s supporters and the motor park touts escalated. - Advertisement - The fracas was said to have been triggered by some touts who accosted an Igboho supporter who wore a shirt on which Igboho’s picture was printed. The hoodlums were said to have confronted the man, querying him for wearing the customized Igboho shirt. It was learnt that the incident occurred in the morning. Igboho is currently being detained in a prison facility in the Republic of Benin, after he was arrested at Cardinal Bernardin International Airport, Cotonou, while on his way to Germany in July.   Valentine’s Day: Avoid behaviours that make you…     Firm plans to raise one-million high networth individuals     Woman killed as low voter turnout mars FCT council election   The thugs, The Nation learnt, raided his house on Saturday afternoon around 3pm. The development was also confirmed by one of Igboho’s aide, Onaolapo Ademola Omiyale, who ran a live Facebook broadcast. He claimed that Igboho’s supporters were the focus of the target. Omiyale said, “Soka Junction, Sanyo, Academy, Oremeji is currently under attack, they are attacking anyone wearing Yoruba Nation Vest and Igboho’s face caps.” The Nation has not been able to independently verify his claims yet. But sources in the area who spoke with our correspondent said there was pandemonium in the Soka community in the afternoon following sporadic gunshots. Also, in the videos seen by our correspondent, some of Igboho’s supporters who reportedly confronted the armed thugs, sustained injuries. Police spokesman in the state Adewale Osifeso was unavailable for comment. SPONSORED