The National President of the Authentic Nigeria Football and Allied Sports Supporters Club (ANFASSC), Prince Abayomi Ogunjimi speaks with OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA on the challenges Nigerian fans go through in other to support the Super Eagles and other national teams and the need for governments across the continent to invest in better transportation infrastructures to  ease of movement for fans.   The President of Authentic Nigeria Football and Allied Sports Supporters Club (ANFASSC), Prince Abayomi Ogunjimi, has urged African leaders to do more in terms of developing transportation infrastructures in the continent in order to ease inter-border expeditions. “African leaders need to come together and the African continent needs to corporate and work together to see how we can develop our infrastructure,” he said matter-of-factly. “Travelling is a major challenge we face as Super Eagles fans, travelling from one location to another can be very daunting.” He added. “It is very expensive travelling within Africa and there are not many direct flights between major African cities.  Airlines should do better-connecting cities and making their tickets cheap that fans can afford while the governments should encourage and invest more in infrastructures like better roads, railways and bigger airports. “Some of us travelled to Garoua by road. We departed from Lagos to Abuja, then to Bauchi where we connected Yola in Adamawa State, from where we boarded buses to Garoua, which took about six hours while others took a boat from Yola to Garoua, which is about two hours on the waterways to the border town of Cameroon; then another four hours by road to the city hosting the Super Eagles. - Advertisement - “While the journey might have been exciting for some, I don’t think travelling long hours in foreign countries is ideal. “The trip via road was a surprising experience, though it is not a new thing travelling by road to support the Super Eagles.”   Ogunfuwa: Uniqueness of Football Fans Club of Nigeria     Eight countries that have never qualified for AFCON     We want to offer the world very pleasant match, says Egypt’s…   Ogunjimi further explained that funding is another major constraint being faced by the supporters club for the club while managing people can also be a major headache. “The major challenge is funding. Using my own money single-handily to be doing all these is not an easy thing. We spend our own money travelling all over the continent and the world to support the Super Eagles. We need the government and corporate bodies to come and support us.” Ogunjimi also revealed that there are plans to airlift at least 5,000 fans to Accra for the Qatar 2022 World Cup Playoff against Ghana, adding this is the objective behind the strategic partnership between ANFASSC and the FCT chapter of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN). Speaking in Abuja recently, Ogunjimi said: “It is time Nigerians put the defeat of Super Eagles at AFCON 2021 behind them and focus on the task ahead which is to ensure that the team qualifies for the World Cup in Qatar. “I am pained by what happened in Cameroon, but one thing that gave me joy is the way the Super Eagles played and the commitment of our players “So, that is why we have deemed it fit to partner SWAN for this project which will raise the level of awareness and increase support for the team ahead of the match. “The mood in our ranks is good. We want to enjoy ourselves and entertain. In football anything is possible,” Ogunjimi noted.