The Green Alliance (TGA), a coalition of civil groups, has urged Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele to run for President in 2023. Addressing reporters in Lagos, its Convener, Wale Fapohunda, a lawyer, described the economist as the best man for the job. Fapohunda said the CBN governor had come up with new strategies to navigate the economy through the hurdles of foreign exchange inflow, the exchange rate, recession, stagflation bans financial inclusion among others. ” He has been at the fore of pushing for diversification of Nigeria’s revenue base with emphasis on agriculture and growth of small businesses. He said the alliance, made up of various groups, wished for the CBN governor to run to continue with the growth and development of Nigeria. - Advertisement - Fapohunda said that aside engineering bank policies and programmes that had supported job creation and fostered inclusive growth in Nigeria, Emefiele had also ensured stability of macro economic concerns like inflation and exchange rate. “We have done a little research about him which is why we feel he is the best man for the job. ” Emefiele was appointed by the PDP government but the Muhammad Buhari administration in his wisdom, retained him and that tells a lot about his capacity and managerial acumen. “We want to move away from the norm of career politicians to a technocrat that has built a resilient financial system for Nigeria. “We want Emefiele as President because he will be a bridge-builder.” He said Emefiele inspired the rice revolution that had led to a near-zero importation of rice.   ‘APC is making inroads into Delta’     ‘Abiodun will do more for Ogun’      Does Soludo’s transition gives foretaste of his governance…   “Emefiele has pushed through measures that have halted importations and moved the nation’s agricultural sector to a great height. He, however, urged Nigerians to ensure they obtained their PVCs to enable them to participate actively in the 2023 general elections through their votes. Earlier In his opening remarks, co-founder of YGA, Mr Valentine Gabriel said the Lagos outing, which was the first for the group would be taken around the nation. The representative of Asaba (Delta) Women Association of Nigeria and Women in Politics, Angela Ajufor, said the women were desperately in need of change, progress and peace assuring that they would support Emefiele. She stressed: ” We also have members of the Women in Politics Forum in our midst who are also here to declare support for the CBN governor,” she said. The leader of the Youth Alliance for Good Governance, Akin Osomo, said: “We believe the need to divert from the norm of a politician to a technocrat to handle the affairs of the nation. “We believe Emefiele will handle the nation’s economy as well as he handled the Central Bank activities “He has an in-depth knowledge of the economy and global economic growth and he is a detribalised Nigerian. “His achievements in CBN are numerous and cannot be quantifiable. We, therefore, urge Emefiele him to come forth and declare. Other groups at the event are Young Women in Politics, Youths Alliance for Good Governance. SPONSORED