The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) yesterday announced former Nigeria World Cup star and former U-20 Coach, Emmanuel Amuneke as the chief coach of the Senior Men National Team, Super Eagles following the reconstitution of the technical crew of the team. Also, Augustine Eguavoen would be the Interim Technical Adviser of the team as well as the federation’s Technical Director. Amuneke, who will also be the assistant technical adviser to Eguavoen is considered the most garlanded footballers to have come out of Nigeria, who netted both goals that won Nigeria the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations final match against Zambia in Tunis while he also scored the goal that won Nigeria and Africa’s first Olympic football gold medal in 1996. He was part of the Eagles to the USA 1994 World Cup and 1996 Olympic Games, scoring two goals at USA ’94.   Teranga Lions: Amokachi, Ekoku hail Mane on AFCON glory     NFF names Amuneke new Super Eagles coach     Nike terminates contract with Greenwood over sexual…   As a coach, Amuneke qualified Tanzania for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt and led the Taifa Stars in the finals. He is a member of FIFA and CAF Technical Study Groups. “The NFF Board has approved a recommendation of the Technical and Development Committee retaining Augustine Eguavoen as Technical Director/Technical Adviser (interim) while Emmanuel Amuneke becomes the Chief Coach of the Super Eagles. Salisu Yusuf will be the 2nd Assistant Coach/Chief Coach of the CHAN team and Joseph Yobo will be 3rd Assistant while Aloysius Agu remains the goalkeepers’ trainer,” NFF General Secretary, Mohammed Sanusi said. - Advertisement - The reconstitution comes ahead of the potentially –explosive FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 play-off round against the Black Stars of Ghana next month. Sanusi added: “We acknowledge and appreciate the interest that Mr. Jose Peseiro has shown in Nigeria Football during our very cordial discussions and have absolutely no doubt about his capacity. We believe that perhaps in the future, there could be an opportunity to work with him. However, in view of the positive performance of the Super Eagles at the just-concluded Africa Cup of Nations, which has given hope to Nigerians and boosted our confidence in the present coaching crew to qualify us for the World Cup in Qatar, we have decided to accept the recommendation of the Technical and Development Committee to retain the Eguavoen-led coaching crew and strengthen it with the addition of Emmanuel Amuneke.”