Governors elected on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have hailed the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi for his leadership, vision and commitment to a united prosperous Nigeria. The governors, under the auspices of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), extolled the virtues of the NGF chairman in a congratulatory statement they sent to him on yesterday’s celebration of his 57th birthday. They described the Ekiti State governor as “a true progressive and innovative leader”. The statement by PGF Chairman and Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu reads: “The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) joins Kayode Fayemi, Governor of Ekiti State and Chairman, Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), to celebrate his 57th birthday. Along with the people of Ekiti State, and other well-meaning Nigerians, we celebrate this special occasion with you and your family. “We acknowledge and commend your leadership, vision and commitment to a united prosperous Nigeria, under the leadership of our party, APC. - Advertisement - “We acknowledge your contributions to our team of Progressive Governors through your insightful and resolute inputs to the processes of managing governance in Ekiti State as well as at the national level.   Conveners clarify meeting of eminent Nigerians     Edo business tycoon, cleric clash over threats to life,…     Tinubu felicitates Fayemi at 57   “As governor of Ekiti State, through all the development initiatives being implemented by your APC-led government, we affirm that you are a true progressive and innovative leader.” Also, Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu described Fayemi as a bridge builder and stabiliser. A statement yesterday in Akure, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, reads: “Kayode, you have continued to show leadership at all fronts. As our chairman at the NGF, your leadership has been fruitful, engaging and rewarding. “Your exploits as the NGF Chairman have yielded fruits of national development and progress across the country. You have echoed our minds and driven our collective interests in favour of our people.” Also, a former Ekiti State governor and current Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo said: “Several road projects and the Ekiti Cargo Airport, among other notable projects, have positioned the state for greater heights.” In a congratulatory message in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media, Mr. Ifedayo Sayo, the minister acknowledged that Fayemi’s “leadership has positioned the NGF as a strong force in the country”.