Nollywood actor, Blossom Chukwujekwu’s ex-wife, Maureen Esisi has stirred reactions after sharing a sensual video with former BBNaija housemate, Cross. The video, which was shared on Redvigor’s Instagram page, exuded intense erotic vibes between the duo. In the video, Cross standing in the corner while pressing his phone was pounced on by Esisi who held him tight. As a result, Cross who was looking all serious before then let out a big smile. The mother-of-one proceeded to pour the reality TV star a drink while he held the glass with both starring into each other’s eyes quite wantonly. - Advertisement - She continued to tease him with suggestive body moves. He went shirtless at some point as he enjoyed watching her twerk and eventually lifted Redvigor on his shoulder, off to the bedroom. And all those times, Muni Long’s ‘Hrs and Hrs’ song played in the background. In captioning the video, Maureen hinted it might all be about the upcoming Valentine’s Day celebration. “We be TikToking for a Second @crossda_boss Who is your Valentine?,” she wrote. The steamy video has since provoked varying reactions from social media users.   Angelique Kidjo, Burna Boy release ‘Do yourself’…     New Masquerade actor Natty is dead     Viral video of boy drinking star radler sets tongues wagging   vanr_p said: “That Blossom dude should be doing thanksgiving in church every week..God saved him! geomara_ij wrote: “I go soon leave social media for my sanity, haba!” _davidjake stated: “Una too like bad thing werey (mad) generation.” ladyque_1 asked: “What’s the meaning of this???” official__bibi2mary said: “No be this kind life this boy mama wan for am oooo lol she want a Christian life for him.” de__shawty wrote: “I sha no wan see nude tomorrow oo.” awulalarleydee stated: “Cross and Ashawo flavor thingz , 5&6 . Torrrh !” _djshay quizzed: “Who’ll explain to me what’s going on??” henrydracula said: “We go see the leak for Snapchat later.” samuelraay wrote: “They smashed. Can’t tell me nothing.” iamadejoke1 stated: “This woman is broken…… Therapy!” mjsurplus queried: “As una de corrupt people children for social media, una children sef go escape am? amyna_aleo_ said: “I just wish ds woman will just learn her lesson and be wise for once.”