To improve electricity transmission in the country, the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has taken delivery of 15 new electricity transformers. The firm has also taken steps to replace old infrastructure, MUYIWA LUCAS writes. After fluctuations in electricity supply, hope of improved electricity supply has received a boost as the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) took delivery of 15 new power transformers.The transformers would add 637MW and 850MW to the transmission network. The power transformers, which comprises of ten 60 MegaVolt Ampree (MVA) 132/33KV and five 150 MVA 330/132KV capacity transformers, are expected to increase Nigeria’s electricity transmission capacity by 1,487 megawatts. TCN’s General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah,  in the statement, said the transformers, which were retrieved from the Apapa ports, were delivered to TCN Central Store in Ojo, Lagos State, for onward delivery to various TCN sites across the country. TCN Acting Managing Director, Mr. Sule Abdulaziz, said the contract for the supply of the transformers, under the Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project (NETAP), was funded by the World Bank, adding that TCN would decide on the project sites the transformers would be installed. Abdulaziz said once installed and connected to the grid, the ten 60MVA 132/33kV power transformers and the five 50MVA 330/132kV transformers would add 637 Mega Watts (MW) and 850MW to the transmission network. “Consequently increasing the total capacity of the transmission system by 1487MW while ensuring N-1 reliability criteria in the sub-stations, which is strategic in enhancing grid stability,’’ he explained.   Growing uncertainty over energy demand     EKEDC chair assures of improved power supply     EKEDC, USAID partner on STEM for schools   According to him, in August 2021, the World Bank-funded transformer supply contracts brought in 10 60MVA132/33kV transformers and 25 earthing transformers. Out of the 10 60MVA transformers, five were installed in Karu and Gombe sub-stations, while two were being installed in Kano, and one in Lagos State. He added: “This is the first time in the history of TCN that it took delivery of large numbers of transformers within a short period. These are milestone achievements for TCN, as it strives to implement its short-term development plan under the Nigerian Electricity Grid Maintenance, Expansion, and Rehabilitation Programme (NEGMERP),” adding that the  World Bank-sponsored NETAP project is one of the TCN donor-funded projects aimed at expanding the transmission grid while also prioritising maintenance of the existing transmission infrastructures.’’ Ahead of this, the TCN moved to reduce system losses in the power sector with the commencement of the digitisation of old transmission substations in its network. The digitisation project is aimed at improving the automation system of old transmission substations and their connectivity with the proposed TCN’s Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. SCADA is a control system architecture comprising computers, networked data communications and graphical user interfaces for high-level supervision of machines and processes. It aims to monitor and control field devices at remote sites. Mbah explained that the scope of work for the project included the supply, installation, configuration, testing, and inauguration of Substation Automation Systems (SAS), as well as the control and relay protection systems in the substations. “This project would further contribute to grid management and reduce system losses.The digitisation project is funded by the World Bank under NETAP (Nigerian Electricity Transmission Project), managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of TCN. In Port-Harcourt Region alone, five substations would be digitalised, and this includes Afam 1, Ahoada, Yenegoa, Owerri, and Uyo substations,’ Mbah said. She stated that the team from TCN-PMU and the General Manager (Transmission), Port Harcourt Region, handed the document on the digitisation project to the contractor at the Afam 1 substation. The event, she noted, marked the beginning of the digitisation of TCNs old substations. In August 2019, the TCN announced the decision to split the company and plan to spend $5 million to digitise its substations’ control rooms nationwide. It stated that the intention is to midwife TCN in such a way that it will cease to exist adding that there will be a separate Transmission Service Provider (TSP) and the Independent System Operation (ISO), which will be with the Market Operator.  It also pointed out that the split can only be successful when the supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) and the electricity management system (EMS) are in place.