Of the over 13 million vehicles in Nigeria, only about 3.4 million  of them have genuine Third Party Motor insurance policies as at February 2022, The Nation has learnt. This represents a rise from the 2.94million policies as at April 26, 2021. The Chairman, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Ganiyu Musa, who made this known at a briefing in Lagos, said the 3.4 million vehicles were captured on the Nigeria Insurance Industry Database (NIID). He further said 200,000 marine policies had been uploaded in the marine module in same period. Musa, who is also the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Cornerstone Insurance Plc, noted that though the number of vehicles captured fel below expectations following the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions which resulted to lack of international trade.   Kerosene price declines by 6.60% in January – NBS     RT 200 FX programme requires infrastructure, funding, says…     Nigeria in mixed fortune on grains, oil seeds export   He however assured that things were beginning to pick up gradually from the last quarter of last year. - Advertisement - He said: “The NIID solution is designed to help insurers and NIA monitor and authenticate all insurance policies issued in Nigeria toward reducing the incidence of fraudulent transactions and the loss of business by the insurance companies. The motor vehicle insurance policy module is the first part of the project that has commenced while other insurance cover types are expected to commence before the end of the year.” The Consolidated Insurance Bill 2020, he said, was still receiving legislative attention in the National Assembly and the association is on top of developments on it. “We are optimistic that the Bill will be passed into law before long. We are happy to note that the Finance Act 2021 has been signed into law and this has resolved a major issue with regards to the definition of the components of minimum capital,” he added. He noted that the association was engaging the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to determine the next steps. On marker development, he said the association would continue to complement the efforts of NAICOM in their campaign on domestication of compulsory insurance in the states.   SPONSORED