The hawker who went viral last month for his benevolent act has been congratulated on his resumption of classes at Ebonyi State University (EBSU). Ekuma Jeremiah Iziogo received widespread commendation following a video of him in traffic with a crate of bottled water on his head while handing out cash to inmates in a Correctional Service vehicle along Ajah axis, Lagos State The humanitarian gesture earned him a spot in the heart of popular businessman, Obi Cubana who offered to sponsor the hawker’s tertiary education in any institution of his choice. Jeremiah, who was a student of Faculty of Law (EBSU) before he was forced to drop out due to financial constraints, was reinstated in the same varsity on February 3, 2022. Jeremiah made this known as he appreciated Obi Cubana, Daddy Freeze and Rocky for actualisation his dream of returning to school. He described them as three wonderful men sent to him by God while he informed everyone he’ll be resuming back to school soon. In a new post on Instagram, the Law student shared a couple of photos with his course mates and others of him fully cladded in his black suits with white shirt alongside the video where he hawking. The 26-year-old acknowledged God’s grace upon his life and noted his glad to have resumed classes. He wrote: “Your worst days are never so bad that you are beyond the reach of God’s grace. And your best days are never so good that you are beyond the need of God’s grace.” – Jerry Bridges “Very Glad to be back in school.” Reacting to his post, social media users have joined him in appreciating God’s grace upon his life while they congratulated him on his return to school.   Davido slams Gov Makinde, says no one can arrest me     Hold Marlian music, Naira Marley responsible if I die…     Fans beg Alex Ekubo to marry Ebube Nwagbo   adetunji_akanbi_alatata said: “Change your name from Jerry Luck to Jerry Grace cos the grace you carry is beyond human comprehension! Congratulations once again.” Makindeehime wrote: “Congratulations, D sky is ur limit, keep on shinning.” real_montero stated: “ I can’t just stop crying especially after seeing the last slide again, congratulations my brother. God bless everyone that’s involved in this process.” tirzah_naturals said: “Wow wow wow Congratulations.” im_ezehighlights wrote: “Congratulations, there’s nothing impossible for God to do, just in his own time, He made it possible.” uniqueplies_studdard stated: “Awww Congratulations. You will never witness sorrow again for the rest of your life. I wish you all the best, go and excel.” gmeo_d_great said: “Watch out for incoming SAN…congratulations bro.” princeorxu wrote: “Grace Grace Grace. Bless up bro!” wolajoseph stated: “Congratulations @jerryluck_ The Legal Profession is eagerly waiting to welcome you. . .” arability_softy said: “Congratulations Bro thanks to @obi_cubana @daddyfreeze and everyone that God used to make this possible.” Akyerelux wrote: “Congratulations the only valid conversation.” Africajlopez stated: “Congratulations, I am so so happy for you, it’s pays to be good and don’t for your kindness for anything else.”