The World Health Organisation (WHO) has selected Nigeria, Egypt, Kenya, Senegal, South Africa and Tunisia as the first countries on the African continent to receive the technology needed to produce game-changing mRNA vaccines to fight COVID-19 The announcement was made at a ceremony hosted yesterday WHO, the European Council, France and South Africa with their respective presidents in attendance. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday hailed the world health body for the development, warning that inadequate supply of COVID-19 vaccines to African countries could negatively impact the continent’s economic growth and the ability to achieve the African Union Agenda 2063. “No other event like the COVID-19 pandemic has shown that reliance on a few companies to supply global public goods is limiting and dangerous,” WHO Director-General Tedros Ghebreyesus said. The revolutionary mRNA technology teaches the body’s own cells how to make a protein that triggers an immune response without using any viral material. - Advertisement - In the case of COVID-19, it produces a harmless piece of the spike protein, alerting the body to defend itself from the virus. The global mRNA technology transfer hub was established in South Africa in 2021 to support low and middle-income countries in manufacturing their own mRNA vaccines – with the required operating procedures and know-how to meet international standards. Primarily set up to address the COVID-19 emergency, the hub has the potential to expand its capacity for other manufacturing as well, putting countries in the driver’s seat when it comes to the kinds of vaccines needed to address their health priorities. Depending on the country’s infrastructure, workforce and regulatory capacity, WHO and partners will work with them to develop a roadmap, organise training and provide support to begin producing the highly effective vaccines at home as soon as possible. “This is an initiative that will allow us to make our own vaccines and that…means mutual respect…investment in our economies…and, in many ways, giving back to the continent,” South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa said. To ensure that every country builds the capacity to produce their own vaccines and health technologies, WHO has been establishing a bio-manufacturing workforce training hub for states interested in production and scientific and clinical research, which will be announced in the coming weeks. Moreover, WHO’s current activities in support of low and middle-income countries will expand through a global tool that assesses countries’ ability to ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of health products. It will also provide training to build agile and fit-for-purpose regulatory systems. “In the mid to long-term, the best way to address health emergencies and reach universal health coverage is to significantly increase the capacity of all regions to manufacture the health products they need, with equitable access as their primary endpoint,” WHO chief said. The WHO mRNA technology transfer hub is part of a larger effort to empower low and middle-income countries to produce their own vaccines, medicines and diagnostics to achieve universal health coverage. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday hailed the selection of Nigeria as one of the six African countries to receive technology from the COVID-19 mRNA technology transfer centre. Buhari also warned that inadequate supply of COVID-19 vaccines to African countries could negatively impact the continent’s economic growth and the ability to achieve the African Union Agenda 2063.   Soldiers, police, DSS deployed as Osun APC holds guber…     Group demands identity of military officer behind forfeited…     Shangisha-Magodo dispute: Lagos govt seeks Supreme Court…    The President spoke during a roundtable on Health Systems and Vaccine Production at the ongoing European Union (EU) – Africa Summit in Brussels, Belgium, warning further that vaccine nationalism could become a springboard for future health crisis on the African continent.  In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, the President called for a closer collaboration with the EU to tackle the effects of the pandemic on the African continent. While commending the efforts of the foreign partners in making the COVID-19 vaccine available, he urged them to do more as less than 10 per cent of the African population had gotten the jab, stressing that this situation could negatively affect Africa’s developmental projections.  “We commend the efforts and support of Team Europe for the substantial contribution to the COVAX facility and the EU contribution for vaccination rollout campaign in Africa. “But currently, less than 10% of Africa’s population has been vaccinated, compared to more than 60% total vaccinations in the EU as at the end of 2021. “Regrettably, millions of African citizens are yet to receive their first dose of vaccination jabs while their counterparts in Europe and other parts of the world are bracing up for their third booster shots. “When eventually Africa received about 700 million doses of vaccines before the end of 2021 under the COVAX Facility, it represented a considerable shortfall for a population of 1.383 billion. “Nigeria strongly believes that these low figures could not only cause a future health crisis but could negatively impact economic growth and our ability to achieve the African Union Agenda 2063. “The severe impact of the pandemic has once again brought to the fore the vulnerabilities of mankind and the weakness of health systems across the world. “To mitigate future devastating health pandemics, there is an urgent need for increased funding for healthcare systems in Africa and increased local manufacturing of materials and equipment along the whole value chain. “This can happen only with the cooperation that would close the gaps in the health systems on our continent. “We urge our European partners to focus more on investments targeted at improving the African health systems and production of vaccines.” “Existing AU frameworks like the New Partnership for African Development and national comparative advantages of some African countries are there to form the basis for such investments,” he added. Reacting to the inclusion of Nigeria on the list of six African countries to become COVID-19 vaccines manufacturing bases, the President said: “I am delighted to receive the news of the selection of Nigeria among recipients of MRNA Vaccine technology transfer. We shall ensure the best use is made of the opportunity. “Nigeria also offers to host the bio-manufacturing training hub proposed by World Health Organization (WHO). We commit to providing support to make the hub functional in the shortest possible time. “Accordingly, we are prioritising the manufacture of vaccines on the African continent and in the sharing and transfer of technology and intellectual property rights. “We call on the EU to support the WTO towards the conclusion of negotiations on intellectual property rights’ waiver to ensure that the manufacturing of vaccines can start early in Africa.” SPONSORED