Active aircraft in the fleet of global carriers are expected to grow by13 per cent in 2022. In a report by Ch-aviation, an international aviation database and consultancy services company, stated that the size of the aircraft fleet as of last month’s accounts was 28,289. While 22,799 of such aircraft in the fleet of global carriers are active, Nigeria is, however, listed among countries with over  5, 490 grounded airplanes. Besides Nigeria, Hong Kong, Iran, Malaysia, Thailand, Ukraine, Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Argentina are among 10 countries with the highest percentage of grounded aircraft. Worried over the trend, Nigerian carriers are considering interventionist measures to push it up the ladder among countries with increasing aircraft fleet. - Advertisement - Investigations show that Nigerian operators are struggling against the tide to remove the country from the negative listing as they are embracing ambitious fleet renewal programmes. To bridge the gap, Nigerian carriers are committing over $1.214 billion to the acquisition of 16 aircraft, which would be delivered in the next few years. While Overland Airways will spend over $299.4 million in the purchase of six Embraer 175 regional jets, state-owned carrier carrier – Ibom Air – will be committing over $915 million to the acquisition of 10 Airbus 220. Besides Brazilian airplane maker- Embraer, which is making inroads into the country’s air transport market with large aircraft orders from Air Peace, Overland Airways, United Nigeria Airlines, French airplane maker is not leaving anything to chance with large aircraft orders from Ibom Air, AeroContractors, AZMAN Air, Green Africa Airways and others. American aircraft maker – The Boeing Company, is not left out in the strategy to dominate the fleet of Nigerian carriers with huge aircraft orders from Air Peace, Dana Air, AZMAN Air, Max Air, AeroContractors, United Nigeria Airlines, Cally Air, NG Eagle Airlines and others. Investigations by The Nation shows that other aircraft makers – Canada- based Bombardier and French airplane maker – ATR – are also consolidating their market presence with their equipment in the fleet of Green Africa Airways, Overland Airways and Chanchangi Airlines.   Nigeria raises Euro 700m Eurobond to increase finances to…     Tinubu visits Ogun monarchs     CaCovid to support fight against insecurity with N100b   Investigations have shown that while Overland Airways will be paying the Brazilian airplane maker $299 million as total value of the firm order it has placed for three new Embraer 175 and purchase rights for another three; Ibom Air’s 10 Airbus 220 is on offer at a price list of between $481 million and $91.5 million depending on the configuration. An expert familiar with the matter said: “Airbus A220 comes in two variants. With a two-three economy configuration, the narrowbody has a list price of $81 million for the smaller A220-100 version. The larger and, thus far, more popular variant, the A220-300, is listed for $91.5 million. Information gleaned from the Ch- aviation database indicate that the global aircraft fleet has, in the last few months, been experiencing steady increase, compared to year – on – year statistics indicating 13 per cent. The website indicates: “The active worldwide fleet continues to grow, as we notice a steady increase of active aircraft since November. If we compare January 2022 with January 2021, there is a 13 percent rise in the active global fleet. “When looking at the percentage of active aircraft on a continent basis, North America and Oceania are at the top of the list, with 86 per cent and 85 percent  per cent of their aircraft fleet being active. They are followed by Europe 81 per cent; South America 79 per cent and Asia 78 per cent . Africa has the least percentage of active aircraft, with only 66 per cent active. According to the database, Hungary remains the country with the most active aircraft; a spot it has occupied since last November. One hundred and thirty-one of the 137 aircraft that are with Hungarian operators are in use – more than 95percent. The Netherlands, Japan, Chile, Ireland, Poland, the United States of America, China, Saudi Arabia, and Malta are also among the top 10 countries with the most active aircraft, with each country counting over 86 per cent  of its fleet active. They are among the top 10 countries with the highest percentage of active aircraft with more than 100 aircraft in their portfolio. With more than 64 per cent of its fleet grounded, Hong Kong is still the country with the most grounded aircraft – a position it has had since last November. Top 25 airlines with the most active aircraft; with 100 or more aircraft in their fleet include Malta Air; Spring Airlines, Spirit Airlines; Wizz Air; Frontiers Airlines and Envoy Air. According to the data, the top 25 airlines on the list have at least 89 per cent  of their aircraft active. SPONSORED