WITH the gubernatorial primary election of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Osun State fast approaching, many chieftains and members of the party are at loss over the status of a committee set up by national chairman, Iyorchia Ayu, to resolve the crisis in the state chapter. Sentry gathered that the 11 wise men appointed by Ayu are yet to sit for a meeting since their inauguration at a stakeholders’ meeting of the PDP in Abuja. At the event the committee was asked to examine the power struggle involving six contenders for the governorship ticket and submit its report within a week. But days after the expiration of the one-week mandate, nothing has been heard of the committee or its assignment. Members of the committee are a former governor of the state, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola; ex-PDP Deputy National Chairman, Chief Shuaib Oyedokun; BoT member, Senator Olu Alabi; Senator Francis Fadahunsi; former Deputy Governor, Erelu Olusola Obada; Professor Wale Ladipo; Chief Dele Faseru; Chief Bayo Ajeigbe; Hon. Olasoji Adagunodo; Hon. Sunday Bisi and Hon. Albert Adeogun. While the scramble for the ticket for July 2022 poll has become feverish, it appears Ayu’s wise men are finding it difficult to intervene in the political face-off among the contenders. Perhaps, they don’t even know where to start from just yet.     Olubadan: Ladoja laughs last     Bwacha: Making hay while the sun shines     Ekiti 150: Whose errand boys?   Magodo: Abiru is doing good - Advertisement - Senate Committee on Industries chairman, Tokunbo Abiru, is today a celebrity of sorts among the people of Magodo Estate, Lagos State. A visit to the estate on Thursday by Sentry revealed that the politician has won the hearts of majority of the residents of the community on account of his handling of his presentation before the Senate, a petition submitted to him by the executives of the Magodo Residents Association, on the attempt to forcefully and illegally execute a court judgement in the estate. Even when Sentry told some of the residents that the Senator merely did what was expected of him as representative of the people at the National Assembly, they responded: “look, Abiru is doing good. He is not the only representative we have with Magodo under his auspice. Not only has he showed keen interest in our plight, he has taken our matter to the Senate and presented our petition to the Senate President. He is truly good.” Abiru, who represents Lagos East Senatorial District, had while addressing the senate on the Magodo matter, said it was a complaint against the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice and the Inspector General of Police “over illegal invasion of Magodo GRA, Phase 2, Ikosi Ketu, Kosofe Local Government Area of Lagos State by men of the Nigeria Police Force in a bid to illegally execute a court judgement.” President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, requested that the petition be laid before the chamber for consideration of the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. The committee was mandated to report back in four weeks. For this move, the residents of Magodo are grateful to the lawmaker.