Edo State Deputy Governor  Philip Shaibu has lauded Governor  Godwin Obaseki for ‘an unprecedented feat’ of  approving equal salary and emoluments for the state’s football  clubs-Bendel Insurance and Edo Queens. Shaibu said  only the state has been able to achieve equal pay for both its  men and women football teams, adding the least paid player in both Bendel Insurance and Edo Queens earns more than N150, 000 monthly outside bonuses and allowances.  “Edo Queens and Bendel Insurance are the first clubs that will not be washing their jerseys after each match.  From this season, every player will have two jerseys in each match. So, fans that come to watch the matches have the chance of taking jerseys home after the game,”  Shaibu said at the unveiling of Bendel Insurance and Edo Queens jerseys.   “The clubs are at par when it comes to salary. The least paid Insurance player earns N150,000, the same with Edo Queens players. “ Obama tried it, it didn’t work; Trump tried it without success; and today Joe Biden is still battling with the issue of getting men and women players in the United States to earn equal pay. But Obaseki has done it.” Speaking further, Shaibu said the Obaseki-led administration from inception, took youth and sports development seriously: “when we were sworn in, the governor said we must redefine governance and also return sports to what it used to be in the days of Ogbemudia.   Club World Cup: Chelsea  stop Ighalo’s  Al- Hilal     Qatar 2022 race : Ghana picks Addo ,Hughton  for Eagles     Eguavoen welcomes  Amuneke to Eagles   - Advertisement -   “We started with facilities and now Edo has some of the best structures you can find in Nigeria. “For the first time in the history of football, we are here to unveil jerseys and shirt sponsors of these jerseys.  “The sponsorship fee for Bendel Insurance’s jersey is N50 million. That is what Sterling Bank is paying to advertise its products on the jersey,” he said.    Shaibu added: “What we are doing with insurance and Edo Queens will be replicated across all our 36 clubs. Insurance will start their NNL competition on Friday and they will also fly to every venue that is more than four hours by road.  It is interesting to note that the money we spend on the teams is not up what the previous managers spent and yet owed players several months salaries.”