Dimbo Atiya, a co-director of popular TV series Halita has urged citizens of Plateau state to project the state in a positive light. Atiya revealed this during “Conversation with Dimbo Atiya” by the Jos Business School in partnership with Tomruk Innovations which was held at the Jos Business School Miri Drive Jos, the Plateau State Capital. The Plateau-born filmmaker expressed deep concern about the image of the state saying that despite the huge creative talents, gifted personalities, and enormous potentials in the state, the state is still suffering bad image on account of the past violence. “When you goggle the internet about Jos what you see is crisis, bloodshed and other unpleasant news, the government must therefore be deliberate in putting out information and encourage people who can put out information about Plateau State that will saturate the social media and the internet so that when you google Jos it is easy for people believe that things have been restored and people are going about their normal businesses and the weather and climate is conducive for people to come and do their businesses. There are many filmmakers who want to come to Jos but are scared thinking the place is not safe which is a huge setback,” he said. Atiya, then called on the citizens to put in place deliberate efforts to erase or clean the negative and erroneous perception about the State before the outside community.   WurlD to release sophomore album, MWWU in March     Sotayo completes leadership training course     Why my marriage to Kanye West failed, by Kim Kardashian   - Advertisement - “Bombard the internet with beautiful stories and pictures about Jos” he stressed. According to him, the bad image of the State has discouraged potential investors from the state and noted that it is now time for the citizens to ensure the right image laundering is done and the state is presented in a positive light in order to regain its lost glory which hitherto was the entertainment and tourism hub of the Nation. “I have been a creative and Jos being known for most of the creative talents that we have around here, Jos Business School, felt it was important that they bring back someone who has made it from Jos to have a conversation with young people and those who are interested in trying to improve the narrative on how we can improve the creative space in Plateau State. “The people here are hungry for information and knowledge as well as eager to know how things are being done. There is so much potential here, only if we can harness this potential in the best way we can” He therefore called on the citizens to work collectively to erase the negative image given to the State on account of past experience.