Operatives of Ogun State police Command on Saturday arrested a 43-year-old Kehinde Oladimeji and his wife, Adejumoke Raji, 35, for being in possession of fresh human parts, including breasts and hands. The couple, who are residents of No.72, MKO Abiola Way, Leme, Abeokuta were arrested by operatives from Kemta Divisional Headquarters after Chief Moshood Ogunwolu, the Baale of Leme community, reported them to the police. The Baale told detectives in Kemta Police Division that one Pastor Adisa Olarewaju, who is a co-tenant with the suspects, informed him about an offensive odour oozing from the suspects’ room.  The Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said that following the complaint, the Divisional Police Officer for Kemta Division,  Adeniyi Adekunle, led his detectives to the scene where a search was conducted. - Advertisement - He explained that on searching the room, a plastic bowl containing fresh different parts of human being was discovered in the room, and the couple was promptly arrested.   RMAFC challenges Finance Act in court, insists on autonomy     Landlord’s son demands goat, N100,000, others from tenant…     Military helicopters kill 20 bandits advancing on Nigerian…   The suspects were said to have confessed that they were herbalists and that the human parts comprising hands, breasts and other parts were given to them by one Michael, who they claimed resides in Adatan area of Abeokuta, for safe keeping. Efforts made to locate the said Michael had not yielded results as the suspects were said not to be able to locate his house. It will be recalled that a dismembered body of an unknown person was found in a swampy area of Leme, Abeokuta about a week ago. It was not clear at press time whether the human parts in question were sourced from the said dismembered body. The Ogun State Commissioner of Police, Lanre Bankole, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. The CP also vowed that anyone directly or indirectly involved in the crime would be brought to book to serve as a deterrent to others. SPONSORED