Association of Nollywood Core Producers (ANCOP) has commenced the process of conducting elections into its National Executive Committee (NEC). This is coming as the association is rejigging the membership of its incorporated trustees known as the Board of Trustees (BoT). Pioneer member of the BoT, former President of ANCOP, and current Vice President (Africa) of FIAPF, Alex Eyengho stated this in a statement. Eyengho made this known after the first General Assembly (GA) of ANCOP in 2022 saying that the ANCOP NEC elections will hold on March 31, 2022.   Filmmaker Rev. Peace joins the political race     Aforevo to reward screenwriters with N1m in Nollywood     Asa inspired us as youngsters- The Cavemen   “We had a successful GA today February 7, 2022, where two major decisions were taken. First, in line with our Constitution, a 5-member ANCOP Electoral Committee (ANCOP EC) was set up to come up with the modus operandi and ultimate conduct of the NEC elections proper on March 31, 2022. Members of this ANCOP EC 2022 are veteran Nollywood filmmaker/thespian, Amayo Uzo Philip (Chairman), and Acho Ugenyi (Secretary). Others are Thompson David, Dr. Jossy Ezelibe, and Ms. Perpetua Vitalis.” - Advertisement - “We also rejigged the membership of our BoT by officially removing and delisting some names for sundry reasons. Those affected are the late Mr. Chris Ekejimbe by reason of his sudden death some years ago, Ms. Celine Loader by reason of her permanent relocation abroad, and Alhaji Isa Zailani by reason of his ceasing to be a member of the Incorporated Trustees of ANCOP by not relating with other BoT members and the association in any way whatsoever for many years now, despite many times of reaching out to him. Let us make it clear that if there is need to recommend any other person for removal and or replacement of those already removed, an emergency GA shall be called for that purpose,” Comrade Eyengho further stated. Chairman of the ANCOP EC 2022, Amayo Uzo Philip (High Priest), while speaking for and on behalf of other members of the committee said: “I want to thank every member of this great association for the faith you have in all the chosen members of the committee and on behalf of all the members, I assure you of our diligence to the service you have called us. We will set out diligently and surely to serve you well. We need your constitutional support always as we work assiduously to achieve the desired goals for the progress of our dear ANCOP.” ANCOP is a member of the International Federation of Film Producers Associations (FIAPF); the umbrella body for motion picture producers’ associations in the world.