Banks will no longer have access to Foreign Exchange (Forex) from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) after this year. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele told Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of banks at the Bankers’ Committee meeting in Abuja yesterday. The CBN governor unveiled the RT200 new forex programme with the goal of $200 billion in FX repatriation, exclusively from non-oil exports, over the next 3-5 years. - Advertisement - Banks will be required to source forex for their customers. Emefiele added that the CBN will support the banks by granting rebates and other incentives until they (banks) find their feet. He also announced that the CBN through its policies and measures had significantly grown diaspora remittances from an average of $6 million per week in December 2020 to an average of over $100 million per week by last month. Emefiele said: “The banks don’t have a choice. The era is coming to an end when, because your customer makes $100 million demand for FX, or $200 million and you want to pack all the dollars and pass it to the CBN to give you dollar. ”It is coming to an end because before, or about latest end of this year, we will tell you don’t come to CBN for FX again go and fund, generate your export proceeds. He added, “bank should fund people who want to generate export proceeds, when those export proceeds come, we will fund them at five percent for you. “When those export proceeds come, they will earn rebate. That’s how we can help you. When those proceeds come sell them to your customers, but to say that you will continue to come to CBN to give you dollar we will stop it so they don’t have a choice. “Because it’s their bread and butter (FX import/export) we are saying we will give it back to them and they just have to accept it, if they are lucky, we will say, you only come to CBN when we see the record of export proceeds you have generated and we will say okay, we will give you 10 or five per cent of it.”   Traders urged to vote for APC in Saturday’s FCT election     Disquiet over hike in Delta varsities’ fees     Toxic petrol: Buhari orders probe, sanction of culprits   Emefiele told the bank chiefs: “You must go and join the race; build your foreign exchange from your export customers to fund your import customer. That’s the best I can do to help. Run your race for your profitability so that you can make your shareholders happy.” Emefiele said the apex bank will be reviewing these intervention programmes going forward to ensure that they continue to achieve the desired results. He said: “That the rates will remain at five per cent for another year in view of the promising trajectory we have established in economic growth and job creation. In effect, the concessionary interest rate of five percent on our intervention facilities would now be extended until March 1, 2023. “After careful consideration of the available options and wide consultation with the Banking Community, the CBN is, effective immediately, announcing the Bankers’ Committee ‘RT200 FX Programme’, which stands for the ‘Race to $200 billion in FX repatriation. “The RT200 FX Programme is a set of policies, plans and programmes for non-oil exports that will enable us attain our lofty, yet attainable.” He said the RT200 programme will have the following five-key anchors: value-adding exports facility; non-oil commodities expansion facility; non-oil fx rebate scheme; dedicated non-oil export terminal and biannual non-oil export summit. On the $200 billion target in non-oil exports, Emefiele challenged state governments to partner with the Bankers Committee in developing existing ports and establishing new ones. He noted that dedicated export terminal but an ecosystem with world-class infrastructure are needed for non-oil exports. Emefiele said: “Over the next three months, the Bankers Committee will be collecting and analyzing detailed proposals from interested state governments in order to decide which one the CBN can partner with, saying the Bankers Committee will be arranging a significant part of the financing that will be needed for this selected ports, while the respective state government will have responsibilities that will be spelt out in due course. “This dedicated port will be capable of creating over 100,000 direct and indirect jobs and would provide a huge boost to our quest for significant improvement in non-oil export earnings in Nigeria. “Under this arrangement, loans to companies wishing to expand or build new plants that will generate verifiable export proceeds for the economy shall remain at five per cent per annum for 10 years loans, inclusive of two years moratorium.” The CBN boss cautioned that the RT200 Programme “is not intended to be a silver bullet to all our problems in the export segment of the economy. “Rather, it is a first step meant to ensure that the CBN is better able to carry out its mandate in an effective and efficient manner, which guarantees preservation of our scarce commonwealth, and the stability of our national currency, the naira.”