It has been a major conundrum in this democratic process. How can we maintain integrity of governance either in the centre or in the constituent parts, like the state and local governments, while prosecuting elected executives? In the much-awaited constitutional amendments to the 1999 grundnorm, it is expected that the wholesale immunity granted top executives of this democracy may be become history. Presidents, vice presidents, governors and deputy governors will no longer enjoy the blanket protection of the law. While the law may preserve them in offences over capital civil matters, criminal ones may break them open for prosecution. While we expect that law to come up for the grilling that transforms recommendations into law, another bill fell flat last week. The bill, sponsored by Segun Odebunmi (APC, Oyo), is titled, “An Act to alter Section 308 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 to extend immunity to cover presiding officers of the legislative institutions.” The law, sponsored by the same lawmaker who may be priding himself on some of the obnoxious and authoritarian statutes of this republic, seeks to shield the senate president and speakers as well as other officers of the legislature. This may be spurred on by collegial envy: if the executives can sin without a day in court, so should they. - Advertisement - That is not acceptable. The idea of immunity came into being not to canonise the executive, but to save the republic, to protect governance from forces of distraction. The impeachment clause walks into the scenario when the integrity of the chief executive, whether president or governor, comprises the capacity to govern or to govern in a legally unencumbered manner. Some governors and deputy governors have gone the way of impeachment because of the existence of the law. The recommendation by the constitutional amendment committee to pare the impeachment prohibitions to accommodate criminal offences derives from a great heart. But we must tread with caution. We accept that chief executives should not have limitless powers. They should not become gods in a democracy.   Abiola’s hemlock     What’s your qualification?     Sooting death   The criminal offences may include such acts as murder, sexual violations, disobedience to the rule of law. We have witnessed under this democracy some members of the executive accused of some of these offences. It could make them puff in defiance. The immunity clause exists not because of well-meaning citizens. It is because of foes who may, for partisan or personal grudges and calculations, take advantage of the law to cripple or distract the executive from exercising the full reach of their vision, energy, talent and time to fulfill the mandate from the people. Some may have lost the election, and their mission would be to make the state or country difficult to govern. All they need to do is take advantage of the law to toss stones at the government’s glass house. On the other hand, governors and presidents have taken advantage of the clause to sow discord and exercise despotic powers while in office, and they extend this to the state coffers that they see as their own and appropriate with cynical glee. The clause emboldens them because they know that if there is any prosecution, it has to wait till their tenures expire. They take advantage of the judicial process afterwards and foment a rigmarole such that the cases suffer interminable adjournments. After a few years, the public forgets as the story tails into oblivion. It is a self-serving view that works because very few chief executives have gone to gaol or suffered agony of refunds. Yet the amendment does little to cover these aspects. It limits itself to matters like harassment or murder, cases that are often difficult to prove in court. We, in principle, support the limited immunity, but we caution that the law be drafted in such a way as not to be exploited by pedantic lawyers to bring the state down with their selfish designs. We may not be surprised that portions seen as criminal may, by the devious genius of the lawyer, turn into a civil matter, and the wall between civil and criminal will blur. Again, the lawmaker’s immunity is different. There is little or no damage done when a speaker of a state assembly or the president of the senate suffers from an impeachment clause. They do not deserve to be protected. The lawmaker, unlike the governor, does not hold a government bureaucracy. They do not preside of a state or national budget, they do not carry in their heads a vision or programme for implementation. They do not have a team selected personally to execute a wide range of ideas. It is simply institutional envy that has propelled that suggestion by Odebunmi. It is instructive that it has been stepped down by the deputy speaker Ahmed Idris Wase, and the House of Representatives members have not wedded themselves to the egregious logic behind such a Neanderthal notion.