The lawmaker representing lseyin/ltesiwaju/Kajola/lwajowa Constituency at the House of Representatives, Hon. Shina Peller, has explained why the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) should be merged with the Nigeria Police Force. He explained that the motive of the bill was misunderstood stating that it seeks to merge the agency with the Nigeria police force “to achieve better results in policing”. The bill, which has passed first reading, seeks to establish a transition management committee to superintend over the agency, develop regulations and implement procedures for the transfer of assets and personnel of the corps to the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The NSCDC Act of 2003 led to the establishment of the agency under former President Olusegun Obasanjo. In a statement on Saturday, Peller said: “The bill does not in any way seek to render people jobless rather the bill proposes the transfer of assets and personnel of the NSCDC to the Nigeria police. In other words, assets and personnel will be absorbed by the police; so there won’t be loss of jobs.   Masari, Ooni, Buratai, others watch Amaechi turbaned in…     Hunger, poverty fueling banditry, other crimes –…     How Al-Makura, Sheriff, Lalong, others missed…   - Advertisement - “Recall that the NSCDC was established by statute in the year 2003 to exist and operate as an ancillary force, assisting the Nigeria police force (NPF) in maintaining public order, engaging with civilian populations in times of emergency, and other such adjunct functions. “The creation of the Corps was supposed to free officers and men of the Nigeria police force (NPF) to focus on their core policing operations of protecting lives and ensuring the security of property. “Since then, the nature of the NSCDC has changed. Rather than exist as, and perform the role of an ancillary force, the NSCDC now includes an armed component and performs policing functions across the country. Predictably, this overlap of functions and jurisdictions has led to increasing conflicts between the NSCDC and the Nigerian Police. “Nigeria is faced with an unprecedented wave of different but overlapping security crisis, therefore, the government and legislature must be aggressively innovative in considering better options for a more effective national security architecture. “This proposed bill should serve as a trigger to constructive debates and conversations that end with substantive reforms in the best interest of the nation.”