Saidu Musa Abdullahi is Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Finance. He represents Bida/Gbako/Katcha Constituency of Niger State. In this interview with GBENGA OMOKHUNU, the lawmaker speaks on how to resolve the security challenge and other issues. How do you think we can address the security challenges bedeviling the country? Now, we must be honest enough to tell ourselves that this challenge of insecurity, whichever guise it has taken, preceded this government and I have said it in different forums, yes, there is room for government to double its efforts, but if we look at it objectively, what we are seeing today is a result of deprivation that the people have suffered over time. At the time we were doing our electioneering campaign, I decided to do it the extraordinary way. And what do I mean by that, we reached out to plenty of villages in the hinterland in order to have first-hand information of the situations in the rural environment and the discoveries were quite alarming. You go to a village and see children coming out in their numbers, you scout round the environment, and you won’t find any educational facility, no sign of healthcare facilities, no access road, no electricity, and no access to pipe-borne water. Generally, you don’t see any real sign of life in the rural environment. When these children grow up, one thing or the other will bring them to the urban centers, and once they have a feel of what the urban centers have to offer, they will not go back to the rural communities and because we failed in providing them with the right sets of skills, we did not give them education, they will naturally become nuisance to the urban populace. I think this is exactly the situation we are faced with in most part of the country today. The solution is going to be two-way, the carrot and stick approach. We must be willing to sit with those who are willing to mend their ways and of course hit hard on those who are bent on causing problems for the country. Governments at all levels must also be more alive to their responsibilities to the people. The security and welfare of the people must be on the front burner as provided for in our constitution. The solution would not happen overnight but with careful but deliberate planning, everything will fall into place. You came up with a bill on hijab. What informed your decision on bill? As a people, we must be clear headed enough to make decisions on the way we want this country to be run. A lot of people shy away from issues relating to religion because of its sensitivity in nature, but I don’t think we can make serious progress when we shy away from facing our problems. I decided to come at it knowing fully well that it will generate a lot of controversy across the country, but I’m a firm believer in Nigeria and because of my background, particularly from where I come from, we were trained to tolerate some of the differences that have become a challenge in some states today. You talk about religious differences, it’s not a challenge in my state. I come from a tribe where the majority are Muslims, but we also have Christians and we have been living in peace and harmony for ages without any challenge. Borrowing a leaf from that, we decided to come up with a proposal that will once and for all address the issue of religion discrimination. Religion has been used to cause lots of troubles in this country and since it has become a clog on our wheel of progress, we must face it, discuss it and proffer a lasting solution to it. The key word is tolerance. Now, what we have tried to do differently is to build consensus around any proposal that we come up with. So far, I have reached out to the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and of course I made a presentation before them, leaning on experiences from other parts of the world. Of course, they were not too receptive to the proposal from the onset because of their reservation on how Christians are treated in some parts of the country but in the end I think, they soft-pedaled a little. More so, our proposal was informed by issues surrounding the wearing of Hijab in public institutions, but we didn’t term it hijab bill. It is Religion Discrimination Prohibition Bill and we may have approached it based on our own understanding of what the problem is but the general public will have the opportunity to bring in their inputs during the public hearing and that will make the document richer. I gave examples to the leadership of Christian Association of Nigeria of a Singaporean Muslim girl that enrolled in an Aussie Baptist School in Australia, the school had to change its dress code in order to accommodate her by allowing her wear Hijab. She is a Muslim, the only Muslim student in the school, but because of her, the whole school dress code was changed. That’s tolerance. I also gave an example of the US Military. In the U.S military today, you see the Sikhs Faithful with their beards and turban. If these things are not a problem in those climes, why should they be a problem in Nigeria? At the time, we even shared a picture of a Nigerian lady, a Yoruba lady in the States who is of course in the US military. In the picture, she was adorned with her hijab on top of her military uniform. In a country that is not hers, she’s accepted for who she is but back home the reception would have been different. These are some of the things that informed my decision to come up with the bill and as it were, it has been referred to the relevant committee of the house for further legislative action. The next phase is the public hearing but before then, we will try to reach out to critical stakeholders in order to build consensus on the proposal. - Advertisement - Read Also: Insecurity frustrating Fed Govt’s out-of-school programme, says Sani Bello   ‘I have a robust plan for Delta South’     Who is Bola Ahmed Tinubu?     PSC, Force Headquarter resolve 2021 recruitment crisis   How far have you gone with this bill? Hopefully we will get to the public hearing and like what I told the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria, it’s not yet a complete document, I have come up with the document based on my own experiences of what religion discrimination is, once we get to the level of the public hearing, the public will have the opportunity to bring their inputs in order to make the document richer such that at the end of the day, we will have a document that is rich enough to take care of the challenge of religion discrimination that Nigerians are faced with. Religious rights are backed up by the constitution of The Federal Republic of Nigeria. So, what we are trying to do is to come up with a law that will ensure the compliance to the provision of the constitution. Looking at the events in the National Assembly in terms of bills that impact the generality of the country, what will be your score card over a short period of time? It was actually surprising when I saw my name as one of the top 5 NEWBIES of the 9th National Assembly. At the time I had about 20 bills that were solely sponsored by me. Really and truly, some of these things were conceived based on the need that we were able to establish in the society. I’ll talk about 2, 3 bills which are so dear to me and which I feel the country needs at this time of our economic transformation. First, we came about the rice import restriction bill. Why did we come up with such a bill? We tried to look at areas where the country has a comparative advantage, of course the agricultural sector is one. I’m from a state that is very rich in terms of agricultural potential. What I felt then was, if we do not take this conscious decision of restricting such a food staple into the country, we will not succeed in terms of being able to harness the potential the God has endowed us with as a country. We’ve talked about potential, potential, potential, but I think this government is making good its promise to diversify the economic base of the country. Fortunately, the agricultural sector is being given the desired attention. Like I said, Niger State is not a state to be neglected when you talk about agriculture, so we took that decision in order to be able to harness our agricultural potential. If we succeed in doing that, we will have succeeded in creating enough employment opportunities for our youth and the women folk and you will also succeed in creating wealth opportunities for our entrepreneurs. It’s a double-edged stuff you know. Another bill that is so dear to me is the Medical University Bill, which I proposed to be located in Bida, Niger State. Of course, that was informed by the need to increase the number of medical doctors that we have across the country. In Niger State today, we do not have any institution offering medical sciences. I got data from JAMB which showed that between 2015 and 2018, over 500,000 Nigerian students applied to read courses in medical sciences and the system could only accommodate about 19,000 that’s less than 5 percent in terms of percentage achievement. Because of the strategic nature of the Health Sector, we decided to come up with the intervention. We were lucky that the COVID 19 did not hit us as it did to other countries. It would have exposed the weakness of our health sector. I think, for a developing country like ours, we must make conscious decisions on how we want this country to be, where we want to take the country to. There are countries in the world today that have met the WHO standard on doctor to patient ratio, Malaysia is one of such countries, you go to countries like Singapore, they have far gone beyond the WHO standard. Nigeria is still struggling with abysmal statistics of medical doctors. So, we decided to come up with such intervention in order to be able to take care of the needs of the health sector. We also have the Widowhood Leave Bill. Now we see a situation where our civil servants and people that work in the private sector lose someone that is so dear to them but can’t be permitted to stay away from work to mourn. As of today, you do not have a law that accommodates such a situation. Looking ahead in 2023, what lies ahead? I am asking against the backdrop of the recent debate in the National Assembly about the Electoral Act, direct primary and indirect primary. What’s your take on this issue? I think at this stage of our democratic development, we must take decisions that will deepen democracy and enhance participation by the people. We took the decision to go for direct primaries because of these two reasons. Each of the political parties have their faithful who have not been too much involved in their Party activities. One thing we must get right as a country for democracy to endure is to redefine our leadership recruitment process. You must redefine it so that the process produces the best, not necessarily money bags that have come to crowd the space today. We must make it transparent enough by ensuring participation from party faithful right from the level of party primaries before going for general elections. One of the factors that influenced my decision to join Partisan politics was the fact that I feel as a generation, we have not been given the opportunity to participate. Interestingly, most of the leaders you see today had leadership thrust upon them right from their youthful age. General Gowon became head of state in his early thirties. You also have the class of 99, governors of 99, the bulk of whom became governors in their early 40s. My late Governor Kure became governor when he was 43. Kwankwaso was 43. Makarfi was 43. Donald Duke was 39, Saminu Turaki was 36, now it is not acceptable for someone to look at me today at 42 when by 2023 I will be 44 to say I am too young for such a responsibility. I think we should focus more on quality than quantity. I am for the quality of experience as against years of experience any time, any day.