Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday announced automatic employment for the two best graduating students of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, as reward for academic excellence. The governor, who announced the offer at the combined 30th and 31st convocation of the institution, also gave the recipients one million Naira each. The beneficiaries are Iloka Peter Ebuka of the Faculty of Pharmacy and Awolumate Adebisi Fatima of the Faculty of Agricultural Economics. Iloka scored Cumulative Grade Point Aggregate (CGPA) of 4.92 to emerge the overall best graduating student for the 2020/2021 academic session, while Awolumate of the Department of Management and Rural Development emerged overall best graduating student for the 2019/2020 session with 4.86 CGPA. - Advertisement - Six thousand two hundred and fifty-seven graduates were produced at the combined convocation, with 55 of them making the first class list, 991 falling into second class upper division, while 2,738 others were listed in the second class lower division, according to the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ganiyu Olatunji Olatunde.   Pandemic exposed ills in Nigeria’s health sector, says…     98 suspected thugs arraigned for unlawful arms possession     Plateau begins building N18b flyover   Giving a breakdown, Olatunde  said: “I am pleased to inform you that the combined statistics of graduating students for the undergraduate programmes is 6,257, comprising 55 first class, 991 second class upper division, 2,738 second class lower division, 1,925 third class degree, 278 pass degree, 135 unclassified degree (that is Medicine and Pharmacy) from the 2019/2020 session, while for the postgraduate programmes, seven hundred and twenty-nine  graduating students will be given postgraduate degrees and diplomas of the university: 140 graduands, 486 master’s and 103 PhDs.” Abiodun urged tertiary institutions to use research and innovation to inspire practical and lasting solutions for the challenges facing humanity. He also enjoined  youths, particularly students, to emulate the best graduating students in learning and character of diligence and hard work. The governor disclosed that the government had approved the construction of 1,600- bed space hostel at OOU to ease the accommodation challenges being faced by students. He said an Education Trust Fund that would help in providing sustainable fund for infrastructural development for all levels of education would soon be launched. Abiodun noted that the Fund would enable the state meet the funding deficit that had existed over the years.