Kenyans are pouring their anger on social media over an act of jungle justice unleashed by some unknown persons on a teenager accused of stealing a radio. 19-year-old Collins Sambaya was found on Friday morning nailed to a tree in his Izava village in Vihiga County. Sambaya was firmly nailed to the tree with two roofing nails driven through each palm of his hands with his arms wide apart. Shocked villagers reported the incident to the police which promptly rescued him. Kenya’s Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) confirmed the incident in a statement. - Advertisement - The incident brought Izava village to a standstill, with shocked and distraught villagers watching in disbelief from a distance as officers rescued Sambaya and rushed him to a hospital. According to the DCI, a manhunt has been launched for the suspects, “with the area security team employing every available resource to apprehend the suspects.” Vihiga County is an administrative region in the former Western Province of Kenya. It has a population of 554,622 and an area of 563 km². The county was split from Kakamega County in 1990. Shocked Kenyans who poured their anger on social media called for the perpetrators’ arrest. Writing on Facebook, Nicholas Odhiambo Odwar said: “What happened to our humanity? We’ve lost it all. Why, why should people be this cruel? “A 19-yr old does not have a fully developed mind. He only needs the society to guide him. “But what does the society do? Turn against each other. “We are filled with anger and hatred for one another. We are our own enemy. “Such a sickening world.”   Osinbajo opens Southern Ijaw link bridge in Bayelsa 60 years…     Buhari returns to Abuja after EU-AU summit in Belgium     2023: Sanwo-Olu rallies support for Tinubu at…   Eboko Rashid said: “This is too barbaric, diabolical, vexatious, irksome and obnoxious. “I mean there is no amount of anger that can warrant such an evil act. “The moral fiber of our society has greatly degenerated. This is pathetic, to say the least. “The perpetrators MUST face the long arm of the law. What a shame!” Kipkirui Raymond agreed with Rashi, saying: “Indeed. So sad. Crucifiers must be brought to book for such inhuman crucifixion act.” Kyle Knick also condemned the act. He said: “Surely… How hard was it to take him to a police station and report him… “Dear Lord have mercy on our societies… So sad indeed… “It doesn’t matter what he did wrong; there is a way and a right and humane way of doing things…” Ferdinand Makokha said: “19 years old, thus just a boy who is in an exploration and passing a stage. “Support them the right way without physically, emotionally or psychologically torturing or tormenting them but mentoring them to become responsible citizens of this great country.” Kiriungi Njogu Ke said: “Ngai mwathani! This is sad, wrong, evil and the saddest thing that can happen to anyone. “This is cruel and so hurting. No matter the crime, this one has gone overboard. “Humans are dangerous. Animals have less brains but cannot behave like this. “I’m so teary. May justice prevail.” SPONSORED