The regent of Gberigbe Orelade land, Korede Oluderu and five other royal families have appealed to Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to save them from the menace of land grabbers. They claimed that land grabbers chased them out and took over their land measuring over 2,000 hectares. The royal families, who made the appeal at a briefing in Ikorodu, Lagos, yesterday, included Rodosho, Osubanwo, Oluderu, Shokenu, Fasanya and Fowora. They claimed that Gberigbe Orelade land was founded by their forefathers, Odumeru of Agbowa and Dagbure of Idowa who settled in the area over 100 years ago. They said their ownership of Gberigbe land was confirmed in a Supreme Court of Southern Nigeria judgment delivered on October 7, 1913 by the then acting Chief Justice John Winkfield in an appeal filed by Akishe and Odueko (plaintiffs) and Odumeru, Bale of Agbowa (defendant). Justice Winkfield dismissed the claims of the appellants and held that “the evidence of the defendants established that the Bales at Agemo, Orelade, Ewunla, Okola, Oke Lisa, Agbo land have exercised control over the land. Winkfield also said that the plaintiffs failed to prove their case, averring that “judgment, therefore, will be for the defendants with costs to be taxed.”   PDP, APC, 15 others vie for Enugu council poll     Abe: I’m consulting to get stakeholders’ input…     ‘Engage governor-elect in inclusive governance’   - Advertisement - The royal families are also relying on the Court of Appeal, Lagos Division judgment delivered by Justices Joseph Ikyegh, Chinwe Iyizoba and Samuel Oseji in Appeal number CA/1/360/2011 dated May 16, 2014 which set aside a judgment of the lower court delivered by Justice B.A. Oke-Lawal. Following the judgment of the Court of Appeal, he said the six families went back to Gberigbe Town and that peace reigned in the land until last year when land grabbers invaded the town again and unleashed terror on the families, forcing them to flee their homes. They alleged that two families, who they described as their customary tenants, invited a notorious land grabber and his boys to unleash terror and eject them from their land. Kazeem Rodosho said his house was attacked on May 19 last year, adding that in an attempt to escape from the scene, he was shot by the police but rescued by people of the town who took him to hospital. He said his brother, Prince Akorede Oluderu, reported the incident at Imota Police station but that the Police did nothing. While still in the hospital, he heard that land grabbers continued their attack on the town and members of their families, during which several people were allegedly killed.