President Muhammadu Buhari cannot be stampeded into signing the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, the Presidency told Nigerians yesterday. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said it was hasty for some groups to hassle the President over their  perceived delay in signing the Bill that was transmitted by the National Assembly on January 31. President Buhari was presented with a reworked Electoral Act Amendment Bill after he withheld assent to the earlier version of amendments done by the National Assembly. Part of his reason for declining was that some parts of it would be denying the majority their say, a situation which would have defeated the very essence of democracy. At the weekend, a coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) rose from a meeting in Abuja with a call on the President to sign the bill into law. - Advertisement - The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors have also urged the President to append his signature to the bill without delay. But, in a reaction yesterday, Adesina pointed out that there is no need for rushing the process as he still has more constitutionally allowed time to take his decision.   Leaders want causes of Gombe communal clashes investigated     Govt losing $8.810b yearly to e-Customs row     APC shifts convention to March 26 amid grumblings   The Presidency also pointed out that taking a decision like signing the Electoral Bill, which will affect the very essence of the nation, requires careful study and be made almost perfect, as much as possible. It reads: “Some interest groups are cashing in on what they consider a delay in the signing of the Electoral Bill into law by the President to foment civil disorder and muddy the waters. “One can just pity their ignorance of Constitutional requirements, as the President has a window of 30 days within which to sign the Bill, or decline assent, after it had been transmitted to him by the National Assembly. “It is on record that the amended Bill was sent to the Presidency on January 31, 2022, which means that the Executive could do due diligence on it till March 1, as prescribed by the Constitution. “A proposed legislation that has to do with the electoral fortunes of the country needs to be thoroughly scrutinised, and be made as near-perfect as possible.” It, however, urged those employing all sorts scheming to force a result, to exercise patience, assuring that the President would do the right thing. “Those playing cheap politics with it are, therefore, encouraged to hold their peace, knowing that the right thing will be done within the lawful time,” the statement said. SPONSORED