Top skincare, beauty, and wellness brand, Hush’D Makeovers Limited @hushd.ng has unveiled multi-talented TV personality, actress, content creator and model, Bukunmi Adeaga-Ilori aka Kiekie as their latest brand ambassador. The Instagram Influencer was unveiled by the prestigious skincare brand as their latest brand ambassador on February 1, 2022 to act as one of its ambassadors. Her new position will see her feature heavily on social media channels, in addition to fronting ad campaigns to raise awareness for the brand. “I am very proud to be a part of the Hush’D family, as I have been using the products secretly now for a while, which makes this partnership much more special,” KieKie said in a statement.   How I was almost pushed to quit acting – Moyo Lawal     Obi Cubana commences road construction in Oba     Actor Leonard advises fans on personal productivity   - Advertisement - Abiola Ahmed, Hush’D CEO said: “KieKie possesses an effortless, delightful personality, and there’s a strong elegance to her that resonates with all women around the world” “Kiekie’s dogged spirit and rugged determination make her the perfect woman to represent the brand and engage with our customers.” “Kiekie also doubled as a comedian. We have followed her brand right from when she was anchoring her fashion shock show. She’s an audacious woman who wears so many caps and still finds time to take care of her skin. “Hush’D Makeovers Limited will continue to support hardworking talents who are resilient and dedicated to their crafts. May this partnership yield more groundbreaking success.” Kieke joins other brand influencers like Mawuli Gavor, Adeola Diiadem, Onyi Alex, Mike Godson, Eniola Ajao, Demo UK, Rhonke Fella and Maria Chike Benjamin representing the Hush’D Makeovers brand. Abiola Ahmed established Hush’D Makeovers in 2015 in pursuit of excellence and desire to transform the beauty industry in Nigeria. She plunged herself into building Hush’D Makeovers into a world-class beauty brand.