It is no longer news that our greatest problem in Nigeria is insecurity. Unfortunately this problem has given rise to other problems such as the lack of foreign investment and consequent unemployment. It has also led to food insecurity because farmers are afraid to go to their farms. Construction of roads and railways are hampered by fear of kidnapping of expatriate foreign supervisors thus hampering infrastructural development and economic development because without infrastructure, there can be no physical development necessary to move goods and people around the country. These are the obvious negative and observable effects of these problems caused by insecurity but there are other problems of social and psychological nature which unless critically examined, one may not see the bearing of general insecurity on them. Insecurity creates fear, sorrow and doubts about the human condition and general unhappiness about life which could lead to psychological problems and mental breakdown of many young people who do not see a good future under the prevailing insecurity in the country. Many of these young people are taking the insane steps of going to Europe by the Sahara desert and the Mediterranean Sea and getting killed and drowned in the process. The reasons for this insecurity are many and of various dimensions. The fundamental reason is underdevelopment causing massive youth unemployment. Underdevelopment itself is caused by a variety of things such as corruption, political instability, poor educational system and absence of the rule of law both of which constitute what the World Bank calls “intangible capital” critical to development. Absence of this manifests in poor planning and  there is also the problem of absence of technical know-how which leads to absence of innovation which is critical in creating small and medium sized enterprises which are critical in solving the problem of unemployment as has been demonstrated in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Insecurity also feeds into the problem of low foreign direct investment because it is only where investments friendly environment is present that foreign investment goes. The only way therefore to break the vicious circle of unemployment feeding into insecurity and insecurity causing unemployment is to frontally tackle the issue of insecurity. The problem of insecurity  has been with us for a while but it has been exacerbated by the unwillingness of the present administration to tackle this problem when it began with herders killing farmers first in the middle belt of the country before it spread all over the country. For ethnic, religious and reasons of common consanguinity, herders who are Fulani were allowed to get away with murder and crimes of ethnic cleansing. Land owners were asked to love their attackers or to choose between keeping their lands and losing their lives. The victims are now naturally fighting back thus creating chaos all over the country. Criminals who now see profit in kidnapping for money have joined in the general commotion and have even abandoned their previous jobs as farmers, herders and even some criminally-minded students have abandoned their education to become highway robbers and kidnappers seizing young students and men and women of means and demanding they be ransomed for money or else be brutally wasted. - Advertisement - The local Fulani terrorists have been joined by foreign ones in ethnic solidarity. Local criminals are also in the field sometimes parading themselves as Fulanis. In this endeavor, religion plays little role since Muslim Fulanis are killing Muslim Hausa and  Muslim Yoruba and Ibo terrorists are killing fellow Ibo Christians to cite a few examples. It is a war of all against all.   Russia, NATO and the Ukraine crisis     The unfinished Ibadan’s Obafemi Awolowo rail station     Akinwande Bolaji Akinyemi at 80   The spread of this madness to the Lagos-Ibadan expressway is a matter of time. Even though the Southwest zone of the country has somehow been spared from the total chaos of the Northern and Eastern part of the country, but it had also witnessed substantial amount of violence, armed robbery, banditry and herders on farmer violence and kidnapping for ransom originally imported there but it has now developed a life of its own. The road construction on the Lagos – Ibadan road and the heavy traffic on the road had before now made kidnapping a bit hazardous for bandits but as construction progresses, the finished part of the road without the usual traffic snarl has attracted kidnappers especially from the north. The northern kidnappers after selling their cows and handing the proceeds to the owners of the cows sometimes take to kidnapping which has proved more lucrative than herding cows. Sometimes local boys who are unemployed join them or provide local intelligence for those coming from outside the area. The Ijebu stretch of the Lagos – Ibadan express road is more notorious than any other section of the road. Some have suggested that the bandits operating on the road are probably harbored by northern people in the highway settlement in Iperu/Sapade area and I think the police should keep their eyes on the people of this area. There is need for Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states police commands to mount joint patrols on the road. Ogun State police must remain permanently vigilant on the ground to make the government’s investments on road construction and rehabilitation worth its while. There is the need for highway patrols by the police to be brought back as was the case in the 1970s. Perhaps the Federal Roads Safety Corps need to be armed to confront these highway kidnappers and robbers. The easiest way to kill the economy of this country is to make the roads unsafe. There is no need for anyone to exaggerate the importance of the Lagos – Ibadan expressway to the economic well-being of the country. It connects the port of Lagos with the hinterland of the Southwest and the northern, South-south and south-eastern states. The fragile Nigerian economy will collapse with the insecurity on this road. Whatever it will cost the states and federal governments to secure the road must be expended. The much ballyhooed Amotekun must justify government’s support for it by getting engaged on this road. Arms must be provided for it to do the job. If Aminu Masari, the governor of Katsina State is providing guns for local people  to secure their lives and property, our governors must not shy away from their responsibility. Perhaps we need to raise the issue of local policing and restructuring of the security architecture of this benighted country again before the situation gets to a point where we do not have a country again. It is not Lagos- Ibadan road alone that is not safe. Even Abuja – Kaduna expressway with all the presence of the military, police, Department of State Security and the federal government and diplomatic missions is not safe. I don’t know when last I have gone home to Okemesi in Ekiti State because all roads leading there are infested by marauders, kidnappers and gun toting herders of Fulani ethnicity. In this kind of pervasive insecurity and fear, who is going to come and invest in our country? Our own local people are not even investing in our country not to talk of foreigners because no one can guarantee the future stability of the country. My son-in-law who is from Ghana told me he is building some flats in Accra for the future of his family. I congratulated him for this and I immediately felt that I will be the last to ask my son to bring his American loan to invest in Nigeria for a future that is at best dicey and uncertain. This is the situation the problem of insecurity has brought to Nigeria. It is not just Islamic attacks of the Boko Haram and ISWAP type and the Fulani terrorism of the northwest and north central that are destroying Nigeria, the general insecurity caused and occasioned by them and the general absence of the rule of law and certainty of punishment for crime is ruining the country and destroying its future. The president keeps saying he will not leave the problem of insecurity to his successor and that he has ordered his security forces to destroy the various terrorists disturbing Nigeria. I say amen to the president’s promise but cynics will say this is the eighth year of President Buhari’s presidency and argue that morning shows the day as childhood shows manhood. My reply is that it is never too late. Perhaps a miracle can happen in the evening months of the Buhari’s presidency. We have no choice than to believe that President Buhari will deliver a secure land to his successor. That will be a legacy worth summoning the last energy of his being.