Whether the All Progressives Congress (APC) convention will hold on February 26 remained hazy last night. A crucial meeting between President Muhamadu Buhari and governors elected on the platform of the party to fine-tune the zoning and other matters in the convention failed to hold. The meeting would have enabled the President to make known his preferred chairmanship aspirant to governors to pave the way for the zoning of other National Working Committee (NWC) offices. - Advertisement - Governors invited to the meeting arrived at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, only to be told of its cancellation. The President travelled to Brussels, the Belgium capital to attend an African Union (AU) and European Union (EU) summit. The meeting was rescheduled for Saturday when the President is expected back by which time it will be barely one week for the convention date. But the President collected the list of the chairmanship aspirants, it was learnt. Some of the governors who arrived at the Villa for the botched meeting include Ben Ayade (Cross River), Hope Uzodimma (Imo), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Simeon Lalong (Plateau) and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti). Both governors Uzodimma and Ayade also hinted that the convention date is not sacrosanct. President Buhari, before he travelled out, met with Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase. The President also met with Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, and his Imo counterparts Senator Hope Uzodinma. It could not be ascertained if a new date was set for the meeting. Uzodinma maintained that the proposed date for the exercise could be changed if the need arises. The governor, who spoke with State House Correspondents, however, clarified that he had no information that the date could be shifted. President Buhari may have received a list of aspirants for national chairman ahead of the February 26 national convention. The list was submitted to the President by a three-man team of the APC governors. It was learnt that the President was studying the list, having been mandated by the governors to guide the party on the choice. Although the convention was still shaky as of yesterday, following an alleged cash crunch, the governors were adamant that the exercise must hold. The governors were alleged to be unwilling to fund the conduct of the exercise on February 26. It was gathered that governors and party leaders have asked the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), led by Mai Mala Buni, to look inward. They are also asking the caretaker committee to take care of convention expenses from fees and the over N5billion left by the former national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The situation became dicey, following complaints by CECPC members that APC governors were becoming overbearing. It was unclear if the Caretaker Committee will shift the convention or adopt a low-key model.   Teacher arrested for flogging toddler     Buhari appoints Bello-Koko NPA MD     Aregbesola’s thugs fired gunshots without provocation, say…   - Advertisement - A governor, who spoke in confidence last night, said the Caretaker Committee was yet to submit a convention budget to the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF). President Buhari yesterday met with Buni before jetting out to Brussels for the EU-AU Summit. Buhari, who is due back in the country on Saturday, was yet to make a choice among the chairmanship aspirants. The aspirants are ex-Governor Abdulaziz Yari, Mallam Saliu Mustapha (Turaki Ilorin), ex-Governor Umar Tanko Al-Makura,  Senator Sani Mohammed Musa and ex-Governor Ali Modu Sheriff. Others are Sunny Sylvester Monidafe, Mohammed Etsu, ex-Governor George Akume, ex-Governor Isa Yuguda and Dr. Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi. Also in the race are ex-Governor Abdullahi Adamu and a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Bawa Bwari. The President was liberal in demanding the list of all aspirants, although they were yet to obtain nomination forms. A governor said: “Contrary to the misinformation in the public domain, President Buhari placed all aspirants on an equal pedestal. He specifically demanded a list of all aspirants and a three-man delegation of the governors took it to him. “Since we have conceded it to the President to guide us on the right choice, we are waiting for him to act on the list. I need to put it on record that all the governors directed the three-man team to submit the list of all the aspirants to the President. “That is the state of the affairs as far as the emergence of a new chairman for APC is concerned. It is left to the President to consider the list and make a decision. “What is happening now is that some people are maligning some governors that they are supporting this or that. But, the President has the list of all aspirants.” The governor said despite plans by some CECPC members,  party members and a few leaders to stop the convention from holding, the governors have resolved that the exercise should go on. He stressed: “The President is determined and governors have resolved that the convention must hold. There is no doubt that some of our leaders and members wanted the Caretaker Committee to continue to be in charge of the party but this is not necessary again.” But, it was learnt that the party has a cash problem and may not be able to fund the convention. It was gathered that some governors are not ready to use state resources for the convention, more so when a special presidential convention will be organised in the next few months. Also, some governors, who have predicted likely recourse to the choice of a consensus national chairman, do not see the logic in financing the convention. Some governors have asked the caretaker committee to be as cost-effective as possible because of a special convention in July or August. Sources said the cash challenge made the party slow down in inaugurating sub-committees for the convention to save cost. A source, who spoke in confidence, said: “The convention is still shaky because of cash problems, which may affect logistics. It is a gathering with huge financial implications, which the CECPC cannot afford. “Most of the governors are not enthusiastic about funding the convention because there is a bigger one ahead in July or August where the party’s presidential candidate will emerge. “Governors and party leaders got hints that the administration of the immediate past national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, left about N5billion in the party’s accounts. They also claimed that APC has money because some aspirants have been paying nomination fees for off-season elections since the Caretaker Committee came on board. “These governors and leaders want the Caretaker Committee to look inward to fund the convention. “The fact is that governors and party leaders are more interested in July or August convention” Another governor said: “Those raising issues about the problem associated with the funding of the convention are those who are advocating that the Caretaker Committee should continue to be in charge of the affairs of the party. “I think they are looking for an excuse to shift the convention forward. I don’t think they can succeed. “As I talk to you, the Caretaker Committee has not presented a convention budget to APC governors.” SPONSORED