The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is yet to commence sale of forms to aspirants for party positions, less than two weeks to the national convention, it was learnt yesterday. Party sources said the plot by some governors to foist consensus on the party has stalled the sale of forms which was billed to commence yesterday. The delay in selling forms has sparked anxiety among aspirants eyeing positions in the National Working Committee (NWC). The National Caretaker Committee, led by Mai Mala Buni had fixed February 19 for submission of forms. Yesterday, aggrieved youths in the party protested an alleged plot by the governors to hijack the convention. - Advertisement - Two national chairmanship aspirants on Monday sent emissaries to make enquiries on the sales of forms, while four National Youth Leader aspirants and one Zonal Organising Secretary aspirant from the Southeast, who visited the National Secretariat to purchase forms, were disappointed. A source said the party was yet to print nomination forms and there was no information about the cost for the forms and the mode of payment. The source said: “The truth is there is no form for sale. Nobody is talking about the printing of any form here. Under normal circumstances, the party would have advertised the sale of nomination forms, indicating the cost of each office before now. Or have you have seen such an advert?” A top chieftain said the delay in the sale of forms was to enable the caretaker committee and the governors to come up with a consensus arrangement that will be acceptable by stakeholders at the convention. He said: “The caretaker committee is being tactical. We cannot rush to sell forms for NWC positions when we are not done with the zoning arrangement. The caretaker committee, in concert with the governors and other stakeholders are meeting and high-level negotiations are ongoing to come up with a unity list or a consensus arrangement and, I can tell you, will be fine-tuned before the closing date for submission of forms.”   FUTO sues ASUU over Pantami’s professorship     ASUU grounds varsities for four weeks     Osun APC primary: Guns boom, panic in Osogbo   A chairmanship aspirant, Chief Sunny Moniedafe, expressed disappointment over the delay in the sale of forms. He said: “I have been on this issue for over 20 months now and in less than two weeks to the convention, we are still asking questions. We want to know what is happening. I have been in touch with the party headquarters since Thursday and they keep telling me no news. The party should tell us what is happening. No communication from the party. We have to be told of the zoning arrangement. Nothing is happening in less than two weeks to the convention. I don’t think that is fair to us.” Asked if the development may not lead to another postponement of the convention, he said: “This convention must hold. Nothing can stop it. Just that the delay and non-release of information are not expected. If they want consensus, let them come out and say so. There is nothing wrong with consensus, but call all the parties involved. The delay is uncalled for.” Youths under the aegis of  APC Youth Development and Solidarity Forum alleged that governors were plotting to impose the chairman and other officers on the party. Speaking during a protest at the National Assembly, the President of the group,  Danelsi Momoh, said the plan would tear the party apart. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to allow a level playing field for all candidates during the party’s convention. Momoh said: “We are consequently pained with the action of some governors in our party who are desperately trying to undermine the democratic process by attempting to deceive you and other party members into endorsing a fraudulent list of candidates at the party’s national convention. “ “They want to singlehandedly pick the chairman of our party and other candidates for leadership positions during the convention. “This is undemocratic and must not be allowed to see the light of the day. “We call on the president as the father of the party and in line with your stance on transparency and accountability, to reject the governors’ evil plans and equally consult other stakeholders like the Forum of ex-Governors in the party to make an input. “The president should consult members of our party in the National Assembly, which has the biggest caucus in the party towards finding an amicable resolution of the impending crisis”. SPONSORED