Abuja’s private higher institution, Philomath University, has announced a scholarship programme for prospective students, irrespective of their course of study. A statement yesterday by its Registrar, Mr. Yasar Abi, said the scholarship award would cover up to 50 per cent on school fees. The statement explained that the award is meant to make quality education affordable to Nigerians and other people from the rest of the world. Quoting the Vice Chancellor, Professor Adeniyi Olayanju, it said: “The vision of the university is to be internationally recognised as a university with global perspective that educates leaders who will fashion a more humane and just world through teaching, learning, transformational scholarship and dynamic leadership. “Our mission is to promote learning by offering undergraduate, postgraduate and professional students the knowledge and skills needed to succeed as persons and professionals; to distinguish itself as a diverse socially responsible learning community of high-quality scholarship and academic rigour and to draw from the intellectual and economic resources of the rich Nigerian cultures. “Philomath University is envisioned to stimulate students with a deep appetite and hunger to learn seamlessly, but achieving excellence and top-class performance.   Why petrol scarcity persists, by IPMAN     Tinubu visits Ooni, Owa Obokun, gets blessings     APC picks zonal congress panels   “The university is driven by a passion for education with excellence and with unbridled zeal to cause scientific, technological, and industrial revolution uniquely in the world and development in Africa, especially in Nigeria.” To reflect this, the vice chancellor explained that the school’s name ‘Philomath’ was derived from two Greek words: “Philos” meaning, “Passion” and “Math” meaning, “learning”. “Philomath, therefore, means ‘Passion for Learning’,” the statement added. Olayanju stressed that the university would engage the core values of team work for wealth creation and innovation through commitment to excellence and passion for productivity. “The university has a target to achieve the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals 4, 16 and 17 of quality education, peace, justice and strong institutions as well as partnership for the goals. “Philomath University is ready with hostels, and other facilities to commence academic activities in the first week of March 2022. Nine different programmes have been approved for takeoff by the National Universities Commission (NUC). These programmes are: Bachelor of Law (LL.B), Banking and Finance, Business Administration, Criminology and Security Studies, Entrepreneurship, Economics, International Relations, Political Science and Public Administration. “Philomath University is jump-starting its programme with two faculties, namely: Faculty of Management and Social Sciences, and Faculty of Law, for the 2021/2022 academic session,” the statement added.