Italian top side Juventus is partnering with Ariston, one of the worldwide leaders in the thermal comfort industry. The Turin based team and Ariston has joined forces in Africa, signing a regional partnership from February 2022. This is the third step of a successful collaboration among Ariston and Juventus that started already in China and in Indonesia during 2021. With this regional partnership the two Italian brands join their ambitions of growth and development assuring high performances thanks to their common attitude.   Havertz scores as Chelsea take Club World Cup     Bouna Sarr: Meet Bayern Munich’s AFCON hero     BREAKING: Havertz’s late penalty seals world club…   “Challenges Deserve Champions”, the claim of the partnership, well summarizes the shared mindset. Challenge is a value deeply rooted in the culture of both Ariston and Juventus. Ariston seeks success with determination, aspiring to ensure comfort, thanks to its high quality of products, solutions, pre- and after-sales support. Likewise, Juventus always fights to achieve unbelievable performances Champions mean people: to face new and demanding challenges, both Ariston and Juventus need to have great teams, with the right skills, passion, enthusiasm, and attitude – striving to top levels of performance. - Advertisement - During the presentation event, broadcast directly from Allianz Stadium, the Juventus players Kean, Rabiot, Szczesny and the Juventus Legend Fabrizio Ravanelli, congratulated Ariston and Juventus for the partnership. Laurent Jacquemin, Chief Executive Officer of Ariston Group, commented: “I am thrilled to announce the new step of this partnership today, rooted in Italian excellence and with a global vision and reach, to win the great challenges of the African markets. Our commitment in Africa is paramount, with over thousands of distributors & partners and a broad range of products, including Electric, Gas, Solar water heaters and boilers, which makes us today among the leaders in the territory. SPONSORED