Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy Gbenga Omotoso has hailed the Nigerian youths under the aegis of Nigerian Youth Alliance for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (NIYABAT) for their public declaration and endorsement of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s presidential aspiration. Speaking at a forum in Ikeja, the state capital, where the declaration took place at the weekend, Omotoso said the Lagos State Government is fully in support of the Tinubu’s bid to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari by May next year when the president’s tenure is due to expire because he is the most sellable candidate among aspiring for the job. The commissioner who represented Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at the event said the template Tinubu left behind for successive administrations has been yielding good dividends, thereby putting Lagos ahead of other states in all facets of human endeavour. He added: “So, it will not be a bad idea to transfer this template to the national level. Asiwaju has not been able to utilize so many of the talents he has. Once he gets there, we can see that there will be a change.” The National Convener of NIYABAT, Prince Adeniyi Olutimehin said members of his group believe in Asiwaju because he has displayed a great passion for leadership and development for decades. He said: “We know the number of young people that he has brought to power since 1999. Based on that fact, we believe that a lot of young people that are aspiring to explore their full potential will be given leverage to actualise it if he is given a chance to govern the country. That is why we came together to throw our weight behind him. “Some of us are not too young to know about Nigerian history. As young people, we want progress; we want to ensure that everything concerning the next general elections goes in the proper direction. For any youth to grow there must be a leader or set of leaders that are ready to lead him or her. - Advertisement - Omotoso reminded the gathering that Sanwo-Olu endorsed the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader the previous day at an event put together by the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (ABAT) Movement in Ikeja, Lagos, which was televised to the global audience. He said, if Sanwo-Olu had not acquitted himself well as the governor of Lagos he would not have been bold enough to endorse the aspiration of Asiwaju Tinubu to succeed President Buhari when he leaves office at the expiration of tenure May next year.   ‘Internal democracy remains APC’s biggest problem’     Verdict in states’ suit over court funding stalled after 90…     How I will reposition APC, by Musa   The commissioner who spoke mainly in Yoruba said: “What gave Mr. Sanwo-Olu the courage to make such endorsement? It is because of what the governor has achieved in the last two and half years that emboldened him to endorse his leader and mentor. For instance, when Sanwo-Olu became the governor of Lagos State, only about 37 per cent of secondary school students in the state do well in the West African School Certificate Examination (WASCE). But, today, the percentage is close to 80. “Besides, the issue of traffic gridlock that used to be a perennial problem in Lagos metropolis has been successfully tackled by the administration. If you have passed through Allen junction in Ikeja in recent times, you would have noticed that the roundabout that used to be there has been removed and that the road has been widened; thereby reducing traffic gridlock along that axis. The situation is the same in Ikotun, Maryland, Lekki and other places that were notorious for traffic congestion in the metropolis. “The reason why we still experience traffic congestion in few places in the state is because of the ongoing rail projects and the fact that both the state and the Federal Government are reconstructing several roads in the city. By the time these projects are completed by the end of this year, there would be no more traffic congestion in Lagos. Governor Sanwo-Olu said on television this morning that the train fare within Lagos will be pocket friendly that a trip from a place like Oyingbo to Alagbado, which currently takes about three hours on the road, would be reduced to 30 minutes.” Omotoso said Lagosians would smile at the end of Sanwo-Olu’s first term because all ongoing road construction in the state would be completed, hospitals and housing projects being built across the state will be completed and also because the rail project would create more jobs for residents when it comes on stream. Olutimehin said NIYABAT currently exists in 27 states and that it is spearheaded by former youth leaders, former student union leaders that went through student union governments (SUG) of different institutions, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and other youth activists. The youths embarked on a solidarity walk from the venue of the lecture in Alausa to the Lagos State House of Assembly in support of Asiwaju’s aspiration. Among other dignitaries, the event was witnessed by the Lagos State APC Youth Leader, Dr. Muritala Seriki. The Chairman, Coker-Aguda Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Rasaq Olamilekan Ibrahim was represented by his Chief of Staff, Comrade Tobiloba Bakare. The NIYABAT National Convener said zonal inaugurations will follow very soon, and then the same thing will be replicated at the state and local government levels.