Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, is Chairman, Mutual Benefit Assurance Plc. In this interview with Funke Cole, the Osun State-born business mogul and gubernatorial aspirant in the forthcoming Osun polls, shares his candid views on state of the economy from the insurance point of view in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and post-recovery vis-à-vis projection for the sector. Excerpts:  What is your assessment of the various sectors where you currently operate which are insurance, real estate, oil and gas. How did these sectors fare in the outgone year? First of all, whatever we are going to say, we know that 2020, 2021, we had crisis with Covid-19, even if you really want to access serious government policy and economic policies, and environmental policies, you have to know that we were virtually affected by Covid-19 which nobody expected but by and large, we still have to access our national economy. In terms of employment, you know that there was nothing much. Federal government remains the biggest employer of labour. We really don’t have much productivity. I read that at a point that virtually all the companies operating in Lagos have moved to Ghana all the industrial companies operating here, have moved to Ghana. Whatever it is that they have found in Ghana, it means there is a better enabling environment in Ghana; it must be something that adds to their bottom line. If we don’t have productivity here, then it is a major problem, we have been in a wrecked economy for so long, I don’t anybody is doing anything about it. Productivity is a major issue, we have a wrecked economy and we would think that we have this 2022 budget only on recurrent expenditure, but at least, something productive. I have looked at the budget, is it 17 trillion. I really don’t see anything that will affect positively in productivity in it. What would you consider as some of the good, ugly and bad sides to the economy in 2021? Well, first, I will say security is a major issue. Security comes in various forms and the most common thing is security of life and property. When you don’t have food, job security, these are all security issues. The main issue here is unemployment, which is at a large scale and the federal government should be able to do something on unemployment, at least, by putting incentives into areas that are productive. For example, agriculture, mining, and fashion industries that can have impact on people. This will be the last year of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration; he will hand over power next year. The best he can do is to ensure that the productive sector of the economy is well funded and oiled, to ensure that we have productivity. What are your projections for the nation’s economy this year? I want to believe that even when we projected 4% growth, we recorded about 2. something %, but well, we are still very optimistic that President Muhammadu Buhari’s government has presented its budget, it has been approved, his budget of hope, but it is not enough to present budget, it is one thing to present budget, it is another thing to be held accountable on that. If the presented budget is operated as stated, and of course, about 60-70% of it rest on the price of oil, which is very good now. The benchmark for the price of oil that we took last time was about 40 dollars per barrel. Even if they do 40 dollar per barrel, and they are getting 75, it is a question of living up to that budget. If they live up to that budget, I believe that from all indications, we are going to have growth. Again, apart from budget, look at the cost of foreign exchange. We don’t produce, even toothpick is imported, and this is not something positive to be reckoned with. If you are a red economy, the exchange rate will keep rising. I granted an interview where I said look, all these bureau de change, not more than two weeks of granting that interview, that the central bank made the move to ban the services of bureau de change on foreign exchange. They are just enriching people over-night. If you buy dollar at 390 and sell it at the rate of 420-450, and they are putting 500 million, every week that is a lot. With a non -producing economy, the price of dollar will keep rising. There is really no other way than to go back to the basis. What are those things that we can produce locally, and who are those who can do it. We have private investors who are willing to participate. All you need to do is just create an enabling environment for them to operate. Right now, everybody is a mini-complex, you supply your own water, generate your source of power supply, and event internet services. A whole lot is expected from the table of the federal government like provision of available power supply so that various SMEs with little staff strength will be able to thrive and flourish. For one to be an effective and lucrative tailor now, you must have your own generator somewhere running 24/7 at the cost of diesel or fuel. These are all that have added up to the issue of productivity. Federal government really needs to look critically into the areas where we can produce and also areas where we can import. It is not a enough to say we are banning without substitution. It is a major problem. About two years ago, the President Buhari’s administration closed the borders; it was that the same period that we had more import of rice. Who accounted for that? Everything that we imported, that ought to have stopped at that period, instead, it was the period when we had many of them coming in and you said you closed the border. The federal government should know what to do in this area. I am saying that any nation that is not producing anything for export, there is really nowhere you can control all the indices. It is very important that this budget should be looked at critically, and again, the area of infrastructure, where are the roads, a whole lots of people now are traveling by air, because of security challenges. It is better than being picked up on the road and then asked to pay ransom, which involves hundreds of million. These are money that are not even available. What can they do now, they have one year to go but all I am saying is that, our nation generally should have a leadership that has future, foresight, so that we can do policies that are sustainable and a continuum. We don’t have the culture of continuity. Government should be a continuum, every new administration that comes in want to establish its own project; I don’t think government should operate that way. We see what happens in developed world although there are some policies that can stop, but not anything that can affect the generality of the public, that should be allowed to operate. It should not be about the political party, such that, if it is not a particular political party, then whatever project carried out by the opposition party, becomes useless.   A-Z Petroleum gets DataPro BBB rating     Buhari inaugurates first internet-enabled CBN branch     Sylva vows to regain OPEC quota by year end   How would you assess the Mutual Benefits Assurance PLC over the years in terms of   evolution growth and brand equity development? I happened to be the founder of Mutual Benefits Assurance and I am happy I watched it grow to where it is today. We are still growing it, we have not left it.  I want to believe that God has been very faithful to us. I recalled that we started Mutual Benefits Assurance with N5 million and this amount was actually borrowed to pay the statutory deposit. This is because we have a written vision, and we have our goal set and we pursued it with diligence and passion, the company has grown to where it is today.  I must tell you that we have our five year plan. If you look at what is happening in Mutual Benefits, we keep evolving. In economics, they will tell you   that the life of a company is like this:  that is, it grows picks up, and then it comes down. For Mutual Benefits, we have five year plan, and when we got to the third year, we began to figure out how we can do things differently. By the time it started resonating, we picked up from there started another curve, so, we didn’t have any decling curve as such in terms of productivity. Generally speaking, why do insurance company in Nigeria struggling with relevance and patronage, unlike in Europe and America? Insurance in Nigeria will struggle for patronage and relevance, because of one simple thing, which I called the application of the rule of law in Nigeria. The laws are there, but nobody obeys the law. In America and Europe,  everywhere you mention, if you say wear the seat belt, it is the law, if you are caught not wearing seat belt, it is a hundred dollars fine. They know the implication, so they wear their seat belt. The application of rule of law helps them in the way they operate. We have policies here, we have laws and regulations about insurance, but how many of them obey? Statistics has that we have over 15 to 16 million vehicular record right from tricycles to cars and everything. About 15 million, how many of them have one form of insurance. In America, this wristwatch, immediately you bought it, insurance will be sold to you. They will introduce insurance to you, but if you take credit to buy it, it becomes compulsory for you to do it. But here, look at how beautiful you are looking, your ear rings, if had bought it on credit, you have to insure it, because anything can happen. That is obeying the law. The people selling it to you have the law; understand it and they operate it. But here in our country, I tell you, we have less than 0.25% penetration. That means insurance penetration in Nigeria is still very low. We have over 200 million people. If you take 200 million people and we say less than 0.25% that means less than 25 million people have one form of insurance or the other. Look, this Lagos, they have policy on building under culture, but let me tell you the bad news,  that  Ikoyi  21 storey building  that collapsed, go and find out whether there was an  insurance coverage on it. How come the Lagos state government allowed that kind of thing to happen. It is because of compromises we here and there. Insurance is very relevant to our daily lives but people in this clime don’t see it that way, because the first thing they can always say is, I believe in God. Does this same God not existing for people in America. Even in India where they worship all kinds of things, they still believe that you still have to take care of yourself. Insurance is not relevant here because we don’t allow the rule of law to operate and where it is operating, they have the benefit of it. There is third party insurance to protect you even if I put my vehicle on the road, and I don’t want to take insurance, but how on earth can I buy a vehicle of 5 million and I don’t have money to do insurance. Government realises that and says, at least for minimum, buy third party insurance. At least, if I run into you, you must have some   measure of protection. We have fake insurance everywhere, compromises, if you get to some licensing offices, you will see them there. They will even print Mutual Benefits Assurance PLC Certificate, and when you catch them and hand them over to police, nothing happens. It is mainly the rule of law that is the difference. In those climes that you cited as example, they have the rule of law in operation whereas in this country, we pay lip service to rule of law.