Bingham University, Karu Nasarawa State has secured an N50 million grant for COVID-19 research from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The university also said it has secured a £1,000,000 grant from the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine in the United Kingdom for the Light Consortium project. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof William Qurix, said the grants are as a result of collaboration with reputable international and local institutions like Sumy State University, Ukraine, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM), UK university of Wolverhampton among others. Speaking during the 17th matriculation ceremony of the institution in Karu, Nasarawa State on Thursday, the vice-chancellor warned students against drug abuse. He said the authorities of the university have declared zero tolerance for drug abuse, threatening to sanction any student found wanting in the act. - Advertisement - Speaking on the general insecurity confronting the entire nation, he reiterated that the management of the university has put in place several security measures in conjunction with other security operatives to ensure the protection of the campus from criminal elements. He however entreated all students to be on the lookout and promptly report any suspicious activity to the security unit of the institution.   Teach For Nigeria to groom 20,000 teachers by 2031     YABATECH retains top ranking     International Women’s Day: Bridge Academy recommits to…   The vice-chancellor said: “Bingham University has zero-tolerance for any form of social vices such as drug abuse, cultism and others, as anyone found wanting would be sanctioned accordingly. “Let me also remind students that security is a general responsibility and the management of this university will continue to do all that is humanly possible to ensure the protection of this campus from criminal elements.” The vice-chancellor said the institution has 12 faculties, 64 academic programmes and out of which 46 were established in the last four years, noting it offers part-time degree programmes in Sociology, Accounting, Business Administration, Economics, English, Mass Communication, Political Science and Computer Science. According to him, last year, the university matriculated 1,377 undergraduate and 387 postgraduate students for the 2020/2021 academic session. He further explained that out of a total of 4,530 candidates applied to the university this year only 1,560 were granted admission to study various courses which included Pharmaceutical sciences, Basic medical sciences, Clinical Sciences, Health Sciences. Others were Arts, Social Sciences, Science and Technology, Law, Education, Environmental Science and Admonition respectively. SPONSORED