Ten crew members on board an offshore oil and gas platform near Ugborodo community in the Warri Southwest Council area of Delta state, are yet to be accounted for following an explosion that rocked the facility early Wednesday. The Nation gathered that the explosion occurred on a Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading vessel, identified as Trinity Spirit FPSO around 1a.m, February 2. The FPSO, with a capacity to process up to 22,000 barrels of oil per day, serves as the primary production facility for OML 108. A resident of the area told The Nation: “Three persons were rescued by some Ilaje traders who trade by the seashore” in Ugborodo, adding that the fire was still burning as of 11:20a.m on Thursday.” It was gathered that the vessel, which produces crude oil at the Ukpokiti Terminal, belongs to an oil multinational, Shebah Exploration and Production Company Limited (SEPCOL). - Advertisement - A statement by the Chief Executive Officer of SEPCOL (in receivership), Ikemefuna Okafor, states that efforts were ongoing to rescue the situation.   BREAKING: House of Reps adjourns plenary abruptly     BREAKING: FG uncovers 96 Boko Haram, ISWAP financiers     Police confirm killing of two security guards in Akwa Ibom   The statement was however silent on the condition of the 10 crew members. “The management of Shebah Exploration & Production Company Ltd (SEPCOL) in receivership, hereby announces the unfortunate incident of a fire that engulfed our offshore facility, the FPSO Trinity Spirit located at the Ukpokiti Terminal, following an explosion during the early hours of Wednesday, 2nd of February 2022. “The cause of the explosion is currently being investigated and we are working with necessary parties to contain the situation. “At this time there are no reported fatalities, but we can confirm that there were 10 crewmen on board the vessel prior to the incident and we are prioritising investigations with respect to their safety and security, “ the company said. SEPCOL also thanked the Clean Nigeria Associates (CNA), the Chevron team operating in the nearby Escravos facility and its community stakeholders as well as fishermen, for their assistance since the incident occurred. It added that relevant authorities have been notified and urged members of the public to steer clear of the area. The incident, which caused serious panic among workers in nearby oil and gas facilities and fishermen in the area, poses a threat to fishing and other economic activities of the neighbouring riverine communities.