Monologue This article is not new. It was first written and published in this column 13 years ago (2009). Yet, the situation that warranted its writing and publication at that time continues to linger as an implacable spectre threatening, days and nights, to devour the lives of ordinary Nigerians. Thus, a repeat of its publication here today, is considered a sine qua non at the request of readers who still remember its contents and consider it as a potent psychological respite for our country. After all, readers, like customers, are kings and queens in their own right.   Preamble An excerpt from the first publication of the article goes thus: “This world is a dramatic entity mysteriously coded in heterogeneous   parables. Every living thing therein sees that entity from the perspective of its own existence and relates to it as such. However, it takes history to decode it only after the actors in its coded drama might have left the stage. - Advertisement - Who are we as a people? Where are we coming from? And, for where are we heading from here? These are some of the questions which all rational human beings, anywhere in the world, should ask themselves from time to time if there is any hope for progress. Those questions are an indication of a planned progress that can be pursued through positive actions. But, ironically, in Nigeria, such questions have been rendered irrelevant because the circumstances of life imposed on this retrogressive country have changed the priorities of her citizens. The only question now in vogue, which every privileged elite seems to concentrate upon is this: ‘what will I get for myself in this appointment? That obnoxious question is the real drama that has permanently engaged the attention of overwhelming majority of the so-called Nigerian elites since the commencement of Nigeria’s fourth republic in 1999. It is the question that engendered corruption and crowns it as the despotic king that now rules Nigeria with aggrandized impunity. It is the question that fosters greed and impunity beyond imagination even as it fetters conscience to the stake of Satan. It is the question that presents mirage to Nigerian youths of today as the only substance that is worthy of pursuit. Hmmm! We now live in a material world where immaterial   substances are taken or rather mistaken for value.   No Answer Incidentally, however, no effort has ever been made to answer that all-time question even if to confirm the aberration in sticking to the evanescence of this world. If any such answer had been found and applied effectively, it   would have drastically reduced the current rate of crimes in Nigeria to the barest minimum. But alas, the opposite is the case.   Hope or Despair? What can we say of a man who fixes his eyes on the sun but does not see it? Instead, he sees a chorus of flaming seraphim announcing a paroxysm of despair. That is the parable of the country called Nigeria. Like the Israelis of Prophet Musas’ time, Nigerians have virtually become like Egyptian gypsies of yore who were wandering aimlessly without a definite destination and wallowing in abject poverty in the midst of abundance. Where are we going from here?   The Wasted Abundance What else do we expect from Allah beyond the invaluable bounties with which He has blessed us? What is Nigeria not blessed with? We have land in abundance, not in terms of size alone but also in terms of agrarian soil and rich vegetation. About two decades ago, over 77 million hectares of land was said to be arable in Nigeria over. Out of this, only about 34 million hectares were reportedly being cultivated for various agricultural activities, including animal husbandry. That was at about the time of writing this article in 2009. Today, this has further dwindled to less than 15 million hectares as vicious insecurity, especially in the farming areas of the country has now virtually put the control of those areas in the hands of Boko Haram terrorists and bandits.   Bountiful Blessings As a people, we are blessed with an excellent climate that helps in maintaining our good health just as we are blessed with rains that water our plants from the sky and gives us the greeneries with which we graze our animals to satisfaction. We are endowed with a variety of nourishing food crops that are enough to feed our huge population without necessarily importing foreign crops for consumption. And, our population is large enough to form the needed market for the sales and consumption of our sundry products.   Qur’anic Attestation The Qur’an vividly attests to the above assertion thus: “Let man reflect on the food he eats; how ‘We’ pour down the rain in torrents and cleave the earth asunder; how ‘We’ bring forth the corn, the grapes, the fresh vegetables, the olive, the palm products, the thickets, the fruit-trees and the green pastures for you and for your cattle to delight in…” Q. 80:24-   Manpower In addition to the aforementioned divine blessings, we have energetic and dedicated work force that is married to the farm land in Nigeria despite all odds. We also have intellectual brains that are capable of engaging in research work in all fields of human endeavours to ensure the growth and development of our country. Nigeria is not lacking in forest and savannah. She is rich in rivers, mountains and minerals, all of which are great resources for people who are seriously seeking reasonable comfort and are not self-deceptive.   Dearth of Leadership If Nigerians have consistently suffered from anything, it is a dearth of responsible leadership that should ordinarily care about our foremost heritage which is agriculture. That food insecurity is now a major threat to Nigerians can only be attributed to sheer selfishness, greed and avarice on the part of the ruling class especially in the disastrous first 16 years of the so-called fourth republic, (1999 to 2015), when the rain of dollars was falling torrentially from the sky of oil. That misfortune started when the first shot at the Presidency, in 1999, was entrusted to a parochial ‘prisoner’ who had completely lost contact with the actual reality of the modern time. On his assumption of office in that year, some equally parochial but die hard optimists, saw him as a reincarnate of Prophet Yusuf (Joseph) of Egypt of yore who could rescue Nigeria from an impending economic scourge. But no sooner had he completed his first four year tenure in office, as President, than those blind optimists realized that the man they classified as the modern day ‘Yusuf’ coming from the prison to transform Nigerian dream into reality was actually a ‘Mathew’ without any functional intuition.   A Nigerian Light Bearer     Iseyin: The renaisance city of Yoruba land 2     COVID-19 and the Prophet’s Medicament   As a farmer that he claimed to be, before his incarceration, this Mathew had been expected to act like Chairman Mao of China who started the revolution of his country with agricultural self-sufficiency in the 1960s and was expected to be emulated by the third world leaders. However, far from acting like Mao, Nigeria’s parochial ‘Mathew’ eventually confirmed that no man could give what he does not possess. Thus, with his crude style of governance, he proved that he was never tutored in any decency that could fetch any expected good governance. Yet, while running the course of his second tenure in office, he tried to smuggle a third term into Nigeria’s constitution to pave his way towards life presidency which is typical of African leaders. Those who dragged him into the presidency from the prison eventually confessed their calamitous error and expressed a belated regret while licking poisonous blood from their bleeding fingers with internal agony. Today, Nigeria is worse than what she was before the turn of the century.   Compounded Tragedy Most of the pioneer Governors of Nigeria’s fourth republic did not help the matter, as far as agriculture was concerned. Rather than focusing on agriculture which was the natural occupation with which their subjects were mostly endowed, those political gold diggers preferred to depend on oil boom largess coming to them from the federal government via the so-called revenue allocation. To them, such a quicker way of getting money illegally into their personal pockets was much more beneficial than investing in agriculture which could only yield results, perhaps years after they might have left office. The only seeming exception at that time was Lagos State where a foresighted erstwhile Senator held sway in commercial ventures despite the deprivation of that State of access to revenue allocation from the federal treasury.   Cost of Governance In Nigeria, the cost of running government alone is enough to render the country bankrupt. By 1999, what was the federal government doing with about 40 federal ministers and scores of Presidential Senior or Special Advisers as well a retinue of Special Assistants when even America, with her huge economic resources, including technological wherewithal, had only about 25 ministers including the Vice President? Besides, what is the country’s gain in the idea of immunity for those Governors and the so-called special security vote for them? Besides, should anything be called constituency allowances for the legislators at the Federal or State levels, which run into billions of naira, especially at a time when innocent citizens are crying for food and are wallowing in abject poverty?   Evidence of Hunger No one could have ever thought, about two decades ago, that artificial hunger could be added to the abysmal level of poverty in the this country despite the unprecedented rise in the price of oil in the international market during those wasted years. However, the lotus-eaters in government, at that time, fraudulently turned governance into an artful trick with which to regularly bamboozle the populace into blind submission. The memory of almost hypnotizing propaganda of the 1980s, spearheaded by a government agency called Mass Mobilization for Self Reliance, Social Justice and Economic Recovery (MAMSER), which was established by a self-styled military President, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, and headed by one Professor Jerry Gana, is not lost in us. That Agency’s slogan of “Food and Shelter for all in the Year 2000” which rented the air with a deafening reverberation remains unforgettable. But in the end, nothing came out of it. Rather, some new multi-millionaires suddenly emerged from the platform of that smart project to the gross disadvantage of the masses. That slogan was to be later changed, in the 1990s, to: “Vision 2010” with loud media propaganda that entailed no progressive change.   Vision 2020 And, when year 2010 was   approaching under the draconian Presidency of the mentioned visionless ‘Mathew’, the slogan changed again to: ‘Vision 2020, a year in which Nigerian government deceptively claimed to have envisioned making the country one of the 20 most buoyant economies in the world. Now, even in year 2022, where are the indications of the acclaimed visions?  And, now that the two deceptive visions and their initiators have politically fizzled out into perpetual oblivion, where is the place of Nigeria on the map of progress?   Game of Deception It takes two to tangle. If the deceptive leaders of those years could pretend not to know that a game of deception was in place, why was the deceived populace also pretending to play along? It takes a visionless populace to beget a deceptive government as the case has always been in Nigeria. No country in history is ever known to have achieved economic Eldorado by any magic wand and Nigeria could not have been an exception. But that was the portion of a self-glorified country that calls herself ‘the giant of Africa’. And, today, what is the result of that self-deception?   From FAO’s Report In a report of the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) some years ago, about 300 Nigerians were said to be dying of hunger daily. Only God knows what that figure might have risen to become now. That was the legacy of the past rulers which became the heritage of today’s government. Yet, ironically, the same layers of the foundation of destroyed economy in the past years are the most vocal critics of the county’s economy today. What a shame?   Yar’Adua’s Tenure By some actions taken during his tenure, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua of blessed memory remains highly commendable for showing example of governance with human face and human heart. He did not only admit that the election which brought him into office was faulty, he also promised to correct that error even as he regulated the importation of food items and suspended tariffs on importation of essential food items to the relief of all and sundry. President Yar’Adua also released needed grains from the national silos, from time to time, to check inflation and, at a time, he pumped about N400 billion into the economy for the purpose of creating about 10 million jobs as at 2008. And, besides reducing the pomp price of fuel, as a relief to Nigerians, he also granted unconditional amnesty to the then South-South agitators thereby opened way for negotiation with them in the interest of peace and harmony. Although, such measures were far from being adequate for a country which was aspiring to become one of the 20 biggest economies in 2020, the move was generally seen as a good beginning of a hopeful future. No other Nigerian President has ever taken such steps in government. However, as soon as Yar’Adua left the stage, courtesy of his demise, a change of gear was applied as all progressive steps which he had initiated when alive were obliterated and the doors of national treasury were widely thrown open for audacious looters to scoop on with impunity.   The Jonathan Years When it became evident that no miracle could yield any economic success, based on a ramshackle foundation laid down for Nigerian economy by a visionless ‘Mathew’ (from the prison) who, as President, could hardly reason beyond the siege mentality of the prison yard from where he had emerged, the hope of Nigeria, as a country, was certified irredeemably dead. If Goodluck Jonathan, who succeeded Yar’Adua as President, had been well tutored in good governance, he would have known that the vessel which took this country’s ‘Napoleon’ to the proverbial ‘Waterloo’ was incapable of conveying his own government to the Cape of Good Hope. But the accident of history must never cease to play itself out especially in a situation where a hidden agenda is given a premium focus. But one indelible fact must never be forgotten.  Without a historic ‘Yusuf’ in Egypt of yore, only Allah knows what the history of Egypt would have been today. And, without a Pharaoh’s dream of drought, the role of ‘Yusuf’ in averting famine in Egypt would not have become a recurrent decimal in global history.   Egypt of the 1970s Yours sincerely was a student in Egypt in the 1970s when the hostility between that country and Israel was fierce. Egypt was then an ally of the now defunct Union of Soviets Socialist Republics (USSR), while Israel was a satellite of the United States by proxy. Not only did Egypt suffer isolation from NATO member countries but even the Soviet Union which was supposed to be the main ally of Egypt was not forthcoming with any meaningful assistance beyond the supply of light and medium range weapons. Thus, the Egyptian government had to buckle up firmly in order to fend for its people at that critical time. Realizing the importance of food supply especially in a war situation, Egypt mobilized all her agricultural resources around the River Nile and forgot about any food importation. The result was tremendous as Egypt grew to become a food exporter rather than an importer that she had been for years.   Nigeria’s Situation Today Today, Nigeria is not afflicted by drought or famine. Neither is she engaged in any uncontrollable disease. Yet, the fear in vogue is hunger compounded by insecurity. How this country arrived at such a deadly scourge is irrelevant for now. What is relevant is how to get out of it. Like Egypt of yore, Nigeria badly needs a ‘Yusuf’. But how to get one is a question that requires an urgent answer.   Epilogue Where people are well educated and conscious of their rights; where they perceive wealth as a divine privilege and not an exclusive right of any group; where they see themselves as qualified but denied their legitimate entitlements; nobody can consign them to ignominy indefinitely. They will react in no uncertain terms. That is what obtains now in the country which has given an unprecedented rise to insurgency and banditry to the amazement of all and sundry. These must not be allowed to further continue. Let Nigeria grow from a country into a nation that we may all be proud to be her citizens. “….God does not change the situation of a community until such a community is ready for change (its misdemeanour)”…. Q. 13:11 SPONSORED