The success recorded at the 2020 Nigeria medical Association(NMA) Games is a testimony to the fact that Nigerian doctors are versatile. This is the submission of Prof. Innocent Ujah(MNI) , President NMA , at the closing ceremony of the Doctors’ Games in Abuja as he hailed his colleagues for a successful games amid COVID-19 challenges. “This event is a demonstration that doctors are versatile, they can play games, treat patients, whatever you give them they will do it. “NMA is a determined professional association, despite the financial challenges and Covid 19 we have had a successful game,” a visibly elated Ujah told journalist in Abuja. The games featured about 600 doctors from 8 zones of the country participating in 10 different games.   NLO picks instructors and officials for nationwide coaching…     U-17 Wins Edo Cricket League Title     Gallant Gombe United ends Remo United’s unbeaten run   - Advertisement - The games Grand Master General(GMG) DR. Uche Ojinmah said the aim of the games was achieved. “Our aims have definitely been achieved, you can see the friendship in the air, we want the medical profession to be united from the building blocks, that is what we have seen here in the last five days” the games GMG said. Chairman Local Organising Committee(LOC) DR. Enema Amodu says the host city, Abuja has delivered the best games since 2014. “The aim of the NMA games is to let it grow to a stage where we can also involve other health professionals. The 2022 games has been the best so far despite the challenges,” Amodu boasted. The games which took place in Abuja between February 8th and 12th had Over 600 medical doctors competing in 10 different games, namely football, draught, golf, Scrabble, table tennis, chess, ayo, athletics, badminton, volleyball and basketball. The South-South zone emerged the overall winner of the games, Lagos Zone came second, FCT zone came third, South-West zone came 4th, while South-East, North-Central, North-West, North-East came 5th , 6th , 7th and 8th respectively. SPONSORED