General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida (IBB), the erstwhile self-styled Nigeria military president from 1985-1993, stated that he made ‘a mistake’ in annulling the June 12, 1993 election that would have brought the late Chief MKO Abiola to power. He said inter alia: “every leader makes a mistake, and I am not an exception.”  ‘He went further to declare that his repressive regime should be lauded for conducting the best election in Nigeria history and then annulling same on lame excuses. He must be reminded of what he uttered in his infamous nation-wide broadcast of July 26, 1993 affirming the annulment. Dr. Olatunji Dare in his article in the Nation newspaper of 20th April 2010 titled: “Babangida: Never Again” quoted from the ‘maradonic’ speech of the maverick general: “In case Babangida has forgotten, here, in his own words, is what he said in his broadcast of July 26, 1993, about the very election that he is now celebrating as the crowning glory of his eight years as president. ‘There was a huge array of election malpractices virtually in all the states of the federation before the actual voting began . . . There were authenticated reports of election malpractices against party agents, officials of the National Electoral Commission and also some members of the electorate . . .”’ (Excerpts of the article written by this columnist while conducting his PhD research studies in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; published by Sahara Reporters, on 7th May 2010, titled: “IBB: Responsibility Not Synonymous With Apology: Nigerians Need Genuine Apology”). It is both ironic and intriguing that the celebrated June 12 election was disannulled to the chagrin of most Nigerians. Equally saddened were myriads of local and international observers who covered the events from inception to the interment. It was unanimously agreed, by a cross-section of Nigerians, that the election of 1993 was the best so far conducted: free, fair and violence free! Yet, it was sadistically and sarcastically scuttled by Babangida. It would be recalled that though the piece was written in 2010, the content and context are still in tandem with today’s realities in our nascent democracy. In essence, General Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida (IBB) needs to apologize to Nigerians for offending the sensibilities of Nigerians in annulling the June 12 election. Up till the time of writing, our own maverick elder statesman, IBB, as egocentric as he displays in character and conduct; even though he wants many to believe he is patriotic, has not find it conscientious and courteous to offer any public apology! IBB: you owe Nigeria and Nigerians a candid apology!! IBB: An Elder Statesman: No Doubt - Advertisement - Having energetically served his country, especially with most years in the military, and with eight years (two – term equivalent of an elected president) as a military head of state (self – styled as president), IBB should withdraw from the public scene having done his best for the country. However, political hawks have turned his house to Mecca or Jerusalem to get an endorsement, that in today’s realities should not have counted if Nigeria’s followers are not sleepy and docile! It is high time the mass of Nigeria’s followers woke up from their deep slumber and participate fully in politics and politicking beginning from ward level to local government to state, and to the national level. There is no better time than now if we do not want the likes of IBB, with no positive political pedigree, to be dictating to followers what we should do or who to vouch or vote for in coming elections. Many Nigerians know that it was IBB’s government that annulled the June 12 election that denied Chief Moshood Kasimawo Olawale Abiola the golden opportunity of mounting the saddle in being sworn in as the President of Nigeria. However, unknown to many Nigerians, or seemingly many have forgotten, that it was IBB that cancelled, without proper justification, the presidential primary elections conducted by the two political parties that his government created. The outcome of the primary elections threw up Shehu Yar’Adua of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Mallam Adamu Ciroma of the National Republican Convention (NRC). What plausible reason did IBB put forward for this callous and conscienceless decision in truncating a well – thought democratic process? IBB rejected the primary presidential elections because, in his own puerile and pedestrian perspective it favoured the ‘old guard in both parties’. Why change the goal post in the middle of the game? Of course, for those who understand the Machiavellian and maradonic maneuverings of the retired general, it was not a surprise! If the first presidential primary in the two parties had been allowed to stay, there was the possibility of not plunging the nation to the imbroglio that engulfed the country after the annulment of the June 12 1993 election. IBB: Was not our economy worsted under your watch?   Ekiti 2022 and Oyebanji’s emergence: Exceeding…     Tinubu’s trajectory to the throne (Part 3)     Tinubu’s trajectory to the throne (Part 2)   What actually triggered this article was a WhatsApp post from my cherished alma mater, Oyemekun Grammar School, Akure (OGSA) platform, a forum of eminent personalities. The post pontificated that $1 was equivalent to 0.75 Naira; 1 Pound was 2 Naira, even up till 1986 before the injection of the Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) that sapped and sucked Nigeria’s economy. This columnist was serving his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in the then Gongola (now Adamawa State), and remembered with regretting nostalgia that a whole goat then was about 30 Naira, chicken was 3 Naira in Yola Market, travelling by air from Yola to Lagos was 99 Naira (with rebate applicable for NYSC members and students)! It was the injection and inculcation of SAP spearheaded by IBB rather than bringing succour to Nigerians that procured sorrow, tears and blood in its trail as Nigeria was made dumping ground for imported items, corruption exacerbated and prices of items galloped! Thereafter, the IBB government needlessly led Nigeria to the slaughter house of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Nigeria took the bite and bitter gall of IMF loan, we are yet to recover from the ugly side effects decades after! Any trait(s) of servant or transformational or value laden leadership practice in the aforementioned context? Definitely not! Never again, corroborating the stand and stake of Professor Olatunji Dare, should we find ourselves in the leadership quandary and conundrum of the IBB’s era or should we blindly follow the path that the maradonic and enigmatic general is pointing to! Youths: It is time to partake in politics and politicking!  It is high time youths discarded docility down the drain and stand up to bad leaders! It is distasteful reading the lips of one of them, Ojo Foluso, National Convener of the Osinbajo Grassroots Organization (OGO): “We came to consult the oracle and the oracle has spoken; IBB is an oracle because he understands Nigeria. . .” The Nigeria youths, if not attesting or alluding to the depiction of Nigeria’s youths as lazy as succinctly stated by President Muhammadu Buhari. It is imperative to pointedly state that the youths should not be lazy to delve into history that will enable them to glean and learn from a repository of wisdom and then, they could discern their friends and leaders they could follow, trust or listen to. It is not a question of age but of wisdom. In the run up to the 2011 elections, IBB might have forgotten, one phrase he used on youths: “youths of Nigeria are bereft of ideas.” Simply and squarely stated, the truth is that the ubiquitous elitist class he belongs has persistently denied access to the teeming youths to exhibit savviness and sagacity. This is making a clarion call to all our youths within the nook and cranny of Nigeria to come together and take their stand and stake in who rules over them from the local government to the state and to the national level in both executive and legislature. Youths must know that power is not served ala carte; and that power is not given, but taken! In another jamboree to the Hilltop Mansion of the gapped toothed general, the Abubakar Bukola Saraki (ABS), National Campaign Advocacy Council led by its Chairman, Professor Hagher Iorwuese, IBB responded in the affirmative in endorsing Saraki because he belonged to the youthful age that he would advocate for as if the youths are voiceless. However, it is interesting and intriguing to reflect on the statement of Professor Iorwuese: “Your son Saraki has your DNA and is following these beautiful footsteps of yours . . .’’ To any discerning youth, if the erstwhile Senate President, Senator Olusola Saraki, possesses IBB Machiavellian and maradonic DNA, then it is better to be watchful of this product being promoted by our own unchanging IBB! A word is enough for the wise!! Conclusion As 2023 beckons, it is imperative and instructive for Nigerians to be awake and alert politically. This columnist wants to specially and specifically galvanize the youthful population forming more than 50% of our voting population to be interested in who becomes what within their wards, local government areas, states and the national level. In this vein, register and procure your Permanent Voters Card (PVC); ensure you belong to a political group or party beginning from the ward; courageously interact or interface with candidates vying for offices; participate by voting in all elections. The mass of all registered and eligible voters – those who are 18 years and above – should wake up from lackadaisical and lethargic leaning and fully get involved in the democratic process and not leave the stage for recycled politicians and untiring militicians who are hungry for power at all costs. Enough of the likes of “Owners of Nigeria’’ (apology to Dele Momodu) dictating and directing the followers as if our brains are on holidays! Followers: let us take back our country before some personalities with questionable pedigrees in leadership positions constitute themselves to de facto Electoral College that is foreign to our constitution! We shall get there as Rome was not built in a day!!     SPONSORED