DLM Capital Group Limited (DLM) has closed application list for its latest N5 billion commercial paper (CP) issuance. DLM Capital sought up to N5 billion in the Series 3 & Series 4 Commercial Paper Notes under its N20 billion CP Issuance Programme. The group is rated ‘BBB-’ by GCR Ratings and ‘A-‘ by DataPro. DLM Capital offered, under the Series 3, 180-day CPs at a discount rate of 11.3295 per cent and implied yield of 12.00 per cent.  The indicative maturity date was expected to be Wednesday, August 10, 2022 It also simultaneously offered, under the Series 4, 270-day CPs with discount rate of 11.8595 per cent and implied yield of 13.00 per cent. The indicative maturity date was scheduled for Tuesday, November 08, 2022. The net proceeds of the issue would be used to fund working capital requirements of two subsidiaries of the group namely: CitiHomes Finance Company and Links Microfinance Bank. DLM Capital Group had earlier raised N1.24 billion under the Series 1 and N1.01 billion under the Series 2 CPs. These were subsequently listed on the FMDQ Securities Exchange. - Advertisement - According to the offer prospectus, DLM Capital Group is a development investment bank and a diversified financial services institution.   Lagos Commodities Exchange clears 39 firms for trading     Create more alternative investment options, UK advises…      Jaiz Bank grows profit by 37% to N4.2b   The group has been at the forefront of creating alternative funding solutions to businesses, providing bespoke and innovative financing for a variety of economic sectors. The group stated that it places a strong emphasis on driving sustainable development of the Nigerian economy by focusing its expertise on key sectors such as agriculture, general business finance, consumer credit, housing, transportation, infrastructure, and education in line with its chosen development mandate to help reduce poverty and improve the living conditions of Africans as a whole. According to the offer document, the overall goal of the group is to help mobilize international and domestic capital to support the continent’s economic and social development. The group currently consists of seven operating subsidiaries regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Its subsidiaries are DLM Advisory Limited, SoFRI Digital Bank powered by Links Microfinance Bank Limited, CitiHomes Finance Company Limited, DLM FX Trading Limited, DLM Trust Company Limited, DLM Securities Limited, and DLM Asset Management Limited. DLM Capital Group offers general financial and investment banking-related services via its subsidiaries above which provide, corporate finance advisory, asset management, trust services, securities trading, and forex dealing. The group also has a fintech company which includes a full-service digital bank that provides general banking services to retail consumers. This also includes payment services and retail credit. Finally, the Group has a finance company that provides advances to mid-sized corporate businesses. On the distribution side, DLM works with domestic pension fund managers, asset managers, bank treasurers, corporate bankers, trustees, high net worth individuals, and other retail investors, as well as with international emerging market fund managers and international banks with an appetite for sub-Sahara African investments.   SPONSORED