The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has rejected the promotion of Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Ibrahim Pantami as a Professor of cyber security by the management of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO). ASUU President Prof. Emmanuel Osodeke, while addressing journalists in Lagos on Monday at the end of its two-day meeting of the National Executive Council(NEC) declared the promotion as ‘llegal.’ Last year, Pantami was among seven academics elevated by the council of FUTO to the position of professorship at the council’s 186th meeting.   Six feared dead as gunmen, security operatives clash in…     Widow jailed for brutalising househelp     UPDATED: NDLEA declares suspended DCP Abba Kyari wanted   Osodeke said: “Compatriots of the Press, you may recall that our union disassociated itself from the appointment of Dr Ibrahim Pantami as a professor of cybersecurity by the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) during our NEC meeting held at the University of Abuja on 18th-19th November, 2021, until a Fact-Finding Team to be dispatched to the branch reports its findings. - Advertisement - “The team visited the branch on 10th-14th February, 2022, and reported back to NEC. As a result of the comprehensive report submitted on all the relevant matters, NEC hereby rejects in its entity, the purported appointment of Dr. Isah Ali Ibrahim Pantami as a professor of cyber security. “From the evidence available to us, Dr. Pantami was not qualified, and the said appointment violated established procedure for appointment of professors in the university.” “NEC directed all members and branches of our union throughout the Nigerian federation not to recognize, accord or treat Dr. Isah Ali Ibrahim Pantami as a professor of cyber security under any guise. “NEC also resolved to sanction all ASUU members who participated in process that led to the illegal appointment in accordance with the’ established procedures of our union.” SPONSORED