Contestants from six regional competitions of the Glo Battle of the Year Nigeria traded tackles on Saturday as the first episode of the show premiered on GloTV, the network’s streaming App. Globacom said the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and African Independent Television (AIT) will begin broadcast of the show from this week. The show will run every Saturday on Globacom’s innovative TV streaming service on Android, IOS Apps and web for watching live linear TV, Video on Demand and catch-up with premium content, including Glo BOTY Nigeria. It will also be rebroadcast this week only on NTA at 6 p.m and Friday on AIT at 9 p.m. Subsequently, the show will air weekly on GloTV App on Saturdays ay 8 p.m, NTA on Sundays at 8 p.m and AIT on Tuesdays at 9 p.m. In a statement yesterday in Lagos, the company urged viewers to hook up to the electrifying episodes by getting GloTV App on myglotv.com. - Advertisement - The tension-soaked first episode of the show featured male break dancers selected from the regional draws in Kaduna, Abuja, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Benin, and Lagos. They slugged it out in the audition/elimination rounds and quarterfinals of the ‘B-Boys’ dance category of the competition.   2023 polls: We will respect Ugwuanyi’s decisions – Sen.…     Minister accuses ASUU of blackmail     Sylva: govt will unravel how toxic petrol was imported   Judges on the show had a hard time determining the best of the dancers as the boys used all the dancing tricks in their kitty in the bid to outshine one another. But some of them failed to live up to the billing and could not proceed to the next round of the exciting show, which aired at 8p.m. on Saturday, February 5. Contestants who qualified for the semifinals from the first episode are accomplished in other areas of their endeavours. They include Abuja-based gymnastics coach, Irah; six-foot tall dancer, BBOY Off; Sociology graduate Victor Vic; Enugu-based graphic designer BBOY Bliss, and fashion model Softy. The most impressive performances of the first episode were by Lil Vic in Abuja; Jamz Rock, BBOYs Jerry, Duke, Whirlz in Benin; BBOY Pryme in Enugu and Pizzaro in Lagos. Host of the show and award-winning On-Air Personality (OAP) and actor, Do2tun, showed the trajectories of each of the contestants as well as their intention to ride on Globacom’s unlimited brand promise to showcase their potentials and achieve their dreams of wealth, stardom and global domination. Star crooner, Simi Kosoko, was on hand to entertain viewers in a live performance of a few of her greatest hits.