Champions League winners Chelsea and Copa Libertadores champions Palmeiras will do battle in the Club World Cup final in Abu Dhabi today. The English outfit defeated Al-Hilal in their semi-final on Wednesday, while their opponents got the better of Egyptian giants Al-Ahly to reach the final. Chelsea booked their spot in this year’s Club World Cup by winning their second Champions League title, triumphing over Manchester City in the final in Porto as Kai Havertz netted the only goal of the game. Despite winning the UEFA Super Cup on penalties against Villarreal to begin the new season on a high, Thomas Tuchel’s side may be questioning their aims at this point of the campaign, now finding themselves 11 points off the summit of the Premier League table after 22 games. On the back of an important 2-0 league win over Tottenham Hotspur, halting a potential winless run in the English top flight, the Blues met third-tier Plymouth Argyle in their final game prior to the Club World Cup, and Tuchel’s men required extra time to scrape through with a 2-1 victory, with Marcos Alonso eventually netting the decisive goal after the Pilgrims took a lead in normal time. - Advertisement - They then travelled to Abu Dhabi to take on Al-Hilal on Wednesday, and Romelu Lukaku’s close-range finish made the difference between the sides, firing the London club into Saturday’s final. With Tuchel absent from the touchline due to a positive COVID-19 test, Chelsea will look to secure their first Club World Cup title after falling to Corinthians in the final of their only previous appearance in 2012. They take on a Palmeiras side also looking to avenge their failure on the global stage after dropping out in the semi-final of last year’s tournament. Following that disappointment, Palmeiras became the first side to retain the Copa Libertadores trophy since 2001 last season, as they defeated fellow Brazilian giants Flamengo 2-1 in a dramatic final thanks to Deyverson’s extra-time winner. In a stellar campaign, the Alviverde finished third in the Campeonato BrasileiroSerie A, and they have kicked off the new term in similar fashion, winning three and drawing one of their opening four regional outings in the Campeonato Paulista in their search for a 26th title.   Cristiano Ronaldo Jr signs for Man United     Edo Cricket League hits Super Four     North Central female team targets trophy   Abel Ferreira’s side impressed in their Club World Cup semi-final too, defeating Al Ahly 2-0 with Raphael Veiga and Dudu getting on the scoresheet, lining them up for a tough clash with Chelsea as a result. The 10-time Brazilian champions will now look to end their nation’s 10-year wait for a Club World Cup triumph and take the trophy back to South America to cap off a strong two-year spell on all fronts. Liverpool new boy Luis Diaz made quite the impression on social media after enjoying a ‘seamless’ start to life at the club, following his eye-catching performance in his side’s 2-0 victory against Leicester. Diaz, who signed from Porto last month in the winter window, was handed his first Premier League appearance with Mohamed Salah instead named on the bench – and he has quickly hit the ground running. Diogo Jota scored both of the goals for Jurgen Klopp’s side, but it was Diaz on the flank who drew the Anfield crowd out of their seats. One fan said: “If you were an #lfc fan who had been asleep for 5 years and had to pick the player making his debut, there is no chance you choose Diaz. “Absolute master class from the LFC nerds in scouting for a system and finding the perfect, hand-in-glove fit.” Another wrote: “It’s early days, but Diaz looks like he’s going to be some player! I’m very impressed so far and the fact he made his first start after only joining us 6 days or so is amazing.” “Luis Diaz has slotted into our team seamlessly,” said a third. “His positional and tactical awareness is outstanding. Superb close control. “Strong, quick, great work-rate. Even after one game it’s obvious he’s gonna be a huge player for us. Just like [Harvey] Elliott. Both of them ooze class.” Former Reds striker Michael Owen was left just as impressed, and admitted he and his punditry colleagues had been ‘drooling’ over Diaz just minutes into the game. “Do you know what, we were just drooling over him after 15 minutes,” he said during the half-time break. “He hasn’t done anything in particular where you think “wow he’s created an unbelievable chance” but I love his sharpness.He looks quick, he looks lively, he presses the ball, he doesn’t mind committing players running at them and beating them.”