A major row broke out yesterday over the importation of adulterated petrol. Some of the firms accused by the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited of importing the toxic petrol denied culpability. President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered that those involved in the importation of “substandard products” be held accountable. He also directed that consumers be protected. - Advertisement - NNPC Group Managing Director Mele Kyari on Wednesday night said the company’s investigation showed the presence of methanol in four petrol cargoes imported by its agents. NNPC handles imports through a crude-for-fuel contract method known as Direct Sale Direct Purchase (DSDP) with consortia of local and foreign oil firms. Kyari said: “Precisely on the 20th of January, NNPC received a report from our quality inspector on the presence of emulsion particles in the PMS cargoes shipped to Nigeria from Artway Belgium. “NNPC investigation revealed the presence of methanol in four of the PMS cargoes imported by our DSDP suppliers, including MRS, Emadeb, IH Energy, Britannia-U Consortium, Oando and also our own company, Duke Oil. “Cargo quality certificate issued at load port by Amspec Belgium indicates that the gasoline complied with Nigeria’s specifications.” Kyari said to prevent the distribution of the toxic petrol, “we have ordered the quarantine of all un-evacuated volumes”. He added: “As a standard practice of all PMS import to Nigeria, the cargoes were also certified by inspection agent appointed by the Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA). “It is worthy to note that the usual quality inspection in load protocol employed in both load port in Belgium and our ports in Nigeria do not include the test for percentage of methanol content. “Therefore, this tip was not detected by our quality detectors.” Kyari’s claim was at variance with an earlier statement by MRS. MRS said: “Due to the current subsidy regime, NNPC is the sole supplier of all PMS in Nigeria. “Consequently, the NNPC through their trading arm, Duke Oil, supplied a cargo of PMS purchased from international trader Litasco and delivered it with Motor Tanker (MT) Nord Gainer. “This vessel discharged in Apapa between January 24 and 30, 2022 and the following major marketers with receiving quantities were the recipients of the product: OVH 10,000 mt; MRS 5,000 mt; NIPCO 5,958 mt; ARDOVA 6,000 mt; TOTAL 10,000 mt. “As one of the beneficiaries, MRS received the product in its depot and distributed the product to only eight of its stations in Lagos.” A member of the consortium, Emadeb Energy Services Limited, in a statement on behalf of Emadeb/Hyde/Ay Maikifi yesterday, accused Brittania-U of importing the toxic petrol. The statement states: “We refer to the press release of February 9, 2022 by the NNPC Limited on the issue of contaminated PMS with higher concentrates of methanol allegedly imported by Emadeb/Hyde/Ay Maikifi/Brittania-U Consortium. “We hereby state that the said importation of the contaminated PMS was executed by a member of the consortium, to wit: Brittania-U. “Brittania-U Nigeria Limited (Brittania-U) was the sole supplier of the 90,000MT of PMS delivered via MT Torm Hilde with laycan January 2 to 4, 2022.” According to the companies, NNPC’s claims were misleading. “The blanket claims made against the consortium by the NNPC are misleading and contradict the actual events that happened; they do not fully reflect and/or represent what transpired,” the companies said. According to them, when they discovered the adulterated fuel, they notified NNPC. They stated: “In view of the notice of the contaminated product, Emadeb/Hyde/Ay Maikifi immediately notified Brittania-U via a letter dated February 3, 2022 and also expressly informed NNPC of the sole liability of Brittania U. “Based on the substantial evidence provided to NNPC and several declarations by Brittania-U to NNPC, Brittania-U is therefore solely liable for the supply of the PMS via MT Torm Hilde.   Defection: Court okays Matawalle, others to be joined in…     N2tr NDDC debt: Indigenous contractors demand payment     Traders urged to vote for APC in Saturday’s FCT election   “This is also demonstrated by their unwillingness to be part of the consortium; however, all the other parties were duly indemnified by Brittania-U.” The firms said they would give their “full and maximum cooperation to any government investigation panel and or any agency with all the relevant documentation and or information that may be required”. A source in the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, who preferred not to be named because he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said the petrol scarcity was due to the effort to prevent the adulterated product from being further distributed. “In the efforts to ensure that more of the adulterated product doesn’t find its way into the market, we have had to quarantine the cargoes that are still at bay. “This is why you are seeing the shock at the filling stations, but that will not last long because fresh products are coming in,” the source said. Chairman of Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) and Chief Executive Officer of Ardova Plc, Mr. Olumide Adeosun, said efforts were ongoing to further isolate the toxic product. “Our members have been making sure that the products are segregated and don’t make their way to the pool, and that the goods in transit do not get into tanks at the stations. “We are working assiduously to make sure that the clean products that we are receiving into our systems are pushed straight to consumers immediately, obviously subject to one or two testings,” he said. The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) directed its members to take inventory of vehicles damaged by the toxic petrol. Its National President, Chinedu Okoronkwo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN): “In our Central Working Committee meeting yesterday (Wednesday), we agreed that members should take inventories of customers’ vehicles affected by the adulterated fuel. “The list will be sent to the government because there is a need to compensate those vehicle owners affected by the situation. “We will be scrutinising all claims to ensure that some unscrupulous persons don’t take advantage of the situation. “The marketers have their sales records and all claims will be thoroughly investigated just like we have in insurance,” he said. The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) has waded into the matter. Its Executive Vice Chairman Babatunde Irukera, said in a statement that from its initial investigative assessment, “consumers who purchased fuel that constitutes part of this consignment have experienced technical difficulties and damage to their vehicles or other relevant equipment/machinery.” It said it had begun “engaging multiple regulators and entities relevant and involved in the PMS distribution value chain.” The House of Representatives condemned the importation of adulterated petrol and called for a thorough investigation to identify and sanction those involved. Adopting a motion by Chief Whip, Mohammed Mongunu, the lawmakers said the act must not go unpunished. The lawmakers mandated the committee on petroleum downstream “to ascertain whether the Nigerian specification concerning importation, distribution and dispensing of the alleged toxic petrol in Nigeria from January till date complies with international standards”. The House asked the NNPC to suspend the companies involved in the importation of the methanol-blended petrol. They also asked the committee to “investigate the roles played by the NNPC, Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian navy, any other government regulatory agencies, limited liabilities companies and individuals in the unfortunate episode”. The motion was unanimously adopted when it was put to a voice vote. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) called for an independent probe. In a statement by spokesman, Debo Ologunagba, the party said all those responsible for the importation of the contaminated product must be held accountable. The statement reads in part: “Where was the toxic fuel imported from? Which company is the pre-inspection agent? “How much was paid for the very cheap contaminated fuel and through which banks were payment effected? “All documents relating to the transaction must be made public. “Our party insists that President Buhari, as the Minister of Petroleum Resources, cannot acquit himself with his reported comedy of anger, buck-passing, querying of subordinates and attempt by the government to use some companies as scapegoats instead of accepting responsibility by exposing and naming individuals involved in the crime. “President Buhari and the APC must explain how the reported 317 million litres of toxic fuel came into our country, got cleared and distributed across the nation to worsen the life-discounting experiences of millions of Nigerians under the APC administration.” The main opposition party cautioned the government against shielding the perpetrators from justice.