The Michael Otedola Campus Academic Staff Union (MOCASU), Noforija, Epe, has appealed to management of the institution to ensure proper placement of staff, following the upgrade to a university of education. This was made known  in a statement by Chairman of the union Mr Jamal Apena. The  Lagos State Government had approved the  upgrade of Michael Otedola College of Primary Education(MOCPED)  to Lagos State University of Education on December 31,2021. Apena,  who underscored the need to allay the fears of staff, called on management to ensure that the union is   fully involved at every level of the transmutation and in the assessment of staff for re-grading and right placement. “Without prejudice to the constitution of the University’s Governing Council, academic staff of every rank from Chief Lecturer to Assistant Lecturer must be properly placed.   VC to alumni: Give back to your alma mater     Kogi varsity gets accreditation for programmes     Regulating social media use   “We implore government and the prospective Vice Chancellor /management to ensure that the  union is  fully involved at every level of the transmutation/upgrade, most importantly, in the assessment of staff for re-grading/right placement  to fully allay members’ fears,” he said. The union leader stated that more than 60 per cent of the academic staff have either acquired or at the verge of completing their Ph.D degrees. He said it was important  for management to  support the academic staff towards the acquisition of postgraduate degrees. “Strong and flexible administrative ‘safety net’ measures should be expediently and imperatively applied by the management regarding the pursuit of postgraduate programmes to recognise those who have it already and support those who would embark on their postgraduate programmes,” he added. Apena said the union had  constituted a Transmutation Committee headed by  Dr Samuel Olayinka Idowu. He added that it had also also kick-started the process of meeting with the members of Adeniran Ogunsanya Campus (AOC) to engage in both familiarisation and attainment of a common position.