Fans got a sneak peek at Cristiano Ronaldo’s incredible garage as Georgina Rodriguez gave a tour of the couple’s mansion. The Manchester United superstar’s partner took the Netflix cameras around their £5million pad in Madrid for her docuseries I Am Georgina. And in the garage, he has a whole host of motors – all part of his stunning £17million fleet. In the brief snippets on the programme, the supercars are shown all parked up perfectly in line in the Uber-cool garage. With classy mood lighting and a glossy floor, it really is a petrol head’s dream. - Advertisement - At one end is Ronaldo’s Bugatti Chiron, worth at least £2million.Next up is thought to be his Ferrari 599 GTO, which is valued at a cool £500,000 followed by a £750,000 McLaren Senna. And at the end, the beastly Rolls-Royce Cullinan (£300k) blocks in its more valuable brother, the Rolls-Royce Phantom Drophead coupe (£500k).   Ogunjimi:  challenges facing supporters clubs are enormous     Ogunfuwa: Uniqueness of Football Fans Club of Nigeria     One feared killed as protests over hijab rock Kwara school   On the other side, a quick look reveals a Bugatti Veyron (£1.5m), a white Mercedes-Benz S65 AMG (£200k), an orange McLaren MP4-12C (£220k), a Lamborghini Aventador (£270k) and a big Merc G-Wagon Brabus (£600k), the latter a present from Georgina. Elsewhere, in another section of the garage away from the showroom, there is at least another four cars tucked away beside spare tyres – including a silver Ferrari, a Mercedes AMG GLE 63 and another black Merc for runaround everyday use. Ronaldo added a sumptuous £250,000 Bentley Flying Spur to his staggering car collection after arriving back in England to return to United last summer to go with his other Bentley Continental GT. It joined a limited edition £8.5m Bugatti Centodieci, of which only TEN have been made, he added to his incredible fleet in 2020. That year, he was spotted taking a tour of Ferrari’s Maranello company, where he posed for a picture with a F1 car and ordered himself a Ferrari Monza worth £1.4m. Ronaldo also has a Lamborghini Urus and a Chevrolet Camaro, the cheapest motor in his collection at around £40,000. Although, as with most people, it is understood he can only drive one of his cars at a time…