Seventeen parties will participate in the February 23 local government election in Enugu State, the Chairman of the Enugu State Independent Electoral Commission (ENSIEC), Dr. Michael Ajogwu, has said. He spoke yesterday in Enugu at a media round-table programme organised by the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES), ahead of the poll. Ajogwu, represented by a commissioner in ENSIEC, Mr. Solomon Udeh, said the parties, which included the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the All Progressives Congress (APC), the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), among others, would contest the election, which would hold in the 17 councils and 260 wards. Responding to a question on the use of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS), Ajogwu said the commission had no plan to deploy the machines due to logistics and finance. Promising to organise a transparent, free and fair election, the ENSIEC boss said one of the logistics of poll was finance, “and the usage of the device was not captured in the commission’s budget.” - Advertisement - He, however, assured stakeholders that BVAS would be used in subsequent local government elections.   Abe: I’m consulting to get stakeholders’ input…     ‘Engage governor-elect in inclusive governance’     286 Americans, Europeans, Arabs, others acquire Nigerian…   On which of the APC factions the commission was working with ahead of the election, Ajogwu said it was awaiting the resolution of the crisis in the party. He, however, disclosed that for now, the commission was working with the three factions, hoping that they would resolve their crisis within a reasonable time. “We are handling their files and if they resolve the crisis among themselves, we will know what to do. “We are in constant communication with the national leadership of the APC. If we get their response, we will get the appropriate faction informed,” Ajogwu said. He said the electoral umpire had between February 2 and 10 to conclude the compilation of names and data of candidates. Ajogwu said ENSIEC would ensure that result sheets were made available at all the polling units across the state during the election.