The toxic petrol imported into the country by a reckless cabal, which has wrecked many private vehicles is a metaphor of how reckless leadership at various levels have wrecked the lives of ordinary Nigerians. In the same manner that the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), which we were told is the sole importer of petrol until now, is trading blame over who imported the toxic petrol, it is the same way that elected and selected leaders trade blames over their toxic leadership that have wrecked lives. According to the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari, the various mandatory inspections conducted by its agents do not include checking for ethanol. Explaining the tragedy, he said: “as a standard practice of all PMS import to Nigeria, the cargoes were also certified by inspection agent appointed by the Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA).” He went on: “It is worthy to note that the usual quality inspection in load port in Belgium and our ports in Nigeria do not include the test for percentage of methanol content.” Yet he claimed in the same presentation that “NNPC investigation revealed the presence of methanol  in four of the PMS cargoes imported by our DSDP suppliers, including MRS, Emdeb, IH Energy, Britannia-U Consortium, Oando and also our own company, Duke Oil.” In their reaction to Mr Kyari’s media briefing, MRS said: “Due to the current subsidy regime, NNPC is the sole supplier of all PMS in Nigeria.” It went further: “Consequently, the NNPC through their trading arm, Duke Oil, supplied a cargo of PMS purchased from international trader Litasco and delivered it with their Tanker (MT) Nord Gainer.” The above quotes show the underlining contradictions in the explanations of NNPC and its allies in what seems to remain the greatest economic despoliation of this democratic era. When the economic history of this democratic era is written, the tragedy of petrol importation and the racketeering surrounding it would cover several pages. In his statement quoted above, the NNPC claimed that testing the percentage of ethanol is not one of the requirements of the agents at the originating and landing ports. Yet, the action taken by NNPC and the federal government, over the present import, show that petrol with high ethanol is dangerous to our vehicles. So, what then do the inspectors test for? Does it mean that there are no established standards of the grade of petrol that should be imported into the country? In essence, if another petrol marketer had not raised the alarm about the toxic petrol, it would have been distributed and sold to Nigerians who would be left on their own, to take care of the damages to their vehicles. Of course the claim that NNPC discovered the toxic petrol contradicts the fact it was not tested for by her agents. - Advertisement - Having discovered the toxicity of the petrol, there is the dispute about who imported it between the NNPC and its cartel. Meanwhile, until now, the official information was that NNPC was the sole importer of petrol into the country. This column bets that it is also likely that nobody can say with certainty the quantity of petrol being imported, otherwise how come that the quantity of imported petrol according to NNPC statistics keep rising astronomically in the past few years.   Electoral Act for Nigeria     Restorative justice     Aspirants beware   From the revealed tragedy of the past week, it is most likely that the criminal despoliation of our country’s economy in the guise of petrol importation subsidy scam which we thought reached its apogee under former President Goodluck Jonathan’s government may still be climbing the corruption ladder, under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Perhaps, the Transparency International’s ranking of Nigeria as progressively more corrupt is not a fluke, as the media handlers of the government have tried to argue, since the latest ranking of our country on the corruption index came out. According to Transparency International’s latest ranking released last month, Nigeria dropped five places in the 2021 Corruption Perception Index (CPI). The country scored 24 out of 100 points and is ranked the second most corrupt country in West Africa. Yet, the federal government’s media handlers would argue that President Buhari is adjudged the anti-corruption czar in the African continent. Except perhaps the African Union leaders are humouring Mr President, the report of Transparency International is toxicity on such a lofty claim. This column like most Nigerians prays that Nigerians are not being treated to an even more trenchant variant of the monumental fraud visited on the national economy by the petrol import scammers of the Jonathan era. We recall that under that regime, NNPC connived with unscrupulous elements to write fictitious bill of laden of imported petrol cargoes. In some instances, the ships represented as the carrier of such fictitious cargoes had ceased to ply the high seas for many years. It was to forestall such economic banditry that the Buhari government claimed to have restricted petrol import licence to NNPC. But with the importation of toxic petrol the past week, it has come to the public knowledge that the so-called restriction of license to NNPC is a ruse. What has happened is that the free for all important licence under Jonathan has been replaced by an oligopoly. This column hopes that the club of cartels is not doing to us what the free for all importers did to Nigerian economy under President Jonathan. What baffles this column is how the quantity of imported petrol continues to shoot up, despite the recent double recessions that affected the productive sectors of the economy. Could it be that the leakages under Jonathan’s era has gotten worse, or is it that the national economy has ballooned to soak that alleged huge increase in the litres of petrol imported into the country? It would be a monumental tragedy if the NNPC in the present dispensation is once again leading the nation down that ignominious part. This column applauds the president for asking for a probe of the importation of toxic petrol into the country. He should follow up to ensure that those responsible are held accountable. It is strange that so far nobody has been held accountable by the NNPC leadership. Both the president and the leadership of the National Assembly should demand accountability from NNPC, since it claimed to be the sole importer of petrol. It is also in the public interest that the criteria for selecting the importers are transparent and competitive. Clearly, at the root of the challenges facing our nation is the toxic leadership of the elected and selected public officials at several levels. Unfortunately, their mediocre performances have become the norm. Let’s hope the promised reforms under the Petroleum Industry Act would expunge the toxicity from the NNPC’s arteries. SPONSORED