Wife of a celebrity, Mrs Capriz Duke, has advised women married to celebrities to be patient, understanding and pray that women who come too close do not snatch their husbands. Duke, wife of the president, Creative Industry Group (DIG), and musician, Felix Duke, spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. According to her, “it is really not an easy task to be married to an entertainer who is a public figure, especially to women who want to be identified with success.” She advised women married to celebrities to be understanding because mixing up with people would surely contribute to their success in the industry. “You just have to be patient and understanding, knowing that this is a world of entertainment. - Advertisement - “If you are a wife of a celebrity or a public personality, you have to be ready to overlook many things, if not, you will develop high blood pressure. “You have to be in the world of entertainment too and even if you are not, see yourself as one, you have to learn to play along,” she said. Lady Duke said from inception, you should know that getting married to an entertainer involves sharing him with various kinds of women.   Being creative tough, says Adekunle Gold     Submission not gender sensitive, says Korede Bello     What I do after shooting X-rated movies, by Alesh   She said that the most important thing is to pray that desperate women do not succeed because they are ready to take over completely. “Some of us started suffering with these guys when they were no body and these women overlooked them because they had nothing to offer. “But as soon as they become somebody, they are ready to go to any mile to snatch your property, some desperate women only want to be identified with success,” she said. According to her, it is only hot when the couples are younger but once they start getting older, maturity sets in and the men would begin to appreciate their wives better. She recalled that at the early stage of her marriage, when her man was still singing, desperate messages and calls were great distractions but she remained calm. “Those days, I would be home and some women will call or text but the best thing was to avoid monitoring or checking his phones. “With time, you will understand what it is to be married to a celebrity because as a younger person, it is a different mindset but as you get older, you get matured,” she said. She then advised wives of celebrities to learn to remain calm, attractive, friendly and non possessive because their husbands are public figures but importantly, pray for them. (NAN) SPONSORED