Two persons, including a little boy, lost their lives on Friday in a ghastly motor accident along Ihialla-Onitsha expressway, Anambra state. Nine persons, including four women, sustained varying degrees of injury in the crash which involved seven vehicles including an articulated truck. An eyewitness said the crash occurred around 11 am when the driver of the truck who was on speed lost control while approaching a police checkpoint. “The driver rammed into 6 vehicles on a queue at the checkpoint, killing several passengers and injuring others inside the vehicles,” he said. Confirming the incident, Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Adeoye Irelewuyi said the corpses of the deceased were deposited at the hospital morgue. - Advertisement - He commiserated with the deceased family, and prayed for quick recovery of the injured, just as he warned motorists to avoid speeding and keep to the recommended speed limit.   Group demands identity of military officer behind forfeited…     Court remands four men for allegedly burning…     APC govs pressure state chairmen to shift convention   He said, “unidentified driver of an orange Mercedes 911 truck UWZ556XA had a fatal road traffic crash with 6 other vehicles at Ken Maduako’s oil and gas filling station by Ihialla-Onitsha Highway today 18th February 2022 at about 11:02hrs. “Details of the other 6 vehicles include: Toyota Hiace with Reg number JJT 07 ZI; Toyota Hiace Reg No: ENU 589 XB; Nissan Caravan with reg no: GOD 21 YM. “Others are Nissan Mini Truck with Reg No: ATN 787 XB; Suzuki Mini Pick-Up with Reg No: AKL169 XE and Toyota Hiace bus. “63 people, including 52 male adults, 10 female adults, and 1 male child were involved in the crash. “1 male adult and 1 male child were killed, 9 people compromising 5 male adults, and 4 female adults sustained varying degrees of injuries, while 52 people were rescued unhurt. “FRSC rescue team from Ihiallia Unit Command rushed the victims to Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Ihiallia, where a male adult and a male child were confirmed dead. The dead victims were deposited at the hospital morgue. SPONSORED