Justice Olubunmi Abike-Fadipe of an Ikeja Special Offences Court yesterday expressed displeasure over the delay in the on-going trial of former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, over alleged forging medical reports to evade trial. At the resumed hearing, the judge frowned at the manner the prosecution and the defence counsels have been handling the trial of the former Aviation Minister and chastised them for wasting the time of the court. The development stalled the trial of Femi Fani-Kayode. The court had adjourned at the last proceeding held December last year for further direction in the matter before commencement of proper trial. However when the matter came up yesterday, Justice Abike-Fadipe asked the EFCC counsel, Bilikisu Buhari, about the update on the amended charge. - Advertisement - In her response, Buhari said the Commission had not taken further action on the amended charge. Subsequently, the judge also asked defence counsel if they had filed an application to get proof of evidence.   It’s love on the rocks for Jennifer and the Turaki     Olubadan: Ladoja laughs last     The adventures of Mason Greenwood and Isbae U   Fani-Kayode’s counsel, Wale Balogun, in his response said that they were waiting for the prosecutor to amend charges. The development made the judge to express displeasure at wasting judicial time, noting that the defense counsel, Wale Balogun, ought to have applied for proof of evidence without waiting for amended information. The judge therefore adjourned the matter to February 23, 24 and 28 2022 for commencement of trial. Fani-Kayode is facing a 12-count charge of procuring execution of documents by false pretence, use of false documents, fabricating evidence and use of fabricated evidence. According to the EFCC, the former Aviation Minister, through one Dr Ogieva Oziegbe, procured fake medical reports on various occasions to avoid attending his trial at the Lagos Division of the Federal High Court. The EFCC alleged that Fani-Kayode procured false medical reports on January 31, 2018, May 30, 2019, November 24, 2020, March 23 and October 11. Fani-Kayode pleaded not guilty to the charges.