Eshanekpe Israel aka Akpodoro was the leader of ex-agitators in Niger Delta. Currently, he chairs the National Task Force of Association of Nigeria Refineries Petroleum Marketers (ANRPM). He speaks on challenges of his association, and how President Muhammadu Buhari neglected his National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-agitators. He urged the Buhari administration to reward loyalty. CHINAKA OKORO reports. Before now, he was a known leader of ex-agitators in Niger Delta. His agitation was for the benefit of the region’s inhabitants and ecosystem. He is Eshanekpe Israel (aka Akpodoro), who has joined forces in the search for peace and security of the country’s critical infrastructure, especially in the oil sector. His embrace of peace as well as negotiation to solve problems and settle feud ushered in new vistas that engendered economic prosperity instead of the displeasing situation that make attainment of peace and tranquillity taxing. In the search for peace and economic stability, he was appointed chairman of the National Task Force of the Association of Nigeria Refineries Petroleum Marketers (ANRPM) owing to his impressive record at the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), where he was coordinator of Sector  ‘C’, covering Delta State. According to some watchers of developments in the petroleum sector, since Akpodoro assumed duty as chief gatekeeper against oil thieves, he has done well in curtailing the rate at which oil vandals operate. - Advertisement - However, it seems there is no job satisfaction in his effort to help the country achieve economic greatness. Narrating his experiences, he said the job has been a taxing one. “It’s been a Herculean task to monitor petroleum marketers in the distribution chain of the downstream sector of the petroleum industry due to dearth of logistics and poor support from security agencies,” he said. He alleged that most security operatives have compromised the war against oil thieves. Besides the odds, he expressed his happiness that he and his team have been recording success. “We have been recording success in our strides to rid the sector of criminal activities,” he said. If his allegation that his team is not getting the support from security agencies could be true, what could have informed the situation? Akpodoro said: “Ours is to gather intelligence, locate areas of criminalities in suspicious areas and feed that into the security networks but unfortunately before we arrive the following day, information must have got to the perpetrators making it difficult to arrest and bring them to justice. This is because people within the ranks of the security apparatus must have leaked the information to the oil thieves for pecuniary benefits.” One thing is to get the information, another is to ensure that the information is credible and from the right source. Authenticating the credibility of his information and the sources, he said their mode of operation is intelligence-driven and that they also send their men out to suspected communities and forests. His words: “We have executives in the states who engage locals to locate those vulnerable areas where petroleum products are being stolen. We identify black spots and call on the conventional security operatives. We have a presence in Imo, Delta, Bayelsa, Edo, Cross River, and Ondo states, including Abuja. We are still building structures across the country. “We process our information from the field and forward same to those security agencies in which we have confidence, excluding men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC).” On what informed the exclusion of NSCDC personnel among those to receive information on locations of oil thieves, Akpodoro alleged: “They are complicit in the crime of oil theft, adulteration, vandalism and illegal bunkering of petroleum products. They are deeply involved across the board. We know them. There was a case of the arrest of a truck laden with stolen products by my men in Benin-City, Edo State, where NSCDC men fought my men … questioning the motive behind arresting and handing the suspects and the truck to the police…’’ He spoke on challenges he and his men encounter in the discharge of their duty.   Can EFCC stop Okorocha?     Nwobodo clarifies position on Enugu governorship     Ugwuanyi hails Army for maintaining security in Enugu   “We lack logistics. Trust and confidence is hard to find among security agents. This makes the job difficult. This is so because the man you feed intelligence may go behind to sell out; making you a victim of the attack, and that amounts to huge risks. You arrest suspects; those who are supposed to prosecute them will turn around to negotiate gratification to set them free. These are some of the challenges we experience.” These challenges could hamper the smooth running of the operation to secure the country’s critical assets. In bid to solve some of these glitches, Akpodoro  said: “We have written to Nigeria National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited, Nigerian Petroleum Development Company Limited (NPDC) and some other relevant agencies. We are still engaging them until they accede to our requests. “On security, we are in talks with the Nigerian Army, which is relatively trustworthy with information, to collaborate with us to achieve more results.” As a staunch Buhari ally, one wonders if he has not granted him an audience on activities of the security agencies as it concerns their complicity in oil theft. He may have not as he said “we are still engaging the government through its agencies and we hope that they will respond. The process of seeing President Buhari is worse than what the security operatives do to compromise information. “The demand to see the President is too high so, what we do is to write to him through the Office of the Chief of Staff to the President. “It’s ironical that the man I met in 2013 in Kaduna without anyone asking me for bribe money to see him; who freely attended to me at Defence House, Abuja, after the 2015 elections and told me to calm Niger Delta; it has become so difficult to see the same man now. To see him, you must be ready to satisfy some interests. ‘’All the work my coalition did for him in Niger Delta to enable him to emerge the President in 2015 is unrewarded because the President is a ‘saint’, who doesn’t reward loyalty but would rather empower opposition elements to fight his foot soldiers. We have called on him several times to reward us …” Has Akpodoro any regret for his support for the Buhari administration? ‘’I regretted working for Buhari as a person. However, I do not regret my solidarity for the Nigerian state. When I saw armouries capable of sinking Nigeria securely stocked in Niger Delta waters then, I wrote several times to security chiefs to alert them of the imminent danger. “I began to raise the alarm shortly after the 2015 election. No one responded until the Avengers struck in mid-2016. It was then they saw reasons to call me. That’s to tell you the level I went to save this country under President Buhari. Yet, there’s nothing to show for it.” What does Akpodoro want from President Buhari and his administration? He said President Buhari should believe in the reward system. “He should reward my coalition with jobs, patronage, empowerment… ‘’We deserve the best of Buhari’s government because we helped to enthrone him. We deserve to be patronised by the President but he has forsaken us. He can instruct the intervention agencies in the region to work with us for developmental reasons and not to work against the progressives on whose crest their appointing authority came to power.” On the 2023 general election, he said his coalition is still watching political developments as the President plays his game with stakeholders, staunch allies, and dependable friends. “We are watching to see the sainthood in President Buhari as it concerns rewarding well for good.” Assessing All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in terms of which to support, Akpodoro said: “At the centre, I am working for APC but in my Delta State, I am PDP. APC has no candidate in Delta State, who can win the election.”