Last week on this page, we encountered evil in its various forms. We distinguished between natural and human-made evil. We also made sure to clarify that some of the so-called natural evil also have human hands implicated. What we didn’t touch on last week was the very constant phenomenon of political evil. Indeed, with my suggestion that “man is not made for politics alone” some readers may have thought that evil and the storms that it generates have nothing to do with politics. Nothing can be farther from the truth. Let us therefore attempt to do justice to the existential problem of political evil. Political philosophers, political theorists and ethicists who have focused critical lens on the subject of political evil have been fixated mostly on the evil committed by states and non-state movements. A good example is Alan Wolfe’s book, fittingly titled “Political Evil: What It Is and How to Combat It.” In this book, Wolfe defines “political evil as “the willful, malevolent, and gratuitous death, destruction, and suffering inflicted upon innocent people by the leaders of movements and states in their strategic efforts to achieve realizable objectives.” Consistent with this definition, Wolfe’s focus in the book is on terrorism, genocide, ethnic cleansing, and torture as a tool for countering evil. Recall here the Bush administration’s counter-terrorism measures, which included waterboarding. While Wolfe appears to suggest that terrorism, genocide, ethnic cleansing, and torture exhaust the realm of political evil, I am of the view that there is more and that this is just one of the types of political evil and the others are no less abhorrent. We may thus identify three types of political evil, based on intention and or motive as follows. First, political evil committed on behalf of the state or non-state actors. This applies to the realm of foreign affairs, the focus of Alan Wolfe as seen above. A good example is when a powerful state lays siege on a weaker neighbor, demanding that the weaker state cease and desist from pursuing what it considers its interest or else the weaker state will suffer invasion. This is what is currently going on before our very eyes between Russia and Ukraine. We may see it as a power game between Russia and NATO. But when two elephants fight, it is the grass under that suffers. Realists will put such occurrences down as the reality of the struggle for power, suggesting that it is outside the realm of ethics. In a world divided into states, with each pursuing its own interests and no universal law governing their interactions, anything goes. It was the same struggle for power that led to the death of 6 million Jews and between 70 and 85 million in the Second World War. You’d think that we learnt terrible lessons from that era of realist politics. We created the United Nations and instituted international norms to govern our relationships. Yet Serbia and Bosnia occurred. Ethiopia and Eritrea occurred. So did Iraq and Kuwait and America and Iraq. Now its Russia and Ukraine. With tragic consequences for human lives! - Advertisement - Second, in multi-ethnic and multi-national polities, there is evil internal to the state but with political agency implicated because it is the result of policies and practices that support collective actions that impact people’s lives. Here’s where I place ethnic cleansing and genocide. Rwanda wasn’t a foreign affair blunder. Neither was Darfur. Nor was Liberia. Or our own tragic civil war. It was internal politics that created the perfect storm for evil to explode and thrive. We cannot possibly examine all these cases without confronting profound immorality and wickedness, and the inhumanity of man to man. What makes them so is both the intent and the method, the goal and the means. If realists came to the defence of power politics in the struggle between nations, by appeal to the amoral nature of international politics, what can possibly be the mea culpa in the case of transnational politics? How can the atrocities committed in the name of national unity be morally defended? What is so sacrosanct about an artificial unity that is worth the lives of 100,000 soldiers and more than 2 million civilians? Or the deliberate cleansing of one ethnic group for the purpose of having a homogenous state? Is it by appeal to the divine will? Or a principle that transcends politics itself? Look deep enough and you won’t find one. If the end goal has no moral or even religious justification, how can the evil means adopted?   You got it wrong on Tinubu, Ikeja constituents tell…     Ekiti APC and challenge of reconciliation     Fuel crisis to end next week, NNPC tells NEC   Third, evil committed by actors on the political scene in the pursuit of political power and personal political interests. This includes killing opponents, lying, false promise, corruption and embezzlement of funds meant for the welfare of the people, thus bearing responsibility for the suffering and death of millions of citizens. How, if at all, can we make sense of this phenomenon? Following Hobbes, we might observe that in a state of nature, where no political umpire exists to regulate interactions between human beings, everyone is free to pursue his or her ends as they wish. With a base of egoistic nature, each will selfishly pursue their passion for survival needs including food, shelter, and security. Of course, they will also look for the means to achieve these needs, including collaborating with others if necessary. But more importantly, they will have the desire to acquire the power of domination over others because having power gives them the means to all other needs. Pursuing these Hobbesian thoughts further in our own time in a 1945 Ethics publication titled “The Evil of Politics and the Ethics of Evil”, Hans J. Morgenthau makes a significant contribution to our subject and it is worth quoting at length. According to Morgenthau, “the desire for power… concerns itself, not with the individual’s survival, but with his position among his fellows once his survival has been assured. Consequently, the selfishness of man has limits; his will to power has none. For while man’s vital needs are capable of satisfaction, his lust for power would be satisfied only if the last man became an object of his domination, there being nobody above or beside him, that is, if he became like God.”(Ethics, October 1945.) This “animus dominandi, the desire for power” is what Morgenthau refers to as one “root of conflict and concomitant evil.” To be clear, to acknowledge this uniqueness of the desire for power and the character of its attendant evil is not to accept it or give it a pass. Indeed, Morgenthau is not suggesting that two different ethical standards apply to private action and political action. His claim is that the same ethical standard applies; the only difference is the standard of compliance by each of them. While private action tends to comply more and is held more accountable, it appears that political action is less compliant with moral rules. Noncompliance of political action to ethical standard may be a fact. It is not thereby justified. To break a promise you make to your prospective supporters after you won your race is as unethical as the promise you made to your creditor to pay her back. Lying to save your face in a dire political situation is as unethical as lying to your spouse to cover your infidelity. In either case, you are using someone as a mere means to your end, whether in private life or in politics. To quote Morgenthau one more time: “To the degree in which the essence and aim of politics is power over man, politics is evil; for it is to this degree that it degrades man to a means for other men.” Yet, however, it is horrifying to infer from the foregoing that “political action and doing evil are inevitably linked”, and that “it is incompatible for an action at the same time to conform to the rules of the political art (i.e. achieve political success) and to conform to the rules of ethics.” It follows that to be an ethical person, we must run as fast as we can from the realm of politics. How soothing is that! SPONSORED