AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) has said it will be conducting free HIV testing and giving out free condoms to people in Benue, Kogi, Anambra, Nasarawa, Akwa Ibom and Cross River State. The organisation also revealed that an estimated one million people worldwide acquire sexually transmitted infection (STI) every day. Country Programme Director of AHF Nigeria, Dr Echey Ijezie, made the disclosure on Friday in Abuja at an event to mark the 2022 International Condom Day (ICD). He expressed fear that there are still 1.5 million new HIV transmissions annually around the globe. Ijezie said the AHF Nigeria has distributed over 20 million free condoms in Nigeria and will continue to support the national condom policy of the Federal Government by broadening access of Nigerians to condoms as the most affordable and effective means of preventing STIs, including HIV and unplanned pregnancies.   Why Nigeria cannot breathe – Yahaya Bello     Benue 2023: I will rescue the state from insecurity, cultism…     Katsina denies Mahadi Shehu’s allegation of corrupt…   - Advertisement - He said: “In addition to the emoji campaign, AHF country teams from most of its 45 countries of operation will host exciting and informative ‘Safer is Sexy’ and ‘Always in Fashion’ ICD events. ICD festivities are always fun and a great way to remind the world that condoms remain the most cost-effective method for preventing sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. “In Nigeria, advocates shall be joining AHF Nigeria in Calabar and Ikom, Cross Rivers State for a walk to create awareness and distribute free condoms, as well as provide free HIV testing to the people. “This walk is in collaboration with the Cross River State Ministry of Health, while there is also a media component that sees safe sex education on airwaves. In Abuja, AHF Nigeria is partnering with the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) for a night event on Valentine’s Day to distribute free condoms and also test people for HIV. “Also in Abuja, AHF Nigeria Girls Act members shall be reaching their peers with condom education and tips on safer sex practices. Across other AHF Nigeria states of Benue, Kogi, Anambra, Nasarawa and Akwa Ibom, our teams shall be conducting free HIV testing and giving out free condoms to the people. “It’s time we drop the stigma around condoms and make it easier to communicate about having safer sex.” AHF Chief of Global Advocacy and Policy, Terri Ford noted that the introduction of a condom emoji across all digital platforms would be a fun and creative way to do that. SPONSORED