The Nigerian Institute of Architects has urged architects to consider the comfort of residents while helping developers in designing estates. The Chairman of the institute in Enugu State, Mrs. Chinwe Sam-Amobi, gave the advice when she led members of the institute and student-architects drawn from tertiary institutions in Enugu on an education tour of HELIU Estate, located on the Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway in Enugu. She said the call became imperative in view of the features lacking in most of the new estates being developed in the country. Sam-Amobi lamented that in most new estates, due consideration was no longer given to landscaping, planting of flowers, trees, spacing out in-between buildings, as well as green environments. She said: “We have come from every walk of life in the practice of architecture and we are going to take the story home to others. - Advertisement - “I have brought licensed architects and those who are preparing to take their examinations. We have pulled students from all the schools.   CP to 83 promoted officers: we won’t tolerate laxity     Judge’s family, businessman clash over eviction claims     How Sylvester Omoroni died, by family doctor   “We call it educational tour. We have come to see the development going on here; see the sample of what they are doing and in my opinion, I think they are doing quite an exemplary job. “During discussion, we observed that they need to think of how to preserve the water way and treat it so that people here can even sit by the water way and relax. “I think they have done well and I am happy to bring the architects here to see for themselves things that can be done. It should be a prototype that can be taken to other places. “The take-home for the architects now is that when you are developing an estate for a developer, you should think of landscaping, which is lacking in most of our estates. Think about sit-backs in the building, which is also lacking in most of our estates. People just give one metre and you still notice that they park their cars outside. “Therefore, the take-home is that the architects should take into consideration the comforts of the residents of any estate they are part of. This is very important”. The Chief Executive of HELIU Estate, Chief Loretta Aniogolu, told the architects that the estate was a way of showing “that we can actually turn around our country. Our country can look as good as any other country in the world.”