Onotu Henry Okechukwu is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State. In this interview with Raymond Mordi in Lagos, he speaks about the preparations of the national convention and next year’s general elections. Given the personalities that are members of the PDP in your area, Ndokwa people appear to have embraced the ruling party. What are your plans to deliver the Ndokwa axis for your party? You are right; the Deputy Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, the Commissioner of Finance, the DESOPADEC Commissioner, a member of the party’s Board of Trustees (BOT) are all indigenes of Ukwuani Local Government Area. But, I am not new to Delta politics; I contested for an elective position during the 2003 general elections and most of the personalities occupying those positions know my pedigree and my contributions to community services and mobilization capacity. Besides, if we consider the infrastructure that the APC-led Federal Government has so far provided in the area, particularly against what the PDP has done over the years in Ukwuani, you will agree with me that the APC has bright chances of winning. These include several road projects done by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), such as the reconstruction of St Georges College, Obinomba, the ongoing power project at Okpai to provide electricity for Ukwuani communities and the bid by the APC-led government to establish an institution of higher learning in the area. The bill for the establishment of the federal university is currently before President Muhammadu Buhari. The APC would campaign with all the above projects, which the PDP never dreamt of doing all these years. How prepared is your party for the next general elections? Based on the projects already executed in the state by the APC-led administration of President Buhari, we certainly have something to campaign with when the time comes. Besides, our party recently conducted a membership revalidation and registration nationwide, including Delta State.  The turnout was massive in Ndokwa and Delta State generally. Members of the party would be mobilised to reach out to their neighbours, friends and the community at large. During the registration exercise, people defected in droves from other political parties to our party. There are also massive infrastructure developments across the length and breadth of the country, such as the Second Niger Bridge and the building of standard gauge railway lines across the country. - Advertisement - How would you rate the performance of Governor Okowa, particularly in the Ndokwa axis? The Delta State government is performing below average in terms of development in Ndokwa nation; there’s not much on the ground in Ndokwa land, compared to other ethnic nationalities in the state. Our people in Umutu, Obeti and Umuaja cannot access their kith and kins in Akoku Uno; those in Obiarurku cannot also access their relatives in their home, Umuebu because there are no access roads connecting these communities. It is only a federal agency, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) that was able to construct an access road linking Ebedei waterside and Edenei Uno. In my view, the people of Delta should vote for the APC during the next general elections, to enjoy maximum dividends of democracy from both the federal and state governments. Ndokwa nation will be the greatest beneficiary if we have the ruling party at the state and the national level. We understand the bill for the establishment of a Federal University of Agriculture and Technology, Aboh (FUATA) has been transmitted to President Buhari for assent. In your view, how would this impact the development of the area? When it eventually comes on stream, FUATA will be a unifying force for our people. The Ndokwa people will ever remain grateful and faithful to anyone that makes it possible for us to host a university. Recall that, under the Olusegun Obasanjo administration, efforts were made to host a Federal University of Petroleum Resources in the area. Stakeholders from the area had already visited the Aso Rock Villa to make a presentation to the president. But, that project was aborted by some of our people in the ruling party. What is your assessment of the performance of Senator Peter Nwaoboshi at the National Assembly in the last three years?   ‘Abiodun will do more for Ogun’     Does Soludo’s transition gives foretaste of his governance…     ‘Upland/riverine dichotomy should be respected in Rivers’   Ndokwa is getting a fair share of the dividends of democracy from Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, who is representing our constituency in the Senate. For instance, he initiated the FUATA bill, as well as various NDDC projects and amnesty slots to the constituency. This is what makes him different from the former occupants of the seat, particularly the last one who went to the Senate to play PDP politics and represented only his immediate community. Given the division within the APC in Delta State, what are its chances of defeating the ruling PDP? I don’t agree that APC Delta is factionalized. Nevertheless, I will acknowledge that there are internal differences amongst leaders of the party. But, I am of the view that it will be resolved before the national convention. I would, however, advise President Buhari to meet with critical stakeholders to ensure genuine reconciliation in the party before the convention scheduled to hold at the end of this month. Members of your party have been defecting to the ruling PDP in Delta State in recent times. What’s your party doing to curb such occurrence? I watched live the mega rally held in Asaba, the Delta State capital recently where some APC members shifted loyalty to the PDP, but most of them were tempted to join the ruling party because of ‘stomach infrastructure’. This is because APC has been in opposition in Delta since the return to civil rule in 1999. But, I am also aware that some of those that were purported to have defected did not do so. All the same, we are already looking inward to bring most of the aggrieved members back to the fold. People are aggrieved because they cannot get what they wanted from the ward, local governments and state congresses. Reconciliation and healings are ongoing. The APC has never won a unit in your area. What efforts are you making to change that narrative? This is a pure fallacy; the APC was almost making it in Ukwuani State Constituency. But, we were robbed. Our candidate in the election was at the election petition tribunal with authentic results from various units the APC won and the case got to the appeal court. With the newly introduced voters accreditation equipment and elimination of incident forms and more so the envisaged electronic transmission of results from polling units to INEC server, the future is bright. Some of the major players in the past elections have joined the APC and some are waiting in the wings to do so. Surely, it would not be business as usual for the PDP during the next general elections. What are the expectations of members from the newly inaugurated APC leadership led by Omeni Sobotie?  The new chairman, Elder Omeni Sobotie is an experienced politician that has occupied key positions in the state under various PDP governments. So, he is coming with a wealth of experience into the APC. Besides, the secretary and other team members are equally experienced politicians. There seems to be division in the ranks of the Ndokwa people. How is your Organisation for Ndokwa Unity (ONU, a.k.a Ndokwa Unite) bridging the gap?  As a founding member of Ndokwa National Congress (NNC) and having worked with the Paul Enebeli-led Ndokwa Neku Union (NNU), I was moved by the disunity among our people to convoke a meeting of Ndokwa people at home and abroad to ensure that they speak with one voice.   SPONSORED