The Statistician-General Dr. Simon Harry has called for massive production of cotton to revive the nation’s industries. According to him, about 33 States of the Federation are already into the production of the commodity. He added that reviving cotton production could revamp the dead industries in Nigeria. He spoke while the National Bureau of  Statistics signed a Memorandum of Understandings (MoU) with the National Cotton Association of Nigeria (NACOTAN). He said the data will enable the Federal Government to determine status of cotton production in Nigeria and what needs to be done to improve on the sector. - Advertisement - The essence of the pact is to develop and manage a credible, robust and reliable database for the cotton industry in Nigeria. Harry said: “Interestingly, I got to know that about 33 States of the Federation are producing cotton. “That is very good information for some of us that are preparing for retirement. ” So that you get your farmlands and through mass production of cotton we will be able to revamp industries that are completely dead.” He and the of NACOTAN, Anibe Achimugu and  Dr. Simon. B Harry, the Statistician-General/ CEO of NBS signed the MoU at the headquarters of NBS, Central Business District, Abuja.   Nigeria gets 1.72m barrels OPEC quota     ‘Tech can accelerate ISO certification process’     Platform leveraging tech for charity makes debut   Harry revealed that the data to measure the levels of intervention are in most cases not available and where available, not adequate and not even timely. Besides, he said accessing the data is difficult because of the way they are being warehoused, hence the essence of understanding. He added, “that is why this collaboration becomes very germane so that we have single warehouse of data repository where users, where farmers who are into cotton production can easily have access to them.” Speaking, Achimugu noted that the MoU will facilitate the rapid revival of the industry. He further noted that “this is because we believe that with data you can attract investment easily. “The MoU will benefit the sector and the country in general. With better data, we can make informed decisions  and identify our strengths and weakness, strategize for the future and make sustainable policies.” Under the agreement, NBS and NACOTAN will collaborate in building  and warehousing the database which will ultimately drive a market-oriented cotton industry in Nigeria The database expected to be developed will cover all activities in the development, production, processing, marketing and utilisation of cotton across its value chains. It will also stimulate the utilisation of cotton as raw material both for the textile industry, vegetable oil industry and other related industries in the country. The database will serve as a veritable tool for interaction between NACOTAN national agencies, development partners and investors. While NACOTAN will provide the baseline information on the sector, NBS will provide technical support and assist in conducting periodic Cotton Production Surveys in the country.