Defence Headquarters says troops of Operation Hadin Kai, have eliminated more than 120 Boko Haram/Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists in the North East in the last three weeks. The Director, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, said this while giving update on military operations across the country between Jan. 20 and Feb. 10 on Thursday in Abuja. Onyeuko said that several ISWAP commanders including their Amir and some foreign mercenaries who make improvised explosive devices were killed during air raids and land operations. He also said that 965 terrorists and thier family members surrendered to troops in different locations with the theatre of operation during the period. Onyeuko said that 104 of the surrendered terrorists were from the ISWAP group while 25 abducted victims were rescued during the operations. - Advertisement - According to him, the surrendered terrorists have been properly documented and handed over to the appropriate authorities for necessary action.   Speeding driver crushes pedestrian to death in Anambra     Toxic fuel: Was it off spec or contaminated?     IPOB warns against defaming Kanu’s lawyer   He added that 50 terrorists were arrested from different locations by the gallant troops while five gun trucks and cache of arms and ammunition were recovered. According to him, troops also recorded significant results at various locations in Adamawa and Yobe around Goniri in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe. “Notably, the air interdiction eliminated several ISWAP Commanders and their fighters during the encounter. “In the air strike, ISWAP senior commander Malam Ari, the Amirul Fiya in charge of Kirta Wulgo and some foreign mercenaries fabricating Improvised Explosive Device for the terrorists were killed during the airstrike. “Relatedly, the Air Component conducted air strikes on ISWAP enclaves at Abbaganaram, Bukar Mairam, Chukum Gudu and Jubilaram in Marte Local Government Area. “In the process, troops neutralised scores of terrorists including high profile commanders, while about 25 terrorists got drowned in the lake in an attempt to escape the bombardment. “The ISWAP armoury and warehouse were also destroyed and arrest of several terrorists, recovery of assorted arms, ammunition were made, along with their gun trucks and other weapons. “Also, livestock and other items of security concern were recovered as well as rescued abducted civilians,” he said. (NAN)