The forum of All Progressives Congress(APC) former members of House of Representatives has applauded the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee(CECPC) of the party for not excluding members of the National Assembly as statutory delegates to the national convention in the proposed amendment of the party’s constitution. A statement in Abuja by the protem chairman of the forum, Hon Ibrahim Zailani, said members were elated to see the advertorial on The Nation Newspaper of February 16, 2022 signed by the National Secretary of the CECPC, Sen John James Akpanudoedehe where the withdrawal was confirmed. He said the reason given by the CECPC for the removal of former and serving members of the National Assembly from the delegate lists to the national convention, which was described as inadvertent omission was also noted by the forum. The forum however expressed displeasure that it was overlooked in consultations leading to the decision to even make necessary amendments in the Constitution. It said: “Yes we are glad the party leadership did the needful by quickly rectifying an error that could have spelt unimaginable consequences to the stability of the APC.   My plan for Ekiti, by Kolawole     2023: Southeast, Southsouth can’t produce APC candidate     APC governors maintain grip on party structures   - Advertisement - “The truth needs to be told that such an inadvertent error that has overheated the party’s space for the past few days could have been avoided had proper scrutiny and due diligence been applied by the officers concerned. For us, this sort of scenario must be clearly avoided going forward. “As a body of principal stakeholders in our great party, the APC, we are watching with keen interest events leading to the National Convention and the presidential primaries as they unfold! “We hereby reiterate our plea to the leadership of the party that as a progressive entity, the onus is on our party to lead the way in espousing progressive ideologies chief of which is the institutionalisation of internal democracy. “Anything short of this would mean no good for the unity and progress of our party. “We, in the meantime place our unalloyed loyalty and support to the CECPC and the party.” SPONSORED