Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has explained its members’ preference to sell petrol above the regulated litre pump price. Its National Vice President Abubakar Maigandi said marketers were getting supply at N180 ex-depot price per litre. According to him, petrol remained scarce in major cities, for two reasons – refusal of IPMAN members to get supply at high cost and hoarding of products to sell above regulated price to make marginal profit. Maigandi told The Nation in a telephone chat that private depots have raised their prices to between N175 and N180 per litre. Asked why petrol was scarce in Abuja and Lagos even when it was commonplace in other cities across the country, he said: “How do you expect a marketer to buy petrol for N175 to N180 per litre and sell it at N162 to N165/litre?” He said independent retailers prefer to take the product out of the cities because: “there is less monitoring of sales in those remote places unlike Abuja and Lagos.” A source confirmed last night that the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Limited has in stock over one billion litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) petrol. The source noted that the NNPC, as the product’s sole importer through its subsidiary, the Pipelines and Product Marketing Company (PPMC), said it was not aware that private depots sell petrol above the official rate of N158.5/litre.   Philomath Varsity offers scholarships to prospective…     Tinubu visits Ooni, Owa Obokun, gets blessings     APC picks zonal congress panels   The NNPC downstream source, who pleaded anonymity, noted marketers are sabotaging the Federal Government efforts at keeping the retail outlets wet. Buttressing the point that NNPC has supplied sufficient petrol after the withdrawal of the adulterated fuel, he asked “haven’t you asked yourself why petrol is not scarce in Warri, Benin and other cities in the country? “Marketers are hoarding the product in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Lagos, where Federal Government agents monitor most. “They will rather prefer to divert to other cities that monitoring is not strict to sell above pump price.” Investigation showed yesterday that some filling stations had no product to dispense yesterday. But the situation was not as tense as last week. The queues were still endless with sustained complaints of scarcity. Some major marketers sold the product at the official rates of between N162 to N165/litre. The black marketers sold 10 litres for between N3, 000 to N6, 000, depending on the buyer’s situation, location and bargaining power. The NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Malam Garba Deen Muhammad could not be reached for comment.