The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) yesterday said its agitation for the restoration of Biafra was beyond its detained leader Nnamdi Kanu. It described the mission as a “divine mandate”. In a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB restated its demand that the Federal Government should release Kanu unconditionally. It warned those trying to divide the group or work against the restoration of Biafra to desist. IPOB said: “Anybody distracting or causing division in the IPOB family is a tool knowingly or unknowingly working for the Federal Government of Nigeria. - Advertisement - “The fact remains that Biafra is a divine project. It has gone beyond any single individual, including our leader. “Millions of the oppressed Biafrans youths home and abroad are now more aware and conscious than ever. “It’s only a matter of time. Biafra must come. It can only be delayed but certainly not suppressed. “Our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu must be released unconditionally. “The Federal Government won’t achieve its aim because our leader and IPOB members committed no crime known to law both locally and internationally.” Kanu was re-arraigned on January 19 before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja.   Revenue generating agencies get N3tr target     Why APC is in crisis, by Buni, Reconciliation Panel     CBN restructures forex bidding process   He pleaded not guilty to the 15-count terrorism charge filed against him by the Federal Government. He filed a preliminary objection to the charge, praying the court to strike out or quash them. On the same day, an Umuahia High Court in Abia State awarded N1billion damages to Kanu in a judgment on his fundamental rights suit. Kanu was accused of making a broadcast “with intent to intimidate the population”, in which he “threatened that people will die, the whole world will standstill”. He was also accused of issuing “a deadly threat” that anyone who flouted his sit-at-home order should write his/her Will, which resulted in a lockdown of the Southeast. Kanu also professed himself to be a member and leader of IPOB, a proscribed organisation in Nigeria, contrary to and punishable under Section 16 of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act, 2013. He was said to have incited members of the public “to hunt and kill Nigerian security personnel and their families”. The Federal Government said Kanu directed IPOB members “to manufacture bombs” and to “destroy public facilities”. He also allegedly threatened the public not to come out on May 31, 2021, and directed them “to destroy public transport system in Lagos, resulting in major economic loss to the government”. The prosecution said he “imported into Nigeria and kept in Ubullisiuzor in Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State…a radio transmitter known as Tram SOL concealed in a container of used household items which you declared as used household items”. The alleged offence, the prosecution said, is punishable under Section 1(2)(b) of the Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act. 2013.