The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commissions (NIPC) yesterday said investors across the world still preferred Nigeria for their businesses, despite insecurity that has ravaged the country. NIPC urged Nigerians to stop negative comment on the nation, saying the country is not as bad as the citizens portrayed it. Speaking on behalf of NIPC Director-General, Mr Emeka Offor, during a visit to the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission in Ibadan, the Director, States’ Coordination Department, Mr. Ahmad Ghondi said the Southwest is at the forefront of investment in Nigeria based on the number of investors coming to the country, adding that most of the investors preferred Southwest to do their businesses. He however said NIPC and DAWN Commissions would collaborate and move the country forward in terms of investment promotion, particularly in Southwest states. The Director-General, DAWN Commission, Mr Seye Oyeleye, said the Commission has been partnering NIPC since 2017, saying  one of the duties of the Commission is to put the six Southwest states at the forefront. - Advertisement - “We promote investments for the states; we are ready to interact with you because there are a lot of ways to attract investors into our states. “Our primary motive is to secure our investors, that was why we worked with our governors to set up Southwestern Security Network (Amotekun); we want to allay the fear of investors coming to our states by looking at critical areas to drag investors into the region,” he said. He however thanked NIPC for the visit, saying the Commission is ready to continue partnering with them towards promotion of investment in Nigeria.   EU pledges 820m euros digital package for Nigeria     Telecom operators lose 4.75m telephone users     Oil ministers fret over oil at $100 per barrel   Also, Offor yesterday said the work for the NIPC in the next five years had been appropriately defined by the National Development Plan 2021-2022, with a projected capital requirement of N348.7 trillion. Offor said 86 per cent of N298.3trillion is expected to be provided by the private sector. He said mobilisation of this capital has become the focus of the commission. It is in this light that the commission has started  validating the records of the investment announcements. This will give a good understanding of investor’s readiness to invest in Nigeria. Offor spoke this during a media parley in Abuja, stating that in 2020 foreign direct investment inflow shrunk by as much as 30 per cent, some level of recovery was expected in 2021. The prospects for significant recovery were, however, moderated by the discovery of new variants of the COVID virus and apathy against vaccination globally. It is in the midst of this, that the business community continues to adapt to the ‘new normal’ although there is an observable slow down on implementation of existing investment projects as well as consideration of new projects led by MNEs as many are reassessing their global strategy as an adaptation mechanism. “In 2022, it is expected that there would be some marginal upward flow in global FDI as long as the world sustains the rate of adaptation to the ‘new normal’, governments further relax the restrictions and allow a freer cross borders movement while enforcing social distancing and intensifying campaigns for vaccination coverage as well as improving therapies to bring local transmission of COVID to tolerable levels across the world. “Africa’s stock, as an investment destination, is expected to sustain its momentum in 2022. The improving valuation of the continent, its urbanization drift, demographic structure and expected growth in intra-trade activities facilitated by the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) are strong parameters that would continue to attract investors across the world. Consequently, there would be growing competition for capital as each country continues to build on its competitiveness to attract and retain investments. “The 2021 Investments Announcement Report indicated that $23.30 billion was tracked during the year, representing about 39 per cent more than the value tracked in 2020 ($16.74 billion). The increase in value is indicative of the growing adaptation to the global ‘new normal’ after the economic disruption occasioned by the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. It also indicates the growing confidence of investors in the efforts to improve the national investment landscape. He noted that the top five states, by value of investments, are Lagos State ($8.7 billion), Bayelsa State ($3.6 billion), Delta State ($2.9 billion), Akwa Ibom State ($2 billion), and Adamawa State ($1 billion).   The manufacturing sector had the highest number of projects (20) as well as the highest value, $10.5 billion (45 per cent). Construction (16 per cent), electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply (13 per cent), information and communication (12 per cent), and mining and quarrying (nine per cent) made during this period.   SPONSORED