It was an atmosphere of warmth and camaraderie when old students of Ijebu Ode Grammar School; 72 set (JOGS 72 Club), celebrated their golden jubilee. The celebrations took place at the school. The well-attended event was an avenue for the old students to reunite and reminisce on their time in the school. Some teachers who taught them were also present. Members of the 72 set, who had died, were also remembered in a solemn show of sympathy. JOGS 72 Club President, Mr. Bolaji Onabolu said: “We have broken the Yoruba myth which says, ‘20 children cannot play for 20 years’. We have made it to 50 years, to the glory of God.” Onabolu noted that the social media had contributed to their togetherness, helping them to keep in touch. - Advertisement - “An old school set or club, stands to provide a social platform of engagement, networking and interaction among set members, and many thanks to the emergence of social media and its associated Apps and other effective means of enhanced communications which has made the world to indeed become a global village, we at JOGS 72 club, have maximised the use of social media to better communicate and keep in touch with ourselves,” he said. The President said the 72 set had produced many illustrious citizens for the country, with four  Professors, and Ph.D holders, a  Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) many practising senior lawyers, a retired Navy Commodore, seasoned professionals in Engineering, Information Technology, Surveying, Architecture, Education, Medical Sciences, Journalism, etc. The set had also given back to the school many times. He said: “We have also given back several times to our alma mater in many ways. We equipped the library during our 25th anniversary, sponsored the Aionian School games via donation, built a toilet to mark 40 years of our graduation from school, among many others.” While inaugurating current projects donated by the set, Ogun State Commissioner for Education Science and Technology, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu lauded them for contributing to the school’s development.   BSU, Ashi Poly sign MoU     ‘Make Yoruba compulsory’     Birch Freeman old boys celebrate surviving COVID-19   To commemorate its milestone, JOGS 72 Club donated a solar, renovated the toilet facility it earlier built, classroom furniture and also contributed to the ongoing ICT centre project. Arigbabu, himself, an old student of the school recalled past moments in the school. “JOGS 72 set were my seniors. I remember Friday afternoons in the hall. The prefects would move up and down to check students. One of them would say, ‘if you are dirty, come out.’ Those neater than me would come out; I would have no choice than to join them,” he said. Earlier in a mentoring session for pupils on January 14, Prof. Dele Sogbesan of the Department of English Education, Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun,Ogun State, admonished the pupils to place premium on high moral standards and be self-confident. In his lecture entitled: “Building a secure future in a changing world”, he charged them to develop a growth mindset to achieve success. Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Gbenga Olugbake while recalling when he enrolled in the school, said: “I was lucky to be admitted to this school of great history. I was 11 years-old then. My father was an alumnus of the school. Bode George, the late Gbolabo Ogunsanwo were my seniors in this school. The school changed my life. I am a lawyer today and I made a lot of friends here.” Chairman Planning Committee, Dr Sunday Olu-Daniels, restated the association’s commitment to developing  the school. He also warned  pupils against internet fraud and the get-rich-quick syndrome. Highlight of the event was when six outstanding  and 10  indigent pupils were given cash awards. Speaking on behalf of the pupils, Laboratory Prefect, Afeez Odulaja thanked the alumni and Ogun Commissioner Arigbabu for always giving back to the school and for encouraging them. Awards were also given to teachers of the 72 set and members of the set.