Heirs Life Assurance (HLA), one of Nigeria’s leading digital life insurance company, is celebrating Valentine season with a product for couples. The company is set to thrill customers with the product named Heirs Couples Plan, to drive financial inclusion. According to the Chief Marketing Officer, Heirs Life, Ifesinachi Okpagu, in a statement, the Heirs Couples Plan would start off with a Valentine contest for couples. It is being powered by Heirs Life in partnership with Aura by Transcorp, the digital booking platform for accommodation.   Pensioners seek 100 % benefit     Plan your estate, Leadway urges     Pension complaints and solutions   Winners would get a free one-night stay at a hotel, breakfast, and spa treatment for two. She stated the company believes that financially strong individuals and families are the bedrock of every nation. Okpagu said: “Heirs Couples plan addresses both units, and we hope that the future will become much brighter and less fraught with uncertainties with this plan. It seeks to promote financial strength amongst couples by encouraging couples to save together and earn competitive interests. It is open to married and unmarried individuals. If there is a split, the saved funds and interest will be split according to pre-agreed terms stated by the couple at the onset of the plan.  It is also bundled with a life assurance element that provides an amount in the case of death. - Advertisement - “The product is the latest of many others that have been introduced by Heirs Life to make insurance accessible to everyone. Heirs Life continues to transform the life insurance space in Nigeria through its digital service delivery and provision of simple, quick, reliable, and accessible financial security plans to individuals and businesses. The company is a subsidiary of Heirs Holdings, a pan-African investment group with presence across 23 countries worldwide. “Alongside other products, the Heirs Couples plan can be purchased via the company’s website and other digital channels or through the company’s accredited representatives.’’