The world of Nigerian sports and journalism lost one of its outstanding doyens with the death of Peter Chukwuma Osugo aka PECOS (his nom de plume) on 24th January 2022 at 92. PECOS or Jet Forces as he was also known as a polymath who straddled, and excelled in the domains of geology, politics, journalism and sports respectively. He was born in Port Harcourt on 21st April 1929 to Chief Gabriel and Agnes Osugo of the UmuObi Osugo Royal family of Ase Community in Ndokwa East Local Government Area of Delta State, Nigeria. He grew up in the Northern part of Nigeria where his father worked with the Nigeria Railways Corporation as a locomotive driver who was also famous in his own right for being the first Nigerian to drive a locomotive across the River Niger. He had most of his elementary school education in Minna of present-day Niger State before proceeding to St. Gregory’s College, Obalende, Lagos, where his talent as an athlete and sportsman was identified and nurtured by the school principal, Fr. Moran. The young Peter Osugo went on to represent St. Gregory’s College and the then Lagos Colony in the 440 yards (400 metres) race and held the Nigerian record in this event for many years. - Advertisement - On leaving school, he joined the Nigeria Geological Survey in Kaduna as a technical assistant, analysing rock samples to decipher the minerals and fluids from the main geological basins in the country. He made a brief but significant entry into politics in the late 1940s – 1950s when he became an active member of the Zikist Movement and together with late Pa Michael Imoudu, headed the Kaduna branch of the movement. The movement was protesting at colonialism thus attracting the wrath of the British Colonial Government which tried to stifle the protests by imprisoning PECOS and many others and then ultimately banning the Zikist movement. However, the momentum towards independence could not be stopped as this was ultimately achieved in 1960. PECOS found his true calling as a journalist when he joined the West African Pilot as a reporter, rising to become Lead Writer and making his mark with exceptional columns which focused on nationalism and opposition to the colonial government.   Ogunjimi:  challenges facing supporters clubs are enormous     Ogunfuwa: Uniqueness of Football Fans Club of Nigeria     30 teams jostle for glory at Eko 2022 Polo fiesta   He joined the Daily Times and became Sports Editor and then Editor of the Sunday Times which became the largest selling newspaper in Nigeria by 1975. His incisive writings on Nigerian and global sports coupled with his previous background as an elite athlete came to the attention of a new breed of Nigerian entrepreneurs notably Israel Adebajo who had acquired the Stationery Stores Supply Company in Apapa and wanted to start a football club to promote the company brand. Adebajo approached PECOS to become the team manager of the Stationery Stores Football Club and the rest is history. Stores or The Adebajo Babes as they were fondly known became the lightning rod for Nigerian football with a fanatical Lagos and national fan base. They won all the domestic trophies and went through an entire league season unbeaten. Players like Peter Fregene, Sam Opone and later Haruna Ilerika became synonymous with Stores and the Nigerian National Team. With up to nine Stores players in the national team, PECOS was logically invited to become the Team Manager and he is credited with renaming the team from the Red Devils to the Green Eagles and of course, this metamorphosed to the current Super Eagles. PECOS became very involved in his local Parish at St Dominic Catholic Church, Yaba where he was very active in leading the children’s ministry. He was one of the first graduating students of the Siena Institute of Theology for Lay People (SITLAP) organised by the Dominicans and graduated with merit; a feat he accomplished at the age of 74. A great family man, Peter Osugo was happily married to Helen Osugo née Mafeni, an acclaimed educationist who joined her Creator in 2009. He is survived by his brothers, sisters, children, grandchildren and great-grandchild.   Adieu PECOS!!! What a time to hang up the spikes & boots and drop the mighty pen to take a well-earned rest with your creator. N.B. Details of the burial obsequies will be announced in the obituary notices in the national newspapers. Tributes should be addressed to: geronimoforyou@gmail.com