The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State has warned that it will no longer allow impersonators to parade themselves as elected officers of the party in the State. Rivers APC chairman Chief Emeka Beke, spoke while inaugurating the State Working Committee (SWC) and State Executive Committee of the party in Port Harcourt. A statement on Tuesday by the party’s Publicity Secretary, Senibo Chris Finebone, quoted Beke as saying that henceforth nobody would ever impersonate his office in the State. Beke said: “No man will ever again claim to be APC State Chairman after today, except me. I have my mandate as the duly elected Chairman of this Party in Rivers State. If he tries it he will be made to face the law.” He also asked the Rivers Governor, Mr. Nyesom Wike, to be prepared to engage the APC in fair contest in 2023 and not resort to the judiciary to undermine and destabilise the APC. - Advertisement -   ‘I’ve no plans to contest for Lagos…     Youths canvass support for Tinubu’s presidential bid     ‘Infrastructure battle is Imo governor’s…   “If the Governor is a man, he should come to the field and contest elections with the APC without resorting to the misuse of the state judiciary to undermine and destabilize our Party,” Beke said. Beke thanked God, the Leader of APC in the State, Rotimi Amaechi and party members for the opportunity to serve as the Chairman. “Let me, first of all, thank the Almighty God who makes all things beautiful at his own time for giving me life to see this day “, he said. He added: “This is a new dawn in the history of our Party. I assure all Party members of a level playing field and equal opportunities. “This is the era to pursue, overtake and recover all that the enemy has stolen from our dear Rivers State. Together in one accord, we shall succeed in Jesus’ name”. Those inaugurated are Mr. Omiete Eferebo, Deputy Chairman; Sam Sam Etetegwung, State Secretary; Mr. Fredrick Oyor, State Deputy Secretary; Obidinma Igwe, Senatorial Vice-Chairman 1, Rivers East; Pius Kpai, Senatorial Vice-Chairman 2, Rivers South-East; and Emine Awoala Joybel, Senatorial Vice-Chairman 3, Rivers West. Others are Dike Iheanyichukwu, Legal Adviser; Akwe Maxwell Teh, Treasurer; Chigbo John, Financial Secretary; Christian Don-Pedro, Organising Secretary; Senibo Chris Finebone, Publicity Secretary; Tamuno Nancy Stephen, Welfare Secretary; Chidi Nweke, Auditor; Beatrice Dappa Awobi, Women Leader; Baridakara Gbarato, Youth Leader; and Enyinda Chike (Special/Physically Challenged Leader), amongst others.