Environmental Science Hygiene Limited (ESH), Nigeria, midweek launched Palm Tree hygiene foaming hand sanitiser in Lagos. The occasion, which was held at the company’s premises in Ojota, Lagos, had the likes of Lagos State Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola and Special Adviser on Investment and SDG to the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Solape Hammond in attendance. Speaking of the product, CEO of the company, Sam Awolesi, said “It is with humility and years of consistent research that we are proud to announce the launch of the world’s first foaming hand sanitizer, made from all-natural ingredients. When we started this experiment, we were equipped with industry knowledge and insights and we found that 80% of customers, whether individuals or organisations, prefer foaming as opposed to gel or liquid sanitisers. It is with this learning from the health industry, coupled with years of internal expertise that we’re pleased to introduce this innovative product sourced from local palm trees, fresh from nature’s palm to yours.”   Rise in banking fraud: whodunit?     World leaders seek urgent financing to address rural…     Petrol scarcity: Agency seeks tight security at filling…   He said the premium sanitiser, which has been proven to be effective in combating zoonotic germs, like viruses, parasites, and fungi, had been firstly certified in the UK under European standards EN1276, by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and also by NAFDAC in Nigeria. ESH Managing Director, Mrs. Sola Adebowale, added: “At the onset of covid-19, we saw the need for an all-natural sanitizer that is effective in protecting humans while also being environmentally sustainable. A product that will be instrumental in assisting health care institutions in preventing the spread of infectious viruses. …We believe that this product will cater to individuals but more so institutions that crave sanitising products that cater to the healthcare needs of families, employees, or patients. It is also exciting to do this whilst also creating opportunities for SMEs to scale their business. We have built a world-class factory that small and medium scale businesses can leverage to produce and package their products.” - Advertisement - The Environmental Science Hygiene (ESH) Ltd, Nigeria, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Environmental Science Group (ESG) in the United Kingdom, with over 24 years of experience in environmental hygiene. SPONSORED