The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba on Monday ordered the arrest of the suspended head of the Intelligence Response Team, DCP Abba Kyari, and four other police officers for their involvement in an alleged case of criminal conspiracy, discreditable, unethical and unprofessional conduct, official corruption and tampering with exhibits in a case of illicit drug trafficking involving a perpetual transnational drug cartel. The arrest of the officers was sequel to information received from the leadership of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on 10th February 2022. A statement by the Deputy Force Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, explained the report of the interim investigation revealed that two international drug couriers Chibunna Patrick Umeibe and Emeka Alphonsus were arrested at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu on January 19, 2022 upon their arrival from Addis Ababa aboard an Ethiopian Airlines flight ET917. The arrest, Adejobi, said led to the recovery of a substantial quantity of powdery substance suspected to be cocaine from the two narcotic couriers. The operation, which was intelligence-driven, was undertaken by a Unit of the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT). - Advertisement - He said: “Although the case and the two suspects were subsequently transferred to the NDLEA on the 25th January, 2022, the findings of the in-house investigation ordered by the Inspector General of Police established reasonable grounds for strong suspicion that the IRT officers involved in the operation could have been involved in some underhand and unprofessional dealings as well as official corruption which compromised ethical standards in their dealings with the suspects and exhibits recovered.   Osun 2022: Aregbesola endorses Adeoti, hits Oyetola     I miss you every day, Actress Eniola Badmus remembers mom 18…     Super TV: How killer’s bad SMS English tipped off Ataga’s…   “Beyond this, the Police investigation also established that the international narcotics cartel involved in this case have strong ties with some officers of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu who are on their pay roll. “The two arrested drug couriers confirmed that the modus is for the transnational drug barons to conspire with the NDLEA officers on duty and send them their pre-boarding photographs for identification, seamless clearance, and unhindered passage out of the airport with the narcotics being trafficked. “The two arrested drug couriers also confirmed that they have been enjoying this relationship with the NDLEA officers at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport since 2021 and had in this instant case of 19th January, 2022, been identified and cleared by the NDLEA officers as customary, having received their pre-departure photographs and other details prior to their arrival in Enugu, and were on their way out with the narcotics when they were apprehended by the Police. “The Police investigations report also indicted DCP Abba Kyari, who had been on suspension for his alleged involvement in a different fraud case being investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) for complicity in the allegation of official corruption, tampering with narcotics exhibit and sundry unprofessional conducts that negate the standard administrative and investigative protocols of the Force as well as extant criminal laws. It is to be emphasised that DCP Abba Kyari’s involvement in these allegations occurred while his suspension from service was subsisting”. On the strength of the findings of the in-house Police Investigation Panel, the Inspector-General of Police, he said, has ordered the immediate arrest and transfer of all the indicted police officers to the NDLEA authorities for conclusive investigation, while appropriate disciplinary actions are also being initiated against them by the Force leadership. Adejobi said: “The concerned officers include DCP Abba Kyari; ACP Sunday Ubuah; ASP Bawa James; ASP John Umoru (at large), Inspr. Simon Agrigba and John Nuhu. “They have all been, accordingly, handed over today 14th February 2022 to the NDLEA authorities.” SPONSORED