Leading global compliance and payroll solution, Deel is helping to drive a spike in new higher-skilled jobs across Africa. As new statistics shows that the growth rate of hiring in the region has increased. The number of companies hiring in the region has risen to 800 per cent-plus year-on-year (YoY), which is more than double the hiring rate for countries outside the continent. Also, the number of contracts for the job title “software engineer” in Africa grew almost 5x YoY. Citing growth rate of hiring in other parts of the world, a report focused on tech and remote work by Deel,  showed that the growth rate of hiring across Latin America for positions like software engineer and account executive  increased by 286 per cent in the second half of last year. - Advertisement - Also in the Asia Pacific continent, the growth rate of hiring stood 227 per cent between July 2021 and December 2021 while the growth rate in the North America region stood at 208 per cent.   ‘Using data key to transforming SMEs’     Lagos to hold summit on youth unemployment     FAAN to terminate non-performing concessions   The report noted that most of the new hires were located in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, but competitive wages are also making companies take a closer look at Peru, Colombia and the Dominican Republic. The three-year-old company said it now has enough data from over 100,000 worker contracts to start looking at trends in global hiring, adding that it is particularly fascinated about Africa and the tech hiring boom going on in the region. The report pointed out that in the past six months, the number of contractors using Deel in Africa has doubled. It said: “Almost 10 per cent of payroll withdrawals from contracts in Africa are in cryptocurrency while top countries in Africa where hiring is growing include Nigeria, South Africa, and Kenya.The company’s technology offers unmatched payroll, HR, compliance, perks, benefits, and other capabilities needed to hire and manage a global team.” Using a tech-enabled self-service process, Deel’s customers can hire independent contractors and full-time employees in over 150 countries, compliantly and in minutes. With more than 250 legal, accounting, mobility, and tax experts as partners, Deel enables any business to create, sign and send compliant localised contracts from a library of templates and pay teams in more than 120 currencies with just a click. Founded in 2019 by Alex Bouaziz and Shuo Wang, DEEL is a fully distributed company with employees based worldwide.   SPONSORED