Even more than petroleum, rice has for decades been the most discussed commodity in the Nigerian news media, and the most talked-about.  Wherever two three Nigerians are gathered, you can be sure that rice is on their minds; that they are comparing notes and exchanging intelligence on where rice of good quality can be obtained with dispatch and at an affordable price. The evidence for this large claim is anecdotal, I grant.  But I have a hunch that a longitudinal content analysis of news and features in the print and electronic media, not forgetting the social media, will bear out my hypothesis. There should be a surfeit of research support for such a study from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Central Bank of Nigeria and the African Development Bank, all of which have with uncommon commitment concentrated the nation’s mind and resources on the attainment of self-sufficiency in the production of the commodity in the near term and global ranking in the medium term as a major exporter. The wonder they have wrought was on spectacular display in Abuja the other day. Residents woke up one morning only to behold in the skyline a vast colony of pyramids stretching as far as they could see.  Rice pyramids.  Somewhat squat; nothing like the sleek, tarpaulin-draped pyramids that    rose unpretentiously from the railway shipyard at Kofar Nassarawa,  gravitated majestically toward the skies and could be seen from just about point in the metropolis. - Advertisement - Fifteen rice pyramids in Abuja by one count, configured from one million sacks of paddy rice trucked from fields across the country and painstakingly stacked one bag at a time to produce a visual delight and excite the appetite all at once. As a schoolboy vacationing in Kano in the late fifties and sixties, I used to so spend my idle afternoons watching men carrying groundnut sacks on their backs or on their heads build a large rectangular base more than a storey high and covering an area larger than a soccer pitch, and then proceed therefrom to sculpt the iconic shape that has evoked wonder and mystery down the ages. The aspect to which I looked forward the most was the placing of the last groundnut sack at the apex of the pyramid.  Much folklore and ritual surrounded the event.   It was said that only a few men were chosen for the task. The prize was a princely sum of one guinea, or one pound sterling and a shilling.  For comparison, a brand new Raleigh, Rudge or Hercules bicycle sold for about 17 pounds. The reward for placing the last sack atop the pyramid also included a bolt of white linen that was for whoever performed the feat to employ as he chose on returning to base.  If he lost his footing and fell to his death, it would serve as his burial shroud.  That, any rate, was the lore. Much to my disappointment, I never witnessed that final act.  Weeks before a scheduled consummation, it would be time to return to Zaria, and to school. Behind the Abuja pyramids, however, there was no tradition of any kind. The situation allowed for none; hunger was ravaging the land. On the lips of folks in the bustling cities and townships and the hardscrabble, countryside, the insistent question is:  How soon can my family sit down to a meal of rice? But a government committed to changing the national conversation and to inaugurating a paradigm of         food self-sufficiency must take the longer view.  It must memorialize for posterity the key moments in this paradigm shift, if only as an answer to those who would deny that there was ever such a breakthrough. The construction of the rice pyramids Abuja marked such a moment. The conversation on rice, it needs to be remembered, goes back to the time of President Shehu Shagari. The appetite for rice of the imported variety which Nigerians had developed in the oil-boom years continued to grow long after the boom had turned into gloom and long after that prodigal government had dissipated the nation’s massive foreign reserve.   Teachers or slayers?     Qatar 2022 race: Expect ‘hungry’ Eagles against Ghana,…     PDP governors urge Buhari to sign Electoral Act Amendment…   Rice became, first, a scarce commodity, and then a hard currency in itself.   A smugglers’ market in the commodity flourished but most homes could not afford it.  Shagari responded by setting up a Presidential Task Force on the Importation of Rice, and named one of his most powerful cabinet ministers, Umaru Dikko, as chair and chief executive. Dikko was warming up when the military struck. The balance-of-payments problems of the Exchequer worsened, leading to tighter import controls even for basic necessities. Officially, rice importation was banned, but smugglers kept the traffic thriving through the port of Cotonou in neighbouring Benin Republic. Military president Ibrahim Babangida’s structural adjust programme (SAP) further tightened import controls. But the regime’s attention shifted from rice to wheat, the importation of which they said was gulping an unwholesome chunk of the nation’s lean foreign reserves.  They branded wheat bread an acquired taste that had no place in Nigeria’s culinary history, and a degenerate one of that matter, sustained by an unpatriotic elite. Degenerate or not, the taste had become so entrenched that it could no longer be curbed, much less stamped out.  So, the regime decided that the unpatriotic elite, aforementioned, could continue to have their bread so long as it was baked from locally-grown wheat.  That was how the National Accelerated Wheat Production Programme came into being, under which every parcel of land, from the desiccated Sahel to the mangrove swamps of the delta, claimed to be specially suited for growing wheat. Federal funding was lavish, as was publicity.  Kano soon emerged as the epicentre of wheat production in Nigeria.  Wheat fields stretching as far as the eye could see featured daily in television news.  So promising were the early reports it was projected that Nigeria in another two or three years, would rival, if not supplant the United States, Canada, Argentina, Brazil and Australia in wheat production and exports. Season after season, wheat growers in the North announced super-bumper harvests.  The only trouble was that millers could find no wheat to buy to put back on stream the plants that had lain idle since wheat imports were banned.  After the Kaduna State government announced the figures at the end of one season, the millers association offered to buy up the entire crop. Their representative, the late and much distinguished public servant and administrator, Ahmed Joda, was told that it had already been sold. Well before then, Babangida had stopped launching the wheat harvest.  He too had finally seen through the scam.  Since then, the national the accelerated wheat production programme rarely gets mentioned except as an emblem of a costly misadventure.  Babangida’s subsequent campaign to produce bread from cassava flour never got off the ground. Nothing daunted, cassava bread came to be canvassed again as a patriotic, healthy local alternative wheat bread most strenuously by President Goodluck Jonathan, who claimed that no day passed without his having that delicacy and fish pepper-soup.  It was even rumoured at the time that they had in residence at Aso Rock, a cabinet-rank officer with the title of Senior Special Assistant on Cassava Bread and Allied Products to cater to Dr Jonathan’s special needs. The project died well before Jonathan left office.  He may yet revive it if, or more likely when, as is widely being speculated, the people in their unwisdom recall him in 2023 to come and finish his presidential mandate that was so brusquely terminated seven years ago. And so we are back to the on-going rice campaign.  In Nigeria, whenever they say that something has come to stay, you can be sure it is on the way out.  The rice campaign is different.  Something tells me it will endure. But not in bags stacked in pyramids stacked in distant places.  It belongs in the warehouses and in the markets and the stores and the shops and the roadside kiosks and in the pantries and in pots and pans     steaming and sizzling on kitchen stoves. It belongs ultimately in the dishes in which it will be served for the nurture of starving consumers. Get it there fast, while the massive subsidies last. SPONSORED