Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are key drivers of an economy as they ensure growth. They are also very vital in diversification plans and economic transformation that have become a must for African countries to recover from economic down-turn. The founder and Chairman of Atiat Leasing Limited, Obinna Chidi Ufudo, shares his thought on how an SME-based industrial sector can help Nigeria and the continent make the most out of the AfCFTA. Ufudo, who is also Chairman, Loan Book Limited, also bares his mind on what the government could do to maintain its attractiveness as an investment destination, how to improve infrastructure, among others. He shared these and more with DANIEL ESSIET. How do you think the industrial sector can help Nigeria and the continent make the most out of the AfCFTA? Well, you know that the main purpose of AfCFTA (African Continental Free Trade Area) is to create a market for goods, services, and labour across the African continent to help expand intra-African trade and boost industrial productivity and economic growth on the continent. Obviously, a single market system doesn’t add any benefit if nothing is produced or sold in that market. The Nigeria’s industrial sector, and indeed as is in most African countries, is operating below potential for a myriad of reasons. If you juxtapose this situation with the fact that African nations export large quantities of raw materials to the industrialised nations, the opportunity presented by AfCFTA becomes very compelling. Therefore, as one of the largest employers of labour and the main production hub of the economy, the industrial sector in Nigeria and across Africa must be operating efficiently to ensure increased output of quality goods that can be traded in the country and around the continent. Also, the industrial sector must be expanding rapidly to ensure that it is able to absorb the large and growing labor force in Africa and leverage their skills to make globally competitive products for Africa and the global market if we are going to make the most out of this economic policy. What do you think may hinder this progress? College economics taught us that the factors of production are land, labour, capital and entrepreneurship. I will add innovation, infrastructure and technological knowhow to that to reflect our 21st century operating environment. Land is available across most of the continent. So also is Labour – though the quality can bear some improvement. Capital is a big challenge. Cost of borrowing is high and the capital markets in many African countries are shallow. Inconsistent monetary policies have hindered the development of stable financial environments that enable access to affordable capital.  See, without proper capital formation structures, the investment required to drive industrial growth will simply not happen. Infrastructure, technology and innovation are other weak links that have not allowed industrial development of the continent.Critical infrastructure like power, roads, rails, access to ports, etc, are mostly lacking or are of very poor standard. These add to the cost of production and distribution and make locally produced good more expensive than exports from industrialised countries. Finally, African industries continue to play catch-up in terms of technology and innovation. So the quality of output mostly lag their foreign substitutes. I almost forgot to mention insecurity across the continent which is a huge hindrance to trade. When you factor the cost of banditry on the one hand and official extortion on the other hand, you will begin to understand why movement of good across the continent is so difficult. Let’s leave the issue of xenophobia and unhealthy rivalry among Africans for another day. So, while AfCFTA is strategically sound, African governments must work towards resolving these issues and provide the environment for successful implementation. Do you agree that mobilising the private sector is the key to everything and will result in different and more successful public-private partnerships? What we need mostly and urgently is an improvement in the quality of our public sector. The private sector is more productive and efficient than the public sector. I will go all the way and say that the public sector and our political leadership has been a drag on national development. Unfortunately, the operating environment is regulated by the public sector and you know regulations and regulators determine how far and how fast we can go. What are these Afro-centric solutions you proffer for the industrial sector? Do we have that capacity to develop them? I would say let’s start from the basics. Africa needs roads, railways, proper market structures, exchanges, stable political terrains, manpower development and education and security. We need proper legislation and market-friendly regulations. Transforming our industrial sector isn’t about creating any fancy afro-centric solutions. There are principles of economics that help develop any industrial sector and we must follow them if we want to make progress. Africa is currently at a point where all these key elements are in short supply. We must fix what is broken quickly, but sadly many African nations are still grappling with political issues, relegating economic growth to the doldrums. We have seen high volatility in emerging markets. How do you view the economic environment? There has been a lot of volatility in emerging markets due to the pandemic induced global economic downturn. Though we are seeing an economic rebound across both advanced and emerging markets, the strength of the economic recovery is different from country to country with the most fragile being the economic rebound experienced by commodity dependent African emerging economies. It is important to note that the upward pricing pressure coming from the reopening of the global economy and rising inflationary pressure in America and covid-induced supply chain challenges are benefiting the commodities market and economies that produce these resources. This is happening because the reopening of the global economy is causing aggregate demand for commodities to rise and the high inflation rate in America is causing commodity prices to soar helping to boost the income of commodity dependent nations like Nigeria, Ghana and South Africa. Now imagine if Nigeria and other African nation’s industrial sector were ready to exploit this situation. You know, they say the most money is made in periods of crisis. That is why it is good to be prepared, always. Nigeria and other African countries must really begin to improve their operating environments so that our industries can grow and be in positions to take advantage of a changing world. What are the biggest gaps in terms of investments?   ‘Nigeria has huge reinsurance capacity gap’     ‘Why I’m passionate about empowering youths’     Dearth of infrastructure major challenge of mobile money   The biggest gap in investments in the economy is the lack of it. FDI has shrivelled since COVID-19 appeared. It is probably going to get worse now as indications are that Fed would raise rates in the US and cut back on bond buyback.  Secondly, our depreciating currency has not helped our case. This deters FDI and even encourages local investors to hold and invest in foreign currency and instruments. These are big elephants in the room. There are other factors which hinder investments such insecurity and unfriendly business environment,  declining household purchasing power and the high rate of inflation in the country. All these macroeconomic headwinds do not encourage investors to commit funds in Nigeria as much as required to stimulate the growth. So, to attract capital, we must create a capital friendly business environment. These are squarely in the plate of our public sector and political leadership. Nigeria’s challenges in the downstream sector of the petroleum industry could be what most other African countries are facing? On the contrary, it appears that Nigeria’s downstream sector challenge has been a boon to some other African countries, especially our neighbours. Our system of price regulation and subsidy on imported petroleum products is the sector’s biggest challenge. Everyday, we are confronted with insane numbers for local consumption of fuel. It’s costing between N1 and N2 trillion yearly, increasing daily and exponentially as marketers take advantage of the system to smuggle the products to our neighbouring countries. This may end up in the history books as some of the greatest blowout of public funds on record. What is holding back the agricultural sector given the market demand and the natural resources? Yes, we are blessed with arable land and good weather and yes, there is local demand for agriculture produce but the challenges of the sector have not allowed it to thrive. First, we have the security challenges. Insurgency, banditry and kidnapping coupled with the issues of cattle grazing and farmers/wherders conflict have greatly reduced the incentive to farm. Second, there aren’t enough investments to scale agro-capacity to meet the demand. We are still largely subsistence farming. Thirdly, we have storage, supply and distribution chain issues.These lead to produce wastages and poor returns to the farmers, reducing incentive to farm. Finally, there is the problem of government policies. I am not an expert here but I think that the government has focused more on incentives to small farmers rather that to large scale industrial farming. I believe that large scale farming will enable the adoption of modern farming methods and technological innovations that will improve per hectare yields and also the quality of products. Large scale farmers are also more able to overcome storage and supply chain challenges and meet the requirements of agro processing industries. I think that it is the nexus between large scale farming and agro processing industries that will shift the scale in that sector and make Nigeria not only food sufficient but also an exporter of food and other processed agric products. What do you see as the priorities for leaders in Nigerian communities on economic resilience? I believe the main priority for every leader must be the wellness and progress of his people. Every individual in the community is a leader and must act with that sense of responsibility. But more importantly, those elected to lead must show their citizens what true leadership means by their behaviour and what true service to community feels like by their stewardship. To ensure the economic resilience of our communities, our first priority must be security. From the insurgency in the North to the separatist enforcers in the South East, the economic landscape has become too tense for any meaningful economic growth. Secondly, we must do everything possible to elect better leaders in the next elections. Our national bus can only go as far as, and in the direction that, the driver(s) take it. So for me, if we can have a secure environment and better political leadership, then we have the basic foundation for meaningful and sustainable economic development. Else, the rot and flight to the bottom will continue. SMEs are the backbone of economies, but in Nigeria, they receive scant financial support. What is your organisation doing about this? I will say that it is the unstructured SMEs that find it difficult to raise capital either through loans or equity investment which is a natural business occurrence in every country. Nigeria has more than 49million micro, small and medium scale companies, but the majority of these businesses are small, unregistered, unstructured, and unscalable which makes lending or investing in these businesses very risky. The majority of SMEs are not structured in such a way that an external, independent party can assess their business performance using reliable and accurate financial data. As such it is very difficult to ask lenders to take uncalculated risks in lending to unstructured businesses. SMEs that are well-structured have and continue to receive funding from banks and non-bank lenders and investors. We can argue about the pricing of these funds. So, at Loanbook Limited and Atiat Leasing Limited, we support structured SMEs, cooperative societies and also working class business professionals who are interested in starting a small business but still want to keep their normal nine-to-five jobs. However, the unstructured SMEs cannot be totally left behind as they still provide millions of jobs and add to the productive capacity of our economy. The key is in education and training to bring these businesses into the formal sector and improve their access to credit. SMEs are often dismissed as a bad investment risk. Is this assessment correct? There are many large businesses that were once small and there are many small businesses that are on their way to displace the market leaders in their industry. So, we can’t say all SMEs are a bad investment. However, it takes a lot of business competence, dedication, and time to succeed. I understand that up to eight out of 10 businesses start and fail within their first few years of existence in Nigeria and around the world. So, it is difficult for lenders and investors to correctly pick winners and knowing full well that a lot of them will fail, it makes sense that they will reject so many offers while seeking for the one that looks like a sure thing. In my experience, SMEs that have succeeded tend to be those solving inherent social and economic challenges using tech to their advantage (of course the world has moved to digital). Those that have failed are mostly as a result of harsh operating environment and factors such as regulation, multiple taxation, insecurity and inadequate capital, etc. Nevertheless, many SMEs have found ways to operate viably. Their business models and size also allow them pivot quickly from a failing business model to one that generates the right value. Based on that experience, what advice would you give to entrepreneurs who may be thinking of giving up right now? You only fail when you give up. Every success story we see today has had so many failures in their history. If you believe strongly in your business idea, go back to the drawing board, take a deep reflection on your value proposition and try to reorganize your business. Learn, relearn, and unlearn, reach out to knowledgeable people in business, they could offer some form of advice that will give your business another perspective into solving the problem. Business is never easy. And even when you succeed, staying successful is an even bigger challenge. For me the ultimate joy is being able to look back someday and say happily to myself “I did that!”