This week, many supporters of embattled Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, were utterly displeased and disappointed to hear about the ‘renewed’ incarceration of the agitator for another six months. The 49-year-old agitator has spent over 200 days in Benin Republic prison. When his counsel, Yomi Aliyu, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) disclosed the information during the week, it came as a big blow to many supporters. But this prolongation of Igboho’s detention was a negation of the announcement by the Abuja-based lawyer, Mr. Pelumi Olajengbesi, who predicted not too long ago that Igboho would be released soon. Many supporters especially in the Diaspora lamented the continuous detention of Igboho ‘without trial’. Aliyu noted that though there are no criminal charges or extradition requests against Igboho, the Beninese government has, however, taken steps to keep Igboho in detention.   Abba Kyari: PSC delays verdict, orders investigation by…     Controversy as Oluwo denies soliciting N20m to marry Kano…     INEC Commissioner Gumus denies APC membership, threatens…   - Advertisement - Since Igboho was arrested in Cotonou, Benin Republic, on July 19 after he fled Nigeria when his Ibadan home was invaded by operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS), his extradition has been hanging in balance. The legal battle to either extradite Igboho to Nigeria or hand him back his freedom has witnessed a series of dramatic twists and turns. The court on July 27 last year, ordered that he should be remanded in a facility in the country, pending the conclusion of the investigation. Meanwhile, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has also stated that the Federal Government will bring Igboho back to Nigeria after his prosecution in Benin Republic. Igboho who has been declared wanted by the Department of State Services (DSS) for allegedly stockpiling arms to destabilise Nigeria, an allegation he denied, has been in the eye of the storm. Commenting on Igboho’s ordeal, Malami said the case is a matter being prosecuted in a foreign country on account of his breaching laws in Benin Republic. .