The President, Supreme Council of Ukwa Ngwa Youths, Dannie Ubani, has warned that any party that fails to zone its 2023 governorship ticket to Ukwa Ngwa bloc in Abia State will lose the election. The Supreme Council of Ukwa Ngwa Youths is the apex body of youths in the nine local governments of Ukwa Ngwa zone. Ubani said during the Ukwa Ngwa socio – economic and political conclave, tagged: ‘Ike Nkwu 2022’, that 2023 was the turn of Ukwa Ngwa people to occupy the governorship position for another eight years, to bring them at par with their old Bende brothers, who occupied the seat for 16 uninterrupted years. He added that any party that deprived Ukwa Ngwa people of the privilege of flying their tickets would forfeit the massive support and votes from them. Ubani said: “Parties are the vehicle through which political aspirations are actualised. “We are making a clarion call and demand that for any party to have the prospects, hopes and promises of winning the next governorship election in Abia State, such parties should show their seriousness by committing themselves to the ideals of fairness, justice and fair play by zoning their governorship ticket to Ukwa Ngwaland. “It doesn’t matter the party. If PDP zones its governorship ticket to Ukwa Ngwa land, Ukwa Ngwa people will give their huge numerical support to it. “If APC and APGA do the same thing, we will support them. But should any of them deprive Ukwa Ngwa people of the privilege of flying the ticket, it means they have forfeited the mass support and votes from Ukwa Ngwa people. “The rule of the game is this – you rub my back, I rub yours.   PDP slams Ebonyi Assembly for declaring lawmakers’ seats…     APC chieftain to Abe: you can’t win without Amaechi     Edo robbery: ‘It’s time to allow state police’   “Any party that doesn’t give its governorship ticket to Ukwa Ngwa people will automatically lose the election. “Our stand is that the next governor will build on the foundations laid by Governor Okezie Ikpeazu. “In line with the Abia charter of equity, no other people deserve the governorship than the Ukwa Ngwa people. “We are engaging in a moment of introspection; stock taking. We want to evaluate and analyse where we are coming from and where we are, to project into the realm of where we need to be. “Our mascot,’Ike Nkwu’ (palm fruit), symbolises our huge population and our strength in unity. It also typifies the power of cohesion. “It connotes our demographic advantage and its inherent leverage as we gravitate once again in the same direction like we did in 2015/2019. “The thorns in the palm fruit symbolise the fierceness of youth energy. No footballer, no matter how skilful, kicks palm fruit as football. “What we are pushing here is geared and tailor- made for the benefit of the larger majority. That’s the masses. “We are making a clarion call, not just for our interest, but for the interest of the larger Abia society and that of the political parties.” Prof. Maduka Ezeibe, in his keynote address delivered by Prof. Sam Erugo, hailed Governor Ikpeazu for changing the face of Ukwa Ngwa land since 2015. He said more, however, needed to be done, especially in the empowerment of Ukwa Ngwa people and creation of opportunities for youths.