Delta Airlines is accelerating its efforts to build a more sustainable and people-first future for air travel. From this week, the airline said it will refresh its onboard product offerings with artisan-made amenity kits, recycled bedding, reusable and biodegradable service ware and premium canned wine. Together, the United States carrier said the products will reduce onboard single-use plastic consumption by approximately 4.3 million pounds per year – roughly the weight of 1,500 standard-sized cars – and will  significantly increase Delta Airlines’ support of minority- and women-run businesses. “Decisions we make on every aspect of our product are opportunities to make good on two core promises: to deliver exceptional customer experiences and build a better future for people and our planet,” said Allison Ausband, Executive Vice President  and Chief Customer Experience Officer of the airline.   Wanted: Right personnel for regulatory agency     Air passenger traffic dips to 3.38million     Improving safety oversight programmes    He added: “These latest additions deliver something unique to our customers, reduce our environmental impact and enable job creation for the communities we serve around the world.” - Advertisement - Over the past year, Delta Airlines has deepened its relationships with suppliers in key markets, which allows the airline to serve more locally sourced menu items, and introduced a beverage lineup that spotlights the first U.S. Black-owned distillery, Du Nord Social Spirits. “Delta Airlines has always put people at the centre of everything we do,” said Amelia DeLuca, Vice President,  Sustainability. “It’s this people-first focus that led Delta Airlines to source new products onboard that reduce waste, bolster diverse suppliers and build communities. We want to protect our planet and the people on it, and the products we provide onboard are the latest way we’re living out this commitment,” he said. The airline is among the first to use 100 percent  recycled polyester (rPET) bedding and – combined with the new use of reusable bedding packaging – will reduce single-use plastic use by up to 260,000 pounds per year. The sets began appearing on board  last December.