Former BBNaija Pepper Dem Geng housemate, Tacha has dazed many with her reason for refusing to date any man. The media personality was a participant in the just concluded Season 37 of the American reality TV show, The Challenge where she had the opportunity to meet and interact with personalities from different nationalities. Tacha, who continues to attract more fans not leaving out critics considering how she has gone from the national boundary to the international space had a male fan recently question her about her relationship status. The fan simply identified as Sylviah Lee queried the reality TV star on when she intends to begin dating. “Tacha, when will you start going on dates?” he wrote. - Advertisement - Responding to the inquisitive fan, the Titans queen said that can only happen when she finds a man who is richer than herself. “I haven’t found a man RICHER!” she tweeted. Her response has since elicited mixed reaction from social media users. gbohunmi_ade said: “You go soon join cuppy gang … nnenna_aldo asked: “Or Richer men don’t want to marry you? Which one?”   Having flat stomach very childish – Yul Edochie     Nick Canon apologises over announcement of 8th child     Stop looking for ready-made husbands, Charly Boy tells…   5d_hottie wrote: “Eya, so na broke guys you dey meet e_l_l_abeauttyyy stated: “Even Rihanna don get belle,I love you t but this one no enter,nobi person be the richest woman in Africa? shift one side joor.” dominic_nails quizzed: “Rich in vitamin or what?” drey_songz said: “Maybe rich men don’t like you…just saying respectfully.” asiwajulerry wrote: “Them plenty for Alaba market wearing singlets upandan, na you never ready.” nhyiraba__ stated: “That is why we the poor ones are still single and you the richer one is also single.” ajoloeyeofwarrikingdom asked: “Is RIHANNA a joke to you???” race_italianluxury wrote: “Ask Linda how far, why quantify money, to finding happiness. You get money reach Nicki Minaj? misz_pea stated: “Okay keep doing gulder ultimate search.” material.kings said: “Lol! She get money pass all the men in Nigeria. Mugu.”