The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Warri branch has confirmed the release of three Warri lawyers and their driver kidnapped along the Benin-Auchi Road, Edo state, last Wednesday. The four victims, who have been reunited with their families, were released around 1:05am on Saturday, a statement by the Branch Chairman, Chief Emmanuel Uti said. Expressing joy over their release, it called for more efforts to be put into curbing insecurity across the sister Delta and Edo states. “We are pleased to announce the release of three of our colleagues and their driver who were kidnapped along Benin -Auchi Road, on February 2nd, 2022. “They were released today February 5th, 2022, at about 1.05 am and have been reunited with their families.   BREAKING: Ex-Gov Oni dumps PDP for Ekiti 2022     BREAKING: Tuchel tests positive for COVID-19     Daura comes alive as Amaechi is turbaned Dan Amanar   - Advertisement - “The joy and relief this has brought to us as a Branch, cannot be expressed in simple terms. “We are indeed very grateful to God, the Members of NBA Benin Branch (Lion Bar) and all who showed support and solidarity to the families of our colleagues and the Branch during this harrowing experience occasioned by the traumatic incident “This kidnap incident has brought to fore, on the need for the Edo State Government to take steps to clear the forest from the Ogbemudia Farms axis along the Benin-Auchi Road up to Ekpoma and the need for every Police Area Commands in Edo and Delta State to be equipped with phone tracking devices to help in curbing this security menace that the Nation is grappling with. “In conclusion, we are indeed grateful to our creator and wish to assure all, that the Branch will always lend its voice on suggestions and steps to be taken in tackling these security challenges. “We will not fail in our duties in pursuit of upholding the rule of law in our State. We remain committed to the safety and welfare of members of the Bar and the progress of our nation,” the statement reads.