The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr. Mohammad Abubakar, has said a new National Agricultural Technology and Innovation Policy (NATIP) for 2022-2027 would be unveiled soon. Abubakar made this known during a meeting with Executive Secretaries and Chief Executive Officers of National Agricultural Research Institutes (NARIs) and Federal Colleges of Agriculture (FCAs). The minister said NATIP would be the main framework on how to drive agriculture for the next six years, as no country exists without a good agricultural base. He noted that the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration relies on agriculture for food production and economic development to bring the country back on the path of growth.   Kerosene price declines by 6.60% in January – NBS     RT 200 FX programme requires infrastructure, funding, says…     Nigeria in mixed fortune on grains, oil seeds export   “Research and training occupy a special place as a strategy for Mr. President’s goal and, therefore, a priority in the ministry’s drive to attain greater productivity. The Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria (ARCN) Amended Act 2021 has made provision for the establishment of spin-off companies within the NARIs and FCAs, which is a deliberate strategy by Mr. President to utilise the enormous potential to generate revenue and to augment the current budgetary allocations.’’ - Advertisement - “Accordingly, the products of your research are expected to be taken off the shelves for the immediate utilisation of farmers, industries and consumers. You must also ensure a strong drive towards attracting research grants to supplement the available funds which will therefore ensure lesser dependence on government funding in the nearest future”. Abubakar however said he has contacted President Buhari and he has assured him of his readiness to significantly improve the capacity of staff of ARCN, NARIs and FCAs. To this end, the minister directed that the NARIs and FCAs should furnish the ministry through the ARCN with critical areas of human resources needs, especially research fellows, lecturers, analysts, technologists, and technicians. He further directed the ARCN to come up with a programme for all the research institutes and colleges to exhibit their sellable discoveries that can change the fortune of agriculture in the country before the end of the second quarter of the year 2022. In his remarks, the Executive Secretary of ARCN, Prof. Garba Sharubutu, who acknowledged the Minister’s remarks and directives,  raised some concerns as regards the new Amended ARCN Act which according to him cannot be fully implemented without the minister’s approval.  Others are the absorption of the just added five FCAs, the proscription of the governing board, the issue of constant visitors to the agricultural research institutes and colleges as well as the need for a retreat for the Council, Institutes and Colleges to be chaired by the Minister.   SPONSORED