The Minister of Defence Major General Bashir Magashi (Rtd) has assured the Army of more armament to boost ongoing operations. He praised the Army for ensuring peace across the country. The Minister disclosed this at the 2021 Nigerian Army Headquarters Garrison West African Social Activities (WASA) in Abuja. He advised the Army hierarchy to imbibe good maintenance culture of support equipment. Magashi noted that though the Nigerian Army has recorded significant success against the insurgents, “they must brace up for the year ahead” . - Advertisement - He said the WASA event brings together troops and their families at the end of the year to socialize. According to him; “2021 was an eventful year, characterised by challenges server moments and records of successes. worthy of note in the gallant performance and sacrifices of the Nigeria personnel in counterterrorism counter agencies and other operations across the country.   Niger imposes curfew on two councils over terror attacks     Vigilante commander shot dead in Delta     Why NSCDC should be merged with police, by Rep member   ” Let me commend you for the sacrifices towards ensuring an enduring peace across the country. I must also sincerely appreciate the federal government of Nigeria and the president commander in Chief of the Armed forces of Federal Republic of Nigeria for the unflinching support to the Nigerian army in particular and the armed forces in general. “I wish to state that you must imbibe good maintenance culture so as to make these equipment readily available when needed for operations”. He said Federal Government acquisition of platforms added tremendous impetus in the fight against insurgency based “Ministry of Defense has continued to strive relentlessly to keep the services by providing various grades of equipments and ammunition. “We shall continue to make efforts to ensure that more platforms are procured to sustain the tempo of operations.” He said training is the best welfare that can be given to officers and soldiers therefore more training exercises will be conducted to enhance the proficiency. “The conduct of these trainings have proven to be result oriented”.