Antonio Conceiçao, Coach of the Cameroon says his players are highly motivated ahead of their 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) semifinals match against the Pharaohs of Egypt. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that hosts Cameroon will be seeking a place in the 2021 T AFCON final when they lock horns with Egypt at the Olembe Stadium in Yaoundé on Thursday. Conceiçao speaking at a pre-match press conference in Yaounde said his players were motivated to win the Egyptians, adding that the overall objective was to win the title. “Our goal is clear; to play a good game and go to the final. “We will play against a very good team, Egypt, the most successful team in Africa. - Advertisement - “They have very good players, including one of the best in the world, namely Mohamed Salah. “My players are motivated to win. We have positive pressure, but our pbjective is clear, to win the title for the Cameroonian people,” he said.   We want to offer the world very pleasant match, says Egypt’s…     Cameroon 2021: Queiroz slams Eto’o over AFCON…     Zonal winners emerge at PwC U-17 Cricket Championship   Cameroonian Midfielder Andre Anguissa stressed that he and his team mates were motivated to play a good match against Egypt. “We are determined to achieve a good result, go to the final and win the title. “Playing at home is very special for us. We are committed to play this semi-final and go for the title next Sunday, for the Cameroonian people. NAN also reports that the hosts’ intentions have been clear from Day one; that they are on a mission to win the title at home. Four wins and a draw in the road to the semifinal give the Indomitable Lions a vast amount of confidence before facing rivals Egypt for a ticket in Sunday’s final. They know well they will have the support of thousands as they dream of a sixth AFCON trophy. Cameroon will once again rely on the lethal attacking duo of Vincent Abubakar and Karl Toko Ekambi, who has scored all Cameroon 11 goals to the moment, six for Abubakar and one less for Ekambi. (NAN)