Popular Television game show ‘Who Wants To Be A Millionaire (WWTBAM) has announced its return. Organisers of the game show unveiled Frank Edoho as the host, noting the new season will run for 52 weeks with new sponsors and N20 million to be won. The new edition tagged “The Rebirth” has a new lifeline called “asking the host” to aid contestants when they are stuck on questions. Other lifeline elements on the TV game show are “50-50”, “Call a Friend”, and “Ask the Audience”. The Managing Director of UP, Agada Apochi, speaking during the event at the Federal Palace Hotel, Lagos on Sunday night, said the show was rebranded to thrill the audience with new elements of suspense, education, excitement, and entertainment. “We are sponsoring ‘Who Wants to Be a Millionaire’ to entertain, educate and excite Nigerians. - Advertisement - “The return of WWTBAM is coming with a bang that would create lasting memories in the audience’s minds.   Why I look younger than my age, by Tiwa Savage     Everybody needs gratitude, says Timaya     Actresses are wrongly perceived- Allwell Ademola   “It is going to keep them on the edge of their seats as new millionaires emerge from the show, ” he said. WWTBAM was first aired on October 8, 2004, and stopped temporarily on June 25, 2017, with Frank Edoho as its host all through the years. Edoho, on Monday morning, announced his return to the show in a post on his official Twitter handle while appreciating fans and well-wishers for their support. “Hey everyone. I assume you know by now that I have been offered the role of Host of WWTBAM Series 2. “My immense gratitude goes to all of you for hoping that I get the job. Thank you for your kind wishes and felicitations God bless you all. #FrankIsBack #WWTBAMTheReturn,” he tweeted. Over the years, the show has recorded exciting moments, with Aroma Ufodike winning the highest prize money of N10 million. Other past winners of the show include Osazuwa Osahon Daniels – N5 million (2009), Babatunde Oni Oladipo – N5 million (2010), Nnaemeka Ubaekwena – N5 million (2012) and Winifred E. Karieren – 5 million Naira (First female to win 5 million) (2012).