The Osi Olubadan High Chief Rashidi Ladoja on Thursday joined other kingmakers to endorse the nomination of Dr Lekan Balogun as the next Olubadan of Ibadan land. Thursday’s was the first independent kingmakers’ meeting to be attended by the former Governor. The meeting was helped following the withdrawal of the lawsuit challenging a consent judgment that nullified the elevation of Balogun and others as Obas in 2017. The High Chiefs sent a letter of withdrawal to the court on Monday and the suit was thereafter dismissed by the Chief Judge of the state Justice Muntar Abimbola on Tuesday. The development brought to an end the controversy surrounding the succession of Oba Saliu Adetunji, who joined his ancestors on January 2. - Advertisement -   NSCDC, Shina Peller bicker over bill to scrap agency     BREAKING: Senate Deputy Minority Leader defects to APC,…     VIDEO: Fire guts offshore oil facility in Delta State   Ladoja and the late monarch had dragged the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi to court for reviewing the Olubadan Chieftaincy declaration which led to the elevation of the high chiefs and some baales as obas. Ladoja had distanced himself from meetings held by his co-high chiefs. He posited that they should withdraw the suit challenging the consent judgment as a precondition for the nomination and approval of Dr Balogun as the new Olubadan. At the meeting held at the residence of Balogun of Ibadanland, High Chief Owolabi Olakuleyin, the kingmakers endorsed Balogun’s nomination. In attendance at the meeting were the Otun Olubadan and Olubadan designate High Chief Lekan Balogun; Balogun of Ibadan High Chief Owolabi Olakuleyin; Osi Olubadan High Chief Rashidi Ladoja; Otun Balogun of Ibadan, High Chief Tajudeen Ajibola and the Ashipa Olubadan, High Chief Eddy Oyewole. Others are the Osi Balogun of Ibadan, High Chief Lateef Gbadamosi Adebimpe; Ashipa Balogun of Ibadan, High Chief kolawole Adegbola and Ekerin Balogun of Ibadan, High Chief Dada Ishioye. With the outcome of the meeting, the State Government is expected to speed up the process of the enthronement of the new Olubadan.