The Ogun State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Oluwasina Ogungbade has said that the present administration has put enough measures in place to strengthen the machinery of justice dispensation. He said this was done to ensure members of the public and investors  have confidence in the state’s judicial system. Ogungbade stated this during a radio programme, “Sunday Morning Live” on OGBC II, FM Radio, in Abeokuta, the state capital. Ogungbade, represented by the Director of Public Prosecutions, (DPP), Ministry of Justice, Mr. Bamidele Adebayo, said that it was imperative for the state to make justice dispensation a priority, adding that people would not lose interest in seeking justice in the state’s judiciary. “Indeed, we believe that the key to thriving business is the primacy of the rule of law and quick dispensation of justice, so, officers and members in the temple of justice have greater role to play, especially with investors coming into our state”, Ogungbade said   U.S, Ogun partner on justice administration     How to halt sexual, gender-based violence, by activists     Ukrainian varsity confers doctorate on SAN   - Advertisement - He said that administration of justice was the primary functions of the state, which generally divided into administration of civil justice and administration of criminal justice, noting that the purpose of administration of criminal justice was to punish the wrongdoers. He noted that justice was mainly for three reasons, justice for the accused/defendant, justice for the victims/complainants and justice for the society, saying once those applied, the people would no more shun or jettison the idea of pursing their right or seeking for justice. According to him, the state government had done tremendously well in putting machinery in place, especially in terms of digitalising the judicial system, upgrading and employment of more judiciary staff for efficient and effective service delivery. He added that the establishment of Multi-Door Courts, Alternative Dispute Resolution and others made the Ogun State judiciary system the best in Nigeria, saying that the government was really committed in the quick dispensation of justice. On ease of doing business, Ogungbade emphasised that the state government had strengthened the version of law that is poised to facilitate prompt action or resolution of all government transaction with efficiency, especially with small and medium enterprises in the state.