The Speaker of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Olakunle Oluomo, has condemned the rise in social vices especially ritual killings, cultism and drug abuse amonsgt others, in the state, with a charge on all stakeholders to step up inter-religious campaigns towards curbing the menace in the society. He described recent incidents of ritual killings in the state as “deeply concerning”, and urged that efforts at curbing the menace should be a priority. Oluomo stated this while addressing members of the Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR) and Human Rights and Grassroots Development Society, led by its convener, Comrade Yinka Folarin, during a sensitization/advocacy visit to the State Assembly, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital. The Speaker counseled the group to involve all stakeholders in line with recent happenings especially inter-religious organizations, including the traditionalists. Hon. Oluomo, in company of Hon. Musefiu Lamidi, the Clerk/ Head of Legislative Service, Deji Adeyemo and the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security Matters, Subair Olusola, explained that the restoration of sanity in the society is a collective responsibility; hence all agents of socialization including traditional worshipers must be urgently engaged as criminal elements were now abusing the age-long traditions. He urged the security agents to avoid the illegal reduction of charges against crime suspects while preparing their charges, saying that such act always hinder effective justice dispensation, leading to upsurge in criminal activities as the culprits would be left with lesser punishment. “We must ensure that we do all we can to get justice for victims. This will serve as deterrent to criminals,” he said.   ANALYSIS: Parties, aspirants walk tightrope     Politics hots up as INEC fixes presidential, NASS elections…     Constitution Review: Senators, Reps push stronger law to…   Read Also: President to courts: Apply stringent punishment on ritual killers, others The Speaker therefore urged all security operatives to step up plans towards improving on their investigative activities to arrest and ensure immediate prosecution of suspects, noting that there was need to follow to the letter, the provisions of the all-encompassing State Land Grabbing/ Anti- kidnapping Law, 2016 to reduce crimes and criminality in the State. Oluomo assured that the Ninth Assembly under his leadership would further look inward to amend necessary sections of the law and other relevant legislation to reflect the emerging realities in the society. Earlier, Comrade Folarin stated that there had been cases of kidnapping, ritual killings, drug abuse, cultism, internet fraud and other social vices even in schools and within the State, explaining that the visit was to engage necessary arms of government and other stakeholders towards checkmating crimes and criminalities in the State. He noted that the increase in ritual killings in the state is worrisome, and therefore demanded an urgent need to act against it. “We are here to condemn the increasing rate of kidnapping in our state and country. To condemn the increasing rate of ritual killings, drug abuse in our society. These are crimes against humanity. These are crimes that we all must act against. We have come out to condemn Internet fraud otherwise known as ‘Yahoo Yahoo’. There is no more ‘Yahoo-Yahoo’; it has become ritual killing and it is obvious to all of us in the society. We call on critical stakeholders to act now, put things at the necessary measures that will curtail excesses in our society so that right to lives of the people will not be deprived of them. Right to life is a fundamental right of the people. It is germane to the survival of any nation, economic growth, and even our peaceful coexistence,” he said.