Most Nigerians are unlikely to be shocked at the latest disclosure about the quantum of crude oil theft going on in the country. If anything, the figures merely restate a scandal that bears the hallmarks of our typically indifferent leadership; an exemplification of the curse of the hydrocarbon resource and the pervasive outlawry that attends to activities linked to it. This time it was businessman Tony Elumelu, speaking to members of Course 30 of the National Defence College on the theme, ‘Strategic Leadership: My Business Experience in Abuja’, last week. He told the elite participants of the institute that Nigeria lost $4 billion worth of crude oil to thieves in the first nine months of 2021. An operator himself, he puts his company’s share of the theft at 50,000 barrels per day out of its total output of about 87,000 barrels per day. That the disclosure however is nothing of a marked departure from the trend already long established by the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) over the last few years is merely stating the obvious. Take its 2019 audit for instance; NEITI found that the country actually lost 42.25 million barrels of crude oil valued at $2.77 billion – although it found that the loss was 21 per cent lower than that recorded in 2018, which was 53.28 million barrels. Overall, NEITI report put the crude oil theft at around 138,000 b/d with the value at $40.06 billion in the course of the last 10 years. That, to put it mildly, is scandalous. As for the latest statistics, what it shows is that the situation has actually grown much worse than it was in 2019. Even more significant is the revelation of an officialdom that is not only somewhat complicit, but one that has conveniently neglected to develop the capacity to curb the untoward activities despite their glaring potential to undermine our national security.   Rivers floors Fed Govt     Immunity with caution     Abiola’s hemlock   Read Also: NEITI to digitalise oil, gas audit by December - Advertisement - Of course, the quantum of losses would ordinarily have beggared belief – save that this is happening in Nigeria. Put in context of national expenditures, the nine months theft alone is more than twice the amount spent ($1.5 billion) to deliver the 157-kilometre Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge railway. It is also nearly 50 percent of $8.3bn of the entire contract sum for the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) from Lagos to Kano which, although the Federal Government had awarded China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC), but has been stuck at the level of negotiation over funding with the Chinese. And all of these in a nation of decrepit infrastructure, and at a time she’s borrowed to the hilt. And now we have as correlates, oil prospecting companies at the mercy of criminal gangs; serial divestments by multinational oil companies, particularly from inland basins linked to such disruptions – all of these going on for years with neither the Federal Government nor the security agencies able to arrest them. Bad as the activities are for the economy, their implications for national security are best described as frightening as it is understood that the illegal activities could not have assumed such scale, let alone be sustained over the years, without the collaboration of foreign criminal elements. For, while Nigerians ought to be alarmed about the level of the haemorrhage being revealed, the bigger worries are the real threats to the stability of the country from such well-oiled, sophisticated and highly networked but nonetheless shadowy non-state actors. This is why the Federal Government must act quickly to confront the menace. It is apparent that the industry requires a new framework to police its operations. That the Nigerian Navy in particular has not been able to arrest the situation is shameful and unacceptable. Like the other on-going war on terror, the president should consider issuing fresh marching orders to the navy to get the job done. As for the two new regulators – the Nigerian Upstream Petroleum Regulatory Commission and the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Authority – the least Nigerians expect to see are new thinking and competences brought to bear, going forward.