President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commissioned a multi-purpose Sports Complex which include a mini stadium christened “Professor Habu Galadima Sports Complex” at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) Kuru, Plateau State. The complex was donated by an alumna of the Institute who and a Group chairman of Capital Express Holdings Limited, Chief Tony Aletor. The President who was represented by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Leo Irabor applauded the philanthropist for his gestures, adding that the sporting facilities comprising a mini stadium, basketball Court, volleyball court, handball court and Lawn tennis court with three extra seating Pavilions, will further help to stabilise participants at the elite institute. He charged the participants and the entire NIPSS community to take advantage of the facilities to the fullest to keep fit and healthy adding that after a strenuous research, there is the need to recreate and interact with one another. In his remark during the handing over ceremony, Aletor said the idea behind the success story marking the completion and handing over of the Sports complex was historic.   Ronaldo reaches historic 400 million Insta followers     Lookman expects better days for Foxes     UEFA Champions League: Heineken opens premium viewing…   - Advertisement - He pointed out that a conversation between the late Director-General of the Institute Professor Habu Galadima inspired construction of the complex, adding that his successor Brigadier General Chukwuemeka Udaya (retd) who keyed into the vision, gave all the support required towards completion of the project. He said: “In addition to the sports facilities to ensure the convenience of participants and the entire NIPSS community, four well-built hygienic and convenient toilets were added to the facilities. “When I came here as a participant, I discovered that the environment was secured but there was no centralised sporting facilities. “I discussed with the late Director-General Professor Habu Galadima and we agreed that the all the sports facilities scattered within the institute should be put in one location, hence my determination to build this complex.” He however described the late Director-General as an exemplary public Servants, selfless and extremely passionate about the growth and development of the institute.  Aletor further added that the complex can be used as a training camp for the National teams taking advantage of the serene environment, security and excellent accommodation within the institute. SPONSORED