Delta Governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, has boasted that Deltans will not crucify him had he sited the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of Delta in his village, in Owa-Alero, Ika North East LGA, rather than in Agbor, Ika South LGA Delta State. He said that contrary to “deliberate falsehood” being peddled in some quarters about the location of the medical school, it would be sited in the university’s premises at Agbor. He said upgrading some existing institutions to universities was the right thing to do, stressing that his administration “does not play politics with projects and programmes.” Okowa, who spoke in Owa-Oyibu, Ika North LGA, expressed dismay at the misinformation over the location of the medical school, saying it was intended to cause disaffection among Deltans. His words, “Let me put it on record that the College of Medicine is to be sited at the main campus of the University of Delta, Agbor. - Advertisement - “I am reiterating this today because some people have continued to pass false information through social media and I don’t know the reason why people have continued to do that.   Ahmed Musa’s uncommon philanthropy     Abba Kyari: When truth is stranger than fiction     Ikpeazu orders investigation into cattle market invasion by…   “We do not play politics with our institutions; we do not play politics with our projects and programmes. “As Governor, it’s possible that I would have decided that the university be sited in my village and I don’t think that people would have crucified me. But, I chose to do the right thing. We did the upgrade of existing institutions to universities; so, for people to play politics with it, I think it’s very insulting.” According to Okowa, he meant well for the state and the people and urged them to support the government’s programmes and policies. Okowa warned those behind the attacks to desist and engage in things that would benefit Deltans rather than sending wrong messages to them. Continuing, “Enough of the dichotomy in this state. We must stop spreading not just rumours but falsehoods. “We must learn to be supportive of the government so that working together we can truly develop our state and make it one of the best states among the comity of states in the country. “We are already on track in that direction and it is my hope that we would work together to enthrone the next administration that would continue to build on the foundations we have laid.” SPONSORED