The Lagos State Office of Transformation, Creativity and Innovation (OTCI) has emphasised the importance of effective customers’ relationship between the Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA) and its customers, saying that the agency must ensure customers’ satisfaction. Speaking at ILERA EKO Service Charter Development Workshop organised for LASHMA and health providers, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Princess Adenike Adedoyin-Ajayi, who is also a service charter champion, said that the state government is concerned about service delivery for its agencies, particularly agencies that interact with members of the public on daily basis. According to her, the sensitisation programme was in line with the state government’s effort to transform the healthcare system, by putting in place measures that will enhance productivity and add more value to services rendered. Adedoyin-Ajayi said that the event will enable the state government and its partners in the private sector to have uniform knowledge on the standards set in Lagos on service delivery. She explained that the service charter, an initiative of the state government, is an instrument that creates a measurable standard of delivering services to customers, adding that it helps to manage the process of service delivery by making it more tangible, timely, quality, standard and professional. “Service charter is a document that outlines an MDA’s services and the commitments to provide such services under specific service level agreements (SLAS) and service standards. As a matter of fact, the main objective of all government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) should be on how to deliver a delightful service to customers at every point of contact,” she said. The PS charged service providers within government employment to be customer-centric in their approach to members of the public. “As a customer service, you must know who your customers are, what makes them happy and what makes them dissatisfied. In service delivery, your attitude matters at all times, you must be professional and have integrity, possess excellent customer service communications skills. You must be courteous, thoughtful, have integrity, be available, friendly and professional.”   ‘Surgery not only option for uterine fibroid’     Hope for children with sickle cell, as LUTH opens first…     Foods that ease menstrual pain for women   - Advertisement - Also speaking, the Director General of OTCI, Mr Toba Otusanya, said that the event is aimed to expose healthcare service providers to the importance which the state government attaches to effective customer service delivery. According to him, the essence of the service charter initiative is to represent all that Lagos truly stands for, adding that the document aims to increase public confidence in governance through effective and efficient service delivery, promote professionalism in the state’s public service, promote transparency, accountability, ensure customer relationship management and service delivery. “Service charter will be the first face of Lagos State, interfacing with the customers and raising the quality of professionalism, efficiency, courtesy and excellent public service delivery that meets international standards. Our vision is to be a 21st century public service delivery and management driven by high performance staff. A service charter is an instrument that sets out the basic rights and principles governing the provision of services to the citizens.  These principles include quality of service, equal access, affordable prices, social, cultural and environmental acceptability. “It outlines government commitment to service delivery, and ensures improved service delivery in line with the state development strategies, empowers citizens by increasing awareness of public services, challenges and promotes the citizens as customers,” Otusanya said. While explaining the rationale behind the sensitization exercise, LASHMA GM, Dr Emmanuella Zamba, said the mission is to ensure residents of Lagos get quality customer service delivery from ILERA EKO health providers. “We are in the business of providing health insurance and quality customer service delivery to residents of Lagos State. Our gathering here is to be able to come up with a service charter document that will be for the agency and our healthcare providers, so that we can all work with a particular standard that ensures all our customers have good experiences in all our facilities. We will ensure that we meet up with our responsibilities as expected from us in the service charter document.” She urged ILERA EKO health providers to embrace the service charter initiative in their various facilities, saying it would make their hospitals a destination of choice for all.