A Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Prince Kassim Afegbua has warned northern politicians to respect the subsisting power rotation arrangement in the country in the interest of peace. A statement by the former Edo State Commissioner for Information said a southern presidency is inevitable in 2023 to address the imbalance in the country. Afegbua said: “The principle of amalgamation which was consummated in 1914 is very clear and unambiguous in rotating the leadership of the country between the North and South. Rather than continue to dwell on the impropriety of turning logic on its head by the political ambition of our brothers from the North, it will make for good judgment for them to bury their ambition and support the southern zone to produce credible candidates for the 2023 general election.” He said those trying to ignore the inalienable right of the South to produce the next president will spell political doom for the country. He added: “It is only a greedy, selfish, egocentric, and desperate politician from the North that would still insist on going ahead to contest despite the obvious imbalance. The governors of the southern zones must speak with one voice in ensuring that the South gets what truly belongs to them. “For selfish and egocentric reasons, I have read some aspirants talking about the absence of zoning in the Nigeria Constitution. In order to serve their selfish end and contest the 2023 presidential election against the run of play, they have resorted to making references to the 1999 constitution to support their weak argument against the zoning of political offices. It must be stated unequivocally that zoning means the same thing as Federal Character, which is expressly captured in the 1999 Constitution. The Federal Character talks about the political balancing of positions and appointments, which is the same thing as zoning. Zoning means ‘divide into or assign to zones’, positions and appointments whether by way of election or appointment.” Afegbua, a former media aide to Atiku Abubakar advised major political parties to ensure that what has been constitutionally guaranteed in terms of zoning remains a sacrosanct element of democratic practice in the country.   ‘We will reposition APC ahead of 2023 elections’     Day Adeola empowered Lagos West constituents     Ekiti APC and challenge of reconciliation   - Advertisement - He argues: “For those who are declaring that there is no zoning in the constitution, why has it been the practice that each time a candidate emerges from the North, his vice presidential candidate comes from the South, and vice-versa. The Senate president is also zoned to another geopolitical zone; ditto for the speaker of the House of Representatives and even the Secretary of Government of the Federation. If there is no zone, these positions could have been concentrated in one geopolitical zone, but for that Federal Character provision in the constitution, which is similar to zoning, we have made it a point of duty to observe zoning.” He said Nigeria has benefited a lot from zoning. His words: “In a plural society like Nigeria, given our diversities, one cannot do without zoning and power-sharing. No matter how nepotistic the Buhari presidency is, it has observed the principle of zoning positions to create some level of balance. I am aware that President Buhari’s style has been skewed in favour of his northern zone.” Afegbua chided those trying to twist the logic of zoning to suit their bulbous ego. He added: “The media owes it a duty to educate Nigerians on the therapeutic effect of zoning and applying the doctrine of Federal Character which has been in place since the independence of Nigeria. It is an attraction we cannot run away from given our peculiarities, sensibilities and equivocation. “As a party, if you choose not to zone by way of balancing the algorithms, take all your candidates from a section of the country and let us watch how your political fortunes pan out. Those who are reading the constitution upside down or trying as it were, to twist the logic of zoning to suit their bulbous ego, are only trying to be clever by half.” The Edo State PDP chieftain said anything short of the application of zoning principle will be unconstitutional, and a clear abuse of the principle of Federal Character, which is enshrined in the 1999 constitution. He said: “The facts of the matter do not support their illogic. For our diversities and heterogeneous configurations, with several nation-states within the nation, the zoning principle has to be deliberately applied to create the required political stability.” SPONSORED