The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Thursday urged Nigerians to collaborate with anti-corruption agencies in the country to achieve success in the fight against corruption. EFCC Chairman, Mr Abdulrasheed Bawa, gave the charge during a regional conference organised by the Social Action Group, an NGO, in Port Harcourt. Bawa, who was represented by Mr Oyewole Dele, the Head, Public Affairs Unit, EFCC Port Harcourt Zonal Office, described the theme of the conference “Beyond Forensic Audit, Repositioning the NDDC for Inclusive and Effective Service Delivery” as apt. He also urged Nigerians to pay attention to things happening in their immediate environment to enable them to identify their problems and find solutions to them. “We should identify with the needs of the Niger Delta, meet with the key stakeholders and be able to agree on what will move the Niger Delta forward and give proper accountability,” he said. Bawa also urged Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to identify with the grassroots in order to get reliable information from them. The EFCC boss stressed that the commission was solidly on ground and ready to carry out its duties once they got genuine information from the public. Also speaking at the event, Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye, Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), said that the body was ready to partner with NDDC and CSOs to achieve its mandate   Robbers kill two policemen, five others at four Edo banks     FAAC shares N574.668b to Fed Govt, states and LGs     Buhari inaugurates first internet-enabled CBN branch   Owasanoye, who was represented by Mrs Ekere Useiri, said that ICPC was committed to investigating and prosecuting offenders who went against the processes of project execution. Dr Osasu Ekpen, the National Organising Secretary, Host Communities, Nigerian Producing Oil and Gas areas, explained that NDDC had about 12,000 projects worth about N15 trillion in the Niger Delta region. Ekpen urged NDDC to collaborate with host communities and stakeholders during the process of budgeting and project execution. Mrs Vivian Bellonwu, the Programme Director of Social Action Group said that the aim of the conference was to present an annual report of assessment of the services and actions of the NDDC. She said that the report was a product of monitoring other civic engagements, engaging the NDDC on its social contracts. “We cannot overemphasise the fact that the NDDC is large and this is the fundamental challenge the public is facing with the organisation. “We want the obesity of the NDDC to be brought down to enable the commission to fulfill its mandate,“ she said. The high point of the programme was the unveiling of the report on the findings on the NDDC forensic audit by the Social Action Group. (NAN)