The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday screened the three Osun State governorship aspirants seeking the party’s ticket at the February 19 primary election. Those screened included Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, former House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Yusuff  Lasun and ex-Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, who recently returned to the ruling APC from the Action Democratic Party (ADP). Oyetola and Adeoti were accompanied by many supporters, while Lasun appeared for the screening with three of his supporters. The aspirants were screened by the Pastor Osagie Ize Iyamu-led seven-man committee at the APC national secretariat in Abuja. Addressing reporters after the exercise, Oyetola said his performance was enough for him to win the primary and also the July 16 governorship poll. - Advertisement - He said: “Let me say this, my performance in office as I speak today is enough for me to win the primary and also win the election in all areas of endeavour, in the area of infrastructure, health, education, security and economy. “That means by every standard, we have done well. So, given the fact that within the last three and a half years, I have been able to justify the confidence reposed in me by the people. “I have been very much involved in the party, right from the time of AD to date. I’m not a novice when it comes to the issue of party. If my performance speaks for me that is good and fine.”   ‘Past govts sunk N5b into Shonga Farms with no gains…     Funeral for Madam Ogunjimi     Noise pollution: Lagos bans sound amplifiers in motor parks   Asked how prepared he was for the shadow election, the governor said: “I have been going round to talk to members of the party in the local governments. As at yesterday, of the 30 local governments, we have visited about 18. We will continue with the strategic engagements starting from tomorrow (today). This is to show you that I don’t want to take anything for granted. “This is an election that is among members of the party. So, I will need their endorsement to fly the party’s flag. I have been going around to ask for the support of members in all the local governments. So I’m prepared.” As part of the statewide reach out to Iwo town on Monday, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi, urged the people to vote for Governor Oyetola. The monarch, who advised his subjects not to waste their resources and energy working against the re-election bid of the governor, said only those who were not interested in the growth and development of the town in particular and Osun State in general, would want to run against Oyetola. Adeoti, who hails from Iwo, left the party for ADP in the wake of the 2018 election and returned to the party recently, vowing not to leave the party even if defeated at the primaries Said he: “I won’t leave APC. I was the party chairman in AD and later in ACN till 2010 before I was appointed as the SSG. I left then because of what they did to me as a foremost chieftain of the party not just in Osun, but also in the entire Southwest.” Adeoti, however, said he had petitioned the party over the change of date of the primary election and the eligibility of Oyetola to contest the election. Lasun failed to address reporters, as he hurriedly left the party secretariat after going through the rigours and questioning of the Ize Iyamu screening committee.